NBC did its best on Thursday by sandwiching Amy Poehler's new sitcom in-between two highly-anticipated episodes of THE OFFICE. I fell prey to the tactic and watched the new show, but I can guarantee NBC that I will not be making that same mistake twice.Amy Poehler has had a successful career so far doing sketch comedy on SNL, where she has often played wacky characters. So what do the makers of P&R do? They make her more or less the "straight man" in an ensemble cast, where her main job is to look wide-eyed and naive. And what an ensemble!?! Completely forgettable, except for Rashida Jones who I think I only remember because of THE OFFICE. Compare the characters on OFFICE or 30 ROCK with the duds on P&R and you'll know why this show has a zero-percent chance of success.And shame on the producers of THE OFFICE for exporting the hand-held, phony documentary approach into this new sitcom. Is that all they know how to do? It was inappropriate for the material, and wasn't even handled consistently.Another reminder to them is that sitcoms by definition require a "situation." The vague plot line of episode one leads me to believe that they don't have much of an idea of where this show is going. It would be torture suitable for Gitmo to drag out the "let's build a park" idea any further than this one episode. Please let this show die a quick death before Amy's career is forever stained by this unpleasant walk in the PARK.


                
"Parks and Recreation" simply drags. The jokes and scenarios aren't completely unfunny, and I find myself WANTING to find the show funny, but after watching three episodes, I just can't be bothered to continue.Why? Little cast chemistry. No real tensions beyond "thwarted career aspirations". The office romances are subdued. There's just no blatant outrageousness of actions or intentions. Basically, it's "The Office" done in shades of light gray. Example: the mayor, who has a gigantic picture of Bobby Knight on his wall as a role model, just seems so apathetic about being a local & states rights nut job. It just felt like they could have done much more with that guy's character. The "Jim Halpert wanna be" character is also a waste.I do find the satirized and incredibly gory American Indian paintings and pioneer histories that Leslie always recounts to visitors to be a bright spot in the show and they are always funny. However, just to quibble, this aspect is a little misplaced to be set in an Indiana locality. You'd probably have to go farther west to Oklahoma or Nebraska to find a locality that has such a direct affinity to Indian lore. You just don't get this kind of "recency" of Indian stuff in the Northeastern rust belt states like Indiana.This show really needs to kick the personalities and the scripts up a few notches in order to prosper. I don't give it more than 1/2 season.


                
At least that would explain the repackaging of discarded The Office scripts into a show with virtually the same format, with a female Michael.This was such a very disappointing show. I absolutely LOVE Amy Pohler, and I like Greg Daniels, and was hoping for much more from the pairing of these two for Parks and Recreation, but the pilot episode was so weak. Situated between The Office and 30 Rock, would be setting up virtually any show for success and having these people involved with the show, should have been a home-run. Had they applied any effort, instead of taking the lazy, rehash way out.Very disappointing.


                
Being a fan of the US office (earlier seasons at least) I watched this show from Season 1. Unlike a lot of other reviewers I thought it was great at the start and couldn't wait for Season 2. Season 2 started well but began to dip half way through. Over time the characters became unbelievable in their incompetence at their jobs and overall stupidity and the story lines became more and more far fetched. For example Andy went from lazy layabout to belligerent idiot – but still managed to outperform all other candidates to get a job in the Parks Dept. AND have his own TV show. April, who later married Andy, acted like a child around the office, regularly disrupting meetings, press conferences etc. by shouting randomly – but kept her job without any reprimand. Ron Swanson existed on a diet of only steak and whiskey, went out of his way not to work, but still kept his job and by all accounts made a mint doing so. In fact all the key characters coincidentally got jobs with each other, managed to keep their previous jobs too if it was crucial to the storyline – !?! – and steadily became more and more irritating as the show went on. After season 4 my loyalty petered out. When I read it was finishing with Season 7 I made the effort to watch it 'til the end<U+0085> but I just couldn't! This was a 'cringleingly' bad show that had so much more potential. Pity.
Leslie Knope, the protagonist, in an overbearing control freak in a Parks department at Pawnee, Indiana. Her character is not funny. She's annoying, a bad boss, slave-driver and everything. However, her character is played to perfection by Amy Poehler. That is terrific acting right there. The other characters in the show are very good. It seems like every character is like-able except Leslie. I understand this was intentional but it just leaves a bad taste in the mouth. And the constant bullying of Jerry - remarkably tasteless. April and Andy are definitely the best couple on the show. They are stupid and genuine and like-able. The less said about Ann and Leslie's friendship the better.This show gets a 3/10 for being under average.
