First off, I watched every episode of every season. This is not some hit piece, but a thought-out explanation of what was rubbing me wrong this whole time... rubbed raw by the end of it.The comparisons to The Office are fine and well, especially in the first two season, but those two seasons were actually the best in the series... should have stuck with what worked. First the good: nearly ever single major supporting cast member. Pratt was Fantastic and lovable. Plaza was good weird. Ansari took many episodes and made them epic, especially whenever Ben Schwartz and Jenny Slate were involved. Ansari and Retta were also perfect together (treat yourself). Rashida Jones was the girl everyone wants to marry in real life. Rob Lowe eventually got going and really had some good moments, I never knew how funny he could be; his new DirectTv commercials take what he mastered in Parks and Rec to a whole new level. There are so many other supporting actors no one will read this if I list each one... so onwards and downwards.Now the bad. The root of all issues lie with Leslie Knope, but I will come back to her character in a moment. Jerry/Gary/Larry - love this guy and how Jim O'Heir played him, I wish he was in my family... now why all the putrid bullying? If this character was a woman would anyone stand for this? It was out of left field many times with no reason given, just wrong. I thought maybe they were trying to find a "Toby" character to beat up on, but unlike Toby Gary/Jerry/Larry did NOTHING wrong EVER aside from being clumsy. It was strange and I think if the character was played by an overweight woman someone would have lost their job over the meanness of it all, what a double standard. Just go back and watch some of the bullying of him and mentally replace him with an overweight woman, you will see what I am saying.Ben Wyatt. I have been a fan of Adam Scott since Party Down, and I think he did a good job here... but again Leslie Knope. The closer his character got to the Knope character the more emasculated he became, by the end there was no doubt who wore the pantsuit and who wore the pants. Too bad, I liked the board game obsession, the smart quirkiness, the general unique qualities to his character. It seemed all stripped away by the end and he was just some odd political husband without meaning. Also the entire romance was so unbelievable, absolutely zero chemistry.Ron Swanson. He was great, Nick Offerman was great. The storytelling was awful. Ron is supposed to be the Anti-Knope. The libertarian/conservative reasonableness to the progressive pushings of Leslie Knope. But in every single standoff Ron Swanson gives in to his values and bends to Knope's wishes because she "really believes" or "really fights" or "really tries" to do something. I am sorry, but if you believe in the opposite of someone else, just because they are "really trying" hard doesn't mean you forsake all of your own beliefs. This was no more evident than the end when he gives in to Knope one last time to work for the Federal Government to essentially be a park Ranger. The Ron Swanson I would have liked to see would have somehow finagled the land from the Federal Government and opened up his own Wilderness park to teach kids not to be such sissies and depend on themselves and each other for survival, all the while respecting what he loves most... nature.So let's get this over with... Leslie Knope was the biggest bully of them all. She bullied every single character to do her bidding, relentlessly, degradingly, sometimes with a smile, sometimes with a tantrum, sometimes in "their" best interest... but it got annoying real fast. If the series would have shifted away from her as a central character and instead someone they all had to deal with, that would have been ideal and would have let the truly exceptional characters shine. I could handle the antics 5 minutes an episode, way too many other characters I would have preferred seeing.Keeping the Knope character in the spotlight quickly turned this series (which would have been great with the true ineptitude of government bureaucracies as a backdrop for hilarious people doing hilarious things) to a huge progressive love-fest with every progressive cliché and politician making a cameo.Towards the end (seasons 6-7) it was very formulaic writing and was basically reduced to a bunch of small skits to get each one's shtick in, absolutely no effort or thought was put in to the overall story. The giant take away is that government rules best when ruled by people who really want to rule you...
I started watching this show because it's all over the internet, and I thought it must be interesting.First, I must say the good points. Above all, Aziz Ansari shines the most in this show. The man is brilliant, and could easily go much, much further than Parks and Rec (his stand up is 10/10). I also really liked Retta's character, Donna, although I'd like to have seen her feature a bit more and have depth to her character. Offerman is another great one, taking what shoe-string comedy there was and doing his best, the poor man.Beyond those minimal victories, I find the show to be incredibly bland and unbelievable. I've never been one way or another about Amy Poeler but I think this swings it for me. The writing is terrible, very little comedy is actually there and, up to season 3 where I am now, there's been no more than a slight smile, certainly no laughs.Most reviews on here compare P&R to The Office, in that it's too similar, and I agree. Of course, The Office wasn't the first of it's mockumentary kind and it would be ill-informed to claim so, but it certainly was the biggest milestone for the genre; it would be hard to live up to that standard, but not impossible. However, this show played it too safe. There was a lot of room to explore mockumentary- style filming/plots and yet P&R clings to The Office's coattails like a lost puppy. When I first saw The Office, I was skeptical as US versions of UK shows tend to be pretty awful, however a few seasons in I started to enjoy it. With P&R it was the complete opposite. I actually had to google "when does this show get good". Everyone online seemed to say around season 2. However, what they failed to point out was that it peaked on that season and goes downhill from there. It just gets so predictable, revealing the whole plot within the first 10 minutes, without fail. Like this: - Leslie running around trying to accomplish something and failing/getting drunk/convincing other people to fix it. - Tom flirting with the prettiest woman in the room/talking about clothes (queue joke about his height). - Andy and April being sweet, but to the same effect every time. - Ron says something about bacon/guns/politics. - Jerry gets incessantly bullied for no reason, so much so that it's completely unfunny and just embarrassing to watch. - Donna eyeing up men/being the generic "sassy black woman". - Ann somewhere in the background being the 2D pretty yet boring one (getting more and more ann-oying with each season). - Ben somewhere in the background sulking/being walked all over.And it's pretty much this episode after episode, I can't imagine it getting better any time soon, not by the sounds of other reviews, so I don't think I'll be watching it past this season. It's a shame, since the characters have such potential to be laugh- out-loud funny, but they're just flat and the storyline is flat and the jokes are flat and the whole thing is just bland, losing its charisma pretty darn quickly. It's impossible to actually identify or connect with the characters and their relationships. No idea how it lasted 7 seasons with this same schtick. I would say it's worth a watch, and definitely could strike a chord with the right people, but I just found it a damp squib. If you enjoy dry, well-executed humour, go watch the US Office or pretty much any UK comedy show because Parks and Rec. will be a waste of your time.
Main idea is quite different unlike many other series of this genre.Apparently it depicts what an idealist can face to make a better society & to serve it's people. Despite of having people with different mind sets at any workplace can be positive, if they're willing to do so & yes, they definitely need a motivating & a positive minded leader. How a set of quite different people flourished in their careers.However, from another point of view, whole series revolves around Leslie, how she smothered everyone around her with so much love & care that she can literally control them to her own will & the way she likes, eventually, it made their lives better, but, their's a thing called "will of own" & one can't make a flawless decision with complete surety for someone else's life.For the people of Indiana, I would say, that this series depicted not a very good picture of the people's attitude, it was like, through out the whole series, they wanted sympathy for a well wishing, hard working, positive thinking government employee who had done so much for them was constantly booed by it's own people because they simply don't want to improve, at all. She got thrown out of office & even back stabbed by her decade old best friend for a quite simple reason, there are a million ways that he would've contacted her, & guess what, It was also for a sympathy vote for Miss.Leslie.
This show is so boring
the only two characters holding this show are Ron and Andy the other characters are lame and boring
also there's alot of fart sounds that they should called it farts and recreation , didn't like that
I really don't get it. This show isn't bad. It has some good laughs and I can definitely get through episodes, and I really like Amy Poehler a lot. But I just can't watch this show without thinking the entire time: "OK so they took The Office format but instead of making it better or different they just watered it down?" It's not nearly as good as that series, sadly.


                
