Filmed in mockumentary style by the creators of The Office, it at first seemed like Parks and Recreation could be a spin off. Well, it's not. Not only does the casting of Rashida Jones (The Office's Karen) confirm this, it also feels like a completely different show. The characters and situations feel far less natural and far more wacky, but they may not be such a bad thing.Amy Poehler was very entertaining as Leslie Knope, however the rest of the characters were rather uninterestingly portrayed by otherwise interesting actors. Not to worry, as I can already see the way some of these characters will devolope, and I like where it's going.The first half of the Pilot was light on laughs but you could faintly see where this series might go. Things picked up in the second half, and left me wanting to see more (although not necessarily in a good way, as the Pilot episode felt too short and incomplete).Now compared to the two episodes of The Office shown with the Pilot, it was pretty flat. But remember, even The Office had a rough start way back in Season 1.Overall, it's a shaky start to what may just be a great series.


                
When I first started watching this TV series was a like feeling fresh air. In a time where the comedies available are too much cynical, where to be mean is the trend I felt this show was something different: funny, cosy and sharing an important message about the importance of politics and the work with community. But after three or four seasons everything changed and there are 2 reasons I can't give a 9 or 10: -The main character, Leslie, became almost unbearable. The good-heart and almost naif from the beginning became envy, competitor, cynical and mean. It is true that almost all the other characters didn't change: Ron, Andy, April or Chris were 'themselves' until the end. But the soul of this programme (Leslie) just died. It was almost as she has made an attempt of seduction initially to reveal her dark side afterwards;-The most important: this TV series legitimises bulling. I could not believe the treatment one of the characters, Jerry, was given. It was beyond the limits. It was like saying 'Bulling is funny just do it'. And I have to almost hate the series because of that. At the end I cannot give less than 7 because yes, the series has many funny at beautiful moments but it was like a waist of an amazing idea. This series could be brilliant.


                
This is a very pleasant show. It is less original than The Office, but it balances that with much more fully rounded characters and a more cuddly feel. It is sweet, to use that word in its most positive sense. It doesn't really try to do much beyond make you laugh but that is all I can really expect!It takes a while to get started, and Season 1 is probably the worst out of any of them, but it rapidly improves. Leslie comes into her own and becomes a bubbly and hilarious character, surrounded by a cast of wonderful actors. Aziz Ansari, Rasida Jones, and Christ Pratt and all do a great job, as does some of the more minor actors like Jim O'Heir and Ben Schwartz.(I binged this while sick in January 2017.)


                
I realize that this show may not have the greatest pilot, but it had some laughs. And really when was the last time that any show had a fantastic pilot? I can only think of a few. I however, am eager to see more episodes to see how much they can improve. Amy Poehler wasn't that bad either, I think she was good at caring the lines well. As i said before, I will continue to watch this show and support the creators who made it. Also, lets face it. This does not have to be the next Office. Amy is not supposed to be Michael and the jokes are not really that similar. Sure, their are some things that are same, but aside from those, their really aren't too many. I will also encourage others to watch this show as well.


                
Let me get this straight, I was able to watch all seven seasons, so it was good enough to finish. But, unlike some shows, it took me extremely long to finish because of the mediocrity of the the last two seasons. There are some funny characters like Ron, Andy, Jean Ralphio,Jam, and Tom(occasionally). But when they weren't on screen the show was just plain boring and lackluster. The main character is unfunny, political, overbearing, and annoying. There are moments where you laugh out loud and then a few minutes later your questioning why your still watching the show. I do recommend it just because the tv wasteland we have nowadays doesn't have enough watchable shows but there are far better comedy's out there such as Psych, the office, and galavant


                
This show has been quite successful and it is easy to see why. I was at first hesitant to watch this series despite the popularity due to someone complaining about overly feminist themes in the show. I did not want to watch a show with moralistic feminist hogwash so I refrained. So far, I have watched three seasons and I can assure readers that there is only one feminist character in the show and she is likable. There is no preaching and any feminism related stuff said by her is subtle and meant for comic relief. Don't worry about it.This show works primarily because of a diverse set of characters. They are very distinct from each other, yet compliment each other with ease. There is also a special quirk in the way the show is shot: the characters frequently look at the camera (directly at us) with expressions relevant to the scene, reminding as of their awareness about our presence. This adds a more engaging layer to the show.Some of the characters are: Leslie Knope: The feminist protagonist who tries too hard to please everyone and represent 'female power'. She can be annoying at times but works well for the show.Ron Swanson: The best character by far. An anti-government government employee whose big eyes and deep booming voice are soothing and reassuring throughout as he tells us how much he loves to be away from people. We also see some vulnerabilities in this tough guy as he comes across his bizarre ex-wives, both named Tammy.Tom Haverford: The least likable character in my opinion. He is an Indian, born in South Carolina who tries too hard to come across as cool. We are constantly reminded of his failures but he doesn't seem to get a clue. His perseverance in face of failed business endeavors comes across as idiocy.April Ludgate: I am very fond of Aubrey Plaza and this is by far her best character. After watching her interviews, I get the impression she's like this in real life. Nevertheless, she is another misanthrope who champions dead-beat and dark humor, perfecting the entitled teenage girl even as she slides into her twenties and gets married. She also resembles the Youtube vlogger June (shoe0nhead) This is a show definitely worth watching - it sometimes veers off course into annoying melodrama but once you're addictive, you'd find it hard to complain.


                
Leslie Knope is basically the female version of Michael Scott. Her naive and sometimes clueless nature makes for an entertaining satire of the everyday workplace. The supporting cast of characters are vital to the program's hilarious premise. Each one brings something unique to the table. Characters like Tom Haverford, Ron Swanson and Andy Dwyer offer an eclectic comedic mix while Ann Perkins and Mark Brandanawicz present balance (and sanity) much like Jim and Oscar do in The Office.The show takes place in the fictional southern Indiana town of Pawnee. Much like The Office, cameras are ever-present, documenting the everyday activities of the local Parks and Recreation Department staff. Leslie - who is considered the main character - is the head of the department. Her obvious delusions of grandeur are at the core of what makes this show so entertaining. Since she's a government employee, much like powerful female politicians Hillary Clinton and Condoleezza Rice, Leslie believes she should be treated with a certain level of respect. In reality, though, she is far less influential as she may think. Her tasks include, but are not limited to, generating funds to fill in a large pit in the center of town and judging the Miss Pawnee pageant. Outside of the office, she has one friend (Ann) and a fledging romantic life.Greg Daniels, who is one of the producers of Parks and Rec, helped create the US version of The Office, so you're going to see the same type of humor, character development and cinematography. But that's not a bad thing. We loved The Office and we are going to REALLY like Parks and Rec.
This is a very good show. I enjoyed the first couple of seasons, but the rest were somewhat boring and politically influenced.


                
I watched Season 1 about one or two years ago and unfortunately found it boring, so I stopped watching it.Since then, I have constantly heard that you have to skip season one and from some people, even season two, but I still never really made the effort to watch it again.I've been sick that last four days and wanted to watch something that I didn't really have to pay attention to, so for some reason, I put on Parks and Recreation.I've been watching this show for three days straight now.I just can't stop. Every time an episode ends; I just hit 'next' and start the next episode.I did watch Season 2 and definitely don't think anyone should skip this season.The cast is amazing. Amy Poehler is one of my favourite SNL alums and is the reason I wanted to watch this in the first place. I'm pretty sure Ron Swanson (Nick Offerman) is my spirit animal and there is no way near enough of Donna (Retta).The only character is don't like is Tom Haverford (Aziz Ansari), I just find his character annoying with only very few laughs coming from anything involving his character.There has been a steady assembly of guest stars including fellow Saturday Night Live alums and some of the casts' spouses, including Will Arnett and Megan Mullally and I suspect that it will continue throughout the last four seasons.Also the consistency throughout the show is awesome, there are mentions of event and/or characters from episodes past. Some shows can learn a lot (Teen Wolf... I'm looking at you!!).A great show. The first season is only six episodes, so it doesn't really matter if you watch it or skip it but from Season 2 onwards is GOLD!!


                
