This show is really two shows. Pre season three and post season three.Before season three the show was like the office, the main character is an idiot doing the best they can but failing. The show has very awkward humor and is really funny.Post season three the show becomes very light hearted and goes for more the comedy the show is known for. It's about a smart capable main character who is a bit weird going against a bad system.The show is really good and it can be very funny but the change is jarring and I know people who only like post season three and people who only like preseason three, I think this is also reflected by some reviews.
I recommend the characters are awesome.


                
So far, since there's only been three episodes of the show, it's been pretty great. The third episode has definitely been the funniest so far, i feel like it's going to gain momentum and really prove to be just as funny as it's cousin "The Office." P&R has gotten generally positive reviews, and as for the negatives i say let the show grow. it's only been THREE episodes, "The Office" was NOT an instant classic if you all recall, it was on the chopping block a few times (and also had to try and crawl out of the massive shadow of it's brilliant British original). Amy Poehler is one of the funniest comedians right now and deserves her own time to really shine. Aziz, from the hysterical one-season sketch show Human Giant, is definitely a scene stealer, as well as Poheler's scowling, anti-government boss. It's got all the right ingredients to become another comedy gem. Give it a chance, relax, and let the best Thursday night (8:30-10) line-up on NBC pump you full of awe-smacking awesome. oh, and lighten up ;)


                
I have been a Saturday Night Live fan for too long. I like Amy Poehler as Leslie Knope, an idealistic parks and recreational director, for Pawnee, Indiana. The show is based about the parks and recreation department in a small Midwestern town. Amy Poehler should be on the list for Emmy nominees for Best Actress in a Comedy Series. She shines as Leslie Knope. I only wished that Lorne Michaels would start developing sitcoms with his Saturday Night Live alumni like Poehler and Tina Fey. It's worth the investment and we need to laugh in times like this more than ever. The show has a quirky, offbeat sense of humor and a supporting cast that doesn't seem familiar yet but I'm sure I'll recognize them in time. Anyway, guest stars like Megan Mullally is worth watching.


                
This show will inevitably be compared to the Office, partially because of the similarities, the fact that its by the same producers, and that the show took over for the Office. For those of you that are not going to read this whole thing, here's what you should know................this is a great show that is definitely worth investing your time in, though there are several negative aspects that hold it back from being a true masterpiece. To go into more detail, lets get the cons out of the way. The show during its first season or two feels like it is trying to be the Office. Sure, that is probably natural, and it is certainly a pro that the show shakes that mold and becomes it's own thing. However, if I had to knit-pick, here are my serious complaints with the overall story. First, several characters have problems that I just cannot understand why the writers did not change these aspects over time. Gary/Gerry/Larry, etc is UNFAIRLY bullied the entire show. For a show that uses a lot of progressive ideas, the idea of unnecessarily bullying him is just straight up wrong. Comparisons can be drawn to Toby from the Office, but Gerry is wrongfully mistreated. He's a nice character, and though he can be clumsy he never got his story arc to where he was actually respected. Tom, can be extremely annoying throughout most of the show. Maybe its just not my type of humor, but he is annoying. He evolves and matures over time, and its a wonderful arc, but almost every scene with him in the first 4 or so seasons is unbearable. His friends John Ralfio and his annoying sister are a waste of time. The last bit of complaints is the amount of immature fart jokes. You'd think you were watching some childish Cartoon Network show. Once or twice is fine, but talking about or showing farts is just disgusting and really sad that an adult show would stoop to that level. With that out of the way, let's talk about why I love this show. Like I said before, it becomes its own show as time goes on. Almost all characters change for the better, and the little expanding that happens welcomes fresh faces that add so much to the story. I knew Ron Swanson was an internet fan-favorite, but I never knew how much I would fall in love with Chris, Rob Lowe's character. He is without a doubt the funniest character on the show. He steals almost every scene. Overall, the show has memorable characters, and almost all have their moments to shine, unlike the office. Cameos from famous politicians here and there doesn't hurt either. As the title says, Parks and Rec is better and worse than the Office at the same time. Unlike the office, almost every season is enjoyable. The final season or two of the office was almost unbearable to watch, while Parks and Rec ends on almost a high note. The characters are not as memorable or lovable as the Office's cast, but they still are solid characters. I recommend this show to anyone. It has it's setbacks for sure, and they cannot be overlooked, but this is worth some stretches of binging on Netflix. You will not regret it.


                
I'm editing my review which is now into season two. Time has changed my opinion. So I'll edit this paragraph only and leave the rest to stand as what I felt about the show when it began. Right now I'm bordering on loving this show, the way the characters are starting to flesh out is great and the writing has definitely improved a lot in season 2. One of my favourite comedies now and I'll sorely miss it if it gets cancelled. Shame on me for reviewing it so early and hating on it.I find Amy Poehler to be one of the funniest women in comedy today but she deserves so much better, than to try and carry this poorly written and badly cast show. I want to give it the benefit of the doubt, having only seen one episode, but already it seems clear the mockumentary that worked so well in the Office, is falling flat here.The problem I think stems from the lack of understanding as to why the Office is funny. Having a great lead is part of it, and they nailed that. Some of the writing is pretty good, with moments designed to make you laugh, feel pity and embarrassment, which are all key ingredients in the Office but mostly the script is poor.Where things really fall down are in the setting, the casting and the script.The Office appealed to me because it was set in a generic workplace that I could relate to. More importantly it was an open plan space where the camera could relate moments from character to character around the office, which felt natural. Parks and Recreation relies on staging groups of employees from scene to scene which feels just like any other situation comedy. The documentary feel is lost.The casting was truly dire, despite the talents of Amy leading the show. The rest of the cast are mostly strange stereotypical blobs that really do not work at all. I'm just not interested in them, they don't come across as real people with all the vulnerabilities you need to mimic that Office mockumentary feel.And then there is the script. I do wonder if some of the people that worked on the US Office, who are working on Parks and Recreation actually understand why the scripting is so funny in the Office. Clearly when great UK comedy moves to the US, it often falls flat on its face, as the British sense of humor gets lost in translation. With the Office US, Ricky Gervais was there to help it transition, and while I feared the show would still be terrible, I was so wrong and now rate the US version much higher than the UK one. I guess without Ricky behind it, Parks and Recreations script has just run off down its own US centric situation comedy path.Maybe later in the series, the writing will shine through. I'll probably be sticking around to find out, if just to see where Amy Poehler takes us.


                
Hated it until I stopped comparing to the office. After that, it's absolitely great!!


                
I had heard the resounding "Meh" that has come from the internet in regards to this show, so going in I was not expecting to be wowed, and I wasn't. But I was pleasantly surprised.Amy Poehler's character is a lot like Michael Scott: oblivious, enthusiastic with a lot of heart. I thought the college intern and Aziz Ansari's characters teasing and bating her was hilarious. Rashida Jones did what I expect she wanted to do, which was play a very normal person in a sea of people who are just a little crazy.Honestly, it doesn't have that crazy, laugh out loud funny that the early seasons of The Office did. It's certainly no Diversity Day. What it does have is a lot of potential, and I think it would definitely be worth it to see where it takes us.


                
After the Office and Modern Family, Parks and Rec is a close second in terms of these kinds of mocumentary style series. It's quirky but sometimes a bit over the top and unbelievable, but all the characters will grow on you and the performances are endearing.


                
In my opinion this is the finest, strongest season of the show so far. That's not meant to suggest that the other seasons are underwhelming - nothing could be further from the truth, as this is easily one of the best, most consistent and well-written sitcoms of the last decade. But even for a show as well-realized as this, the show hit its stride here: The characters' arcs are profound, the writing is layered and genuinely funny, and the season has a habit of effectively mixing up its own formula. All of it leads to one of the most poignant, compelling and wholly satisfying season finales I've had the pleasure of watching. In fact, it's so good that I thought the show had ended after this season, even though there's a seventh season.


                
The fifth season of NBC's hit sitcom is just as solid and consistent as the previous seasons, which is remarkable in of itself. After all it takes a lot of effort and talent to keep a sitcom about government entertaining, not to mention keeping the characters fresh without changing their personalities. It's a tricky balancing act but luckily the show's runners are on top of their game, with a number of stand-out episodes like "Sex Education," "Halloween Surprise" and the rousing finale "Are You Better Off" that continue this show's winning streak. In the lead, Amy Poehler is still as charming and hilarious as before, and her chemistry with co-star Adam Scott remains so strong that their dynamics provide a solid bed on which the show can rest.


                
NBC's "Parks and Recreation" is one of the most endlessly entertaining shows of the aughts, but it's refreshing that the showrunners decided to shake up their formula with this fourth season. Benefiting enormously from the previously established dynamics among the disparate characters, the show wades into political territory, with Amy Poehler's charming Leslie Knope running for office. It allows the show to sharpen its stakes a few times and occasionally foreshadows "Veep" through its casual use of political viciousness, and the change in tone is refreshing and re-energizing. Paul Rudd and Kathryn Hahn show up for a series of knockout guest appearances, with Hahn in particular stealing every scene she's in.


                
There are few shows that are quite as reliably entertaining as "Parks and Recreation." I'm not sure exactly how it happened but there seems to be perfect symmetry among all the elements that make up this show: The ensemble acting is blessed by talented performers sharing wonderful chemistry, extraordinarily well-written episodes that shake up the formula often without straying too far, and a sense of familiarity that all classic sitcoms have. Among the many incredible performers, there are a number of stand-outs, but it's occasional guest performer Ben Schwartz who manages to steal every single scene he's in as Jean-Ralphio.


                
This second season of NBC's juggernaut hit is where it truly finds its footing. The writing is just as strong as it was, but the actors and pace have relaxed a little. Amy Poehler in particular seems to have found her groove in her leading role, while supporting performers like Rashida Jones, Aziz Ansari and newcomer Retta have meaty comedic roles that they know exactly how to play. There are standout episodes like "Pawnee Zoo," "Beauty Pagent," and "Leslie's House" peppered throughout, and it's also great to see that the show can take its characters and situations away from the everyday office setting and still maintain its unity and consistency.


                
From the first opening frames of this juggernaut hit, it's hard not to notice all the similarities to NBC's other massive sitcom, "The Office": There's the single-camera confessional structure, the extracting of comedic possibility from the occasional pettiness of office work culture, and, most notably, Amy Poehler's central character, who seems to be little more than a caricature of Steve Carell's Michael Scott. The similarities are distracting in this first season, but each episode has a number of terrific writing and comedic ensemble acting, and the knowledge that the show truly finds its footing quickly in the second season dulls some of the flaws here.


                
There was a period of time when I was younger, back in my "middle-school" era, when I thought this type of humor funny, along with FG, The Office, etc. But it seemed like I never had time to watch it since I was so busy with school, or at least, couldn't be thorough in my work in that I couldn't watch the series through, ideally. When however, I gained access to an online streaming service, I was able to catch up, years later. I didn't view it as funny as I once did, but made it a point to find good things in every episode. I began relating to the character of Ron Swanson and began to understand why some of my peers valued him or the actor Nick Offerman. The fact that the team is led by Leslie Knope, a woman, is nice, encouraging and empowering women everywhere. Whenever I get a chance to relax and watch it, it makes me feel good that there is or was a real world like this, where people overcome all odds and solve problems together with clear understanding.
How could they replace My Name Is Earl with this trash. This show is totally boring compared to the zany funny exiting new episodes I used to watch long ago of a little show about a lot of karma. Please NBC, make at least one more season of Earl. I hate Parks and Recreation. This so called comedy is so boring compared to that show which has been replaced by this non-funny trash. I have said all I have to say. Why should I post ten lines of text? Could i just make smaller lines? Like this? This? Line.No that won't work. IMDb you could do with an easier set of rules for these comments. Quick and to the point comments should count as well. We're not all clones of Roger Ebert after all. Karma will get you NBC.


                
I was introduced to this show quite late on, I am now u to date and look forward to every new week. It has been worth every minute. Portraying the trials and tribulations of the local government of the small town Pawnee, Indiana. Through filming in the style of a mockumentary it offers great opportunities to get to know the characters. Starting slowly in Season 1 it gets better and better as the seasons progress. Nick Offerman stands out throughout the 5 seasons, although he does not speak often, what he does say is pure gold.I would highly recommend watching a few episodes, to see if the town of Pawnee is the place for you.


                
I usually prefer drama or sci fi TV shows like Doctor Who, the Walking Dead, and Battlestar Galactica, but for me Parks and Recreation is an exception. Before watching Parks, I had seen the Office but I didn't like it that much. It was funny, but I just didn't really connect with the characters. In Parks and Recreation, each character has a well rounded arc and you really get to know them. For some reason, Parks and Recreation just has that heart that other shows just don't seem to have. It's funny, zany, and really well made. Personally I think the best seasons were seasons 1-4. The three episode arc near the end of season 4 (The Debate, Bus Tour, and Win, Lose, or Draw) is probably my favorite arc of the entire show. Parks and Recreation mainly focuses on humor/silliness, but the more dramatic moments in-between characters are done perfectly, especially in earlier seasons.While it isn't a perfect show, Parks and Rec has lots of things going for it. Long running gags like Perd Hapley and Joan Calamezzo's useless "news reports", Brandi Maxx agreeing with Leslie at all the wrong times, and Councilman Howser always catching Leslie at her worst, as well as well rounded characters with defined arcs, awesome humor, funny music that's fun to listen to (the Pit, 5000 Candles in the Wind), and a feel that almost no other show I've seen has help make Parks and Recreation a show that's worth a watch.
Im going to say right off the bat, the first season is quite slow and is not a good representation of the overall show. Though, don't skip the first season because it helps establish the characters. Once you get to the second season, oh yeah, thats when it starts to get real good. The characters start to mingle more and the humor becomes much more apparent being light and sometimes dark. Watching Amy Poehler (Leslie Knope) and Nick Offerman (Ron Swanson) go at it with complete opposite beliefs is enough to watch this show. Like I said, its slow at first but gets a hell of a lot better.8.5/10


                
This show has a great range of personalities, and they clash in comedic fashion. The acting is impressive across the board. This combination leads to a quality comedy. There is a fair share of romance as well, primarily verbal. Also, awkward moments happen quite frequently. As various scenarios occur, there are parts where the characters communicate directly to the audience. This provides a view into that characters mindset during the scene.The main setting is the parks department in city hall, of a nice, small town in Indiana. Amy Poehler is the excessively hard working leader of the crew. Rashida Jones plays her best friend who is a nurse. The boss is a libertarian who does as little work as possible. The office is complete with an apathetic intern, a self-absorbed businessman, and a clumsy one that attracts blame from all. I recommend this show if you are looking for a mix of people interacting comically.


                
I'm going to be pretty concise in this review. Take this show as a worn down version of The Office (US), struggling to copy its humor and failing every time. Leslie Knope is the equivalent to Michael Scott and it is pretty evident that the creators wanted this character to be like the feminine version of him. Epic fail. She is not funny. She keeps doing the same awkward faces Michael does but she doesn't get people to laugh for some reason (probably because Steve Carrel is a hell of an actor). She also does the same kind of silly things and makes constant mistakes, you know, everything that Michael Scott does.The show is made of the same stuff as The Office: stupid ideas, stupid testimonies, problems, stupid solutions, etc. Except none of them are funny in this show as it is a copy of another show. Even the whole concept of the show is pretty lame: parks and recreation? Who cares? I mean, I think that's their goal (making fun of something that doesn't sound too interesting), but again, this is just too bad.The only reason I gave this 3 stars is because I like the character with the mustache. I don't even know his name because I couldn't get past episode 3.


                
A recent discovery for me, I now find myself an avid fan of this very funny comedy centring on the well-meaning but inept attempts of a small-town local government official to improve the lot of her fellow citizens and at the same time advance her career ambitions.Yes, the debt to "The Office" is obvious, with its hand-held "fly-on-the-wall" camera shots and pieces to camera by the characters, but in making fun of and giving personality to what we all imagine to be stuffy faceless bureaucrats, it's easy to identify with individual characters and their foibles.Amy Pohler is great as the well-meaning but deluded Lesley Knope while her back-up team, particularly Azis Ansari as her hip and happening underling Tom Haverson and Nick Offerman as Ron Swanson, her square but lazy boss, offer innumerable permutations for laughs as the writers add ever more eccentricities to their characters. There's also a funny sub-plot with Lesley's best friend nurse Ann, the only straight character in the piece and her on-off relationship with her spectacularly lazy and oafish boy-friend Andy, the boy who fell in the pit, to appropriate Stiegg Larrsenn, for a second.Like "The Office", it plays without a laugh-track, has a great little theme-tune too and works by just exaggerating enough the quirks of the characters so that we can still relate to them while laughing at them. I'm almost through watching Series 2 at the moment but can still see lots of comedic potential for Lesley and her hapless band of co-workers, so that I'm pleased to see it still continuing to be made and picking up numerous nominations and awards along the way.


                
