I don't get why this has such a high rating or why it so hyped. It's not funny, it's not interesting and the artwork is not as great as they say it is. I was really hoping for something better. The humor would only appeal to an 8 year old at best and the main character really doesn't have much of a personality.


                
Heard so much about this, but when a friend show I was utterly disappointed. I found nothing interesting about it, didn't capture me at all. I wouldn't watch it again and would never recommend. I have watched anime before and thoroughly enjoyed it, but this is really not for me, the type of humor doesn't register at all. I made it 3 (maybe 4) episodes in really trying to make myself like it, but no.I don't understand what all the hype is about or where it came from. But hey,that's just my opinion. Maybe some day down the road I will return and give it another try, but I highly doubt that, or that I'll enjoy it then.I'll end with this, It's equally bad or worse than Gotham, and that is utter garbage.


                
Is this a 1 star anime? No. But it's certainly not a 9.6 (the rating at the time of this review). Obviously people watch shows for different reasons, but for me it's always about the story. I would never have watched this, but for the extremely high rating, and so I feel deceived by the content. Good things about this show: good fight scenes, good animation, funny. Bad things about this show: almost no character development, no story beyond Saitama looking for a worthy enemy, it feels like one filler episode after another. Conclusion, if story is even relatively important to you stay clear. If all you want are some laughs and fight scenes this is for you.


                
I just spent five minutes writing a long review, then scraped it. All i have to say after a lot of thinking, the fans are weeaboos and the anime is not that great, but thats my opinion. Watch at your own risk, there are five million better anime's, and shows then this one. To me this deserves a 6 AT BEST the fan base is just over hyping it, and to be honest killed this anime for me even more, but hey im one opinion watch at your own will, and you decide. Just never bring this anime up to a one punch man fan, you will never hear the end to there raving about this show, ever, i mean ever, you think it was a religion of some sort, Just my opinion.


                
It's the most boring TV show and anime i've ever watched, never happens anything that the bold guy cannot defeat. The story is based on the fact that the bold guy is not concentrated enough to face the problem. Infinite battles of low ranking warriors until one punch man arrives.I watched all the episode looking for the entertain part and it never arrived. Really don't know what others people find in it of so interesting, help me.Maybe because i'm 23 and enough grown up for this sh*t.Just a personal opinion anyway.Go watching Narcos instead, pretty good.


                
Wow, I watched it and this just blows. Anime for unintelligent people. No suspense, no way to find out what logic is in the show, no relatable character. Just bad. All because he is too strong. 'Haha, that's funny!' The drawing is good, cool and is funny, but has no substance, no interesting story. If this guy wants to find himself again, STOP FOCUSSING ON THE FIGHTING! Do something with your life you freakin arrogant, boring, lazy, overpowered hero. All the power to do good in the world and he cant think of anything to do except wait for unimaginitive monsters to come along.<U+FEFF> The two things people watch this for is the humour(1), which is very simple. It's just this: wow I did not see the reasoning behind this! Or: wow, this reaction is not to be expected in this situation! Come on people we can do better that this. (2)The action. The action is great, really cool indeed. But the thing is that action gets very, very old very fast when you cannot feel anything for the character, relate or just see that there is a possibility that he will not win. It's just mindless action/humour watching. Entertaining: yes. For more than 10 minutes: NOOOOO!!!


                
