Maybe 12 year olds can enjoy this show, because this is the level of complexity of the story, character development and continuity. Then again, with the level of violence and blood in this show it is not really appropriate for 12 year olds so what was the point?The only reason I am giving this 2 starts is because the animation and the battle scenes are great. That's about it.Pointless main hero who can defeat everyone with no sweat, for no apparent or explained reason.Was this show supposed to be a joke or a parody of hero anime shows? If so, it seems that the joke is at the expense of the creators. Absolutely brainless, one of the dumbest (sometimes painfully so) flicks I ever watched. "I ate too many crabs so I have become a giant crab man". Really?!! This is beyond idiotic even as a joke.Spoiler (though not really)Could they make it at least a little bit hard for him at the final battle? Seriously!! Anyway....if you feel like burning some brain cells...give it a go. I literally feel dumber after watching it...


                
I've seen over 300 anime series so i know what im talking about. First this series is too unoriginal except the concept of one punching his enemy(not all) which i find so boring and he isn't really a "one punch man". I said unoriginal because of the hero thing who become strong to save the day, too many anime has done that so it's too mainstream and unoriginal for me. No story: the main plot of this is saitama wanted someone who can be a match with him. It was written in backwards they just show how he struggle in throwback scene, it lacks the story about his past. Boring concept: im trying too hard to be entertain in "beating a weak enemy in one punch" but i cant it's too boring and predictable no suspense at all, also the 100 sit-ups 100 pushups to become as strong as that ? i call it BS why ? because there's a ton of anime character who works hard more than him but cant get that strong, i can accept it if i can learn something from it but i didn't learn aside from giving me hope to survive in life just by laying down lazily. I rate it 2 instead of 1 because of epic animation which i don't give a damn when watching anime as long as im entertained about the flow of the story.
