Jeremy Brett is Holmes all the way through the series and he probably animates Conan-Doyle's detective better than any of the others who have played him on the screen. He doesn't LOOK that much like the Sidney Paget illustrations. He's a little short, but that's about the only problem. His face and figure are lean and his movements are suitably quick or languid, depending on whether he has a case or not.Basil Rathbone had the advantage of height and of resembling the illustrations more closely, but Rathbone lacked the tic-y quality and the frigid aloofness that characterized Holmes. Brett is an arrogant and superior thinking machine. Rathbone was a detective of intensity. And, really, only once did Rathbone's Holmes refer to the use of an illicit drug. At the end of "The Hound of the Baskervilles," Rathbone snaps out -- "Oh, Watson -- the needle." The TV series went through two Watsons, equally good, and close to Conan-Doyle's original, rather than the well-intentioned buffoon of Rathbone's Watson.Like many of the English mystery series, occasional well-known movie figures would show up to take roles -- Natasha Richardson here, Jeremy Kemp there. Even Harry Andrews. Their presence added variety to the series."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" was the first set of episodes in the series. As the years went on, the adapters were forced to draw on some of the lesser tales. "The Creeping Man" still makes me wince -- in print or on film. And the cast was hobbled by a personal crisis in Jeremy Brett's life, and by his continuing struggle with heart failure. His lost his ascetic look and became plumper and older. Finally, the writers seemed to become desperate, making up pastiches and having Holmes practically fall in love while in disguise.But it's impossible to criticize the presentation of the first couple of years. The period detail and photography are magnificent, and Brett gives Holmes all the quirks and aversions that made him compassionate without ever allowing him to be warm.
I seem to recall seeing at least one episode of this series back when I was a child- I've been a Sherlock Holmes fan since I learned to read, and have read all the books many times. I tried to watch every movie and TV series featuring this odd detective, but back when this series came out, if you didn't have cable and/or live in the right place, you were out of luck. So I was quite pleased to find this series on Netflix yesterday while searching for Holmes movies. I've watched the first four episodes so far, and agree with all the other reviews, in that Brett IS Sherlock Holmes. When I saw his picture I thought, "that is the Sherlock Holmes from A.C. Doyles books!" He is exactly as I always pictured Holmes when reading the stories, and he obviously was very familiar with the canon. From the way he sits in his chair with knees drawn up to his chin, to the somewhat smug glitter in his eyes when he knows something of which everyone around him is unaware, Brett is the best Holmes I've seen, and Burke as Watson seems most faithful to the books, too, not being the simpleton that others have portrayed him as.The locations are great and really do a good job of taking the viewer to Victorian England, down to the horse manure on the streets. As a fan of men's fashion, I also think the costuming is superb. The cinematography and direction are very good. I especially enjoyed a scene of Holmes and Watson outside, which was shot entirely from inside, looking through a slightly dirty window. It gave a realism to the whole thing that really shows the talents of the film makers.If you are a fan of Holmes and have access to this series either on the net or on DVD, definitely invest in watching it. This is the Holmes you grew up reading about!


                
I am aware that Jeremy Brett is named as the definitive Holmes and I can understand why.In my opinion though, I find him to be a bit theatrical, dry and occasionally a bit irritating.Even so, he and Edward Hardwicke (who replaced David Burke after this series) make this series work between them.David Burke is a good Watson but he's not in the league of Edward Hardwicke's interpretation.My favourite episode here is "The Final Problem."


                
