Jeremy Brett is by far the best Holmes to date and his passing is truly a great shame. All of his representations of Holmes should not be missed. The rest of the cast are excellent. The sets and costumes are supurb as well.


                
Whether you grew up reading Arthur Conan Doyle's stories of Sherlock Holmes or not (I didn't), this superbly crafted, lavishly produced series from Granada Television is arguably by far the best filmed version of Sherlock Holmes. With faithful translations that are artfully done, historical accurate, and acted to perfection. It aired on ITV in England and in America aired on PBS's Anthology series Mystery!. It became a popular series running from 1984 to 1994 in four volumes along with five feature length films.However, the main attraction is Jeremy Brett, by far the definitive Sherlock Holmes to me. No actor previously has played him more masterfully and memorably than him and will remain an incredibly difficult act to follow for who decide to play Holmes in the future. His performance makes Holmes into a complex character. His Holmes is conceited, melancholy, eccentric, and often very aloof, being a brilliant but very human detective. Brett truly captured a man whose mind is always at work. He truly embodies the role showing nothing but prowess in each and every performance. Whenever, I think of Sherlock Holmes it will always be his Sherlock Holmes.In "Adventures", David Burke makes a wonderful Dr. Watson bringing a certain exuberance to the role. His Watson is not the annoying buffoon that Nigel Bruce was but an intelligent person that can hold his own and plays off very well with Holmes. I just love the banter they have. Burke's Watson is also impulsive and always makes room for humor. He would be replaced afterward in later volumes by Edward Hardwicke whose take is different but equally excellent.The series also had fine supporting casts which included Rosalie Williams as Holmes's motherly housekeeper Mrs. Hudson, Charles Gray as Holmes's brother Mycroft, who is as brilliant if not more so than Holmes himself, and Colin Jeavons as the inept Inspector Lestrade, who thinks he can outdo Holmes in solving cases but always ends up being proved wrong. Also, Eric Porter made a very menacing Professor Moriarty.Another thing that stands out in the Granada series is the vivid period flavor. It makes you feel like your there in Victorian Era England with the mansions, countrysides, trains, and horse drawn carriages. The interiors of houses look like they would during this period, especially with the look of Holmes flat on 221 B Baker Street. You can tell that the makers of the series went to incredible lengths to make every detail accurate to the era and in the text. This series has the finest locations, costumes, props, and sets that I've ever seen."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" is the first and best volume in the series. It has several of the finest adaptations that Granada has to offer. Episodes such as "A Scandal in Bohemia", "The Greek Interpreter", and "The Final Problem" are sensational. Although, my personal favorites are "The Crooked Man," "The Copper Beeches," and "The Blue Carbuncle". The tales in this volume are the most playful and just like the title, they are adventurous. The photography and directing in these is magnificent giving the stories great visual flavor. These are classy adaptations of classic stories.This series is a must watch for Holmes fans, mystery lovers, and anyone who craves high quality television.
I have to agree! Jeremy Brett is THE Sherlock Holmes. I've seen so many versions of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous character, yet no movie or series gives life to the true spirit of Holmes as does Jeremy Brett.What I love most about this series is that it is true to the books as is possible. Most other versions either add or subtract for cinematic effect and hereby ruin the purity of the work. For example, most other versions go on the stage stereo type of Holmes in a deer stalker cap and always smoking a pipe at a crime-scene and saying "elementary my dear Watson".....which he never does in any of the books!!! It is in short, a very honourable tribute to that great detective.


                
Before I began watching the series of one-hour TV shows, I watched the associated 103 minute TV Movie, "The Sign of Four." At first I was put off by the frequent hints that Holmes was a needle drug user (apparently cocaine and morphine according to Watson's allusion). Once those hints went away as the season progressed, I became more interested in seeing a now clear-minded Holmes pursue his adventures. Holmes did appear rude, bombastic and unpredictable in temperament at first, but that too seemed to improve with time. Once these poor character traits seemed to subside (or I became inured to them), it became almost impossible to not be glued to each episode. One in particular, "The Red Headed League," was most exhilarating to watch, as Holmes dealt with corrupt royalty, a silly pawn shop owner, and Professor Moriarty. It is a "three pipe" challenge to Holmes, meaning he has to smoke three pipes of tobacco while mulling it over.This series of Sherlock Holmes shorts has Watson a much more perceptive and helpful assistant to Holmes as contrasted with the Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce version, where Watson is an addled and unreliable hindrance to Holmes. Watch for the episode where Sherlock's older brother is introduced. It is entertaining to see them both deducing much from looking at a random man through the window. For any who would enjoy a fairly "family-friendly" fully engaging mystery series, this is one for you.


                
Fantastic. Utterly outstanding. I'll not go in to plot points or ruin any of the great or humorous moments from this little treasure. Brett and Burke do by far the most engaging and fiercely intelligent Holmes and Watson to grace the screen in decades.I can only guess as to what a travesty the new Robert Downey Jr./Jude Law team-up will provide, considering one is from Hollywood and the other's been there so long he'll probably have to put on an accent, as well. It looks over-the-top, the kind of re-imagining that will break the hearts of older generations of fans to watch, if only because it is all glamorized, overly-dramatized, and so far removed from the class and true wit the characters possessed originally, and which was so obviously the main focus of Brett's and Burke's faithful portrayals. I lament that a new generation will most likely hear of Sherlock Holmes and think, "Yeah, Iron Man was in it, and it was ACTION-PACKED!" Brotha, it happened to the Ninja Turtles, it happened to Pelham 1-2-3, it definitely happened with the likes of 3:10 to Yuma, and I fear it's about to happen to Holmes.


                
