For me, Billy Wilder's amazingly successful run of genre-hopping movies is peppered with things I like, and other crowd-pleasing movies that I really don't. Often, within a single Wilder movie I find pleasure and annoyance (Stalag 17, Breakfast at Tiffany's). And I've never made it through any attempt to watch "Some like it Hot." I find "The Apartment" similarly annoying. This may be the only comedy from the 60s that attempts to wring laughs from an attempted suicide. But if it's a comedy it's not black enough. The suicide is treated like a perfectly typical subplot and a terrific way to poach a girlfriend. After the first ten minutes, every development gets a lazier and lazier set-up, making the characters seem like real idiots. I just didn't buy a minute of it.MacMurray is a complete unrelenting heel in this. There isn't a single frame where he isn't completely unlikeable. And some dingbat "nice girl" feels unrequited love for him? Why is someone like Fran pursuing this giant a-hole? Why should I care about a woman this stupid? This movie made me pine for the 'noir' era, where viewers were never asked to identify with characters this sappy.When Fran's brother-in-law finally comes to retrieve her under the misunderstanding that Lemmon has been having his way with her, no one even bothers to set him straight. The script foists a neighbor into the moment so there's a pretext for Lemmon not explaining, but nothing prevents stupid MacClaine from doing so (and she lets Lemmon get decked). In this era C.C. and Fran would both know their reputations were at stake and they'd need to address the brother's concerns immediately. The film fumbles just a couple times, but it's in all the major places, making the characters look like idiots. The Lemmon/MacClaine love story is so poorly set up that it's barely perceptible. The whole thing is off for me. This is really unfunny stuff.
Maybe because I was born in 1975, but, I couldn't find what the appeal of this movie was supposed to be. The bosses are manipulative lowlifes, the alleged "hero" is a spineless coward, the women are treated like garbage...and this won FIVE Oscars, when it didn't even deserve to be nominated for even ONE? There is a serious case of Values Dissonance going on, since I can't imagine anything like what happened being allowed today, as lawsuits would be flying left and right. Avoid this overrated mess.


                
