What a wonderful way to spend an evening--dinner, Christmas and New Year's with CC Baxter (Jack Lemmon) and 'friends', accompanied by much champagne and laughter, and spaghetti and meatballs lovingly prepared by the host himself. There's even a game of gin rummy to get into that Baxter and Fran can't ever seem to finish--here's hoping it never does!THE APARTMENT is one of those truly classic classic movies--for one thing, it has an absolutely top-notch cast, featuring Jack Lemmon (at his wryly humourous best); Shirley MacLaine (a glowing screen presence); Fred MacMurray (smarm personified); and a younger Ray Walston (still wisecracking, still hilarious). They also benefit from a clever, perceptive and timelessly relevant script by Billy Wilder, under his capable direction. Though there are plenty of brilliant one-liners, the best of the dialogue feels true and real, which adds to the feeling that you've known Baxter et al for years. I loved the score to the movie as well, artfully attributed to the Rickshaw Boys and used to great effect.There are so many good moments scattered throughout the film (I can't even begin to enumerate them all here!). A lot of them are little touches that must have been added by the actors themselves (Jack Lemmon humming as he prepares the meatball sauce is just *so* funny!). I love the madness of the Christmas party scene, and when Baxter's doctor-neighbour takes charge of the situation with Fran, slapping her awake and marching her around the living room. I also love it when Baxter first starts playing gin rummy with Fran, and she reveals how she has a talent for falling for the wrong guy all the time. Best of all, Lemmon makes such a believable, sweet pushover that you often want to shake him and hug him at the same time--the things he would do for Fran! It makes his final scene with MacMurray that much more satisfying for the audience.If you see this gem of a movie on a video store shelf, or (even better) playing in the cinema, don't let it pass you by. Join Baxter, Fran, Mr. Sheldrake and everyone else, and have a great time!


                
Ohhh - after my 4th or 5th viewing, I think this may be one of the most remarkable blends of comedy and drama to have ever been filmed - THE APARTMENT - in subtle ways - rises well above the conventions of any genre. It was my introduction to the great Billy Wilder, and my fondness for Jack Lemmon (a remarkable and sorely missed actor) begins here as well.*SOME SPOILERS* The cold take on the sex-and-money ethos to be found in many corporate environments hasn't dated one bit; it could be argued that THE APARTMENT stands a bit ahead of its' time in the depiction of (what would appear to be) educated employees treated like (and feeling like) tools to be used in generation of someone else's income. Lemmon's character never forgets that he's disposable, even if the optimist in him hopes that something better may be found in his superiors. Deep down he knows this to be a pipe dream - the sexual adventurism of those same superiors betrays their utter lack of ethics. Of course, Lemmon's character isn't entirely above it all; he's been more than willing to hire out his own apartment as a place for his colleagues' peccadilloes, in exchange for career advancement, which of course - as Wilder early on links amoral sexual conduct and professional/corporate/financial misconduct in a greater social critique - gets him into trouble.The dialogue is - as is always true with Wilder - very finely crafted, yet seems natural - this film is a remarkable display of the kind of reactions any of us would offer in similar situations. Interestingly, our two protagonists are also wonderfully imperfect as human beings - Lemmon and MacLaine bear some responsibility for the very serious situations they've gotten themselves into; they manage to realize this ("Be a mensch!" Lemmon's doctor neighbor exclaims) just in time to set things right. MacLaine in particular delivers a remarkable, complex performance - sweet and smart in her earliest scenes, bleak and emotionally ravaged in her climactic scene with MacMurray, naive elsewhere, sharp but hopeful at the end. The cinematography captures the entire cast beautifully - with minimal movement, abundant long takes, and a sleek lack of visual clutter, all of the principals are free to reveal their own best and worst impulses, within an environment that is stripped of artifice. The end result is a film filled with great moments one can easily identify with.


                
Written by the great filmmaker Billy Wilder, this is a serious, sardonic comedy for people who've known what's its like to feel the pressure of compromising your principles or your self- respect for the sake of getting ahead in life. And there are very few over the age of consent who haven't had to at one time or another. This isn't the laugh out loud comedy of Jim Carrey or the Farrelly brothers, but a subtle, nuanced comedy about two people who have both been jaded in love and yet continue to hope again and again that it will someday work out for them -- mainly because despite the unlikeable things they do, they are both basically decent, nice people. Flawed and even weak at times, but good people. This is a movie that doesn't just make it you laugh, it makes you think. A rare find indeed.


                
Billy Wilder's "The Apartment is his greatest accomplishment. It is his most successful melding of comedy and drama that he never quite pulled off again. I'm glad the Academy had enough good taste to award Wilder The Triple Crown: Best Picture/Director/Screenplay. But they still had enough bad taste to deny Jack Lemmon a Best Actor award, Shirley MacLaine a Best Actress award and Fred MacMurray a nomination and award.The plot this time: C.C. Baxter (Lemmon; in case you're wondering: "C for Calvin C for Clifford, but most people call me "Bud")lends out his apartment to executives for their extramarital trysts in the faint hope of a promotion. Eventually, his boss, Sheldrake (MacMurray, excellent in a rare straight role) finds out and wants the key for his own affairs. Meanwhile, Baxter has a crush on Miss Kubelik (MacLaine, in a strong performance)the elevator operator.For those who accuse me of spoiling the whole movie: rest assured. This only covers the first 20 minutes or so of the 126 minute feature. Wilder has many twists and tricks up his sleeve and I'll leave you to discover what happens. What amazes me about "The Apartment" is that unlike most films, this isn't about the plot. It's a study in human nature and the mistakes they make. That is a strong trait of most Wilder films (including "Kiss Me, Stupid" and "The Fortune Cookie", both hilarious comedies with a hidden meaning)Also the dialogue by Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond isn't just one-liners (although they are funny; especially when spoken by Lemmon and Ray Walston)There is real heartfelt sentiment here and it isn't the syrupy kind that makes my stomach churn (as in films like "Patch Adams") Wilder allows enough to make his points and then gets back to comedy.The cinematography is fabulous too. Wilder's film (as most of his 60s films) is in widescreen Black and White (shot by Joseph LaShelle, in Panavision; one of the most unsung and unrecognized cinematographers in history, he was nominated but lost) It has a crisp,clean look and is one of the few widescreen films that actually make the viewer feel confined in a tight space."The Apartment" is a superior example of the "serious comedy", films that work as both comedy and drama. Sadly, many of today's filmmakers have lost touch with this genre. I can't help but feel that the freedoms granted today that weren't in the 1950s and 60s haven't been an advance. They've been holding us back. Smart characters have lost way to stupid and oversexed ones. That's a real shame and it's high time we go back to our roots.**** out of 4 stars


                
In the recent biography of Billy Wilder by Ed Sikov, it is mentioned that for the first time Wilder used as his protagonist a lovable loser. Think about it. In a whole lot of his previous films the main lead in Ace in the Hole, Double Indemnity, Stalag 17 are the people who are the takers as Shirley MacLaine describes Fred MacMurray here.In The Apartment, it's the schnook that's took who the story focuses on. Jack Lemmon creates one of his immortal characters in C.C. Baxter, a minor cog in the machinery of the insurance company he works for.Lemmon has maybe found a way to move up the corporate ladder, but it's driving him nuts. He lives on West 67 Street in Manhattan, a most convenient location for kanoodling. Only it isn't him that kanoodles. One time he allowed one of the middle level managers to use his apartment for a little nookie. One guy tells another and so on and so on and pretty soon Lemmon can't call his place his own.In walks big boss Fred MacMurray to seemingly save the situation. But it turns out he only wants exclusive use for himself and he actually does vault Baxter several steps up the corporate ladder. And unfortunately MacMurray is currently kanoodling with elevator operator Shirley MacLaine who Lemmon has a thing for.The Apartment was years ahead of its time in that it was one of the first major films to deal with sexual harassment. The whole group of middle executives Ray Walston, David Lewis, Willard Waterman, David White and the big cheese Fred MacMurray just look on that insurance company as one gigantic harem. As typical for 1960 note there are no women in any managerial positions at all.Fred MacMurray almost didn't play Mr. Sheldrake. Paul Douglas was cast originally, but died suddenly just before shooting on The Apartment commenced. MacMurray stepped in and got great critical reviews for another effort with Billy Wilder as a heavy. MacMurray was also starting at this time a long run in the family comedy My Three Sons on television. There would be no more bad guys in his future.Billy Wilder held out in casting for Jack Kruschen as Doctor Dreyfus the next door neighbor who is available to save Shirley MacLaine's life. The folks at United Artists were ready to sign Groucho Marx for the part. Wilder's faith in Kruschen was justified, he got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor, but lost to Peter Ustinov for Spartacus. Lemmon and MacLaine were also nominated for the leads, but failed to win. But The Apartment was chosen Best Film of 1960 and Billy Wilder was Best Director.Also look out for a biting performance by Edie Adams who really makes her role count as MacMurray's secretary and former flame. During a Christmas party she tips off MacLaine to MacMurray's philandering ways and then later on brings the house of cards all around Fred.The Apartment is so timeless in so many ways although women in the workplace have made great strides in the last 46 years. One thing though that does show how dated it is. It's mentioned that Lemmon pays $94.00 a month, presumably rent controlled, for a one bedroom apartment in the West Sixties in Manhattan.Now that is dated.
One of the finest examples of smart, satiric comedy-drama ever created for the screen. Jack Lemmon (in amazing comic form) plays a working stiff in Corporate America--via New York City--whose bachelor apartment inadvertently becomes a love-nest for amorous, married executives. The film is extremely modern for 1960 and features a non-stop barrage of funny, clever talk. Lemmon is a mad genius at frenzied (yet sympathetic) characterization, and "The Apartment" catches him at his professional peak in the movies. Working alongside huggable neurotic Shirley MacLaine (also at her peak) and shady Fred MacMurray (parlaying his slimeball role with curt persuasion), Lemmon creates a new kind of acting: screwball realism. **** from ****


                
In the beginning of The Apartment we see C. C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon) being lost in a sea of desks within a gigantic office room. He works for a huge New York insurance company employing over thirty thousand souls spread over twenty-seven floors. Sometimes he is working overtime; "It's not like I was overly ambitious..." Baxter tells us defensively. "You see, I have this little problem with my apartment<U+0085> I can't always get in when I want to." The reason are several superiors, to whom he is lending his apartment for their extra-marital escapades. In exchange they promise to give his career a push by passing recommendations to the personnel manager, Mr. Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray). Although Buddy Boy (that's his disrespectful yet firmly established nickname) is daily surrounded by hundreds of people, he is drowning in lonesomeness. Apart from his mocking colleagues, there does not seem to be any family or close friends. In fact, the only decent person among his acquaintances is his neighbour, Dr. Dreyfuss (Jack Kruschen), ironically under the wrong impression that the man next door is a womanizing drunkard. So Baxter meekly adapts to the mercilessness of corporate life, putting all hopes of happiness into his career. His free evenings consist of watching TV, preparing dinner or cleaning up after the occupants of his apartment. Yes, one could say that Baxter does not exactly lead a joyful life. Yet, there is something, or rather somebody carrying light into the loner's gloominess when he falls in love with the pretty elevator girl Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine). Although Fran likes him for his decency and kindness, she does not quite share the feelings of her ardent admirer. But Buddy Boy refuses to notice any signs of unrequited love and eventually talks her into going out with him. You can imagine how Baxter feels when she fails to turn up, and how things get significantly worse when he finds out that she is actually having intimate meetings with the personnel manager Mr. Sheldrake in HIS apartment. The image of purity Baxter had of Fran is gone. On Christmas Eve, he decides to drown his broken heart in a bar while his apartment is occupied by the cause of his misery. But Fran doesn't feel any happier than Baxter, and with the depressing effect Christmas can have on the lonesome and desperate, the story threatens to take a turn into tragedy... It is hard to pin The Apartment on a single genre. The sharp, witty dialogue as well as Jack Lemmon's hilarious mimic would hint at a romantic comedy. Yet, one cannot overlook the tragic elements which let us dive into thoughtfulness, but never too deeply. Then again the film works on a satiric level, operating as cynical social commentary on corporate culture in the sixties (which is not very unlike today's business life). The remarkable thing about this film is that these three qualities merge perfectly into each other without ever losing the balance. The Apartment is a most entertaining picture, sometimes rushing from one hilarity to the next, and then suddenly slowing down to leave room for contemplation. Sometimes uplifting, sometimes depressing, sometimes both at the same time. Billy Wilder mixed these contrary moods, and most amazingly, it worked out just fine. First and foremost The Apartment deals with loneliness and the everlasting search for unaccomplished love. "I used to live like Robinson Crusoe. I mean shipwrecked among 8 million people. And then one day I saw a footprint in the sand and there you were." Baxter tells Ms Kubelik. Does any relationship ever work out the way one dreamed it would? Additionally the film points out how people let themselves be treated badly out of total lack of self-esteem. Standing up for oneself and saying the simple word "no" can sometimes be an art of its own. As an able filmmaker and scriptwriter (together with I. A. L. Diamond, "Some like it Hot"), Billy Wilder once again produced a film classic of outstanding quality. I have yet to see another picture, equally consistent at providing such humorous and well-timed dialogues. The amount of memorable quotes is remarkable and the entire cast did a terrific job at delivering them. Moreover, Wilder chose to shoot in black and white widescreen, shining with beautiful cinematography, and thereby gave the film a very special melancholy mood. Maybe the greatest strength of The Apartment is its honesty. It doesn't lie to us by painting images of perfect love or of perfect people. Neither does it create scenarios of utter hopelessness. However, it shows us that although life can be unfair on default, everyone is responsible for oneself to work up the courage to achieve happiness. With the director's cynical, yet comic approach to life, the film takes itself serious and it doesn't. It lets us taste the bitter and the sweet, thereby lending itself a tone of reality. For that reason alone I don't feel cheated by The Apartment and its story never failed to cheer me up. Then again, I may be too much of a pessimistic optimist.


                
Billy Wilder's "The Apartment" is a film which can produce some of the biggest laughs and at the same time... can bring many viewers to tears, Billy Wilder's quaint little tale about everyday people who get tangled up in love, jealousy and infidelity boasts a top-notch cast led by the trio of Lemmon, MacLaine and MacMurray who are tremendous. The plot revolves around C.C. (Lemmon) who unknowingly makes the unethical attempt of climbing the corporate ladder by 'loaning' his apartment to members from his management chain to entertain their 'women on the side'. Given the change of circumstances, this premise certainly could even hit home in the current office environment. Although the office party and secretarial gossip scenes could be viewed as dated, the power and attitude of the corporate executive, Mr. Sheldrake (MacMurray) is certainly symbolic. The character of Fran (MacLaine) for today's standards of course seems too submissive and vulnerable but the reward of her finding true, admirable, unconditional companionship is quite enriching and fulfilling to any who see this memorable film.


                
For me Billy Wilder has always been one of my all time favourite directors and he has not made a single film that has not appealed to me. Billy Wilder sums up perfection all his films manage to succeed in what they set out to do. Billy Wilder is not just one of the greatest directors; he is also one of the finest scriptwriters ever. Creating flowing dialogue like no other and perfectly making his actors and actresses work with the script brilliantly. Billy Wilder has made dark noirs, hilarious musicals and studies of human nature. It is extremely difficult to fully describe a director as versatile and genius as Billy Wilder. His films have held up for generations and will continue to have the same mass appeal that his films have had since their opening days.On the surface The Apartment might seem like a comedy and yes that's what it is on the surface. Once you start watching The Apartment you realise that actually it is a very dark film underneath and actually has characters that contemplate suicide. The fact is that The Apartment captures the realism of the everyday workman and makes you laugh as well as feel pity. The script is what keeps the film moving and shows how the characters in The Apartment change as the film progresses. The Apartment is about becoming somebody rather than being something that someone uses.Jack Lemmon creates C.C. Baxter the young aspiring workman who just wants to have a good career and the perfect woman. Though something always goes wrong and he's perfectly able to get a woman, but not the one he wants. At times you pity C.C. Baxter because he's so kind to everyone and never gets the thing he wants in return because something will always get in the way. I think there are times in every man's life where you probably feel like C.C. Baxter in one way or another.Jack Lemmon perfectly progresses with his character to make himself one of the most distinguishable character actors ever. Jack Lemmon works with an elegant skill at comedic performances and always captures the true essence of his characters. He seems to be one of those actors who are able to find the perfect chemistry with his fellow cast. What makes C.C. Baxter so brilliant is the fact he stands for everything the film is about. He becomes one of the mot uplifting and joyous ever put on screen. Shirley MacLaine is also excellent as the lovable Fran Kubelik (C.C. Baxter's heartthrob). From first impressions you'd think she is a beautiful and happy women, but she's actually very different to what you might expect.The script is fast paced, memorable and most of all it helps sum up all the characters so well. It's a script that works so easily with its actors and helps to make some of the most superb character situations. The script is realistic as well and actually does feel like the kind of talk that would be used in similar situations in life. The script is extremely natural and the subtle undertones prove Billy Wilder's crafting of intellectual film-making.The film is actually very similar to that of its A Wonderful Life and you could say Jack Lemmon is very similar to that of James Stewart. The direction is simple and fulfilling. It captures the image of "the apartment" perfectly and though just like any other New York apartment it feels extremely likable and memorable. The film's use of music is another high point and feels perfectly hand picked for the scenes it's used in. The film is actually quite sexually vibrant and does have many sexual undertones in its dialogue. Though subtle, it definitely is there and perfectly helps add more subtext to the film as a whole. A film to be studied in depth and not just watched.A film that never gets old and always manages to make the viewer feel uplifted with happiness. A first class example of perfected film-making you're ever going to see. Yes it's a definitive must-see, a masterpiece that was way ahead of its time and much more than just a movie.


                
I would first like to make the comment that this is no comedy. For those that consider this film a valuable part of Hollywood cinema due to the comedic aspects need to get their eyes examined along with their minds. I do not think that I laughed at all during this film, but I would like to mention that I do not think that is a bad thing. Not laughing at this film means that it hit you at a different level. I witnessed a beautiful film with some highly intelligent actors painting a dark and disturbing picture of a sexual world circa 1960. I suppose I was thinking that this was going to be a "screwball" comedy, which completely threw me off balance when the events of this film occurred. Never have I witnessed such a bold attack on the sexual revolution of the 60s and its effect on the business world. It was a slap in the face to see the way that Billy Wilder represented corporate America and honestly, it felt really good. To see this lonely man turned away from his apartment at all hours of the night because his boss needed a place to take their mistresses was sad, not funny, yet in The Apartment it worked beautifully.To begin, this film revolved around the actors. If you would not have had such strong actors like Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine, and Fred MacMurray honestly conquering their roles than this film would not have succeeded as it did. It won Oscars for a reason, and even watched by today's standard of Hollywood I think that everyone involved should be very proud. Their work was the best Hollywood had to offer. Lemmon successfully portrayed this hurt every-man that you could easily find yourself engulfed within. MacLaine, beautiful in her young age, was an emotional powerhouse. Her eyes could have told the story without any words. You could feel her emotions through her eyes, and it was outstanding. I must say that my favorite actor in this entire film was Fred MacMurray. His portrayal of the typical "boss" who seems to use his powers to control instead of help, was perfect. In fact, even if you watch the film today, you may still be able to see your boss in MacMurray's portrayal. For once, it was a solid cast. It had a structured story that was heightened by sublime actors that knew exactly what they needed to do. I would have to say that this is one of the greatest pairings in cinema history, these three together could have taken Hollywood by storm, and it is evident in The Apartment.As I stated before, the characters are exceptional, but coupled with their performances is a rich story that seems developed well before its time. I was not expecting to see such a sexual driven film released from the 60s. Films of this nature typically hint towards sex, but never quite spell it out, but in The Apartment it is in your face throughout the course of the film. From the opening sequence until the end, sex seems to be the biggest underlying theme of this film. In the world of C.C. Baxter, all he seems to know is sex, business, and the occasional conversation with the elevator girl. You can't help but wonder if that wasn't what was going through the minds of our fathers as they headed to the corporate world on a daily basis. It was such a slap to the face of the day to day America. To think that in this nation portrayed with family values and moral uprising that The Apartment would emerge as the breakout film of 1960. It shocked me. I think the reason that it did so was because of the strong writing, the powerful story, and the emergence of such innocent "characters" (as mentioned above). There were moments during this film that I honestly wanted to walk into the television, tell everyone to stop, and explain what was happening because I didn't want anyone to get hurt in the end. Isn't that a sign of a long-lasting powerful film? To me it is.Overall, I must say that The Apartment left my jaw on the floor. While my wife will disagree with me, I thought that it was a brilliant moment in cinematic history. Jack Lemmon could not have been handed a greater roll, nor could he have pulled it off with such beauty and pizazz. The story will shock and amaze you for nearly two hours. We are taken into a world in which we feel comfortable in, we feel as if we have been there before, and we can only thank the imaginative mind of Billy Wilder for that. He takes those moments in our lives that we wholeheartedly want to forget and places them in the window for all to see. His mockery of corporations, of the small man working his way to the top, and the disasters that follow are nothing short of classic. I have never witnessed a film quite like this and I hope I never do again. The Apartment was a once in a lifetime enjoyment, and I cannot wait to revisit it soon to see what I may have missed! Grade: ***** out of *****


                
***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Anyone that knows about comedy knows about "Some Like It Hot", and anyone that know about "Some Like It Hot" knows about Billy Wilder. This was his next film, and the reason I mention that is that this is a serious and melancholy drama with the form and rhythm of comedy. But it's not a funny movie, and part of the genius of the writing and direction is that Lemmon's character especially only figures this out in the third act.Jack Lemmon plays C.C. Baxter, an unmarried drone amongst drones in a huge insurance company, possessing of two important things: a bachelor's apartment near Central Park (check out his rent!!), and an amoral willingness to allow company higher-ups to use his place for after-hours trysts with their girlfriends and pickups they meet in bars. To C.C., the problems associated with operating a safe-house for affairs are merely logistical, not moral; in one scene, he is seen rearranging his and everyone's schedule to accomodate Jeff Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray) a real bigwig, with the expertise and interest of an air traffic controller.His hope is to promote himself within the company by pleasing his superiors, and for awhile that seems to be working. It turns out, however, that Sheldrake's current flame is Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine), who C.C. has quite the crush on; in fact, she stands him up on their first date to meet Sheldrake at their favorite Chinese restaurant, where Sheldrake asks her to resume their affair, intimating that he will leave his wife for her (a lie that no-one except her even pretends to believe).Without going into too many details, the joy of and intelligence this is how well this triangle works itself out slowly and with some pain by all concerned. Although C.C. really likes Fran, she won't give him the time of day, first because she's already bruised and involved with Sheldrake, and, later, because she sees his flaws better than he does (and, possibly, we do). At one point they agree that it's too bad that she doesn't fall for a guy like him, but the exchange is given additional bittersweetness not only by her inability to fall for a "nice guy" but her awareness that, as he is at that point, he's not really such a nice guy. One of the beauties of this script is that it takes awhile for us to notice that C.C. is just as bad as Sheldrake is; he's totally okay with the infidelities he is assisting in as long as he gets his promotion out of it, and it isn't his business whether anyone (wives or girlfriends) gets hurt in the process. Even the resounding disapproval from his next door neighbors (who just think he's a very busy playboy from what they can hear night after night coming through the walls) doesn't get him to think. Yet Lemmon plays the role with total innocence; he thinks he's in a comedy and it takes a real life-threatening problem halfway through to get him to start considering the error of his ways. Even then, he's still just trying to work the situation, without taking any stand himself. (There are only about two actors I know of that could pull this role off: Jack Lemmon and Tom Hanks, both of whom have such audience appeal that they can be this spineless without the audience despising them.) Interestingly, for all her personality, intelligence and self-awareness, Fran isn't much better; she's no stranger to the hazards of having affairs with married men, yet has little qualms about resuming her affair with Sheldrake. Both C.C. and Fran really are willing to sacrifice their integrity for something they hope to get from Sheldrake - him, the high-floor, corner window office, her, the gold wedding ring.I've stressed that this is a drama in comedy form to emphasize that this screen play is one of the most intelligently written I have ever seen; it takes a non-story (or at least, obviously bedroom-farcical material) and inhabits it with character interaction and development of the most subtle and human kind. You expect lots of bedroom-closet-under-the couch people shuffling (like in The Pink Panther of three years later) and general hilarity, perhaps ending up with someone partially disrobed and dangling from a window; instead you find out that each of these characters has a little history of his own. I rented this the other night, thinking that it would indeed be a comedy, and about halfway through found myself thinking "This is REALLY good!".  I've been renting lots of pre-1975 movies (The Sting, Spartacus, this one) in an unprecedented attack of escapist nostalgia, and have been rewarded with jewels like this. Winner of 5 Oscars including Best Picture, this is one of the best pictures I've seen this or any year. It's a cliche to say that Hollywood doesn't make movies like this anymore, yet the nearest thing to this is My Best Friend's Wedding?(A couple of notes I really liked: Ray Walston's character is perfectly cast and played, as usual; the whole picture is a cynical Valentine to New York and the 50's at the same time; and anyone who saw this at the time could see that Shirley MacLaine was gonna be a big star).
C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon) is an employee in a huge corporation. To promote himself, he lends out his apartment to his superiors so they can have extramarital affairs. Things get complicated when he falls in love with Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine), the mistress of his boss, JD Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray).I first saw The Apartment when I was 17 years old. I instantly liked it, but it would never have occurred to me to label it "my favourite film". It isn't cinematic ally dazzling. It doesn't feature any of my favourite actors. It doesn't push the boundaries of what's acceptable in film. Yet over the next thirteen years, I kept getting drawn back to it- because I could see the parallels that it had with my own life. This is a story about priorities and the bittersweet nature of relationships that I found to be haunting. Not bad for a comedy.The best way to see this movie is a letterboxed DVD. It captures the intimacy of the characters better than the cinema experience and the loneliness of the spaces surrounding them better than a pan and scan version.Jack Lemmon was a theatrically trained actor who gave his all and took quite a few critical hits for it (and praise too; he won several acting prizes). The Apartment contains most of his finest work as Wilder keeps him under firm control. Lemmon finds the right tone and understands the material perfectly. In interviews, he remarked of the ending: "Billy threw a rose into a garbage pail". C.C. Baxter is an engaging character, although he can be a little overbearing at times. Lemmon is at his best in the quieter moments- that perfect stone face he projects as he says "I said I had no family. I didn't say I had an empty apartment". At times, he doesn't seem to be in control of his own body- witness him dancing around like somebody else is pulling the strings.Shirley MacLaine is wonderful as Fran. She stays totally focused on the person she's talking to and delivers her dialogue sharply. You get a real sense of loss when Fran attempts suicide, because you don't pity her. MacLaine is totally unsentimental here- it's more an attempt to get somebody's attention than self-annihilation.Fred MacMurray's best two film roles were for Wilder (this and Double Indemnity (1944)) and the director uses him for maximum effect. Probably the most sordid scene in the film is family Christmas scene as Sheldrake's son opens his presents and has just discovered the word "profligate"- it's very subversive watching the all-American dad being a philanderer and a liar. MacMurray embodies everyday, uncaring, ordinary meanness here. You can see the charm and power that makes him attractive to women like Fran. You can also see the transparent snake-oil salesmanship that alienates him from people who know better and don't have to be nice to him.What I love about Billy Wilder's films (and this one in particular) is the fact that you don't have to make any allowances for him. More than any other director of his era, Wilder deals with the basic elements of humanity and these never date. Although The Apartment is a film very much of its time in its setting (Sheldrake getting his shoe shined by a black man) and references (a secretary complains that she can't rendezvous with her boss because The Untouchables is on TV that night), it seems more modern than ever. I can't think of another film that depicts life choices as realistically and as entertainingly as this one does. I've related to this film in so many ways. I've often been too eager to please and unsure whether people like me or what I do for them. I've had a crush on a co-worker who didn't return my affections. I'm often helping out damaged women. I think the movie captures the bittersweet nature of life perfectly.I revisit The Apartment once a year. Watching it is like revisiting an old friend who sets you straight. This isn't a film for everyone (despite winning a Best Picture Oscar)- it often leaves a sour aftertaste to people who may find some elements objectionable. Yet it fits in with my jaundiced but romantically hopeful view of life and that's why it's my favourite movie.


                
My local cinema does "Secret Movie Night" once a month, you just show up and watch a "classic" of their choosing, you just don't know what it is until it starts.One of the reasons that I enjoy this is that I end up viewing films that I might not, otherwise, choose to watch. Case in point is the selection for May - the 1960 Oscar winner for Best Picture, THE APARTMENT - a "love story" with some comedy and some dark dramatic moments and themes. A very tricky combination of items that are bundled together, brilliantly, by a master of the craft.THE APARTMENT tells the story of nebbish office worker C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon in an Oscar nominated performance, more on that later) who is talked into lending his apartment to higher-ups in his company so they can carry out extra-marital affairs. When one of the affairs goes wrong, Baxter is forced to "clean up the mess".Written and Directed by the GREAT Billy WIlder (SOME LIKE IT HOT, SUNSET BOULEVARD), The Apartment is more than a love story, more than a look into the vacuous lives of those anonymous office workers, it is a look into the lives of those who are victims of abuse of power. Wilder, rightfully so, won the Oscar for Best Director and Best Screenplay for this film. The Apartment is strongly written and directed not flinching at the deep subject matter while also balancing things out with moments of comedy and joy, turning what could have been a dour, dark subject into a more joyous exploration of true humanity and love rising through the corruption and abuse of power heaped upon them.In the lead role of CC Baxter, Lemmon is perfectly cast. Starting as a pure comedic character who is set upon by a world too strong for him, his character slowly turns sharper, deeper, more serious and more real as the film progresses. Lemmon was nominated for the Oscar for his performance - and rightfully so. I had to look up who beat him out for the statue and found out it was Burt Lancaster's powerhouse performance in ELMER GANTRY, so I can't really argue about this (but I digress).Matching Lemmon beat for beat is Shirley MacLaine, the wronged girl who's "issues" (I'm not going to spoil what happens, if you haven't seen this) are at the heart of this film - and at the heart of Lemmon's character. MacLaine is charming and tragic in this role and she, too, was nominated for an Oscar (for Best Actress losing to Elizabeth Taylor for Butterfield 8). Rounding out the cast was a pre-MY 3 SONS Fred MacMurray (as the Exec who abuses both Lemmon's and MacLaine's characters). He was terrific as this cad, and thought for sure that he would have been nominated for Best Supporting Actor, but that honor went to Jack Kruschen as Lemmon's neighbor in the apartment building where they both lived. I am fine with that but preferred MacMurray's performance. Also showing up are such great character actors as Ray Walston (MY FAVORITE MARTIAN), David Lewis (GENERAL HOSPITAL), Willard Waterman (THE GREAT GILDERSLEEVE) and David White (Larry Tate in BEWITCHED) as other Execs using The Apartment for their purposes.This is a terrific motion picture and if you haven't seen it (or if you haven't seen it in quite sometime), I highly recommend you check it out (it is shown on the Turner Classic Movie channel on a fairly regular basis). It certainly shows a slice of life during the MAD MEN days that just doesn't exist anymore - and also presents a type of film, and a type of filmmaker, that just doesn't exist today.Letter Grade: A+10 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (ofMarquis)


                
This movie is extraordinarily so far ahead of its time and it just does not age. I saw it first in Ireland, many many years ago when censorship still reigned freely over that fair land and the scissors of the censor wore out with all the snips in this one ( another great "cutting" movie was Gigi, don't get me started!).When I saw it years later I was overjoyed at what an absolute delight it was. Imagine a movie about clandestine sex without any sex being shown at all. Not even one kiss between any of the major characters. Not even at the end when you know it's all going to work out and they're going to have a cottage and kids and everything.Jack Lemmon, playing C.C. Baxter, who was reined in pretty tightly by Billy, gives an outstanding performance. Jack underplaying anything is to be treasured (another wonderful gem being "Dad"). Here he is a wage slave in a huge life insurance company, a drone among many, but a bachelor with his own apartment much desired by his promiscuous bosses for their affairs. With the carrot of promotions dangled in front of him, C.C. obliges them by letting them use it and spends most of his off hours pacing in front of his apartment waiting for the clandestine couples to leave.the movie adds multiple layers to this. It is a comment on the soul-less offices of the day when men like C.C.'s bosses preyed on their female underlings and the loneliness of lives in the big city without community is highlighted.The black and white filming, stark in its depiction of New York, the sound track, the brilliant script which lifts what could be mundane to the level of the sublime, the believable characters of C.C. and Fran (Played by a luminous Shirley Maclaine) who never, even to the end, fall into a maudlin mess, all contribute to get a rare 10 out of 10 from me.Five viewings later, I'm looking forward to my sixth.


                
I wasn't a huge fan of Billy Wilder's "Some Like it Hot" when I first saw it some years ago, but "The Apartment" didn't let me down at all. Jack Lemmon is superb as C.C. Baxter, the meek corporate worker who loans his apartment out to co-workers so they can spend alone time with their mistresses. In exchange for his services, Baxter is rewarded with high praise and before he knows it he is climbing the corporate ladder to success.The movie also stars Shirley MacLaine as the young woman Baxter falls in love with, and Fred MacMurray as his boss -- and the man who also has his sex-hungry eyes on MacLaine.In fact in one of cinema's greatest cases of irony, Baxter accepts tickets to a play from MacMurray in exchange for a night in his hotel room. Baxter invites his crush to go with him -- little does he know that she's the girl going to his own apartment that very night with MacMurray's character! "The Apartment" must have been very risqué and controversial when it was first released in 1960. This was an era of squeaky-clean, bright and colorful romantic comedies and this put a harsh twist on everything. The implications of sex are none-too-subtle and one of Baxter's neighbors tells him to keep the noise down at night -- followed by innuendo that nowadays would almost garner a film a PG-13 rating! Lemmon is really great in his role and displays perfect comic timing and Woody Allen-like nervous twitches and neurosis. Teamed with Billy Wilder it really is a great combination and the film itself is engaging and thoroughly entertaining."The Apartment" -- along with other 1960s films such as "The Hustler" and "Midnight Cowboy" -- helped pave the way for future films, but its revolutionary status does not outweigh its lasting impact as a quality feature. This movie holds up on its own. Some films gain reputations due to their effect and for nostalgic purposes on behalf of critics and audiences; "The Apartment" really is a great movie and still is.


                
Billy Wilder's masterpiece The Apartment is everything one wants in a romantic comedy.  Its humour is omnipresent yet subtle, its themes and concepts ring true, and its two leads perform with exceptional charisma. Jack Lemmon gives one of the best performances of his career as the bound and determined C.C. "Bud" Baxter, a man who'll do anything to get ahead. Shirley MacClaine is charming and moving as Fran Kubelik, an elevator object who is the object of both Baxter's, and his boss' (Fred MacMurray) affection.  Truly a perfect comedy, with wit and charm to spare.


                
The APARTMENT (1960) is, as best I can phrase it, a perfect melding of comedy, romance, drama, corporate climbing, mistreatment,stomach pumps, gin rummy, Jewish neighbors, Jack Lemmon, and Shirley MacLaine.Every time that I am in a nasty mood, I sit down and watch this movie on my DVR. I immediately feel 110% better-- mood-wise. From the opening credits near Central Park (which I am desperate to see) to the ending words "shut up and deal", this movie is one of my top ten, and that's saying something.As Robert Osbourne put it in his introduction on Turner Classic Movies, The Apartment "is at once touching and witty, perceptive, hilarious, heart-breaking and quite wonderful."Let me state this as simply as I can: I am thirteen years old and still this film touches my heart. Jack Lemmon is incredibly sweet in this movie and is one of my favorite actors of all time.For any strange person who hasn't seen this marvelous movie, here's a summary: C.C. "Bud" Baxter, a corporate climber, allows his employers to use his apartment for affairs with young women, and helps the woman he loves recover from heartache inside its walls.Altogether, this movie is categorized as a MUST-SEE-MULTIPLE-TIMES, and I have one thing to say to any Apartment-obsessed IMDb user such as myself: "Be a Mensh!!"
Jack Lemmon is an account executive who gets promotions by lending out his apartment to superiors in "The Apartment," also starring Shirley MacLaine, Fred MacMurray, Ray Walston, Jack Kruschen, Edie Adams and David Lewis. One of the best parts of the film for me was that in 1960, a one bedroom apartment in the West 50s in New York City was a mere $85 a month. Today you couldn't get the doorknob for that.C.C. Baxter is a lonely man whose life consists of work and overtime until people have cleared out of his apartment so he can return home. Once there, he has a TV dinner and sits in front of the TV. He's totally at the mercy of his bosses who stay longer than they should, leave him walking in the rain and cold until all hours and wake him up in the middle of the night when they meet someone in a bar. All married men fooling around. Tony Curtis claims the inspiration for this Wilder film came from him and a place he and several of his friends used for trysts.At work, C.C. is interested in the gamine elevator operator Fran Kubelik (MacLaine), but his heart is broken when he realizes that she's gone back to the head of the company, Sheldrake (MacMurray) after parting with him when she saw no future in the relationship. Worse, they're meeting at his apartment, and one night, after another realization that Sheldrake is just playing her, she attempts suicide. When she has to stay at his apartment to recover, the lonely man realizes just how lonely he's been.This is a wonderfully crafted movie and a real tour de force for Lemmon, who portrays a sad, beleaguered character out of step with the mores of his office. MacLaine is vulnerable and sweet as Fran, who loves Sheldrake in spite of herself. The cheating spouses - Ray Walston, David Lewis, MacMurray et al. do a great job at being completely unlikable. Edie Adams has a nice role as Sheldrake's secretary and ex-girlfriend, and Baxter's neighbors, who all think he's a real swinger, are very funny - Jack Kruschen and Naomi Stevens.The script is witty and cynical, pure Wilder in its look at the men of corporate America, the dumb wives at home, and the women they seduce. The character of C.C. Baxter is out of his league here, too sensitive and too nice to be in with this crowd, and Fran is too loving and good-hearted to be with a man like Sheldrake. Wilder puts these characters into a cold, unfeeling world where somehow they find one another. Maybe not so cynical after all.
On 01 November 1959, in New York, C.C. "Bud" Baxter (Jack Lemon) is a popular clerk of "Consolidate Life", an insurance company with 31,259 employees. The secret of his success is a well located apartment where he lives that he sublets for his superiors, making him climb to the executive position of 2nd Administrative Assistant very early. He likes the elevator girl Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine), a reserved woman considered a "jackpot" among the executives. Fran is the secret lover of the director Jeff D. Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray), a married man that seduced her convincing that he will divorce his wife to stay with her. When Fran tries to commit suicide in Baxter's apartment after a meeting with Jeff, she stays with Baxter while recovering, and he falls in love for her. Later he has to come up to a decision between his excellent position in the company and his love."The Apartment" is one of the most delightful movies of Hollywood ever and fairly ranked # 95 in IMDb. In my opinion, Billy Wilder is the best director Hollywood has ever had, and this dramatic comedy is one of his many masterpieces. The screenplay is simply perfect, developing very well each character with great lines. Shirley MacLaine is very sweet and it is impossible not falling in love for her character, who has the talent of falling in love for the wrong guy, in the wrong place and at the wrong time. Jack Lemon has another amazing performance in the role of a man that sells his soul to climb positions in his company, and redeems himself with pure love. Fred MacMurray is also excellent in the role of a seductive scum. The soundtrack presents a wonderful very well known musical theme. The list of awards, with five Oscars, another seventeen wins and eight nominations is enough to show how perfect this movie is. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Se Meu Apartamento Falasse" ("If My Apartment Speaks")Note: On 06 June 2009, I watched this movie again.


                
The Apartment does what most love stories and perhaps no romantic comedies do, which makes it as emotionally stirring as it is. It has one person in deep emotional trouble because she's in love with someone else, and the other person is hopeless in love with her, and not only that, walked on by everyone constantly. And frankly, you really tend to care a great deal, because the film spares us nothing and really holds back on offering us relief until the last few minutes.Jack Lemmon's character is a hard-working employee at an insurance company whom other higher-standing employees use for his apartment, so that they can bring adulterous dates and flings there when they need a place to get busy, always landing Lemmon out on the street for awhile to wait till he can return to the warmth of his home. This is only the beginning of how badly and infuriatingly he is treated throughout the movie, and Lemmon's character is so envious in how he handles it. He's a man who constantly looks up at things, hardly affected by the extremely negative situations of things. When he is punched in the face by an assuming man when Lemmon really has done nothing wrong, Lemmon lies there, nose bleeding, thinking about how thrilling it is that he's been punched in the face in the name of a woman. It's hard to be like he is but it's not hard for the breezy likes of him. Why is this so hard for the rest of us? Why can't we, at our most resilient, feel the way he does towards life, and go through it with such a sensibility where he intellectualizes his feelings? The film has great atmosphere, as it takes place over the course of Christmas and New Years, which adds lots of emotional effect to its story. It's a very relieving film.


                
The film industry has benefited many times when friends have decided to work on a picture together. Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro, Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney, Steven Spielberg and Tom Cruise are some examples. But none are greater than Billy Wilder and Jack Lemmon. In The Apartment, Jack Lemmon plays C.C. Baxter, a lonely man living and working in New York City. He works at an insurance company called Consolidated Life. His desk is on the nineteenth floor but his superiors have been using him with the promise that they will recommend him for a promotion. A key has been floating around the office and Mr. Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray) on the twenty-seventh floor calls Baxter into his office to question him about it. Mr. Sheldrake tells Baxter that it has come to his attention that there are four rotten apples in the company. It soon becomes obvious that Mr. Sheldrake also wishes to use the apartment. Once Baxter allowed one colleague to use his apartment to change into his tuxedo on the way to a function, he has not been able to refuse it to anyone. But one night changes his outlook. Jack Lemmon is amazing with his subtle humor and genuine kindness. He expertly portrays the sweet but disappointed C.C. Baxter. Fred MacMurray is sleazy and despicable as the careless adulterer. The role of Fran Kubelik was perfectly cast with Shirley MacLaine. She is excellent as the broken hearted woman trying to pick up the pieces of her life. The Apartment was written and directed by Billy Wilder. His screenplay is filled with witty comments but also sincere brutal honesty about the issues people deal with. The main character is forced to choose what he believes in: working his way to the top in any way he can or being a good, honest person. The cinematography in this film is very beautiful. Wilder used interesting shots of New York City for the setting of his tale. It is easy to understand why this film won the best picture academy award.


                
C.C. (Jack Lemmon) works as an accountant for a large New York City firm. There are so many employees, C.C. realizes, that getting ahead in the company is an almost impossible task. That is, until he discovers the firm's big wigs will do him some grand favors IF he lets them use his convenient apartment for their many dalliances. C.C. agrees to the arrangement and is often left on the doorstep, waiting for entry into his own habitat again. Meanwhile, C.C. has a crush on a pretty, perky elevator girl named Fran (Shirley MacLaine). Trouble is, unknown to C.C., Fran has been involved with the head of the company, Jeff (Fred McMurray). Jeff is married, of course, but that did not keep him from having his good times with Fran. The day arrives, naturally, when Jeff wants to meet Fran at C.C.'s place. Will anything good come out of deception and adultery? This is a wonderful movie, despite its serious subject matter. Lemmon gives one of his best performances as C.C. and charms the audience at every moment with his humor, good looks, and manic energy. MacLaine, likewise, is attractive and funny as the lady taken for a self-serving ride by the company's big man. Add in a down-and-dirty performance by McMurray and you have a dream cast. The secondary actors are all quite wonderful, too, and so are the costumes, settings, and production. Then, too, the script is stunning; make that a ditto for Wilder's direction. Have you been putting off a showing of this film for a rainy day? Please do not wait any longer and head out the door this instant to get this film into your clutches and onto your television screen.
Billy Wilders acid-like satire on the double side of American middle-class morality is great stuff even after almost 50 years of wear. Jack Lemmon, in perhaps his best part, is fantastic as the quiet paper-pusher Baxter who is exploited to the maximum by his cynical employees, while he is left with nothing (career-wise and any other...wise), except for his honest intentions, being the only one in the firm with some sense of dignity and respect for human values. Fred MacMurray, in my opinion, never had a better part as the spineless boss. And Jack Kruschen gets everything out of the doctor next door! A total delight from start to finish, and despite of the comedy theme never neglecting the important one: remember to be decent! Make note of the amazing pacing and dialog that sets new standards even for a Wilder-film!


                
"The Apartment" may be the greatest achievement in Jack Lemmon and Billy Wilder's highlight-filled careers. Many critics find its story gentler than some of Wilder's other films such as "Ace in the Hole" and "Double Indemnity," but I don't detect any artistic compromise. Wilder creates a believable, full-fledged love story that exists alongside the familiar dark humor, snappy dialogue, and depictions of immoral behavior that characterize most of his movies. Rather than diluting these essential Wilderian elements, the addition of a likable everyman, whom Jack Lemmon plays with perfection, throws them into sharper relief through contrast.
This absolute delight from 1960 is one of Billy Wilder's best works. His Direction of the always wonderful Jack Lemmon and stunning beauty Shirley MacLaine is up there with the best of his generation. The audience can't help but be sympathetic to Lemmon's character, and root for requited love of MacLaines character.Lemmon should have won the Best Actor nod. The mixture of comedy and drama is very appealing to mass audiences, and I feel this picture will be a new favorite for fans of Lemmon or Wilder who may not be familiar with their always genius collaborations.Take some time to check it out!


                
