A ridiculously overrated film. I liked it when I saw it as a kid. But now, many years later - and (hopefully) with a few more functioning brain cells than before - I find the film to be very disappointing. The main characters are absurd and their motivations make little sense. The supporting cast plays characters right out of a comic-book. All this superficiality and absurdity wouldn't matter at all if only this were a proper comedy. Unfortunately, it isn't one. In fact, it isn't even a half-comedy (the consensus seems to be that it is a comedy drama). This is a romantic drama; the laughs are as scarce and dispersed as bushes in a North African desert. The film plays up the near-perfection and integrity of its two main leads, but it simply doesn't wash in MacLaine's case. If she is such an angel why is she a home-wrecker who goes out with a married man with kids? And does it have to be one of the company's top executives as well? Women with this kind of behaviour are never (not rarely - never) seeking "love". I don't see how Wilder expected the adult audience to swallow this. (But apparently they did, the cretins.) Her suicide attempt is too far-fetched and overly dramatic. And what's with Lemmon's character? This guy is so self-sacrificing and noble that Wilder should have had him nailed to the cross in the last scene. The basic plot outline of the film is good and there was real potential there for a terrific situation comedy, but Wilder took the easy route and turned this into a schmaltzy romance film with the Hollywood violins accompanying every schmaltzy scene. The charisma of the two leads simply isn't enough to drag this movie out of the mud. The jokes and gags that there are, are mostly primitive - outdated at best; for example, the scene with the racket and something (unfunny) Lemmon says about the backhand. Why is this pap in IMDb's top 250 movies? Are people really that nostalgic about old movies and their schmaltz? If you'd like to read my "biographies" of Shirley MacLaine and other Hollywood people, contact me by e-mail.
