Jack Lemmon is the man.The Apartment really surprised me. The Best Picture winner starts off right in the middle of the action, but yet the first hour seems long and overrun. Too much time seems spent in trying to develop the characters (and oh so many of them) and not enough time is spent on just seeing what will happen. Just when I was about to lose faith, the film picks it up like I have never seen before. The whole sub-plot of the four guys wanting to use Lemmon's apartment for their evening tyrsts is dropped and Wilder smartly concentrates on Lemmon, MacLaine and MacMurray and the film creates true magic.The Apartment is more of a drama than a comedy and balances the two elements perfectly. Just after one of the more dramatic moments of the film, we see Lemmon straining his pasta with a tennis racquet. The use of the doctor and his wife in supporting roles are completely there for comedy and yet add so much to the film. The ending also rates up there with the best of all time using an old device that doesn't seem at all cliched in this film. Some say that "Some like it hot" was Wilder's best, but now I have to disagree. The Apartment is better and surely would have made my top ten had the first hour not been so predictable.How Jack Lemmon didn't win Best Actor is beyond me. His is a great performance, getting to act on more than one scale. MacMurray, another Wilder favourite is perfectly cast in the role of a family-wrecker. I wish they would have put a scene in which his wife confronts him with "The News". MacLaine glows on the screen even when she is sick and in bed.I fully recommend this film to all, it being Wilder's best makes it a must see.8/10 stars.


                
This film was groundbreaking in the sense that it dealt with sexual harassment in the workplace in a way that was quite realistic for 1960. All the women are in menial jobs at the insurance company where Jack Lemmon's character works, and all of the executives are men. The executives look at their female workforce as one big harem and won't let a little thing like the fact that they are married and intend to stay that way interfere with their stepping out from time to time. This is where C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon) comes in. He trades the use of his apartment to these executives in return for promotions and perks. However, Baxter has an attack of conscience when he comes face-to-face with the collateral damage that one of these executives is doing in the person of Fran Kubelik (Shirley MacLaine). Fran, the elevator operator, has just found out she is one of many affairs for big boss Mr. Sheldrake (Fred McMurray), whom she genuinely loves, and when she and Sheldrake quarrel in Baxter's apartment and Sheldrake leaves her some money for her troubles, unintentionally making her feel even cheaper than she already feels she swallows a bottle of sleeping pills hoping not to wake up, slipping into a coma on Baxter's bed.Things I noticed - this film has lost something with the passage of time in the shock value that was, I think, part of the original appeal. But it still has some outstanding acting, some personal redemption and transformation that people just love to see on film, and kudos to Mr. McMurray for portraying an authentic heel, leading women on and leading a double life without a tinge of conscience, phoning to inquire about his mistress' health on Christmas Day as he is busy playing with his children at home. Without this entry under his belt I would have always doubted his range as he was the perennial nice guy in almost every other role he ever had.Did you also notice a business world and a New York that is gone forever? Nobody adds numbers by hand - or by computer for that matter - any more, elevators have long been run by machines, and the entire floor of people that Baxter worked on would today be replaced by computers. Also notice that Baxter has a very middling job - at least at first - and yet lives comfortably sans roommate to share expenses in an apartment IN Manhattan. Those were the days.


                
The Apartment is a pretty sweet film. I bought this on impulse purchase, after reading it was Vincent Gallo's favourite film.To make it short <U+0096> Insurance Clerk, Bud Baxter gets tied up in loaning out his modest NY apartment to sleazy Insurance executives, in return for favours that will boost his career. Seems simple, but the plot draws you in, playing around a theme of doing the right thing for the big company boss, and at the same time stripping Bud's chances with his unrequited love <U+0096> Miss Kubelik (MacClaine). The whole thing ties up well and always leaves you rooting for Baxter's plight.The Apartment is a great romance of its time, neatly directed, great dialogue and excellently delivered by a strong cast.Shirley Maclaine does well to conjure that "something", us men find crazy about the girl-next-door types. Jack Lemmon is quite excellent too, in a manner that resembles a latter day Jim Carrey. He's a bit geeky, sometimes overly enthusiastic and has no coolness about him, only to be redeemed by his eventual purity.~Paul Browne.


                
This film dances curiously on the line between depressing/lack of morality and a classically satirical comedy. The staging and dialogue are razor sharp and precise and keep the action moving and the emotions being conveyed crystal clear and tangible, even if the words being said conflict with the truth. The apparent lack of ethics in protagonist C.C. Baxter's actions, when he lends his apartment to his bosses and eventually his direct superior, Sheldrake, for their romantic rendezvous, make the romantic interest in the elevator operator, Miss Kubelik, seem wholesome by comparison. While at many points it seems things will careen off of the tracks and spiral badly, the comedic nature of the film always swoops in a saves the plot.
I watched it with my grandmother and my film fiend friend recommended me to watch this. And I did. This is a film about love. Oscar winner Jack Lemmon plays C.C. Baxter, the kind protagonist. This film is one of my favorites in the 1960s. Shirley Maclaine as Fran Kubelik gave a wonderful performance. There is a fellow Academy Award winning actress who paid tribute to Shirley Maclaine, and that is Charlize Theron. Her character is undergoing through a crisis with her relationship. I really related to Fran Kubelik. But then, C.C. Baxter showed how he truly loves her and he cares for her. My grandmother once said "If your relationship with someone doesn't work, well, it's time to say farewell." Baxter helped the heartbroken Kubelik from moving on in her love life. Love can hurt, but you just have to wait for the right person at a right time. This is one of the films that is the greatest to win Best Picture. Shirley Maclaine should have won her Oscar for this film made her famous. So don't be a womanizer and never break someone's heart. My verdict: 10/10


                
Jack Lemmon plays C.C. Baxter, an over-accommodating insurance grunt, trying his best to climb the corporate ladder by offering favors to his superiors. In this case, those favors include the use of his bachelor pad for extramarital affairs, and Baxter often finds himself literally shut out in the cold while the bigwigs have their fun. At heart, it's a tale of the meek taking orders from the boastful, allowing themselves to be taken advantage of for fear of a distant, looming consequence. Baxter soaks up this treatment, of course, but so does his longtime crush, the lovely elevator girl Fran (Shirley MacLaine), who's found herself tangled in the complicated web of an office manager. Both reach personal lows, defeated by the world and pestered by constant external irritations, but see something familiar in each other that gradually nurtures a renewed sense of self-assurance. Hopeful without feeling unrealistic, melancholy but not menacing, draining and also uplifting, it smoothly harvests a large crop of emotions before producing a set of forever-altered characters in the closing shot. Very well-made, affecting cinema that still feels relevant fifty-plus years later, my only nitpick is that it drags just a bit in getting to the point of the third act.


                
The movie is already half a century old but it has kept its charm which makes it worthy of being considered a classic.This is one of the early romantic comedies. But besides fun moments there is also a lot of drama and a pretty original idea for the story. No wonder it won so many Oscars in 1960! On the first glance it may seem like the ah so boring good guy vs bad boy story and the female that finally gets a clue, but it is more than that. We have Baxter who lends his apartment for influential coworkers to climb the corporate ladder and we have Fran, the elevator girl, who has an affair with the boss while he promises to get a divorce. There is a parallel in their stories as they both agree to be mistreated by people with more power hoping for a better life and not seeing yet that even when they get it, it won't be as happy.A smart story is brought to us by a great cast. Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine are easy to identify with and they show some great acting skills with a lot of face expressions and gestures that perfectly show us the feelings of the character. I especially like Shirley MacLaine, she has some spark in her and so much freshness that take over the screen. She wasn't a big star yet when she made the movie but then she deservingly became one. Supporting cast was great as well. Jack Kruschen as Dr. Dreyfuss was great.A good movie with a good story, great cats and well presented atmosphere of its times.


                
From the 1st scene itself I knew that this movie is going to be hilarious. This was my 1st movie starring Lemmon. I would say that just like Bill Murray, he also has a flavor of his own for comedy (May be I am saying this from my hangover of Groundhog Day). A very typical setup but quite an unusual story. It deals with extra-marital affairs in a comical fashion along with the senior-junior relationship in a typical office setting. The movie gets to its point somewhere towards the end of 1st hour where Lemmon, his boss and a female are unknowingly strangled in a relationship. The movie shows, as to what extent people can go for their ambitions but somewhere down the line they realize that it is the personal life which needs to be happy 1st for professional to be blooming. Also people's incapability to differentiate between true love and infatuation is dealt with nicely in the screenplay. Some of the scenes had really smart & funny moves on Lemmon's part as he tries to juggle with his seniors. I guess it is one of the very few comedy movies to win Oscars, a perfect mix of comedy and drama indeed.


                
Jack Lemmon in most of his films that I can remember usually had me turning it off; this is not the case with `Missing' (qv) in which he plays a surprisingly good rôle, and in `The Apartment' in which he is superb. He carries the film <U+0096> practically by himself. Shirley MacLaine is just about OK, ditto Fred MacMurray and the rest of the cast. But that is precisely the magic of this classic almost in form of stage-theatre: the sum of the parts do not add up to the whole. The end result is a fine example of classic comedy in best 60's style.The film was shown here on TV last night coinciding with the death of Billy Wilder, but programmed and recorded (presentation, discussion etc.) before he died: a fitting tribute to this European-born man.The film, in black and white, is slightly dated only due to the music, as it is definitely in the style of 40's and 50's melodramas and the like. However: don't miss this one. The IMDb voting average is just about right <U+0096> and that is very high on my scale, especially for a `comedy'.


                
"The Apartment" endures as a classic film due to its great acting and writing. Jack Lemmon, as usual, is a master of comic delivery, and this is no exception ("...the way it crumbles, cookie-wise.") Shirley MacLaine is superb here, delivering a very real and believable performance as the unlucky-in-love girl, and to think she didn't win an Oscar is a crime. The interactions between her and Lemmon on the screen are the single best elements of this film, in my opinion. With great dialogue like this, there's no doubt in my mind why the film won Oscars for its original screenplay and Best Picture. Nearly everything about the film is believable, and many of us could picture these events happening in our own lives, like it or not. I do not necessarily agree with the underlying theme of adultery and the affairs people are having in this apartment, but I still managed to enjoy many aspects of this film. It's never dull for a minute, and the dialogue and events keep me fascinated the entire time. Little nuggets, such as Lemmon's famous use of a tennis racket to strain spaghetti, make this a classic. Not absolutely perfect, since some scenes can be more intense and difficult to watch, but still enjoyable. I love the romantic comedy feel this film acquires by the end. Well-written and acted, and recommended to just about any movie lover.***1/2 out of ****


                
A man whose house is used as bachelor's flat by his managers in insurance company, falls in love with elevator operator Ms. Kubelik in same company. This man is C.C.Baxter who is an employee and can't resist threats of his managers. His popularity is heart by a high level manager Mr. Sheldrake and Mr. Sheldrake wants the key of his apartment as other managers did. As different from others, this one is directly related to Baxter's life because of Mrs.Kubelik, but he doesn't know anything about this fact. He learns the reality in a office party after he had been promotioned and lastly he finds Kubelik unconscious in his house. Kubelik had committed suicide with sleeping tablets before he got arrived home and after this point Sheldrake gives a promotion to him for the things that he did to Kubelik and wants for the key one more. Baxter is ready to lose salary, career and all other things not to do this.Jack Lemmon and Shirley Maclaine did a good job in "The Apartment". A simple story belonging to real life could be just amazing and I had a good time while watching. Of course, it is necessary not to forget Baxter's work friends and neighbours' performance, especially Dr. Dreyfuss. The director Billy Wilder reflects his feelings related to routine facts which could be in life of most of us. The time of film can be supposed as long, but I never got bored.I haven't watched such an interesting subjected film that had been screened in 60's. Thanks to people who contributed efforts.
I think I had this film's DVD sitting on my desk for a while now, but I finally got to watching it and I have to say that I was pleased with the results. If I recall correctly, this is probably one of the last major Hollywood black and white films because at this point, widescreen and color were both prevalent in a bid to take back viewership from television. The Apartment is in widescreen, but not in color.Directed by the prolific and sometimes groundbreaking Billy Wilder, this film benefits from his experience, as the direction is smooth, the performances are classic and the mood balances well between moments of comedy and moments of seriousness. It is a comedy, but it has a bit of an edge because of some of the tragic subject matter in the story and so it's a more human film than say, Some Like It Hot, another Billy Wilder comedy starring Jack Lemmon.The story is about a Mr. CC "Bud" Baxter and his quest for the career fast track in a large insurance agency. To facilitate this career ambitions, he helps out his adulterating bosses in their machinations, but as fate would have it, complications in this scheme occur when a woman enters the picture. Drama and humor ensue. The humor, however, isn't all out wacky; it's an amusing real-life sort of humor and it doesn't knock you out of your seat out of laughter, but entertains nonetheless.So with smooth and experienced direction, capable acting, and an edgy story, the film manages to be solid entertainment, even when you consider that if you put yourself in the shoes of the characters, it might not be the happiest of times. Well done and not a bad film to catch. 8/10.


                
There's a local movie theater which is currently showing "The Apartment" as part of a Christmas movie series. Weird thing of it is, this doesn't strike me very much as such a movie. Sure, Christmas is going on during the film's darker segment, it just doesn't have much bearing on the rest of the movie. That's nothing to get caught up in, just an observation, I guess.What I did find was a well constructed script with great characters and a sharp comment on life in the big city; it's not enough to keep up the rat race, but the cost of actually getting ahead is steep and unseemly. And it's a good cast, but Fred MacMurray stood out. His character is a woefully clueless jerk, but the man brings a kindly element to him.In the end, this is a romantic comedy (or at least partially), and you just know Jack Lemmon's going to get the girl eventually (and I had to find out how). I don't have a favorable outlook on the genre, so that's saying something. And for all of the serious subject matter, this left me with a smile, which speaks volumes.8/10


                
I was genuinely surprised with this. It at first started off like any typical romance film and yet it covered many important topics that still exist in today's society. At the time this was made the understanding of it was not full comprehended, but I think it's important to consider the time it was made and what was going on in mental health at the time.Also, the photography and its filming was superb, and a clear indication of the time and effort put into making it visually interesting. I also appreciate how they don't distinctly show the self-damaging scenes that the female lead does to herself as a guessing game to what she's thinking. And even if it may not be portrayed in a light that is not understood fully, I appreciate that they interpreted it as a way for the victim to get help and to be taken care of rather than be shipped off to a psychiatrist's hospital to be drowned in pills and medication. That is so, so important to the audience so that they can understand the characters' plight.This was a worthy winner in my book. The 2 hours were well put together and appropriate for the topic at hand, and overall is stellar.


                
The Apartment. It is one of those ageless delicious comedy drama with a touch of romance that you can watch again and again. It starts as a comedy with witty setup and turns into a sensitive romantic drama leaving you smiling at the end.Jack Lemmon playing the lead who lets his apartment be used by his bosses for fun is electric. He makes you laugh on himself and feel sad for him with full conviction. From the scene where he finds out that his own crush is part of the games happening at his apartment, his transition from a funny to sensitive guy is smooth and moving. Other actors also play their part honestly. But key winners here are the delicious screenplay, witty dialogues, funny characters and master execution of Billy Wilder.I am going with fantastic 8 out of 10 for The Apartment. Who won't like to stay in the apartment full of laughter, fun, drama, emotions and romance?


                
Sweet, tender, hilarious & heartwarming, The Apartment is a wonderful amalgamation of romance, comedy & drama that's very entertaining from start to finish and subtly deals with the themes of adultery & infidelity by encapsulating its then-controversial subjects with excellent use of wit and remains one of Billy Wilder's best known films.The story of The Apartment concerns a mild-mannered insurance company worker named C.C. Baxter who tries to climb the corporate ladder by letting the company executives use his apartment for their various liaisons. The plot covers the complications that arises when the company's director also asks Baxter to add him to the list.Gleefully directed by Billy Wilder & deftly scripted too, the film approaches its subject matter in a very light-hearted manner and is crisply photographed, tightly edited, splendidly scored, cleverly witted throughout the course of its runtime & fabulously performed by its cast amongst which Jack Lemmon ends up impressing the most.On an overall scale, The Apartment is an elegantly crafted, endlessly entertaining & exquisitely witted picture that promises loads of fun, laughter & a good time and effortlessly delivers it. Movie-wise, there has never been anything like it - love-wise, laugh-wise or otherwise-wise! Delightfully recommended.


                
Billy Wilder directed this Academy Award winning(best picture and director) film that stars Jack Lemmon as C.C. Baxter, a poor accountant at a big New York Insurance firm. He tries to get ahead by loaning his apartment out to higher-ranking executives(like Ray Walston)for their illicit affairs, in order to curry favor and get a promotion. One day, the company boss Mr. Sheldrake(played by Fred MacMurray) also requests the use of the apartment, which is fine, except it involves the elevator girl named Fran Kuberlik(played by Shirley MacLaine) that he is secretly in love with. How is Baxter going to handle this problem and keep his job? Classic film works as both comedy and drama, with a fine cast and script that involves you in their plight, in a believable and poignant way.


                
This is not an exaggerated or over-the-top screwball comedy but more one that amuses with its cute story and characters. This all is also where the movie is getting its charm from. This movie is some good old fashioned entertainment, that is maintaining to watch throughout. It has a simple concept but likable story, that also works out due to its characters and actors portraying them.Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine were a great screen-couple. They were cute together, more than anything else. Next to that, they are obviously two more than capable actors, who help to carry the movie and its story along. Their characters are both also well written ones and not some typical perfect Hollywood type of characters. They feel more real and very natural. It helps to make the movie a warm one, with a charming feel and atmosphere to it.The movie is mostly being amusing for its first half. After that the movie starts to become more serious and somewhat more dramatic. It's a bit of a shame, since it seemed to me that the film-makers were having difficulties trying to find the right balance between its comedy and drama during its second half. The movie its second half was definitely being less entertaining and also less interesting to watch, also because you of course already know half way through were this movie is heading to and how it is going to end.But other than that, it's still a movie that I liked watching throughout and is one that I can recommend whole heartily to everybody. But what else did you expect from a movie directed by the great Billy Wilder.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
C.C Baxter, called "Buddy Boy" by his terrible mangers, is a lonely office worker who in order to climb up the corporate ladder allows said managers to take turns borrowing his apartment for their various adulterous liaisons. He eventually meets Fran, and through a series of comedic misunderstandings and events, they start a blooming romance. This film a funny treat that I would recommend to anyone. The writing is well done and tightly paced with some interesting twists and turns.


                
"The Apartment" (1960) is a professionally produced romantic drama with comedic undertone about making sacrifices for love and betterment of life. The story is about a C.C. Baxter, played by Jack Lemmon, who wants nothing more than to climb the corporate ladder. He allows some less than admirable executive men to use his apartment to cheat on their wives so that he can get promotion recommendations. He becomes interested in an elevator attendant named Fran Kubelik, when everything begins to take an unexpected turn. This movie intertwines two stories soon after the introduction of Fran. The main story is about Baxter and his climb up the corporate ladder while trying to conceal the misdeeds of five executives and falling in love. While the second story is about Fran and the gut wrenching love decision she has made in her life. Though a little skewed, man falls for woman in love with someone else is a story many of us can relate to. It is that connection that pulls you into Baxter's world causing the viewer to root for him. Overall this was a very heart warming film that kept me on edge with the twist and turns.


                
A man low on the corporate totem pole has an apartment. Men higher up on the ladder make an arrangement with him: they'll "borrow" his apartment for their extra-marital affairs, and he'll get in good with the big boys. Yes, the premise is enormously dated. Feminists today will not like this movie.The man with The Apartment has a crush, albeit an awkward, un-suave crush, on the girl who runs the elevator in the company building. Unfortunately for him, the cute elevator girl is involved with one of the "renters" of his apartment. The plot sounds pretty dramatic, and it actually is. This classic romance has gained a reputation over the decades to be a charming romantic comedy, but even though it's a Billy Wilder movie with Jack Lemmon as the star, it's not really a laugh-out-loud comedy. That being said, my favorite part of the movie is when Jack Lemmon strains his pasta through a tennis racket and sings the meatball song. It's not a scene to guffaw over, but it's charming and heartwarming, just like the rest of the film.This is a classic romance with an iconic ending, so if you're not a feminist, you'll definitely want to see this one. And if you're looking for a modern reboot, be sure to watch Loser with Mena Suvari and Greg Kinnear!


                
Director Billy Wilder scored a gem with this smooth, highly entertaining dramedy. Jack Lemmon is a mild-mannered company man trying to get ahead by lending his apartment to executives bitten by the extramarital love bug. Things take an unexpected turn when boss Fred MacMurray borrows the place one night and leaves behind his suicidal mistress, the lovely Shirley MacLaine. After she unsuccessfully tries to take her life with a dozen sleeping pills, Lemmon must nurse her back to full health. This leads to a few sparks, and soon MacLaine must choose between the good guy Lemmon and the powerful but seemingly non-committal MacMurray.Not many films can pull off the blend of comedy and drama merged in THE APARTMENT. Full credit must go to the masterful performers, particularly MacLaine and the perky Lemmon, who easily draw our empathy with their diverse performances. High marks also go to the writers, who deliver original, clever dialog and three-dimensional characters who could have easily been much less comprehensive. And Wilder, best known for bringing us SOME LIKE IT HOT, provides solid direction while getting the most out of everyone involved. Those who don't often watch older movies will be surprised at how well this one holds up.


                
Thought I had already seen this classic, but I hadnt and what a nice surprise it was to see Jack Lemmon and Shirley McClaine shine so brightly in their younger years on the silver screen. What a joy to watch such an old black and white classic!It isnt a full on romantic movie at first, it starts out as an office comedy in which employee Jack Lemmon rents out his own apppartment to his superiors who are indulging in affairs but need a anonymous place to party with their female mistresses. So they use Jack Lemmon's place. All kinds of trouble arise from this odd secret deal with his bosses and that's the fun part of this movie, which near the end develops into a wonderfully subtle romance.It will definitely put a smile on your face. And it gave me goosebumps and a wonderfully romantic feeling without the usual sentimental cliches which normally accompany other romantic stories. That is the charming thing about the "Appartment", it is as if love comes falling out of the blue sky when you least expect it. Great date movie. Great family movie. Great comical movie. This is just an all time crowd pleaser. Timeless and incredibly feel good!


                
While looking for a good New Year's movie, I came across this as one of many.
It has an interesting storyline. The acting is great. The music, scenes, and all else is well worth it.
With the exception of the good doctor, there isn't a character who isn't a degenerate. Sign of the times I guess. Then, people knew there was no such thing as hard work. Thank goodness for the 60's and onwards, or we'd still be in a backward place.
Great film to research the class/gender struggles of the time, and the lack of "morality" within the characters.
The film is a great look into a horrible time. Would definitely recommend it, especially those trying to avoid making the same mistakes again.


                
A Jack Lemmon and Shirley Maclean treat! A great original concept, with both laughter and more serious moments.


                
