Considering that detective procedurals populate the British television landscape perhaps more than any other genre, one might lament at the prospect of not only another crime drama, but a prequel to one of the most beloved shows, mystery or otherwise, to ever grace the small screen, Inspector Morse. Those who might dismiss Endeavour as just another generic addition to an already overcrowded marketplace, however, would be making a grievous error.The year is 1965 and an eccentric young Detective Constable, Endeavour Morse (Shaun Evans), is making waves at the Oxford City Police with not only his unorthodox but brilliant methods of deduction, but for his refusal to tow the line in order to please the upper echelons of both the Force and society. Under the steadfast guidance of the seasoned and similarly incorruptible, Fred Thursday (Roger Allam), Morse finds himself embroiled in a number of complex cases that expose him to the darker side of life and human nature.Although the series will naturally draw comparisons to its popular predecessor, thanks to the show's gripping narratives, vibrant swinging sixties backdrop and perfect blend of light and dark overtones, Endeavour is easily able to distinguish itself by its own considerable merits. Much of the show's success can be attributed to the ingenious casting of Evans, who puts his own unique stamp on the iconic role. Of course there are parallels to the world weary DI so expertly embodied by John Thaw, but Evans wisely avoids imitation, as the twenty-year age difference between the two interpretations allows the actor to create something fresh. The addition of the character of Fred Thursday is inspired. The street wise, war veteran is the perfect mentor for the idealistic Morse and their relationship is one of the highlights of the series. Fantastic entertainment on every level!http://infilmandtvland.wordpress.com/


                
Well I have just watched the second episode in the new series and was captivated again. As soon as I had finished watching I watched it again taking in all the things I had missed the first time, I have my dictionary/computer on hand to research some of the phrases and words which adds to the enjoyment. I do not listen to opera or classical music but yearn to know what the wonderful soundtrack comprises of. The characters and relationship of Morse and Thursday is captivating. This is British TV drama at its very best. I just hope it is kept real and Oxford does not become more infamous than 'Denton Woods'! The props and vehicles used during the show are amazing and really create a super feeling for the time.


                
In my opinion they are the best English series ever! Absolutely great story lines, great actors... The Pilot episode is just wonderful. I have already seen both series 1 & 2 and cannot wait for series 3. You can watch each episode separately without following the order of episodes. I recommend it to those who love English series and not just those... also who ever likes a good thriller! It's very difficult to figure out who is the killer and that's what I like about those series too.Those series give you some explanations to Inspector Morse and his behavior.


                
With the decline of good TV shows, I will say that Endeavour continues to be the best show I've seen in quite some time. The characters, cast and plots are perfect. As of today, Endeavour is the only TV show that I spare time to watch.


                
As a Morse addict I was sceptical about a prequel, prequels are very much in vogue, not always successful, the likes of Prime Suspect flopped, but Endeavour has continued to exceed my expectations. The devastation I felt when Morse went, then Poirot, then finally Foyle's War was pretty big, three of the best shows from the last twenty years in my opinion, but Endeavour has taken the mantle.Morse had a unique quality, different to all others, I truly feel that all those behind Endeavour have managed to capture that DNA and bring it to life. Shaun Evans is magical in the role, as the show goes on I feel that he's really managed o capture the essence of John Thaw, he'd have been proud. Roger Allam was the perfect actor to cast as Thursday, he is consistently superb, a joy to watch. I also love the fact that Abigail Thaw was given a recurring role, respectful. That also extends to the appearances of Colin Dexter, until his death in 2017.The Morse series was so rich in detail that Endeavour could well run for several years, the content is so deliciously high in quality that there's plenty to draw from.So many brilliant episodes, favourites of mine include Quartet, Icarus and Neverland, but how do you chose? Please let this run for many years, viewing at its best. 10/10


                
I have always been a great fan of the original series, featuring John Thaw as Morse. I always thought the stories were well written and televised. Which is as important. These series have me in awe. I am completely blown away. I am a great fan of the Montalbano character in the RaiUno-series. Also well written. And well televised. But this is something different. There is suspense. There is character. And there is life. I don't know how to put it otherwise. Of course we know how Morse became in his later life, but there was no history, no growing- up. These series show the growth of the character, by an actor who seems to be raised to do this. Shaun Evans does a masterpiece. I am afraid he'll be Endeavour Morse for the rest of his life.


                
Inspector Morse was just about the best show on tv but I love Endeavour even more. The character is like Morse but younger, a little bit naive and learning his way around. The ability to see through mysteries is just as good but more characters in the show gives you a better look at the character of Endeavour Morse. I could watch this show every week, if only they could produce them that fast.


                
As a devotee of the original 'Inspector Morse' series, I have to say that I was less than convinced by the idea of a 'prequel' series. Thankfully, my fears were misplaced.'Endeavour' stands on its own as a great detective series and also gives genuine background and insights to the life of the later DCI Morse. Not only are there these plus points but the casting is brilliant and the acting superb. The way in which issues such as Morse's limp and delight in real ale and fine whisky came about are shown to us so simply, in context and without artifice.Shaun Evans makes an excellent Morse and Roger Allam is outstanding as his boss, Inspector Fred Thursday; Anton Lesser, as a tortured Chief Superintendent, torn between his duty to authority and his belief in justice is every bit as good. Sean Rigby fills the sizable boots of the later to be Chief Superintendent Jim Strange admirably and Dakota Blue Richards makes a surprisingly effective appearance as WPC Shirley Truelove, a WPC who makes her mark quietly and without fuss, even in the relatively chauvinistic days of the 1960s. The supporting cast, most notably Fred Thursday's wife and daughter, fit the 1960s bill absolutely perfectly, indeed Caroline O'Neill, as Win Thursday, could have been born to play her role.Endeavour Morse does what he has to do. He follows the clues and evidence meticulously to wherever they lead which, in the 1960s, was not always popular with the establishment of the day. He is, himself, a tortured man who finds relationships difficult and hides behind his detecting as a result. Viewers see his vulnerabilities; his lack of confidence with girl friends and failure to say what he really feels, how he gained his 'limp', his reluctance when it comes to bothering with examinations and promotion. Endeavour is a flawed man who, nonetheless, has great qualities, all of which is further explored when he eventually becomes DCI Morse. Endeavour is, without doubt, a triumph. One can only hope that it has many more years to run.
One of the best detective that I ever saw and the best that is on television nowadays. You can just feel the old atmosphere through the screen. Amazing actors & music. Feels really authentic. A must watch! ITV please make this series available on bigger streaming platforms like Netflix and Amazon. This masterpiece really deserves a bigger audience!!


                
I had only watched a few of the original "Morse" series episodes, so was not sure what to expect when "Endeavor" appeared. What I found was a visually stunning and wonderfully crafted period piece, with an exceptionally engaging cast and story lines that were wonderfully convoluted and absolutely entertaining. "Endeavor" has earned a place in my "all time favorites" of television.


                
Evans and Allam stand on the shoulders of giants.Just as the X-15 and Mercury programs of NASA set the stage for Apollo and its trip to higher levels, "Endeavour" goes to the next heights.Thaw and his loyal sergeant as portrayed by Whately were the foundation..."Endeavour" is the next phase of this timeless story line.Let me be so bold as to say I think Thaw would be proud.The entire series has been brilliant, for so many years. Many thanks to all the people behind the scenes, writers, directors and producers.They, like Rolls Royce, have kept the highest quality in a time when this is extraordinarily difficult and unique.I am grateful and more than slightly in awe of this effort.


                
What is not to like?
Great acting, writing and story lines.
A great view of the 60's seen from the point of view of the conservative leaning police who are of mixed minds about racial and gender equality as they bridge the post war period and go about their business as England is embroiled in the same social changes that were hitting the US and many other countries. And crime went on of course. In the foreground are very good stories worthy of the best crime dramas. If you liked Wallander, this may be your show. If you liked Inspector Morse, you will enjoy seeing him become the man he would be, but at the same time it is a very original show with a distinct tone and feeling. The story line also digs into the personal lives and emotional challenges of young people at the time and police work in any time. None of it is heavy or pedantic and much value is more in the background as a decent whodunit holds the foreground.


                
This show has one of, if not the best character developments, storyline and acting that I have ever seen. I'm looking forward to season 6.


                
I've just finished watching series 5. This is as good as it gets. I'm a great fan of the original Inspector Morse series and a true lover of the Lewis series. Morse, Lewis and Hathaway, they all made their way in to my heart.
But this series (all seasons)... The casting is so extraordinary! Shaun Evans is cut out for being the young Morse and he's not by far the best casting of them all. Sean Rigby as Strange, now that's a world class casting! Roger Allam as DI Thursday, I just love him and Anton Lesser as the stiff, but good-hearted, CSI Bright, what a treat. James Bradshaw as Dr DeBryn and Dakota Blue Richards as WPC Trewlove. Even minor characters as DC Fancy, Joan Thursday and the reporter Frazil are spot on.
They even manage to combine intelligent crime puzzles with actual life. The plot is not driven by police acting like morons or breaking all the rules. No, it's carried by intelligence. And on the same time there are subtle, but important, underlying story lines of families and love interests. But they are subtle! Never taking over, just tickling your interest and making you want to see more.
For me, born in the 60's and growing up in the 70's this is so good. A walk down memory lane to the times when a phone was what you had at hand. If people didn't answer, they were out. I just wish younger people could watch this and realise that the world works perfectly fine, without them being online. As someone once said to me: "The graveyard is full of indispensable people" and these days we seem to be even more convinced the world will fall apart if we don't... update...
For series 6 I actually can't decide what I'm most excited about. Them finding the killer or the potential love story?


                
I have been an avid reader of British Crime fiction for most of my adult life, but my love of British Crime Drama came from watching John Thaw and Dennis Waterman in the 'Sweeney' while I was in my teens. We didn't always get UK TV shows in a timely manner in Australia in the 1980's, but I seem to remember the first Inspector Morse telemovie within a a year of the UK. While I was probably drawn to it because I remembered John Thaw from the 'Sweeney', I had grown up and I enjoyed the more cerebral story lines and it quickly became my favourite television program that was eagerly anticipated each year. I was also lucky enough to be able to visit Oxford several times before the series ended.In 2007, I was living in the UK when the first series of Lewis was repeated following quickly after the first run of the second series.I also enjoyed Lewis, because of complexity of the characters (such as Lewis, Hathaway, Dr Hobson and Chief Superintendent Innocent) and their relationships.So it was some surprise that I unexpectedly discovered Endeavour by pure accident less than a week ago on Free to Air in Australia. The first episode I saw was Episode 1 of Season 3 and I was spellbound by the characters and their development through this pivotal and complex episode. I quickly felt that approach to the development and personal growth of Morse is faithful to the original and the other key cast members help to demonstrate how Morse grow emotionally and intellectually during these formative years.In the following days, I have now been able to see episodes 3 and 4 of Season 2 and now also episode 2 of Season 3. I have really enjoyed the roles played by many of the main cast, but particularly Roger Allam and Anton Lesser. As an avid listener of BBC Radio Comedies and Dramas, Anton Lesser and Roger Allam were familiar to me, but I do not remember ever having seen each in a major TV drama series.I am now hooked and cannot wait to be able to see all the back episodes and the future ones. I also really enjoy the music, especially keeping the ending theme the same!.


                
Endeavour is the young Morse. I've just finished the fifth season and I want more more more please! 
A BIG well done to all involved. The plots, characters, acting and sets, everything, was spot on and most enjoyable and thought provoking. Thank you ...o....and... more please!


                
Just finished watching Series 5,can't wait for Series 6.Bought from UK,as couldn't wait to see episodes now airing on PBS.Quite an eventful season,threat of closure of the station,threat of Thursday's retirement,Morse in conflict with new DC Fancy.My only gripe is the 1960s having so much bedhopping,mainly Morse and the weekly girlfriend.A real comraderie,or so it seems amongst the cast.Have come to like DS Bright,and love the Medical Examiner.Have watched every Series,this is my favorite,an ongoing storyline of truck highjackings.The episode "Icarus" is the finale for season and use of drugs amongst the boys public school (like our boarding schools) is shocking,but it is 1968 this season.
I found this show totally by accident - I was looking for something new to watch, and this handsome young man cought my eye :) Shows description was nice too,, so I decided to give it a try. And I completelly fell in love with it from the very begining. What facinates me most - it is obvious how much mork it is put into this show - it is not just another dull detective show, no - the story line is always complex, intriguent, it keeps you on your toes, and make you to twist your mind aswell. Shaun Evans is brilliant actor - the way he represents young Morse, it's ohhh, let just say - I fell in love with them bouth :))So if you are looking for good, twisted detective story, lovable characers - this show is perfect for you - enjoy! ;)


                
I love the nostalgia of Endeavour and tonights episode was no exception. I loved the references to the ITV series 'Crossroads' which, I think, aired in the 60s/70s - the motel itself, Mrs T & Kings Oak. Brilliant!
This is the best English TV series l ever watched, and I'm a big fan in detective stories and films. Please give me more, please.


                
I have and have watched every episode of Morse Lewis and Endeavour, looking forward to seeing series 5, I love how it show Morse in his early years. I could watch These series all day without getting bored. Thank you Colin Dexter for all the effort you put into these series.


                
I absolutely love this show. First started watching Inspector Lewis and starting watching Endeavour when I finished all of those episodes. Love the characters and story lines. Shaun Evans is wonderful!!! This show is proof that you can have an amazing show without the garbage! Glad to see that another season is coming out- can't wait!!!


                
Endeavour I admit that I wasn't so sure of this idea. Morse we all know and love. But I was very pleasantly surprised, I enjoyed the TV show, and I did not compare the two characters of Morse & I don't think you should compare. John Thaw was a joy & made the older Morse character his own. But so did Evans, it was a inspired choice of actor and he as made the younger Morse his own. With a excellent cast I hope it will continue for some time.


                
This prequal series set in the 1960's provides a brilliant and believable back story for Endeavour Morse before he 'comes of age' as Inspector Morse in the Morse series.Shaun Evans as young Morse is simply brilliant and portrays Morse as a meticulous detective who won't settle until he has got to the truth.
The 2 hour episodes allow full development of each of the stories, which build upon each other to gradually explain the relationship between Morse, D.I Fred Thursday (Roger Allen) and Supt. Bright (Anton Lesser)In my opinion this is one of the best TV series of the last 20 years and stands alongside the superb Morse series as colossus in the TV repertoireWhilst there is some violence, it is always proportionate, and avoids being gratuitous. Profanity and bad language are almost entirely absent as is nudity.This is one of the very few 10 out of 10 programmes or films i have watched in decades


                
I got done watching inspector lewis and saw this show. This show is great because it is in the same area and awesome characters. I like the time frame that it is set at as well. The crimes can be really good that are solved.


                
