While it is enjoyable in its own right, this series has not yet turned out to be a relative of Morse except in name. No stunning secrets are revealed for the fans of Morse. There are the little clues for the over-involved, but to be honest it's best enjoyed for its own sake. The most interesting character in it is Fred Thursday, and his fatherly care for young Morse is quite touching. The last episode of season 1, "Home" illustrates this quite nicely. Roger Allam steals the show every time! Otherwise it's pleasant to see that television is beginning to feel some nostalgia for the sixties, which are more realistically represented here than in "Heartbeat".


                
I have now got up to date with this series. I have enjoyed over time the other offshoot Lewis but must say that my interest has been mostly in Hathaway and hope that it might continue along that path.This prequel has held me almost in that painful nostalgic way of the times long gone when I was just entering the big peoples world. Often anything from the sixties does that to me as I did cross the shuck from Belfast to be a soldier and spend my first months of finding England through North Yorkshire.This has played out for me so well incorporating no doubt many of the tit-bits that may have been mentioned in the Thaw Morse stories. Morse as the younger cop has shown the qualities that we would like most of our police to have yet we see that his friend who will become his 'bumbling boss' is no stranger to that greasy pole the police are accused of climbing.I have no idea if the next series will be seen by me but I have enjoyed Endeavor more than Lewis or Morse. Of course I do enjoy most of the other crime drama offerings and each main character adds their own personality to the tales. Vera, Foyle, Gently, and yes Barnaby although just accusing EVERYONE and eventually getting it right is hardly criminal science.I am sure some might see imperfections but nothing has spoiled my viewing. Well made and well done to all. Of course Allam has shone brightly. I do not think it is a Maigret thing as such. I just think he is so like Michael Gambon vocally.
Scandinavian noir maybe fashionable but the writers of 'Endeavour' haven't let that bother them. This is very much in the old tradition of multiple murders solved in a Jag in between visits to choir-practice, oak-panelled pubs and sedate Oxford colleges. (It isn't true, by the way, that the students used to step over dead bodies as they went to lectures.)Some killjoys may say that the more creative imaginings of script-writers should sometimes be reined in lest a strait-jacket of haute-couture production values stifle the life from a drama. And although it's true that the writers have shamelessly milked Morse's Oxford and assembled a Baroque labyrinth of a plot that leaps from one arcane artifice to another, they have, nevertheless, cobbled together a pleasing gallimaufry of ornamental machinations.Endeavour dutifully, and somewhat predictably, splices cryptic fragments into a cohesive whole, against a backdrop of the traditional tropes: Uppity Dons, Masons, Middle-Class Miscreants, etc., but also, occasionally, gets his hands, or rather, his head and psyche, dirty to make the drama touch Earth in a few places.Still, entertain, it does, and that's what counts. Two hours drifted by pleasantly and satisfyingly, (except for the bloody adverts) and the lack of realism mattered little. In fact, given Morse's predilection for Opera, instead of the Barrington Pheloung's matchless Outro, they could have a Gilbert and Sullivan production with a chorus of Freemasons: College Don: He solved the murder, Chorus: He did, He did! Sophisticated Lady: He caught the murderer! Chorus: He did, He did! Wide Boy: He solved it a-a-a-a-a-all! Chorus: Like a Times Crossword Puzzle!'


                
I was told this was a great TV series so I started watching it. To be honest the first couple of episodes weren't catchy as I thought, probably because I wasn't used to watching more than an hour episodes, but afterwards, little by little, interest built up and I got really into it. The setting is simply great: Oxford in the 50s is just the right place to set a murder mystery series because of the College and Church buildings that convey a feeling of untold. The actors fit well their role and especially Shaun Evans is the right person to act as the young Morse for his looks of a smart and good guy, who's often referred to as "Oxford material". The classical music, which is the favorite by Morse, well suits the environment and the plot to which adds more drama. The screenplay is well developed and for the length and the number of crimes in each episode, it reminded me of "The Midsomer Murders"


                
Re. Season 5 episode 3 - PassengerSeries 5 is actually known to take place in 1968 - in fact, the radio announcer clearly said that Robert Kennedy had been shot, which took place in June 1968. Now, the whole 'blue coloured diesel engines' business - whether that's wrong, I have no idea!I'm enjoying this season quite a lot - Shaun Evans really works as young Morse.


                
As a stand alone series it is very good. But for us to believe this young self effacing polite pleasant detective will evolve into the irascible curmudgeon portrayed by John Thaw is a very illogical transition. The young Morse could hardly be capable of more warmth and empathy. The Morse of middle age seems to barely tolerate anyone or anything outside of a a cold pint and a German Opera!
Endeavour
I have family links to Oxfordshire, a great aunt in Islip a small village on the outskirts of Oxford, and earlier relations resided in villages around Banbury.This is part of the Morse trilogy, that I was intrigued to watch out of curiosity initially, as the Prequel to Morse.
I've actually seen more episodes of this, certainly than Lewis, and slightly more than Morse. Of the three I prefer Endeavour to the other two programs.Some of the reasons for this are these.
It depicts a more complete representation of police activity, which includes more of the detective 'team' instead of just two central characters. As well as that of the uniformed coppers, and their countywide police colleagues.Being based in a police station on the edge of Oxford in Cowley gives a different perspective to the stories.It's interesting to see the young Morse in action in this series, Shaun Evans completely nails his characterisation, I hadn't seen much of him previously. We see some of the characteristics that Morse goes on to exhibit later in his career.I am intrigued by a character here that I hadn't really taken any notice of in Morse. And that's Strange, he starts here as a simple uniformed bobby on the beat. He scrounges assistance from Morse to get into CID, and gets his sergeants stripes before Morse.
We see Morse and Strange at odds, Strange keen to get on using any means to do so.
Strange not minding getting his hands dirty, by getting involved in underhand tactics to secure results. Something Morse demurred from joining in with, preferring to play more by the book. Strange with his eyes on the main chance to bare his breast and join the masons, being welcomed into their fold. Morse showing an early disdain for the practice as well as the order, as well as with Strange for taking the easy option.Seeing Strange in his early days made me look again at the Morse show, and to scrutinise his character. I couldn't believe at first that this was the same person in both programs, a crucial clue is his comments to Morse especially the remark of calling Morse "Matey".
In Inspector Morse its easy to miss any intent and simply consider it as an offhand remark. But seeing it in Endeavour we see it for what it is, a patronising attitude meant to demean Morse. What I need to look out for is Strange's clamber up the greasy poll, he ends up in superior rank to Morse. I'm keen to find out how he manages to do it, especially as we see obstacles deliberately placed in Morse way to prevent him getting anywhere in the force. By what appears to be Strange's 'Mates' in the bill, in both shows Morse is perennially criticised for his "Attitude". But in all honesty I can't help feeling that its more down to the police management, and their attitude towards Morse.
As I am watching this show with great acting I am shocked that the police in the UK chase bad guys that have guns without having a firearm themselves. Sounds extremely dangerous to me, & actually ruined the show for me bcuz I found it so inane.


                
Spent the whole last episode - Icarus - thinking definite shades of Unwin, Wittering and Zigo and then read it was definitely an influence. Also very "If........"


                
