I deeply love Morse's series, and I deeply love Lewis sequel, each in its own different way. They are two extraordinary detective shows, which I strongly recommend.So I gave Endeavour a try, both with curiosity and with fear that the experience would ruin my memories of the two shows I liked so much.Also, Shaun Evans is physically very different from John Thaw, so this made me cringe even before the start.Having said this, I fell for it from the very first episode.I was surprised to find out that Shaun Evans is a terrific actor, who plays an entirely credible Morse, if not physically, in a seamless psychological continuity which makes you feel the smooth way in which this young Morse would become the older Morse 20 years later, the incipient causticity, the noticeable anger, the budding low-key self-confidence--- This is very skillfully done in the prequel.Both Thaw and Evans play the magic of giving a sexy twist to an unsexy character, without flashing the sexy card or even circumventing all attempts to look hot.Allum plays a marvelous D.C. Thursday and the interaction between them, mentor-pupil, is instrumental to explain how this young Morse ends up being that later Morse.The 60's atmosphere is a plus in the show, very well portrayed and recreated. I'd say that the linking common trait between Morse, Endeavour and Lewis is, yes, their tremendous atmospheric virtue which sets you right on «in that particular place in that particular time».If you like detective stories, you will not be disappointed at all, and even if you are not a Morse or Lewis fan, you will find this show entertaining, alluring and deeply satisfactory by its own right.


                
After the surprisingly well handled one-off prequel, Shaun Evans is back as the young detective Endeavour Morse. Just like the original series with John Thaw, its success hinges on the charisma and personality of the lead character. Here Evans excels and carries the whole thing off handsomely. His performance portrays obvious knowledge and classical moral values but also an eager curiosity, drive and a naive humility which reminds us throughout this episode that he is a new recruit of sorts. The only issue I could find to quibble with is the almost Sherlockian mythology that has been added. In the original he was a knowledgeable and sharp police detective whereas here he is very much the deductive crime-fighter. As a Conan Doyle fan I do approve a little of the mythologizing but it needs to keep its roots with the original and down to earth.


                
Love this drama. Like the whole idea of a young Morse. Endeavour certainly has his detractors which have the scope to needle him because he is so junior. I suppose this is why he is so grumpy when he is older - getting his own back as it were. So plenty here to allow viewers to hark back to the original drama but also a huge amount of good coming from the new actors. From the use of typewriters to seeing lots of letters. A lack of overt violence, sex and swearing plus excellent story lines. What more can we ask?It's quite possible to marry the indelible Sixties period to that charming music. Roger Allam is excellent at Fred Thursday and Shaun Evans puts a lot of effort into the young Morse. Anton Lesser as chief superintendent Bright is a prig


                
This is a far more intellectual treatment of the later Morse, or Lewis characters. The writing is excellent and doesn't try to explain more than necessary, allowing the audience to draw nearer, and in doing so, draw their own conclusions.Shaun begs us to reach out to understand him, as he gives more away with his subtle expressions than words. It's as though he practised his scenes, first pretending to be mute. It's been said the show is too Sherlockian, to which I would agree. Solving too many complex pieces of the crime puzzle in just one moment or scene, or crowded in near the ending, makes Endeavor's character less human, less embraceable. The writers should focus on a more smooth process of revelation to enhance our connection with the young Morse and avoid over time, to produce episodes so formulaic as the Lewis series.Often, these out of period TV series appear fake, say, recreating the 60's with actors displaying a 2014 social maturity. Fortunately, but not perfectly, it sidesteps most of the usual puddles. However, Thursday's daughter is anachronistically wise, balanced and foolish, all at once. Definitely a time traveller. And the antagonistic sergeant is overdue for his comeuppance. One of my most favourite authenticity ingredients is the little old man with the huge grin. He's placed in every episode, like Hitchcock shows in every one of his own films. He reminds me of the six-fingered man at Michael Cain's bar in Get Carter. Nice touch!Thursday and Morse are the standard bearers of quality acting for this series. I have rarely been so excited to see more. Keep up the great work!
High quality television, with its strength being the re-creation of the 1960s, but with 2010s cinematic advances. The main characters are interesting and well-acted, although if you are a steady mystery viewer, you will figure out the ending very soon, which does take away from the suspense.Sean Evans presents the shy, taciturn Morse in his younger days as a detective. He is fetching and keeps his own counsel as to personal matters, and we can see him developing into the ascerbic, driven chief detective we've come to love and respect. Colin Dexter's brill writing launches us here in ENDEAVOR into a seamless transformation into the mature Morse with promise of excellent episodes to come. I'd like to see more of the young Morse and hope this is only one segment of what will surely be a superior backstory for the series. Beautifully written and paced, ENDEAVOR presents a cast of appealing faces and splendidly low key criminal pursuits. Highly recommended. I loved it, am clamoring for more.


                
Typically great PBS Mystery, but much better than most. Shaun Evans as Endeavour Morse, with his childlike deer in the headlights look as he detects each weekly crime, portrays the young but already very cerebral Morse whom we remember so well as an elder copper from the great 90s PBS show. Evans' as Morse, with his deceptive appearance of innocence and naivete, works through crimes with gentle but bulldog persistence until all is sorted. Roger Allam as his stoic, staid, habit-bound chief detective is also superb in his unwavering, fatherly support of Morse throughout, is always 100% credible as a mid-level Brit copper. Anton Lesser plays his daft martinet of a superintendent as not totally stupid, but he is perfectly underwhelming on purpose as Supt. Bright(hmmm)and is much more consumed with political kissing up than he is with the drudgery of everyday police work. He leaves that to the minions. All in all, great ensemble work, with very individual and unique characterizations in all roles, and I must say that I am so pleased that PBS has not fallen into the common American TV crime show trap of extending one crime into seeming infinity, week after slogging week. Thanks to this Morse, all is saved, and solved, in each show. The gorgeous and dramatic theme and various opera and classical pieces play a significant qualitative part too, as they both did in the original Morse show. Anticipate, then enjoy.


                
Not just a more than worthy prequel series to one of my favourite detective dramas of all time and goes very well with it, but it is a great series on its own as well, one that got off to a good start, though some of the pilot and the first episode had a still-finding-its-feet-feel (understandably), and just keeps getting stronger. It maintains everything that makes Inspector Morse so good, while also containing enough to make it its own.Endeavour looks great, the series throughout is exquisitely photographed and there is something very nostalgic and charming about the atmospherically evoked 1960s period detail. It was also a genius move to keep Barrington Pheloung on board, with his hauntingly beautiful scoring and immortal Inspector Morse theme, while the classical music and operatic excerpts are delightful to hear and fit perfectly (a notable example would be in the Fugue episode, the music having a beautiful and frightfully ominous effect).The series is also every bit as intelligently written as Inspector Morse, it's every bit as entertaining and also every bit as tense. Not all the story lines are very original, but they are always incredibly gripping with the mysteries not being too complicated or the identities being too improbable or obvious, Morse and Thursday's father/son relationship has a lot of warmth, is so well written within the stories and is a large part of the series' appeal and there is some good suspense (chilling in fact in the case of Fugue). Pacing is restrained, but that allows the atmosphere to come through, and pretty much all the same it excels in that aspect. The characters are interesting, and are evolving more and more with every episode, Morse's familiar characteristics are becoming more obvious as the writing develops and Morse and Thursday's relationship more entertaining and heartfelt.Shaun Evans does some powerful, charismatic work as younger Morse, and is getting more and more confident with every episode, showing enough loyalty to John Thaw's iconic Morse while making the character his own too. Roger Allam is also superb, his rapport with Evans always compels and entertains but Thursday is quite a sympathetic character, as well as loyal and firm, and Allam does a lot special with a role that could have been less interesting possibly in lesser hands. All the acting is very good, as is the controlled direction, but it's the performances of Evans and Allam that will always be remembered most vividly.All in all, a more than worthy (if not quite as good, only because I love Inspector Morse with a passion) prequel series and also a great series on its own that keeps getting stronger. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
After seeing the first few episodes of second series, Endeavour ranks as one of the best contemporary period police procedurals. What's striking is that relationships develop, change, and deepen between characters, beautifully understated, with emotional depth and intelligence few police series do well. It avoids the usual blokey male police culture..here I'm thinking of Red Riding 1974 ...a brutal and deeply disturbing portrait of UK police culture in the 70's and 80's. Eg. Chief Super Bright's character softens and the working relationships between officers is given sensitive and thoughtful treatment, much the same way Foyles War is done. The actors don't play to ego, but rather play into the period and time they're located in. Glad to see ITV have commissioned a fourth series, which I reckon will be nearing it's end. Will be interesting to see how the show will treat the transition when Thursday leaves and Morse gets his Inspector rank. In my view it's even better than Lewis, which was also outstanding. And much better then Inspector George Gently, but thats another discussion.


                
The show is quite a nice effort at character development. So those new to Morse, enjoy. I won't critique it beyond saying that I agree that Evans seems slight compared to "our" Morse, but that may be just a bit of selfish quibble as they make a real effort to inform the character and us of his resigned isolation and his love for the drama of classical music. Even if we can't yet see the middle-aged Morse we will come to know, one character in it does...at least that's the writers' charming and not so secret conceit....spoiler follows, but it's more an "easter egg"....The reporter who shows up in several episodes to meet with Morse and discuss the latest case notices the younger man getting a bit frayed at the edges and gently raises her hand to him and advises him to take care. It is quite touching on its own, but "more so" as the reporter, played by John Thaw's daughter herself, Abigail, is reaching out to her own father. Knowing this, you might sense that HER persona seems more Morse-like than Evans, but in any case, it was as close an encounter of the third kind that ever was.
/refers to series 1 and 2/ Well, I have always been fond of British crime films, including Inspector Morse and Lewis, but usually I am not into prequels or something new created by virtue of popularity wave... But Endeavour captivated me from the very beginning: solid and distinct performances (particularly Shaun Evans as Endeavour Morse and Roger Allam as Fred Thursday, but also most in minor roles), wise and learned Oxford atmosphere, realistic overview of life in Britain in the 1960ies - to name a few...True, a few plots are not smooth and the solutions are trivial, but, on the other hand, shooting chases, over-sophisticated events and characters uttering "witty" remarks could be entertaining to follow, but they are certainly far from real life. Thus, if you liked Inspector Morse and Lewis, you will like Endeavour as well - although the title let many shrug their shoulders at first as Morse's first name is not generally known... In my country, for example, the title sounded as "Young Inspector Morse".Well done! I am truly looking forward to the next series, especially as Series 2 ended in an intriguing manner...PS Seasons 3-6 are still catchy, even if some plots are less elaborate. Please continue!


                
I have to confess to not being a fan of Morse. I always felt the stories set amongst the leafy spires of Oxford University were all very much the the same old tale of a student from the past seeking revenge for some foul play that happened in a cricket match 30 years earlier.Endeavour on the other hand set in the 1960s, shows Morse in his younger days as a DS under the tutelage of inspector Thursday played superbly by Roger Allum, who really steals the show as an old school copper, who gets results his way much to to Morces frustration who is very much about doing things the right way and by the book.The show still retains it's fair amount of implausible murders but feels grittier and more believable. The 1960s are beautifully observed through the cars, clothes and fashion for the time, as well as throwing in many of the significant events of the era. 9/10


                
One or two of the other reviewers offer severe criticism based on the development of the characters in this series, as opposed to the same characters as they appear in series presenting the later phases of their lives. I think it is important to keep in mind that there are some things that viewers of MORSE will know, which viewers of ENDEAVOUR will not yet (as of 2016) have been told.One reviewer spoke of the difference between the young Endeavour and the older Morse in terms of the way they act, as deducer or reflective detective, but Morse viewers will know that the older Morse looks back happily on his time working under Inspector MacNutt (Morse: Masonic Mysteries), so perhaps that is where Endeavour will go in a future series. Certainly, there has been a growing rift between Morse and Thursday due to the latter's bad policing habits.Overall, I think Endeavour has been a worthy addition to the Morse stable, though it still has a way to go to join up the gaps, which leaves plenty of room for more character development, and more interesting stories.
Great writing and a great cast with each actor and actress making their character truly their own. Every moment in the show captures a feeling and makes for compelling viewing, every episode is written superbly. And the lead is truly Morse whose silence captivates you as much as what he says. There is a nostalgic touch to the entire series which makes you feel truly part of the time the show is filmed in, when perhaps time felt still and you were living in it.


                
If you're a Morse fan, this is a must watch for you. Elegantly shot and the 60s recreated in Oxfordshire, never have I seen coppers ( separate from their competence) looking so well put together. The actors have also chemistry, whether it's the superiors-reportee-trainee or father-daughter, lover-colleague's daughter entanglement, this series is just beautiful. Also it showed the evolving morals in those times and that there is an impeccable manner of the young Morse. It is also of note that each episode is not dragging, and the reveal is only until each ending. No spoiler, no predictability, just a good pace of timing and evolving characters in a picturesque backdrop. Definitely a favorite .


                
Excellent in most ways. The characters have depth. You get to see why Morse was Morse. That was missing in the Thaw series. Excellent characters developed by Lesser,Allam , Strange,? and DeBryn. The settings are period and you are not limited to Oxford crime. That facet of Morse was limiting and unrealistic. My only gripe with this is the plots can be too complicated. Even when Morse explains them you dont think they are feasible, possible, or likely. They strain to wrap things up. Most of the scripts are good ones. Much better than the old series.


                
For those who look at these things, it is refreshing to see C/Supt Bright's medal ribbons both credible and in the correct order. One thing does spring to mind, he has a mentioned in dispatches "oak leaf" on his War medal ribbon. Not often this is seen in films and on TV so I wonder if there is a story behind this which may be brought out in a later episode.


                
Endeavour has always been an incredible series, but season 6 particularly took my breath away. The plot over time has become more engrossing and meaningful and the suspense built throughout the season is amazing.
There's no cliches or predictable moments, Instead very high quality acting and storytelling. I'm particularly impressed with Shaun who did an amazing job directing and acting of course.


                
I have always thought that the greatest contributor to the success of a series is the interaction between the regular players. If the audience feels that there is an emotional pull between the characters they are interested in, they will come back for more. This cannot be just what is written in the script - it has to be a real interaction between the actors involved. So if the casting director gets it wrong, the producers are guaranteed a flop.
Here we have a success - the casting of Sean Evans and Roger Allam as the major players was inspired.
Evans brings just the right degree of initial naivety to the role, while developing the character convincingly across the series.
Allam, I think, has it easy from the perspective of my review. He will live forever in my memory as Inspector Javert in Les Miserables, heard live on stage. His artistic grasp of the part combined with the beauty of his singing gave an unforgettable experience that night. DI Thursday is only a transfer of that wonderful character to a (so far!) non-singing part. For me, it really doesn't matter what else he ever does, and to hear his voice in this series is a bonus - thank you, Mr Allam.


                
Never watched Morse itself but took to this immediately. It's great stuff, but, sadly, yet another TV series spoiled by the obvious tobacco industry sponsorship. 'They' say 'People smoked all the time back then, so it adds necessary authenticity'. But the constant lighting up - with flamboyant flicking of lighters open and closed, dwelling close ups of the burning ends, with the noisy sizzle, makes it so obvious it's a cigarette advert. And some of the actors obviously aren't real smokers and are clumsy at pretending to be. No one, absolutely no one would have cried 'UNAUTHENTIC' if they hadn't seen anyone lighting up - it's far too good for that to have been an issue. So try to ignore the flagrant side-stepping of cigarette smoking advertising and enjoy this exceptionally good series.


                
