I do not know if my tastes have changed over the years, but once I used to say by far the best incarnation of Dragonball was Z. However, upon watching this entire series on DVD uncut I now have to say that this one is equal or maybe a notch or two above Z. Though I can still say quite easily that GT is the worst of the bunch as while this one needed a continuation, Z did not. This one follows the young boy Goku as it chronicles his friendships and adventures while finding the mythical dragonballs that number seven and when gathered together summon the dragon, Shenron to grant one wish. The show started out as more of a comedy, a comedy with at times quite perverted humor in it. As the show progressed though it would more and more rely on action to the point that near the end of the show it closely resembled Z, most of the pervert nature of the show would be gone near the end. Why? I have no idea, but it would make a reappearance here and there near the end, but nothing like it was in the beginning. In fact, Z and GT would see virtually no humor of this type with the exception of Master Roshii. This show is sort of made up of three adventures involving the dragonballs. After each of these adventures there was a world martial arts tournament story. The first adventure involves a plucky teen named Bulma finding Goku and the two end up going on an adventure to find the dragonballs. They meet Yamcha here as well as Oolong and Puar. They also meet the nefarious Emperor Pilaf who has to be the funniest villain in the dragonball universe. This story would become Goku training under Master Roshii and meeting Krillan during the world martial arts phase. Then the Red Ribbon Army would be next as would be the meeting of Goku and Tien. Finally, Goku would have to face off against the evil King Piccolo in both the adventure and the tournament. Then for some reason the show keeps going on about five more episodes than it really needed to. Still, this one was fun and the fighting would become really cool near the end.


                
Goku lives in the woods by himself he has a tail his life turns around when Bulma comes to his house looking for his grandfather (gohan) dragonball. Dragonballs can grant you wishes if you find all seven and summon the dragon. Bulma wants to find all seven to get a boyfriend when she convinces Goku give her the dragon ball but for exchange goku goes with her to find the rest on thier journey the find new friends and enemy's who wants immortality after the summon the dragon nobody really gets their wish from the dragonball but from making wished come true by themselves like the story ,story to the west. Then after Goku trains with master Roshi who was His grandpa Gohan teacher he meets his mini rival and his best friend Krillin they train together and at the end get to go to the martial arts tournament they each other Goku beats Krillin by a little. Then he faces and old man who really is Master Roshi in disguise Roshi wins and wins the tournament.
This anime was so nostalgic, I read all the Manga and then I watched all the anime. For the time of this anime I think its animation is splendid. The story of the anime is pretty good but the filler was bad I just skipped the filler most of the time. The anime was action packed and full of fight scenes all the fights where amazing but my favourite would have to be when Kakarot/Goku fought with Vegeta and the massive fail of "over 9000", in the Manga it was "over 8000" and in the original Japanese version it was "over 8000" although they did fix it in the remakes and it went back to "over 8000". I think this anime deserves it place in history and our hearts nothing can beat the original. 9/10
