Danielle Cormack ruins this show. She is a pathetic actress (and a native Kiwi like myself, so it kind of pains me to admit).Her expressions were extremely forced, her face showed barely any emotion (I know she was in "prison", but people have emotions still).Everyone else seemed to do a pretty good job with their role(even the other few NZ's I spotted!) - I had no compllaints, but when it came to Bea's role - it just wasn't right.The original Prisoner : Cell Block H is an absolute classic, I grew up watching it, and even though it's old, Val Lehman did an amazing job as Bea. I would think that someone who is supposedly more accomplished (Danielle) would be able to do this justice (no pun intended), but it appears not.The whole idea of re-imagining/re-making a show such as Prisoner : Cell Block H, is to draw a new audience, and also re-grab the attention of the old fans, yet all this has made me want to do is go back and watch the original again ;-) I will, however, continue this series for a few more episodes, to see if Danielle can grow into her role a bit more.3 out of 10


                
I hate that the main characters with great character development had the most hardship then you have Doreen who cries for 5 straight seasons with a happy ending


                
I will start by saying that I enjoyed the original series and when I found out that there was a remake/prequel to the series I was intrigued to say the least. The original series was a product of it's time and would seem tame to new viewers in this day and age so how would they address things? I have just finished watching the first episode and it has definitely been brought up to date but I am just left gob-smacked as to what they have actually done with it, and not in a good way. Everyone is not just a little different but pretty much a contradiction of their previous character portrayal. So why recycle characters in this way, it's just pointless?! This could have been a good show in it's own right if they had just adapted it for todays audience but for me this is just an insult to the original. It's just like any of the hundreds upon hundreds of American shows out there now, it's gone from (albeit cheaply produced slightly cheesy) drama to action TV for the MTV generation. If you are really a fan of the original series just don't bother with this and revisit your dvds/VHS or the original series.


                
I watched one episode as so much reference had been taken from the original series "Prisoner". Character names, the name of the Prison. The original Drama is exceptional and I was curious to see what a series using so much of its subject may have. If a series remake is completely different to the original and bears absolutely no quality of any kind, in character, plot, atmosphere. This is utter repulsive trash and to place the names and references to one of the most outstanding Australian Film Drama series is a disgrace. It amounts to lack of imagination to have a series that stands alone. This series should not reference the original Drama "Prisoner" whatsoever, as it is repulsive viewing and cannot be compared to a quality classic, nor should it place reference to it.


                
