I just saw episode 3 . . . and decided to stop wasting my time on this very mediocre series! There are - and have been - far and far better TV-series on the subject of "women in prison". One of the best i ever saw was the BBC-series BAD GIRLS (1999) created by Maureen Chadwick, and it ran for 8 seasons! Also superb is/was the more recent ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK, that added a completely new dimension on the women-in-prison-subject namely humor; and i highly recommend it. But Wentworth is nothing more than a badly written, poorly acted and directed, completely one-dimension staged leftover with contains elements of different movies and TV-shows on that subject. Furthermore the characters are so completely one-dimension (all-good or all-bad) that it's like the show was written somewhere in 1950. Take my advice . . . don't bother with this . . !


                
Danielle being on top main role and carrying 25+years of acting experience, suppose to be on top in acting compare to other cast members.It is really disappointing to see Danielle express-less acting with no soul to the character.It's hard to understand what she trying to convince the viewers when she has to express her character emotions without dialogue. all she does is make her eyes big and make unrelated gesture.Katrina Milosevic acting is way much better than Danielle.some of the scenes doesn't make sense. however its entertaining and I still enjoy "Orange Is the New Black" more with good comedy.


                
TV Guide says it's better than "Orange is the New Black". Do they get paid for endorsements? Why one star? Would have been less if possible. 1. Clearly an O is the NB ripoff if there ever was a model for such a non-creative, morally bankrupt endeavour. 2. The overall prison structure as well as internal structure of affiliations is the same. 3. The overall theme is the same in terms of our central characters from inmates to staff; their reasons for being there; their personal issues; their alliances. Even their appearances and personalities mirror O is the NB. 4. The subplots from drugs & how they play out to personal conflicts and friendships - ditto. 5. Not well thought out with murder to drug exchanges to sex not being monitored. Seems to be an oversight that security cameras are nearly nonexistent especially in vulnerable areas. 6. My most damning criticism is reserved for the milquetoast bland characters and/or actors. NOT believable.


                
