Initial skepticism of trying to remake a classic serial drama like Prisoner was quickly dispelled in the first few minutes of episode 1. This is a completely new take on a long running series from the 1980s with the necessary level of added grit needed in 2013. Whilst employing many of the well known character names; the "new" version has created juicy variations to the originals. Those familiar with the original series should not allow themselves to by put off in the early stages by casting of different types to play the original characters. Ep 1 was edgy, well paced and the acting overall was very good. If Wentworth can maintain the same intensity over its remaining 9 episodes of season 1, it will be a treat to watch. As well as seeing how the initial variation to different main characters develop, perhaps growing into their more familiar traits from the original series as the new series progresses. Clearly this re-make is attempting to tell the background story as to how the likes of Bea Smith, Vera Bennett, Meg Jackson and Frankie Doyle came to be like they were in the original Prisoner series.


                
I have just started watching this and I so far i am extremely impressed.Although i was fairly young, I was a fan of Prisoner back in the days when it was on and i have been looking forward to this show ever since i heard there was a re-make. I don't want to give too much away regarding the plot but basically it has a similar plot to the original format but there are a few twists that you wont be expecting - especially with casting.Its superbly acted and after 15 minutes into it you wont want to switch off. The girls in the show are brilliant. There is plenty of drama, action and some occasional black comedy. Don't judge the show on the reviews and past experiences alone, watch it and make your own decision. If you haven't seen the old shows of Prisoner you wont be missing out on anything at all. Well done and i look forward to more episodes. This will definitely be winning a few awards. Keep up the good work Foxtel.


                
The last thing I ever expected to appear in the TV listings was a new series based on the excellent Prisoner Cell Block H! Being a big fan of the original series I had to see what it was like.The acting is good and it has the same mix of tragedy and tension as the original. I think it's a good move that they didn't try to exactly copy the characters and stories of the original, instead opting for some familiar names and a whole new story with some reminders of Prisoner for the fans.You have to hand it to Australia, there are some genres of TV they do better than the rest of the world, namely soap opera and prison drama. Great stuff, I will definitely be tuning in next week. Well done to Channel 5 for buying in something worth seeing for a change.


                
I was quickly addicted to this show and binge-watched the two seasons that are currently available in just a few days. The acting is strong,the characters and story drew me in. I kept saying just one more episode, but I'd easily watch 3 or 4 at a time. The only thing that dragged the show (and therefore the rating of it) down for me is when it came to the sex scenes it was like they forgot they were making a drama and slipped into fantasy prison porn mode, it was over the top and I think distracted from the quality of the show. But the rest of the show is so good that I fast-forwarded past those scenes. The look that Bea gives when she is in TCB mode is priceless! The actress who plays her and also the ones who plays Franky and Liz really display some exceptional acting and make the roles so real.


                
I don't love Australian TV in general, but this is easily twice as good as it's USA imitator 'orange is the new black'.A gritty remake of a cult 80's TV show- 'Prisoner', the second most hard-core prison show ever made after HBO's-'OZ'.I've watched some real Australian and American prison documentaries and this seems like a pretty realistic drama of the conditions and sociology of the lives of prisoners, guards and their families.Makes 'Prison Break' seem like a cartoon, and 'orange is the new black' look like a comedic copy-cat. Great acting and writing, lots of shocks, swearing, sex and violence.


                
I have really enjoyed this show. Very tense and gripping scenes and story plots. Sometimes it gets so dark, I have to step away, but then I am quickly lured back because I can't wait to see what happens next. The only drawback is I found season 6 to be much less interesting than previous seasons. Having lost so many of my favorite characters, the new additions of the characters of Ruby, Rita, and Marie have me feeling bored. Their stories and personalities just don't captivate me the way other characters have. They spent a lot of focus on them from the beginning, instead of easing them into existing story cars. The whole "fight club" arc, in particular, almost made me tune out all together. Really hope they pick it up in season 7. Overall, I give the 1st 5 seasons a 9 or 10, and season 6 a 5 for most of it, other than a few smaller arcs with characters I enjoy.


                
I ve never cried on a tv show or movie before
But this one
The episode with Bea finding out her daughter's death had me devastating
Australians are good
