I'm not saying that every movie has to be a political melting pot or a petri dish for ideological views and discussions, but "The Inouchables" had a great potential. It missed it's promising but most of all IMPORTANT role to be one of those movies. We have Philippe (François Cluzet), the white, older, sophisticated man with this ridiculously large (inherited) wealth, who's hurt from previous bumps in the road of life. Nothing wrong with a rich, wounded, and above all crippled man. We all have our problems. And we have Driss (Omar Sy), the black ghetto man-boy who didn't really want the job as Philippe's assistant in the first place, but just wanted to enjoy himself being out of jail. The stereotypical pot-smoking negro from the slums, without a care for the civilized society, the arts or manners. So the uncivilized black man teaches the sad old man how to live, all with a cheeky smile on his little face. They get high, he almost beats up the neighbor, he laughs at the paintings in the art gallery and how expensive they are, he consistently hits on a woman clearly not interested, and hires some happy, happy prostitutes. Nothing wrong at all. Before you get though the first half of the film, you have been given examples of the three pillars of french culture; prostitution, colonialism and insane wealth. As a movie, it's half decent. Good actors, some cliché but witty lines, and that's about it. The story is flat, the directing is nothing to admire, but the real problem is it's political blindness. The Omar's character is from the beginning a strong contrast to the order and dignity of Philippe's life, but in such a savage way it's borderline racist. I have three major issues I'd like to bring up. "Work? I din't know you had humour" is an example of the negative stereotype this movie projects upon Driss, as a lazy welfare tic. He enjoys weed and hookers, his family is harsh and riddled with kids and bastards, and all the people in the suburb he's from are never seen without a joint. It's simply a bit too racist. But of course, he eventually changes a bit and becomes like, well almost a (white) human being! Problem number two. Never have I seen such contrast in two character's background and wealth, never have I seen such a clash in classes, and never have I seen the issue of class diversity being so vastly ignored as in this movie. Never once is the question of injustice borough up. How can one man have so much money, estate and freedom simply by being born, and how can one man have so little that he, and his obnoxious twelve-or-so-year old brother, turned to criminal activities? To give the story some depth, they tried to arrange a complex scenario where Driss have to save his brother from going wrong, but they handled it clumsily, and without actual dialog. It's like it doesn't even matter that poverty roars around Driss, it's fine and dandy now as he's in his private suite and walks around being tactless in the high society. Here, smoke another joint, make a painting and sell it, but don't use the money it to help your starving family. It's a couple of too many loose ends not being tied to his roots, and the REAL problem; that society and social diversity has formed working class suburbs mostly populated by minimum-wage immigrants. Problem number three is the rotten view on women throughout these 110 insufferable minutes . First of all, it doesn't pass the Bechdel test more than it has two or three named female character. There are many examples to show the complete lack of respect for women, eg how Driss consists of hitting on a woman clearly not interested in him, using disgusting and cheesy pick up lines. Womens looks are very centered, the daughter is portrayed as a spoiled bitch (although her behaviour does not differentiate so much from Driss'), all other women are portrayed only as caretakers, and most deranged of all, the two protagonists use prostitutes excessively. When you watch this movie, have common sense and the right perspective. Don't get fooled by the immoderate hype around this movie, don't get charmed by the fact that it's "based on a true story", in fact you should realize that makes it even more insufferable to watch. I had to fight the urge to stop watching all the way through, fighting the urge to scream at Driss and Philippe that they need to take some academic courses in sociology, social economics, gender studies, colonization history and intersectionalism. Usually, I don't demand such political fairness in the movies I watch, but this here is a perfect example of how the racism, sexism and upper class mentality can survive in the 21st century. We don't need this movie. The Swedish title for this movie can be roughly translated to " An unexpected friendship", and I find it to be a lie. Hugely expected and predictable, this movie blows life to outdated values and dusty clichés o tell a story. Think about it for another round, and make something better while I try to reassemble my now shattered respect for french movies and culture.
One of the most wonderful things about the art of filmmaking is that it is incredibly good at getting an emotional response from the people that consume it. Now that was a really pretentious way of saying that films are great because they can make use feel happy, sad, scared, etc. I know for me personally that a lot of my favorite films are the ones that are able to make me cry. And I think that we can all agree that it is truly a wonderful thing when a film is made with such devotion and passion that it is able to make its audience shed tears over fictional characters and events.Unfortunately filmmakers know that audiences love when a film makes them cry, and some filmmakers will try and take advantage of that fact. They will make films that are filled with overdone clichés and over dramatized acting/dialogue in hopes of making the audience cry, because if you can get someone to cry at your film it's very unlikely that they will forget it, and they will probably like it. This is exactly the sort of film the Intouchables is, a cheap, insincere, artificial cluster of scenes that will do whatever is necessary to make the audience get emotional. These cheap films that target and exploit sensitive topics just so they can receive acclaim and attention, are in my opinion some of the worst films out there. They represent all of the worst aspects in filmmaking, and deserve to be called out for what they are, and they are detestable piles of complete s***. I'm entering my third paragraph and I haven't even mentioned the acting, plot, cinematography or really any of the actual specifics of the film yet, and that's because regardless of whether you've seen it or not you can already predict everything that happens in the entire film. The plot is so structured and formulaic that it feels like it was copied and pasted from a text-book. The cinematography is at best dull, and at other times so bad I actually can not believe it was in a film with a 9.5 million euro budget. (which comes out to roughly 10.8 million dollars.) All of the actors give exactly what you'd expect from a movie like The Intouchables, and honestly I can't even remember a thing about any of there performances. Which is a compliment for a movie like The Intouchables. The Intouchables received mixed reviews from critics, and was nominated for best foreign language films by the Golden Globes. Even though critics were split on the films quality, general audiences loved it. At the time of writing this review it is the 38th highest rated movie on IMDb, coming ahead of films like Apocalypse Now, 2001: A Space Odyssey, The Seventh Seal, Ikiru, Vertigo, and even Citizen Kane. And I won't lie this upsets me, at least more than it should. The idea of a film as terrible as The Intouchables coming ahead films like the ones previously mentioned, (not to mention the dozens of other better ones in the top 250, and hundreds out of it.) just really destroys my faith in the film industry. I can not recommend that anyone watch this film ever. But even though I've been basically calling this film an indefensible offense on cinema. There are things out there that are much worse than it, so I won't give it the lowest rating possible.2.1/10


                
You will know what happens in this entire movie just looking at its poster. Typical Hollywood trash. Waste of time. Don't bother.


                
