Intouchables is a very nice movie about a man in a wheelchair and his caretaker-buddy who injects life in the boring life of the man. The performances are really good and in the case of Omar unexpectedly good given his little experience.There are many humorous scenes in this film but the overall climate is depressing. The reason I give it a 7 is because it isn't deep enough and you don't get to know the characters very well, maybe a little more screenplay time would be for the best. Also the ending wasn't really satisfying and left you a bit incomplete. But overall, you won't regret watching Intouchables, I guarantee you that!


                
In the year when The Artist dominated the Oscars and achieved international success and recognition, it was a very different kind of a film that dominated the French box office. This film is 'Intouchables' and the one of good reasons of its success is that it deals with a problem that seems to be universally actual but especially painful nowadays in Europe and France specifically – the relation between the 'native' Europeans and the immigrants who migrate to the Old Continent in search of its freedom and chances of finding here prosperity and escaping the hardships and in many cases the prosecution at home. This encounter is an encounter of cultures and styles of life, which puts to prove everybody's capability to accept the differences and to live aside or even create stronger relationships despite the differences.The two principal characters of the film have each a strong handicap but also other strong points. Philippe (the excellent Francois Cluzet) is quadriplegic condemned to life in a wheelchair following an accident, but he has a wide culture and especially a lot of money which allow him to afford not only treatments, people to serve him at ease, living in a palace in the center of Paris, and flying on private jets to any place in the world at any time. Driss (Omar Sy) posses nothing and lives a life of a semi-criminal and semi-homeless, but he is young, strong, and has a natural goodness and common sense of the street. The two meet and complement each other, help each other with what the other is missing or has lost, but this is possible because the two share also the will to live, the taste of the extreme, and especially humor. The two directors of 'Intouchables' Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano made of this film a feel-good story that tries to pass in a comic and easy way a strong message that the differences can be bridged when and where we can look at the people near us, find their strong and good parts and offer ours to them to overcome the lower moments in life.The film is inspired by true people and by a true story, and here is where I feel a little bit cheated. I feel cheated because if this fact was not so visibly emphasized I would have criticized the film for being to idealistic, its characters too good to each other, differences and situations solved too easily, in other words I would have said that this looks too much like an idealized Hollywood story. Should I risk to do it now? Say that for example if Philippe was not so extremely rich to buy his entourage and way out of any situation by taking another fine meal or private jet flight this maybe would not be the same story. Or say that the final story with the anonymous girlfriend brought up at the exact place by the sea (Normandie?) where the two end to run seems too much like a movie-style 'deux-ex-machina' exercise? Or ask practical questions like who help Philippe take food or drinks to his mouth at that encounter? I would be ridiculous, as this is inspired from real life and characters, and all or some may be true. So I will just take the risk of saying that the approach to a very serious problem seems to be a little too idealized, but that overall that is a good feeling movie worth being seen, as there is nothing wrong to feel good even at films dealing with serious subjects.
Let me start off by mentioning what I liked about this movie. The casting was great, and both Omar Sy and Francois Cluzet did outstanding jobs, and the relationship between them seems natural. It was also a very funny movie- though watching with subtitles, i couldn't help but fall for Dris's charm and laugh out loud. Unfortunately, the above-mentioned just isn't enough to qualify this movie for being considered great. I expected a sensitive, understated French film- what i witnessed was nothing but a feel-good Hollywood movie with little to no substance. Where was the point of conflict? Philip and Dris's relationship, which was- I believe- the point of the movie, suffered no breaking points, no hardship. There were a few points of conflict in Dris's life, which never really resolved themselves. In addition, the frequent use of jump cuts and short takes, while useful for comedic effect, blocked this movie from being anything but a group of amusing anecdotes about the relationship between invalid and reluctant caretaker and finally between two friends. There was very little substantial storyline, replaced by various amusing scenes. I mentioned before that this was a feel-good Hollywood movie, and that in my opinion is the worst part. The film was full of unrealistic scenarios and characters, a sort of la la land where very little struggle is revealed to us. Look, I did enjoy Intouchables. But I don't think it deserves to be in the IMDb top 100, and I believe it was a wasted opportunity.


                
'THE INTOUCHABLES': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five) A French comedy-drama film that has become the third biggest foreign film and biggest foreign language film of all time. It's also received rave reviews and a great deal of award recognition, but no 2012 Academy Award nomination (due to the fact that the foreign language division was afraid it would win). The film is beloved the world over but perhaps just a little over-hyped. It's a good movie but it is clichéd and somewhat simple and unoriginal. It's been criticized for being another tale that revolves around rich white people being enlightened and finding happiness through poor black people. It does seem like the type of movie Eddie Murphy might have starred in in the 80s, perhaps with Dustin Hoffman (because the lead white actor in the film bares a striking resemblance to Dustin Hoffman).The film stars Francois Cluzet as an aristocrat, named Philippe, who was paralyzed in a paragliding accident. He's somewhat depressed and has lost most communication with his adopted daughter Elisa (Alba Gaia Kraghede Bellugi). He also has phantom pains which keep him up at night and still mourns the death of his wife greatly, who died before they could have any kids of their own. He maintains romantic relationships with women only through written letters and fears actually meeting or speaking with them. One day he's looking for a new caretaker and a man named Driss (Omar Sy) enters his home just looking for a signature so he can continue to collect welfare checks. Driss lives with his large family in a small flat in a Parisian suburb. So when Philippe actually does offer him a job as well as a room in his mansion, that has it's own large bathtub in it, it's quite a culture shock for him. Of course Philippe is inspired by Driss and both men's lives are forever changed.The film was written and directed by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano. It is nicely directed and looks beautiful. It also has a nice combination of both comedy and drama and both elements are done well. It's just that the film isn't that funny or that emotionally moving. The performances are fine, it has some good laughs and it's a good well intentioned story but it's nothing we haven't seen before and far from anything spectacular. It's enormous success does puzzle me a little but I'd much rather see a movie like this do really well than something like 'TWILIGHT'. So it's definitely a decent crowd-pleasing film, just not a great one.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OcoZRlVFMzA


                
The chemistry of the lead actors and the overall fun mood keeps us entertained and the intentional avoidance of some usual formula is a plus point. But the film never really rise much above that either which I had been led to believe from all the great reviews and ratings.


                
The critiques in Metascore did not do their homework. They qualify the film as a feel-good fairy tale, which means they completely miss the point that it is a true story. The latter point and the unusual real life story are the reasons behind the huge success. Yes, it was filmed with actors but the real life protagonists vetted every point and the final product was not cooked and edited the "Hollywood" way to please audiences as it did not need to be. We are not talking about a recipe- based product here. The lazy American critiques watch too many American commercial romantic comedies and other "romanticised" genres to even suspect this was a true story...so, shame on the critiques of this film.You should see this film because the feel-good you come out of seeing it, is not made up.


                
Foreign Films are often disregarded when choosing a film to watch. Foreign Films can also be associated with 'black and white films' which tends to have a negative stigma with young people.On a lazy Sunday afternoon when I would be scrolling through the net looking for a flick I myself would ignore the foreign sector as I would want something light and that wouldn't require too much effort.I then came across 'The Untouchables' I started to watch and the first few minutes in I knew it was going to be a lifelong favourite of mine so I went downstairs and got a drink and snack and snuggled up in bed ready to enjoy now one of my favourite films.If anybody is wanting to get into foreign films this is one that will defiantly let you ease into the genre, I guarantee you'll enjoy it. The genre of the film is so wide that I can recommend it to anyone.


                
The Intouchables is a French comedy/biography from 2011 and stars François Cluzet (Tell No One, Little White Lies, French Kiss) and Omar Sy (X-Men Days of Future Past, Jurassic World, Samba). It was written and directed by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano (Samba, Those Happy Days, Tellement proches).This film is about a quadriplegic millionaire named Philippe (François Cluzet) who hires a lower-class man from the projects called Driss(Omar Sy). With help from Driss, Philippe finds humour in his situation and Driss reminds him how to appreciate life again through setting him up on dates, listening to funk music and even giving him a joint.This film is propelled by the performances by François Cluzet and Omar Sy. François gives his performance purely through dialogue and facial movements. Surprisingly he gives a great performance filled with emotion and humour. Omar Sy plays an incredibly likable character who can really make you laugh at points and at others make you feel very compassionate about his issues. Whenever the two are on screen together it is gold. I would compare their chemistry to those of buddy cop movies although this relationship is a lot deeper. Another aspect of this film that I admired was the dialogue. Since there is no real plot other than the story of two men, the film is carried by a lot of good dialogue. For example, when the two are looking at a piece of art, Philippe asks Driss why he thinks people are interested in art, Driss replies with because it's a business when Philippe tells him it's because it's the only thing one leaves behind. This film is basically the French version of Driving Miss Daisy, that is not to say this film is bad. This film's strongest points are writing and acting, but after that it's pretty thin. Directing or cinematography isn't anything special and the piano soundtrack sounds like something that would be added to an amateur short film. Yet this is still a heartwarming film it seems like it is a little overrated.


                
Wow, I was surprised.I am a injured person myself so I deal with a few care givers.This is a story that winds around so sit back and enjoy the ride.I was really pleased by Phillipe and the staff. I thought it could have woven in more of the former family.You will like it. Sometimes you have to read quickly though. One thing I like about these foreign films is the scenery, which is very nice indeed! Maybe I didn't catch it but the ending was a little sloppy. Why did he leave? Be sure to watch the credits because it will tell you a little more


                
Amusing heartwarming drama about a quadriplegic millionaire who looks for a carer, but all the "professional" applicants are condescending, unfeeling and all about their paper qualifications and academic knowledge reducing Philippe (Francois Cluzet) to an object. Driss (Omar Sy) is at the interview just to get Benefits but his irreverence and dismissive laissez faire attitude actually meant that he treated Philippe like a person. A heartwarming relationship grows with it's ups and downs, bringing in more about each of their pasts and hopes for the future.The film is simply filmed, with a witty and gripping script (subtitled into English), which isn't lost in translation. The actors Cluzet and Sy were brilliant in their respective roles with Cluzet brilliantly portraying quadriplegic, only able to move his head and face, but his acting is a commitment to trust in that he has to remain still and inflexible. Sy was exuberant, fun and wild but also showing sensitivity and well-portrayed comic-stupidity. There's music, art and dancing, love and sexuality, fast cars, adrenalin sports, laughs a-plenty but also desperation, struggle and prejudice.It's well acted but whilst the plot is based on a true story, and has something for everyone in true 'underdog makes good' or 'Rainman-esque' style, the screenplay is lacking something. I'm not sure what it is, I think perhaps it's that there are holes in the characters, and in the plot and you are left with questions; you feel it's going to go a certain way... I expected more with Philippe's daughter 'Uncle Buck' style but liked how Driss lightened the mood of the house and brought joy and friendship to the story but ultimately there was something unfulfilled with his character, there wasn't enough depth and finish. I felt that use of Driss played to stereotypes, especially finding out that the original carer wasn't from Senegal but North Africa/Morocco and I wonder whether the story was exaggerated for the screenplay.I liked this film a lot, highly watchable and enjoyable and a very good cinematic experience. I can see why this was lauded but it's not particularly original and did play to stereotypes and didn't feel exactly finished. I was glad I saw it though, and it is apparently France's second most successful film after Welcome to the Sticks. A wonderful soundtrack, the Chamber Orchestra scene was great.


                
This a straight-forward and simply told tale of two men discovering a mutual co-dependence based on physical need. Not what you might suppose! This is a tale of a poor immigrant man trying to keep heart and soul together whilst suffering various forms of social exclusion and another man trying to experience life whilst trapped in a paraplegic's body. They are poles apart ethnically, socially, culturally and pretty much every other way too. Nevertheless, the pair bond together through their common pragmatism. The wealthy invalid wants no pity and gets none from his unlikely carer. The outcast finds he has a social as well as an economic value. A heart warming tale and beautifully performed by all the actors - striking a very authentic note, even though we can see some 'facts' have been changed in the telling of this tale.


                
The Intouchables is one of the popular foreign movies of the last couple of years, rocketing to a comfortable position in IMDb's top 100 and succeeding the European box office. It is a really charming film, but charm doesn't make a film. It's one of those films built on unconventional friendship and culture clash (also a true story and people it's based on appear in the end credits, similar to 127 Hours), but the difference is that the quadriplegic, Philippe, and the caretaker, Driss, have minimal conflict and bond right away as soon as they adjust to each other. Rather than disapprove or be irritated by Driss interfering or being a nuisance during things Philippe likes, he immediately finds it amusing and refreshing. It's nice to see, but it hinders growth of character, which instead they reach effortlessly by sharing the experience of music, hookers, drugs and paragliding. It is quite entertaining and sometimes moving, but there's not really a story or strong narrative here besides two people improving each others lives through a few light situations.Unfortunately the film doesn't have a particular style or it tries things which feel jarring - such as the montage split screen music video style opening credits after a very strong thriller theme. The cinematography is nothing special and the editing is quite distracting with some scenes with time jump cuts that really didn't do it for me. It does focus on its strongest aspects which are the eccentric and charismatic performances, writing and soundtrack (a mix of R'n'B and classical to fit the characters). All the situations are things we've seen before and it's never dealt in a way we haven't seen before (such as Philippe having a long distance lover that Driss pushes him towards), it is the chemistry of the central friendship that makes the film. It is very pleasant. But those pleasant ideas only work for the 2nd act, after an awkward 1st and 3rd that doesn't really satisfy or close itself. It trades potential for genuine conflict or dilemma for directionless despair due to crisis of confidence and ultimately renders the film not making much of an impression. Granted, as a buddy film, it's pretty damn good and it certainly has its strong feel-good moments.7/10


                
When I decided to rent Intouchables on DVD, the store manager told me that it was the best movie he has seen for 3 years. Unfortunately I didn't agree with him. Of course I had a nice time watching it and the fact that the movie is based on a true story is very touching. Both actors were great and especially Omar Sy who was just delightful to watch. But in my opinion it was just a nice, sweet movie nothing more. I think that is very easy to make audience 'emotionally attached' to a film that has to do with a quadriplegic and his life and this is why I believe that it was a safe path for the production and there were not something new, something different, something that can make you wonder and admire the creativity of director or writer.


                
I watched it in a chemestry class, I cannot remember a lot but I guess I liked it? I need to rewatch it tho


                
No action, no memorable plot points of any kind, yet the film is still remembered and interesting as it progresses.


                
I was greatly looking forward to this movie
It's a beautiful and hopeful film, coming at a time when there isn't much beauty or hope in our movies


                
'Untouchable (2011)' is a feel-good, life-affirming picture that does its job and does it well, delivering on its early promise of a touching central relationship that really does warm the heart. I can honestly say that I had a genuine smile on my face for most of the run-time, thanks mainly to Omar Sy's endearing and energetic performance. It also helps that the picture is legitimately funny and has a realistic edge that prevents it from slipping too far into sentimentality. Even though, at its core, the story is bare-bones and familiar, there's enough fun to be had that the fairly basic concept can be overlooked and the pure joy of two friends laughing together, despite their many differences, can really shine through. 7/10


                
I have seen this movie tonight at a preview session as the official french national release is set on 2011, November 2nd. Eric Toledano and Olivier Nakashe, accompanied by the lead actor Omar Sy were meeting the audience and cheerfully answering questions.The movie is very well written. Although opening on a flash-forward, it is fairly classic comedy about the meeting of two opposite people who were very unlikely to meet. The first one is a paraplegic white middle aged very rich and lonely man, the other one is a young black, poor, unemployed, coming from poor suburbs and a very large family.What makes the quality of the film, beside the humour present in every scene in which Omar Sy appears (actually most of the film), is the emotion you can feel, through increasingly attaching characters.The story is based upon a true story, and real characters.If you want to watch and enjoyable comedy, with very touching moments, this is a must go.There are interesting insights about arts as well (paintings, classical music, and funk music). What is art? What is its use?


                
The movie works incredibly well for the following reasons: Disability is treated with dignity, Hollywood schmalz is avoided and most notably the actors are convincing and the audience can sympathize with them very early on. This is a good basis for the humor, which mostly comes from the contrasting ways of life. The run-time could have been half an hour longer, which could be filled with a dramatic moment, for example a lack of trust between the protagonists leading to a conflict. Or anything that could have put a bit more drama and even more realism in this friendship. Philippe's depression is also skipped a bit fast. So all I can give to this otherwise great movie is 8/10.
it seems to be a little classic story but the comedy part what makes it different. it isn't a comedy but it is the fact and that is what happened in the real life actually.I'm really surprised and wonder if there is any care provider can dare to act in this bold and free way. but i like how true, honest and clear the relationship between Abdel and Philipe. but i think this natural sense of humor without any limits or reticence that what should be in dealing with the disabled. as Philip said once the good humor is the best remedy to the difficult situations. I hope for you both a long, happily, true life forever.


                
his is a great film that mixes well , comedy , seriousness , joy , grief , this is a film with a lot of emotions in which the actors are very good. I recommend if you want a fun night with a good film . Omar Sy known to be a comical mix knew his comic talent with that of being serious and a very endearing character . This film based on a true story is touching . The story of a paralyzed man seeking an endearing one to look after him and a man of unemployed city that does not work, but this encounter will change everything . If you have not seen it yet, it's time , do not delay. I give a rating above average because this film deserves.
Its movie about love, music, art and friendship. It is smooth and plain movie. There is no wow scene in the movie but overall nice movie to experience. Its remind me the movie inside the sea for its visual point and main actor paralyzed. I give 7 for that. Its movie about love, music, art and friendship. It is smooth and plain movie. There is no wow scene in the movie but overall nice movie to experience. Its remind me the movie inside the sea for its visual point and main actor paralyzed. I give 7 for that.Its movie about love, music, art and friendship. It is smooth and plain movie. There is no wow scene in the movie but overall nice movie to experience. Its remind me the movie inside the sea for its visual point and main actor paralyzed. I give 7 for that. Its movie about love, music, art and friendship. It is smooth and plain movie. There is no wow scene in the movie but overall nice movie to experience. Its remind me the movie inside the sea for its visual point and main actor paralyzed. I give 7 for that.


                
I must confess, when my teacher brought this movie for us to watch on our class, I was a little receptive, mainly because I don't usually like French films (mostly because I don't speak French, or even understand it). As it turned out, I loved this movie. It was heart warming to see a young guy take such interest and care on an older person, spending quality time with him, both enjoying themselves with their friendship. However, it was really sad to watch Philippe die. After seeing so much happy times, I was not expecting that at all, since the character was portrayed as a really nice and generous person, so in my opinion it wasn't fair. In conclusion, I highly recommend you to watch it, you won't regret it!
This is funny and touching, about a rich disabled man in his château and his rowdy new caretaker from the projects. But where we'd expect pity and self-pity, we get one man hanging out with another, teasing like he would any friend, sharing a spliff. The real compassion of friendship as antidote. Instead of treating an incapacity, nurturing a capacity. Not just dutifully picking up and massaging a broken body that can't be made whole again, but doing these for a mind that can.The film is rife with pairs of dual opposites - rich and poor, cultured and not, genuine and not, mind and body, etiquette and humor, duty and bond, thinking and doing. Simple, stacking opposites so that the modern mind stuck behind a facade of disappointing conventions from how to treat a patient to courting love will be freed by messy, spontaneous action. It recasts Zorba where the overthinking intellectual learns a deeper wisdom from his employee's unfettered love for life.No less wistful in the end about redemption than a lachrymose Oscar film on the subject, neat as inspirational films go, whole - but this is deeper about a response to suffering and view that looks past it rather than just shedding beautiful tears before a deadend wall, I always welcome the former.And how's this for a French postcolonial view? The white and black French in stereotyped symbiosis of mutual dependence, the first as a gentle intellect perched ontop of a dessicated body, surrounded with artifice and etiquette that fail to sooth, the latter injecting him with goofy new vigor for life. But of course to be stuck behind this intellectual cynicism that sees master and servant, to dismiss the film on grounds such as these, would be only more of that ailing Western mind in desperate need to be invigorated with a film just like this.


                
After he becomes a quadriplegic from a paragliding accident, an aristocrat (François Cluzet) hires a young man from the projects (Omar Sy) to be his caretaker.The Independent called it a "a third-rate buddy movie that hardly understands its own condescension....Why has the world flipped for this movie? Maybe it's the fantasy it spins on racial/social/cultural mores, much as Driving Miss Daisy did 20-odd years ago – uptight rich white employer learns to love through black employee's life-force. That was set in the segregationist America of the 1940s. What's this film's excuse?" While "the Independent" is right to call out the film's unrealistic portrayals of race and class, perhaps it somewhat misses the point. This film is obviously humorous, clearly not based on reality, and is probably not meant to be taken seriously. The movie has very much the same spirit as "The Birdcage" (at least the American version, if not the French one).Now, this means the film also happens to be overrated, currently (November 2014) sitting high on IMDb's Top 250. A good comedy, yes, but not a film that offers any sort of deeper meaning or one that will remain important over the long term. While popular and a box office record holder, this is not a title one expects to be considered a "classic" later on.


                
