So the 1 rating is to offset all of the fake "10" greatest movie ever reviews. This is truly a 6/7. The movie is aimed squarely at the tween/teen audience with a grating urban contemporary soundtrack. This has little to no connection to the actual Spider-Verse series. The story they came up with was acceptable. I liked the interaction between Miles his father and uncle. Not all of the humor hits. They chose some of the lamest spiders from the Spider-Verse. Especially bad was the manga spider and Spiderham is less cartoony in the comics. Did not like the Kingpin voice or portrayal and every other villain such as Tombstone is just wasted. The movie had heart which elevates it over common kiddie animation. Not even close to the best Spider-Man movie.


                
Distracting, inconsistent graphics. Lazy dialog, predictable plot


                
Too childish, too boring. There's never an interesting plot nor a good narrative, and the humor was terrible... All the characters are dislikeable, and the animation, well, the one from the late 60's is far better than this, you better watch that instead, it's more interesting.


                
I expected a lot from this movie. I really tried to like it, but I couldn't. The animation was confusing and annoying; lots of colours and psychedelic effects, poor use of frames, etc. The story didn't really make sense, and the characters just weren't relatable to me (mind me, I'm a 20 year old latina, but I just LOVE Peter Parker. Is the personality that matters). I found Miles dislikable, as well as Peter D. (Or B?) Parker. Other characters didn't have enough screen time to show any personality. It was long, boring, and the humor wasn't as good as other SpiderMan content. I had to force myself to watch it to the end because I already paid for it, and well, maybe it'd get better at the end. It didn't. I guess I can't understand the hype.


                
I'll be upfront, I'm giving this 1 star because of the treatment of Peter Parker.They didn't do the Andrew Garfield thing and turn him into a bully. But they did do that Modern Marvel Comics thing and turn him into an idiot screw-up in an effort to alienate the fans and somehow make Miles better by mocking Peter.And I'm not a fan of that. Parker is a dork, he's got a smart mouth...but he's really smart, a genius, totally heroic, and well, the call him "The Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man" for a reason. He cares, specifically he cares about the average working schulb.This kind of just took Peter Parker and almost mocked him and, honestly, I can't get behind that. i couldn't get behind it when they turned him into a bully in the Garfield movies, and I don't care for it when they mock him here.


                
The current assortment of reviews tell me that this movie is almost universally liked, so I am expecting to make a lot of friends by saying that I hated this movie, in that I didn't find it made a lot of sense, had numerous plot holes, and was just plain strange.By this time, there is probably not a single person in the industrialized world who knows the story of Spider-Man: radioactive spider bite, uncle dies, becomes superhero. Sure, every incarnation of Peter Parker has been a little different: Toby McGuire was an awkward bookworm, Andrew Garfield was a skateboard rat, and Tom Holland built Lego with Ned. Spider-verse features a replacement for Peter Parker: Miles Morales, who while spending his time with his delinquent uncle vandalizing abandoned stations with graffiti art, a fitting substitute for building Lego with Ned, finds himself bitten by a radioactive spider and of course you know the rest there. Why a radioactive spider was hanging out in an abandoned station was never explained.After realizing what happened, Morales returns to the station to check out the spider, only to become involved in a fight alongside the original Spider-Man over a machine that opens doors to parallel universes. The original Spider-Man dies after asking Morales to help him, so Morales decides he needs to become Spider-Man's replacement, only to learn that the portal his brought into this world other spider-people from different universes: another Peter Parker, who is dumb and eats too much, Gwen Stacey as Spider-Girl, a young Asian girl from the future who has a robot, a black-and-white Spider-Man from the 1930s, and a two-dimensional animated pig. Of course, why the portal only allowed spider-people to pass and not the criminals or anyone else for that matter was never explained either, and also leads to the question on whether there are Miles Moraleses in other universes or Gwen Staceys in this one. And then, Morales has developed the mysterious power to turn invisible. Where that came from was never explained either.The whole thing is bizarre, and the animation in trying to convey these interdimensional fights is so strange that it is often hard to figure out what is going on. At this point, I am trying to figure out what the public finds so appealing about this movie, and the only explanation I can come up with are the political aspects, the fact that Spider-man does not need to be a white male anymore, and when he is he doesn't need to be smart.
Apparently, the background in much of this movie is comic book pages which were printed with the blue and red inks not quite matching up. That made them "fuzzy". I found this very distracting, and by the time I had finished the movie, I was worn out. Also, there were endless chase scenes and endless superpowered- characters throwing other superpowered-characters around. The usual stuff, which I find silly. And it was long. And loud. I guess this entire genre is targeted at children. I found nothing interesting in this movie.


                
Everything that was Spiderman and Peter Parker was abused in this piece of video. I have grown up watching Peter Parker and Spiderman and getting inspired from him. This movie annihilation of all it. It's a junk made with a thought. It puts every Spiderman fan to shame. Very poor story that makes nosense. Movie is just commercial cheap flick. Even as action movie it remains dead. Would inspire none. Strange to see critics like it. Well critics usually binge junk either ways.


                
This movie was absolutely awful. The animation blurs every time a character moves. It hurt my eyes it was so bad. The characters were annoying, and it's full of God awful cringe throughout. People have been so completely dumbed down in recent years by the absolute TRASH Hollywood splats out to screens. It's very depressing to see how many people are so accepting of something this caliber. It ticks every cliched box of every comic book movie that comes out anymore. Especially the eye rolling, idiotic one liners constantly spit out, and the extreme political correctness that constantly litters every screen around the globe now-a-days. Basically, it's the same comic book movie you've seen over and over and over again, but animated in a terrible way. Just being honest.


                
Worst spider-man movie I've ever seen. I respect Phil Lord and Chris Miller but this movie gave me headaches.


                
I'll give you a point for the animation but nothing else, the historytelling Wars crap.


                
I'm only happy that in some parallel universe I never went to see this movie.


                
If you are a true Spider-Man fan there is no way you can praise this garbage effort. Let me rephrase... If you are a true Spider-Man fan WITH ACTIVE BRAIN CELLS and ARE OVER THE AGE OF 20 there is no way you can praise this garbage effort.Everything here is geared for the overly politically correct millennial generation with short attention spans but wanting to virtue signal at every turn. It's nauseating to be honest. If you are a parent, please do not let your children see this thing and have to endure this garbage.


                
If this movie is for the kids, I doubt if any of them will even understand the plot and the purported humor. They tried to complicate the plot too much.
So it is the adults who are going ga ga over a kids movie. So much for the purpose. But who cares when the box office cash is flowing.
I found the plot to be mushed and too complicated. The animation seemed blurred in many places. I dont know if that was the intention. And the 3D effects are nothing to rave about. Very Ordinary.There are far better 3D animation movies out there and I wont rate this in the list of Top-10 3D animated movies..


                
Saw this today thanks to AMC's A-List. It was truly awful. I fell asleep and when I woke up, Miles formed some sort of Spiderman team with some Japanese girl in a suit, Spiderman Noir(?), Spider Pig, who I actually remembered from the nineties and some other characters. This was just absolutely weird. This movie was just all over the place, I don't think Marvel could possibly have had anything to do with this mess unlike Spiderman Homecoming. I'm at a loss as to why Sony has problems making a decent Spiderman/Venom movie. Yes, I know Venom did well, but let's be honest, people only went because Homecoming was so good, so they thought Venom would be as well. They didn't know Marvel wasn't allowed to have any say on that film though, sadly.Thanks for wasting 2 hours of my time. Don't waste yours.


                
Weird story...even for a cartoon story with a lot of poetic licence. Story line JUST does not make sense. On top of that, psychedelic lights/pictures, and loud disconcerting music jumps out at you every few minutes. After a few minutes, I was worried that the rest of the movie would continue to suck, and was hoping for a reprieve...however that never came. After looking every which way to justify sitting in the theater, I could not - and walked out for the last bit. I think the wisdom of the public (97% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, as of Dec 31, 2018) has failed for this movie - this movie really, really SUCKS. I guess this is what results after the studios have squeezed out the story every which way to commercialize it.....


                
There is only one person that can be Spider-Man, and that is Peter Parker. This movie is a waste of time because there's only supposed to be 1 Spider-Man(Not 2,3,4,5,6). This is Not Big Spider 6.


                
Most of the characters are unoriginal, and are plagiarized from previous work. For instance, the villain Octavius is copied from the 2004 stunner Spider-Man 2. Also, there is a girl character from Japanese cartoon. The motivation of the movie is confusing, too. It is really unnecessary to make such a movie. Perhaps it is politically correct to think : why does the spider-man have to be a white? It could also be a black. OK, why does Jesus Christ have to be a white? He could also be a black. Well, cash grab should be another motivation, as Sony does not have much IP. Besides, the premise, or setting, of the film is unconvincing. Why would there be multiple universes?


                
Awful, just gave me a headache. poorly made. Wouldn't recommend to anyone especially if you like marvel


                
The movie is not good at all. The animation is jarring and gave me a headache. The voice acting was also pretty bad apart from Gwen Stacey


                
I don't understand the people who are giving 10/10 for this movie where everything is so much predictable. These are all loyal spider man series fan that watch any garbage story if there is spider man. Really?? 10/10 for this movie. This movie deserves 5/10.


                
My Eyes! I don't understand the rating behind this movie. I couldn't even finish it because of the god awful animation. The way the characters move disoriented me and hurt my eyes so bad, I had to leave theater. I was determined to finish the movie so I came back and just listened to it with my eyes shut. Even then it was still awful.


                
'Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse' doesn't deserve 1 star it deserves 0 star


                
The worst film I have ever seen. Repeatative rubbish with a rubbish storyline.


                
This movie is unoriginal with bad animation and terrible voice acting. Can't believe people
Actually like this . Lol


                
