I have to say, and no pun-intended: Into the Spider-Verse is a total marvel, all the way down to its stylish and diverse styles of animation to its bold, sophisticated storytelling. The visuals are absolutely enchanting. Fast, colorful, and distinct. Something Sony Animation always nails is how each character has a pronounced look and movement. With the various kinds of Spider-Men and Marvel villains featured in this story, the animators went all out to give them a unique identity. Notably in this case are Spider-Man Noir, Peni Parker, and Spider-Ham. Noir, whose universe takes place in 1930s New York, boasts a dark, shadowy vibe similar to Sin City, Peni Parker has a bubbly anime look, and Spider-Ham is a bouncy, eccentric cartoon character who takes full advantage of his absurd existence to deliver some of the film's best laughs. Even with these different identities, the film slows down to balance their character in a serious nature. Heck, one of the most hard-hitting, poignant lines is spoken by Spider-Ham, the breakout comedic relief.Miles and a majority of characters share the same art style. I really enjoy the blend of 3D models with traditional 2D movement. It's very appealing to watch and it seamlessly matches the comic book theme. I also appreciate the stylization of certain villains. Kingpin is a character I don't think was portrayed accurately outside of the comics, just appearing as a generic, heavy-set bald brute, when he's really an enormous, borderline non-human tank. Kingpin looks excellent in this film, with his titanic body and small head with an intimidating grimace. He's a powerful force and a legitimately scary antagonist. Doc Ock is another example, portrayed as a brilliant, but outlandish female scientist with a psychotic passion for villainy. I didn't feel like I needed to know more about her character, she was such a fun villainess to watch. She really added to the suspense in some action sequences.I really loved the story. I thought it was rich with charm and thrills. Granted, I did notice some familiar elements that are done to death in superhero fiction and the animation canon alike, such as surprise villain reveals and major character deaths that were obviously seen coming, and I certainly wish some characters (espeically Miles' uncle) had more screentime, but there's one fact that overshadows these flaws for me: The writing is mature. First of all, it's a Sony Animation product. If you look at this company's past work, some of it is very soulless with its marketing and panders to its audience with incessant pop culture references and juvenile comedy. Into the Spider-Verse is a welcome departure. Passion and integrity was put into this project. The writing is very grounded and treats its audience like people who want to see a genuinely captivating flick. Heck, the first third of the film is somewhat slow and nonchalant, almost like an arthouse film. I've never had such a cool, yet off-beat and engaged feeling while watching an animated film on the big screen. Nothing was forced, nothing felt out-of-place, nothing took me out of immersion. The tone and pacing is very adult, even when something excessively goofy like Spider-Ham is on-screen. It's like the Marvel Cinematic Universe. It can be dark and distressing, but lighthearted and amusing. There's a perfect balance and it never sacrifices integrity just to appeal to a niche audience. Well...there is that after-credits scene, but it was quite hilarious, so I let it pass.That's the most I can say without spoiling a lot of the film. I want you to see this absolute marvel with your own eyes. To close, Into the Spider-Verse is everything I hoped it would be. This is a game-changer for both superhero filmmaking and animation altogether. Sleek, colorful, funny, emotional, frenetic. This film skillfully balances all these elements. There is never a moment that felt forced, it never talks down to the audience. It's a mature and stylish take on the Spider-Man mythos, and perhaps the best big-screen Spidey picture to date with some of the best animated visuals you'll ever see. I didn't have a single issue with this film. I was dazzled and moved throughout. Sony Animation, if this was your apology for The Emoji Movie, then apology goddamn accepted. Massive bravo!


                
A movie worthy of Stan Lee's approval. Incredible animation, great story, great message. This film lives up to the hype and honestly surpassed my expectations. The only reason I think there are some negative reviews is because you can never please everyone. However, for the vast majority of viewers, I believe you'll find this film to be great. Highly recommend seeing it in theaters just for the amazing animation style.


                
There's hardly anything I would improve about this film. The visuals, concepts, soundtrack, characters, pace, humor and animation are all some of the best I've ever seen in any film; I was worried the hype would ruin it for me, as it always does, but not even the group of kids in the theater who wouldn't stop loudly talking could ruin it for me. It is visually engaging and beautiful in every scene, not to mention with an incredibly unique art style, and is honestly something other animated movies should have to look up to for a long time. The only real issue I can think of is the flashing lights, which really alienates any epileptic audience, but even then it's done so in a beautiful and artful way.


                
Sure, we can dissect and critique and praise using any number of words we choose, but in the end to actually appreciate truly great art, it simply must be experienced in the medium in which it was created. For this movie, it was lovingly crafted in 3D, and so in my opinion can only be fully realized by the viewer in 3D.What is a comic book movie, and what makes it great? From the original Superman where we first saw a comic book hero fly, to Burton's dark and stylized Batman, to the graphic novel style Sin City, live action ensemble X-MEN, Spider-Man, Iron-Man, The Dark Knight, the entire MCU....all of these are comic book movies, and depending on your personal definition probably range from good to great. And they're all live action with varying degrees of special effects, and some with animation. If you had to pick ones that 'feel the most like a comic book', you'd probably pick Sin City for the overall look, and the phase 3 MCU films for a combination of visuals and capturing the tone and spirit of the comic book story arcs.But they aren't literally animated comics. The closest to that would probably be the animated movies, right? Like Mask of the Phantasm or any number of the Marvel animated movies. But again those are really 'just cartoons', and I don't mean that in a bad way. They're simply cartoon versions of comic books.Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse is quite literally an animated comic book, and yet it is so much more at the same time. It's an explosion of comic book ink and paper, a dizzying palette of superbly rich colors, a jaw dropping display of digital artistry melded with living, breathing characters we care about, a story that is perfectly derived from the very medium in which it is being created and yet not for one single moment ever feels forced or hollow, a soundtrack fused with an endless exploration of a massive city, staggeringly sized scientific chambers, gigantic forests, and neon-electric-digital-dreamscapes of action set pieces that whir and click and come to life exactly as they do in the minds of children reading them on paper.This movie is breathtakingly good in every aspect. Like-I'm-questioning-my-sanity-is-it-really-as-good-as-I-think-it-is!?!? Yes. Yes yes yes.Remember the old Sega game Comix Zone? And how it was like "oh wow! It's a comic book come to life!"? This is like that, with modern technology, cranked up a thousand times.But here's the most important part - *it was all done in the right way, by the right people, at the right time*. It feels like this project was greenlit and handed to the very people who created comic books themselves with a "here ya go, you have full creative control. Oh and by the way you have an unlimited budget! And resources! Have as much fun making a great movie as you possibly can!"My first job was working in a movie theater. I took full advantage of being able to see free movies. I've built a decent surround sound system with all the creature comforts and have a growing library of movies. From the re-release of the original Star Wars trilogy, to each of the prequels and to the ongoing trilogy today, T-2, Titanic, the original X-Men, Avatar, The Dark Knight, Avengers, Avengers: Infinity War and so many more...I've gone to many, many big movie theater events for the experience. And I can safely say hands down that Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse in 3D is the best moviegoing experience I have ever had. It's that great.


                
Have you ever sat through a film and you knew that films would never be the same going forward? For example, Terminator 2, Star Wars.. the first Toy Story... Iron ManWell this is one of those. This is a almost rather perfect film. Let me just say the the stylished animation is just top notch. It as if the comic book leaped off the pages. I've seen practically all super hero films to include the DC animated ones. This feels as if they took comic books and Playstation animation and just came up with this perfect look.And the story is great.. the pacing is so wonderful. It is able to tell the story.. and an origin without boring us to tears like Zack Snyder has done in the DC universe. The story is quiet touching. And it allows us to have a pretty interesting Spider Man in Miles WITHOUT thrashing or having a Peter Parker like experience.Plus our the villains are so well done..But I think we will see a lot more of this type of animation in the future from Sony. I think they announced their presence with authority.. like how Dreamworks did with Shrek.. and how Pixar did.It's been awhile I seen something so unexpected and so cool.


                
Visually stunning. Great storyline. Great cast. Amazing soundtrack. Tear jerking cameo. Pop culture post credit scene of the decade. Thank you Marvel and Sony for making a Spidey movie everyone can love.


                
This movie was absolutely incredible. From the animation, to the storytelling, to the characters this movie is completely one of a kind. It is easily the best looking animated movie of the year (no surprise there), but what really caught me off guard was the story they were able to tell in such a short amount of time. Each character has their own distinct personality and is given their own separate characterization without making the movie feel bloated. I knew I would end up liking this movie, but this movie has completely exceeded my expectations. If you enjoy superheros or animation you should 100% definitely watch it in a theater.


                
Heads-up: I'm only going to be talking about Peter Parker in this review. I'll make a separate one for the film laterm I just feel like he deserves his own review. That's how great Peter is in this film.Into The Spider-verse reminds us why we love Spiderman so much, and does so in an original and humane way.I used to love Spiderman as a kid. I got obssessed with the cartoons he starred in as well as the original movie trilogy, one that actually helped me get interested in the character and marvel as a whole. But my love for this character, as most things, dissolved and it never got around to build itself up again, even after constant remakes and wonderful performances. I never felt that spark again, that love I felt for this charming dude was gone, dead.Then Into The Spider-verse came, and my whole world turned upside down. I felt a fire inside my stomach. There it was, that long-forgotten love for Peter Parker, one that I thought I would never experience again, expanding continuously as the movie progressed, hitting me in all the right places.I'd even dare to say that this movie made me understand the reason as to why spider-man is universally loved:He's an everyday guy with super powers, that's it. He's flawed but pure at heart. He's relatable. He belongs to the people. He's one of us.This movie's fresh take on Peter Parker is exactly what we needed to fully grasp that, how compelling this character can be without using any of his super powers. This version of Peter Parker is fat, subtly depressed, and tired, yet he's the most charming and lovable version of this character yet. It's something we haven't seen in quite a while, the genuine humanity that makes Peter Parker such a charismatic character, and one can only be thankful for it.Spider-man is cool again, but in a totally different, and perhaps even better, way. Just your everyday dude taking a leap of faith, giving the audience who relates to his struggles courage to do the same. This is what Spiderman can be and what he should be. A character that's ours, a character that teaches you that anyone can be a hero, that's the real Spiderman. This is the true Homecoming. Spiderman is freaking back! Welcome home!


                
Amazing movie. Great animation, the best Spider-Man movie in my opinion


                
Okay first of all, WHAT SONY? A good animated film?! A GREAT animated film?! Don't has reedemed themselves in my book and have created the DEFINITIVE Spider-Man movie in the process.


                
Everything about this movie is exceptional
And 1st time watch is not worth, you should literally watch this atleast 2-3 times to gully enjoy every single frame


                
Went to see the movie in IMAX 3D on LSD. Best experience of my life! This is a masterpiece.


                
This film is storytelling at its finest. They've really transferred the art of comic book story telling onto the big screen to a level that no other film has matched. Beautiful and fresh animation. They've not been afraid to try something new and it has definitely paid off. I hope this sets an example for future films, as it's definitely raised the bar! A film that can be both parents and children's favourites. Very memorable.


                
I had high expectations for this movie and it didn't fail to meet them, this film has great animation, great humour, emotion, and heart. It has pretty much everything people would want for an animated movie.


                
This animation style was trailblazing. It is awesome to a brand new style of movie making work so well. It's no wonder as this movie was made by the duo behind the stellar Lego Movie. Most entertaining and beautiful Spider-Man film yet. The haters will not understand because they want their own Spider-Man, but this movie proves that anybody can wear the mask. I loved all the different Spider people that were added in. Miles is awesome and comes with a lot of emotions. Bring the tissues for this one! The best Spider-Man story that has been told yet with stellar voice acting and script. Again, the animation style is the most amazing animation style I have seen yet. Truly a perfect comic book movie!


                
This had better win some Oscars.Okay, from the beginning: this movie is excellent. It is a thrill ride from start to finish, from being inventive to charting a new story to introducing so many good characters. Miles Morales' story is unique, emotional, and above all, fun.Performances: they're voice performances, so at first glance there isn't much to consider, but once you get further into the movie, you hear these actors truly commit to their characters. Shameik Moore's voice embodies Miles Morales perfectly, and Jake Johnson finally finds a character that's not a stoner; he does have fun with it. Haliee Steinfeld is exhilarating and perfect as Spider-Gwen. The rest of the cast... they're all fantastic, I just don't have time to talk about it right now. Go Spider-Ham!Direction/Writing: with three different directors, you'd expect this to come off as jumbled and incoherent, but it is not that at all. The scenes are well executed, the fight choreography is exhilarating, and the way they blend animation is simply stunning. The writing was soooooooo goooooooood. Phil Lord really had a story he wanted to tell, and he didn't skip out on any opportunity; somehow, we'll be laughing one minute and bawling the next. He really left it all on the field, especially with all ridiculous avenues he decided to go down with characters like Spider-Ham, Penny Parker, and Spider-Man Noire. The best part is it all works! The villain, Kingpin, is a bit sidelined, but it doesn't matter in the end because the story is about Miles and the people in his life. There's a moment in the trailer where Miles jumps off a building and we get this beautiful upside-down shot, and that moment is somehow even more satisfying given everything that leads up to it. The combo of story and characters truly does work.There's so many things I could talk about, from the immersive world to the killer soundtrack to the fact they use sound effects that correspond to the character's respective universes. You can feel the amount of time and effort that went into this movie, and you can feel that feeling of satisfaction that it paid off. It's a truly unique movie and inventive experience that is a sight to behold. (10/10)Seriously, Academy, look at this movie. And give it like all the awards.


                
I hardly post reviews but,
I Just watched Spider-Man Into the Spider-Verse and OMG that is by far in my opinion the best Spider-Man movie ever!!! The story was so well written, the characters were awesome, the music was actually awesome, and OMG the art style they chose for this movie was so amazing and it was like watching a living comic book!!! Also, you know how sometimes superheros usually just come off as superheros and not like actual people well they actually showed emotion and development and oml just see it I geeked out enough <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0082>
Edit: if the creators somehow see this post
You created something brilliant with this film, And you made Stan and Steve proud. Good Job, Spider-Verse team. Excelsior!!!


                
It's amazing!! Go watch it now!Honestly, it's one of the best movies I have watched this year. It has one of the best animated movies I've ever seen. It's just this good. It has great character, a simple but very compelling and interesting story and it's just a really good time. Miles was great. I loved his insecurities. It's a weird thing to say but the character feels very relatable and real. You feel his struggles and the pressure that he has to face in his life, with his parents, him releasing that his uncle is working for KingPin, living up to Peter Parker and Gwen and all the other spider people's expectations. You real feel for him. As for Peter Parker, I didn't like that they killed off Peter Parker from this universe at the start of the movie and then another version of Peter just comes up immediately after that. It kinda ruins the death and sadness a little. I would have liked it more if they had a couple more scene or maybe a one day jump before introducing the new spider man. But that's just me. After the Peter J. Parker, was introduced everything just kicked in from there. The whole sequence with Peter and Miles breaking in and out of that lab was wonderfully entertaining and Gwen's entrance couldn't be better. The other spider people introduced later were less useful aside from looking cool and having some memorable moments.Have I talked about the animation yet? it's freaking amazing and watching this actually inspired me to work on some of my art projects that I have been putting off. From the details of the sky scrapers to the reflections and the whole climatic battle scene at the end is just beautifully done and just really really good and satisfying to look at.Overall, the plot, the characters, the animation and the Stan Lee (oh, yes that was good too. Rest in peace Stan Lee, the line he delivered was also really funny and emotional as well) were just spectacular and amazing (see what I did there) and I definitely recommend this movie, even if you're not a Spiderman fan, watch it please. We need a sequel to for this movie. My hope on Sony has been restored.
Best Spiderman movie I've seen so far. The animation is stunning and I love how the 'glitching' theme ties in with the animation style/framerate and music. Genius on all levels.


                
Animation was awesome, voice acting was spot on. I loved the story and the character development.


                
Going into this I had high hopes but, was afraid It might not be as good as the hype says But, damn... This movie is underhyped. I loved every second of it. The animation was gorgeous, the characters were so fun and the soundtrack, flawless. The twists, you never see coming and don't even get me started on how beautiful the end fight scene was. This film is the best animated film of 2018 and in my opinion, the best film of 2018 definitely worth seeing!


                
To start with: I am an enormous Spider-Man fan. Added to this: I am a huge fan of Miles Morales. Now hearing this you may assume that I'd love anything with Spider-Man... and... I mean... you're not wrong. I don't think I outright 'hate' anything Spider-Man related. But at the same time, no other Spider-Man movie has had me writing reviews on Amazon, Fandango, IMDB, and Rotten Tomatoes singing its praises.Into the Spider-Verse is (to me)- without a doubt- the best Spider-Man movie yet. And to be fair, if there was ever a movie I was skeptical about, it was this one. Sony Animation-- the same people who did The Emoji Movie and the Smurfs films-- making the first Marvel animated movie (not counting Big Hero 6)?? Was't looking too good... But DANG did they knock it out of the park! Not only are the visuals outstanding-- using 3D animation in an almost unprecedented way where it seriously looks like it is a living comic book-- but the cast, soundtrack, and story are all phenomenal. For anyone who reads the comics, there's plenty of Spider-Man fan service. For anyone who doesn't, there's plenty here to keep you thoroughly entertained throughout. It's got its moments of being down-to-earth, it's got humor, it's got heart. It's definitely a super hero film, but it's also a coming-of-age film.If you even remotely enjoy Spider-Man, do yourself a favor and check this out!


                
Dude!!! this is what all animation should be like honestly. didn't feel toned down or brushed up, just felt like art. the most beautiful movie I have seen literally ever, pretty much every frame is a work of art in its own, I mean like duuuuude, amazing. amazing!! felt like it was full of real, raw, unrefined art. felt like the concept art from all those disney movies that gets completely changed up in the end. don't know what else to say, just good!! need more stuff like this in the world.


                
Finally, Sony has done it. Spiderman into the spiderverse has great storyline, fantastic animations, good character development, nice bgm and last but not least a great theme: "Everyone can wear the mask of Spiderman". This movie offers a completely different animation experiences and has indeed set a whole new path for the future of animation movies.


                
What would you do if you could be a superhero? What if you have no choice? From the very beginning, Spider-Man: Into the Spicer-Verse is very energetic and captures your attention. This animated film has impressive visuals. The music creates a fantastic rhythm. And you just want to watch more.The story follows a high school student named Miles Morales, who just changed school. He goes into an abandoned subway station with his uncle Erin and gets bitten by a radioactive spider. Ever since that day, Miles starts sticking to everything he touches. Then, he meets Spider-Man (Peter Parker), teams up with some friends from the same dimension and they attempt to save the world from the villain Kingoin.The story is very original and makes the impossible possible. It takes all the abilities of Spider-Man to far and beyond with its action scenes. The film also shows a very real family atmosphere and the humor is smart. I love the non-traditional characters and how they embrace diversity. And yes! Spider-Man is Latino and surely does speak Spanish! There are also some fun new characters.With this film, Marvel has created a film that celebrates comics, film and visual arts. Of course, it celebrates Spider-Man and makes this super hero relevant and contemporary. It is absolutely eye-poppingly beautiful and really pushes the boundaries of the genre with its colors, textures and camera movements. There are several different forms of animation in one film. You feel as if you are actually reading a comic book or the comic book is coming to life.Naturally, the film does a very touching tribute to genius Stan Lee. I feel the filmmakers took some risks bringing new ideas to this iconic character which as been adored for over 50 years. The result is a must-see family movie that is even more appealing to new generations. I also love how this film is animated. It's so different. I've never seen a film like this one. I think it's very unique. Be sure to stay after the credits to see something very special, including another set of credits at the very end.This film sets a new era in animated movies. I recommend it for ages 5 to 18, as well as adults. I give it 5 out of 5 stars and include it in my Oscar predictions as a very possible winner. This is the film parents will love their kids to watch and kids will enjoy in many different ways.With great power comes great responsibility and we all can be heroes. This is the idea behind Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse - inclusion for all in the vast universe and the idea that we can all be heroes by making the right choices and doing our best helping each other in our everyday life.Reviewed by Zoe C., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. For more reviews by youth, visit kidsfirst dot org.


                
