This poorly constructed CARTOON does nothing but reinforce the stereotype that comic books are a childish medium. It also helps exemplify a lot of what is wrong with modern Marvel itself.Juvenile virtue signaling and forced unnecessary diversity is placed above what made the source material great in the first place. It tries to drive home both points to nauseating levels (literally because the choppy animation was designed to induce seizures and appeal to ADD sufferers) Between the "bip and baps" reminiscent of Adam West's Batman was a story that featured minority Spidey becoming near invincible because his father gives him a speech through a door. And don't forget infallible Mary Sue Spider-Gwen who is automatically better than all the boys because you know...vagina!!!That aside, the story and characters themselves were apparently written by twelve year olds to appeal to twelve year olds. Spider-Pigs, anime robots and Alfred-like emotionless Aunt May surrounded by ruined classic Marvel villains (horrid distorted representations of Scorpion, Doc Ock, Kingpin, etc) Yes, they leaned on the misrepresentation from the Ultimate line but that garbage failed in print for a reason. Why puke that in to animation?Overall, it's easy to see why older fans are rejecting this thing and why the box office was so light. Thank God for that anyway. Here's hoping this nonsense stays out of the MCU.


                
Went to see the movie because so many liked it, even winning Golden Globes, Oscar nomination.But really fail to see why such fuss over it.The plot wasn't bad but the pig spiderman was a bit much.


                
It was an alright movie. Good animation and comedy was alright. Not your classic spiderman and was just a hodgepodge of a bunch of spidey experiments slammed together.
I just felt like it should have been a direct to DVD movie.


                
Background flashing is worse than Natural Born Killers. Plot is weird, and then a spider pig shows up to make it even less palatable. I'm not a fan of the characters or animation


                
Firstly I'm a huge Spider-Man fan right from the 60's cartoon onwards. A big fan of all the Sam Raime movies including 3 and an even bigger fan of Andrew Garfield who casting was as inspired as the 2 nd film was bad thank goodness they never made 3 with the mechanical rhino . But Andrew your missed ! Slowly getting used to Billy Elliot in the role but to me he will do a better job as he gets older making Spider-Man 15 is ridiculous . This move was rubbish great animation ok story but cmon Spider-Man pig !! Really !! The award list nominations for this consist largely of movie makers of colour and as a consequence like black panther it's overhyped. This is not a racial statement it's fact . I fact my favorite Spider-Man was the John Semper cartoon series from the 90's who himself is s black guy . Sadly there is no depth to this like that incredible series ( madam Webb bits apart ) I like the idea of Miles morales as an alternative to Spider-Man but the cartoon CGI I'd to me wearing on the eye especially in 3 d ( the blur does not suit ) . So for me regrettably 2/10 and I'm being generous .
Didnt know what to think when I seen it but after watching it I love it!


                
Cartoon, are you serious?? This was awful. Waste of time.


                
