I am not a fan of animated movies, but I like and follow marvel movies.
Movie starts very gently with lots of passionate scenes, especially when the dad-cop asked his son to reply "Dad, I love you."
This movie followed the disappointing formula, in which a movie starts off well, but then it's all downhill from there. After that scene, all of a sudden, the movie became so confusing and the story line got so slop as it was filled with many unreasonable and superfluous actions,
And once again, I was left constantly wondering when this movie would end. I didn't leave early, because I did not want to disturb the other people, if there were any left.


                
Both visually and from the story and character aspect, there is way too much stuff going on in such a short amount of time. Honestly, this is an insanely average animated movie and a below average superhero movie, IMO. It looks cool sometimes and that's about it (by the way most of the unique visuals just looked like filters added on at the end of animation). Miles Morales is a great character and I wish they focused only on him and his story. If they cut out all that other garbage with the other spidermen and women, the movie would have flowed much better. The villains are one of the better parts of the film and of course it is what they spend the least time on. Spending more time on Kingpin as well as Miles's uncle I think would have made the movie more precisce and entertaining. It seemed like all they were interested in was making a jumping off point for an animated superhero universe instead of just focusing on this film by itself. At the end of the day...this is just MY opinion. And my opinion is that this film is being rated FAR too high. It is average at best.


                
This movie is definitely not as good as everyone is making it out to be.The movie starts off simply enough. Miles is your average Hollywood teen, who is the son of the only police officer in New York City. And if you want to see yet another person get bitten by a radioactive spider, then you're in luck.75% of the film is Miles trying and failing to be Spiderman. He's incapable of controlling any of his powers, and does little more than get in the way and utter cliche lines such as "I have to do this. I promised." It's rather frustrating to watch. But conveniently, he figures everything out in the last half hour and becomes a better hero than all the other Spidermen who've been in the business for years.Speaking of everyone else, as the story progresses, the audience is introduced to more and more Spiderman variations (and more unusual villains). With so much content, they barely get any more than just a few minutes of screen time. Spiderman Noir was interesting, for the five lines he had. I'm pretty sure there was some kind of Penny Porker character, but I may be mistaken. There's also a Scorpion villain who shows up out of nowhere, then mostly disappears.As a whole, the movie was filmed assuming that the audience's attention span is a about 1 second. Most jokes are cringe worthy, especially after you've seen them in the trailer. There's also way too much flash going on, and the movie's final scene is about as visually complex as a Jackson Pollock spatter painting.Spiderverse doesn't do anything that hasn't been done time and again.


                
I went to see this because I thought the children would like it which is why I forced myself to sit through what was a torturous attempt at humour. But afterwards, I found out the kids didn't like it either. They laughed at a few bits here and there but overall they were bored and in my daughter's words "watched it because it was on and we were already there". The humour was overly forced and at some points more like a slap in the face. The action in the film was all a bit rushed and what can only be described as clumsy. The story was okay but again a bit rushed as it jumped from one thing to another. One minute nothing was happening, next minute, everything was happening with barely any transition at all. But the main thing I didn't like about it, was the style of animation they used. In complete honesty. It sucked! Massively. Overall, it was a bitter disappointment and I wouldn't recommend anybody waste their time or money on it. If you want to watch it. Wait till you can do so for free.


                
Hi ELLIOT GJAZZ here.
I'm going to make this review fairly short, as quite frankly I really don't have much to say about this film.I know many people loved this movie, myself sadly I did not. I was totally bored all the way throughout and even kept nodding off for a few seconds here and there .Don't get me wrong the ANIMATION was FANTASTIC BRILLIANT, but if there is a stupid story behind it then in my book, it's a waste of time. I really wasn't keen on any of the characters except for SPIDERMAN NOIR voiced by NICK CAGE and WILSON FISK voiced by LIEV ( RAY DONOVAN ) SCHRIEIBER, both of whom I admire as talented actors. Don't get me started with that idiotic SPIDERMAN PIG which was more like POKE'MON than SPIDERMAN. That's when I just really had enough. I remember when I was a kid i used to look forward to a tv show called GLEN MICHAEL'S CARTOON CAVALCADE. This was a show which predominately showed toon type short cartoons, however there was one more serious type of cartoon, a favourite of which of mine was SPIDERMAN usually shown as a weekly 2 part episodes. This was suberb, and the reason I am bringing this up is that all that time way back in the late 60's and early 70's these SPIDERMAN Toons were wae better than this rubbish. Let me iritterate , again the ANIMATION for SPIDER-VERSE was truly MAGNIFICENT. If these guys had a better story and script then perhaps it would have been truly magnificent. One last thing. I absolutely hated the RAP MUSIC and BLAND songs. A QUINCY JONES - LALO SCHIFRIN style JAZZY score would have suited better. It wouldn't make the script better but it certainly would be more pleasing to the ear. Ending on another note I also thought the gags were awful , and could have done with the gags from AQUAMAN which was out the same week and if you read my review on it , you will see I absolutely loved it. I so much also wanted to love SPIDER-VERSE sadly however that was just not to be!


                
Overrated, overhyped, pick your cliche.
I went into this movie with high expectations.
I was told how excellent it was.
Sorry, disappointed!
"Jokes" were not funny. Plot was thin. First Spider-Man was intriguing then they got rid of him. If you have to dumb down your points, stories, and jokes, stick with kids cartoons on PBS.
What a load of rubbish I really would not waste your money


                
Didn't enjoy this movie <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+009F>. Too much of flashing images and lights. Really difficult to concentrate on the movie...


                
