So... the PC crowd and all of the paid or employees of the production give this a 10 of 10, with an occasional 9. Then every so often you get a 1 of 10. It makes a person wonder.
Shouldn't this be like Amazon -- you have to be a verified viewer to submit a review. I mean, who are you kidding with a couple hundred 10's? Does anyone really believe those people who use the same view words to describe every show they review: Best Ever!, Perfect! Fantastic! My favorite of the series!
Then they proceed to use the same patented comments as if they wrote one review and used it for a dozen films.
The last clue is when a show had the rave reviews from the critics. When is the last time critics actually got a review (for an average Joe/Jane movie goer) right?
So we did sit through it, suffering a string of insults for being white and the usual teenage writer jokes. It wasn't the worst movie, but it certainly was not the 'Best Ever'.


                
99% critics rating on Rotten Tomatoes, which is the Highest rated DC and Marvel movie EVER! And an 8.6 IMDB rating...so i had high hopes going in, plus i love the previous Spider-Man movies but boy was this one average, below average actually hence my 4/10. I feel duped by the critics AGAIN. The critics scores for this movie are WAY too suspicious for this.Let's get the animation out of the way first since they seem to be raving about it so much. Through watching many many animations we all know that nice visuals don't make for an entertaining film, especially if the other components of storytelling don't add up. The animation was as good as any good ones out there already, so i would say that it's not a good reason to go and spend loads on money at the cinema for that reason alone. This definitely can be watched at home. At random times throughout the film they do this kind of 3D visuals animation which give your eyes and head a funny turn tbh. If you've watched a 3D movie without glasses then you'll know what i mean.The film was so haphazard editing and story wise that it really took you out of the flow of the story, so it made it difficult to stay connected to the characters and story. This made it feel like it was aimed at young children to stop them from losing interest. It almost just felt like constant random scenes which didn't flow smoothly story wise.The other thing that made the film tiresome when trying to connect to the characters/story was the use of jokes/one-liners, they were relentless and was full of them. I love comedy in superhero films, the MCU do a great job of that and the previous Spider-Man movies too but this was like a kids animation style of non-stop but with adult humour, that i'm afraid i didn't laugh at once...and i usually laugh at nearly everything. Besides myself, there was only an adult and 2 children in the screen and i didn't hear them laugh either tbh.The story was pretty standard, exactly what the trailer tells you but i did get restless and bored when there was no action.Its my least favourite Spider-Man movie and as animations go its not good either, especially when you've got Pixar, Illuniation, Manga, etc delivering such epic and fun movies already.Nicolas Cage was my favourite Spider-Man in this, even though he wasn't one of the central characters and didn't get much screen time. It would be great if they made a film just centered around his character sometime.There were 2 or 3 short emotional scenes in this that i liked, i'm a sucker for that stuff lol.There is a post-credits scene so stay til the very end.4/10.


                
This should have been a better movie, but simply wasn't. It was lame, frankly. My 9-year-old liked it better than I did, truth be known. Animation and all was okay but the storyline was nonsense. There was a nice animated sendup of a rather funnily creepy Stan Lee in it. It had its moments,but was mostly a failure. Long and short, it was like they made a movie just to make a movie and the entertainment value was about like the nutritional value of celery. Take or leave it.


                
We didn't get Peter's origin in this one, not really, but we did get 5 other origin stories. The way they did it was underwhelming, even if they tried to adapt the comic book style to the big screen; it still felt out of place and the movie making fun of itself for doing it is no excuse.
We also got the newest trend in Hollywood: female Doc Ock, Gwen's hair and Miles with his soy smile. It kind of feels refreshing here and there, some individual aspects work, but overall this flick makes me want to never rewatch it.
First of all I have never hated a spiderman character more then Miles mourlas
it takes him 1hour and 30 minjust to learn how to use his powers and we only we see him at full capacity for less then 15 min
also it takes an hour before we see every multi verse spiderman come into play
for about 35 or so mins all we really see is miles just stumbling trying to figure out what is happening to him and as he talks to himself it getès so annoying i just want to clog my ears
the animation looks like an old video game i used to play wish i could remember which one and the music through out the film is bad bad bad
and there are only a few jokes in the movie that get a laugh or 2
with only 50 mins left in the movie we really don't see very much of the other spiderman fight until the very end and even then poky and nic cage have less then 10 min of actual fight time like i said it focus most on miles and man is he an idiot for most of the film it was very cringy another thing if i remember peter never had a father in the movies or the comics so why did he it confused me and I don't ever remember a female doc oc one last thing wtf is with the size and look of the king pin he is ugly anyway will not be buying or watching this again Ièll stick to the other flims they are way better


                
I'm not sure that I saw the same movie that others are writing about. True, the animation was cutting edge, but the storyline was not. I walked out after 1 hr and ate my popcorn on the way home.


                
Movie is very slow and has limited action which overshadows everything else about the movie.


                
I'm not sure what the point of this movie was. Usually, a "first" super hero movie gives us the hero's backstory, the origin of their powers, how they grapple with these new found powers, some sort of personal tragedy (that ultimately leads them to becoming a hero instead of a villain), and a focus point for the resolution of their conflicting issues in the form of whatever shape or form the villain takes. After that, it's sequel after endless sequel.I get it.What I don't get is the purpose of THIS movie. There already IS a Spider-Man. He's Peter Parker, photographer for the Daily Bugle, and so on and so forth. We all know about his Aunt, Uncle, the radioactive spider, J. Jonah, M.J. and the cadre of bad dudes he eventually takes on (and down). So, with that in mind, I wasn't sure if this was supposed to be (1) yet another re-imagining of the story for a newer, hip audience, (2) an introduction of several new characters, or (3) an intense marketing ploy to get young viewers interested in the printed version of these heroes? Why else would each character have it's own "Issue #1" cover shown during the movie as well as their own brief backstory / origin explanation?It has to be one of those explanations because in every stand-alone movie or comic book, the super hero fights the bad guy typically by himself / herself without the aid of other super heroes (Avengers and other super groups notwithstanding). Spider-Man, Superman, Batman, et al always fought the Green Goblin, Lex Luthor and the Joker (among others) by themselves. But in this movie, five (or was it six) Spider-Men/Women were needed to take Kingpin down? Not likely.Also, this movie had alot going on and went nowhere. The start of the movie was tedious, plodding and slow. And, most importantly, the formula was incredibly predictable. If there were any jokes, they fell flat and were unremarkable, sans the obligatory Stan Lee cameo as the comic shop owner.Once the action started, it was kind of pointless and repetitive. And I kept coming back to the central question I had while watching the movie, as they kept introducing version after version of Spider-Men: do these comic characters already exist somewhere else and this movie is just a ploy to expose them to a wider audience?So, the questions are: Are we being exposed to the NEW Spider-Man? Are we being exposed new, multiple Spider-Men? Why were there no new villains (and making Dr. Octopus a woman is NOT making a new villain, by the way). All of that (and more) brings me back to the central idea of this review - I'm not sure what the point of this movie was.
The tilde is pretty explanatory.
Bad animation, forced funny witch means it is not funny. Bad voice acting.
Appalling. A shame to the history


                
