The origin of miles morales is really well done in my opinion, peter b parker is an interesting character too, Gwen Stacy is also good but the other 3 spider people didn't have any purpose other than comedic relief in the story, which is fine, as long as the overarching story is good. it wasn't. Basically the kingpin wants to bring back his dead family by collecting them from a dimension in which they haven't died. maybe this would been a relatable motivation if this wasn't shown in a flash back, which just seems cheap to me.For me it just fell apart in the third act in which the so far great origin story, just devolves into a, quickly press the button to save the world moment. The message the movie gives that any one can be spider-man, you don't need a costume or superpowers to be a hero is great though. Shame about the boring ending and villain.
As much as I enjoy this movie (and as an animator/storyartist I love the visuals!) I have to honest and say it is a bit of an unfocused mess. The reason why you should see this movie is because it is the first in what will hopefully be a trend of innovative and creative animated movies that aren't just looking over the shoulders of what Disney and Pixar are doing. This movie is its own creature and I think it deserves to be seen just for the visuals and the opportunity to hopefully support this trend...However, I would only say that if the movie has some substance to it.... which it does. I recommend people see this movie, but it should be noted that I think this movie may be getting the "Kubo" treatment where an animated film is visually impressive to such a degree that people gloss over bad writing because everything they are looking at is so cool.The first half of this movie is brilliant. I think just about everything in the first half works really well and is super effective. Miles Morales felt like a real kid with some real kid issues, Peter B Parker was funny, tragic and fleshed out, and Gwen... existed (we'll get to her later). My eyes were glued to the screen and I was excited for where the story would go as I was genuinely surprised at a couple twists and turns in the story.Then, a certain moment happened in the movie where I was taken out of the film and went, "Wait... oh shoot this is going downhill real fast." It was the introduction of all of the other spider-verse characters. At that moment the film shifted gears into an entirely different film from the first half. Does Miles Morales fit in with the professionals? Can Miles Morales impress them? Everyone seems to hate him due to his lack of experience! Can Miles Morales take a leap of faith (which he already did in the beginning of the movie)??!?! Is Miles Morales even relevant to the story?!?!?!?! All of these sudden new themes and plot developments completely derail what the first half of the film was setting up to such a degree that it felt like a giant schism cut through the film and the second half of the film was waving goodbye to the first half.I'll be clear that I have no issue with other spider-verse characters sharing screen-time in the film, the issue is that they don't add much in terms of character development or interaction with Miles. The characters should serve to help Miles grow, but in this movie they just seem like another pair of fists to punch bad guys, and there is no better example of this than...Gwen Stacey.Gwen Stacey has the unfortunate issue of being completely irrelevant to the story when she should be an important and vital character to Peter B Parker's/Miles Morales' character growth and should have an arc of her own. This is a character who witnessed Peter Parker (her best friend) die and Peter B Parker is someone who witnessed Gwen Stacey die in her universe! WHY DON'T THEY DISCUSS THIS!!! Peter B Parker should be surprised and excited to see someone he knew as dead alive again and she should be happy to see her best friend once more! Instead, the two characters just... punch bad guys... like everyone else. No growth or development between the two.To make matters worse, Gwen doesn't even really work to help Miles Morales develop as a character. In the beginning of the film she is built up to be one of the main characters, but in the second half she doesn't develop any further than she did in the beginning. She experiences no character growth nor does she help develop any other characters. She just exists in the film.I could go on for a while about all of the different weird pacing issues in the second half of the film such as Miles Morales suddenly getting super powerful and skilled out of nowhere (it's odd that people complain about "Mary Sues" in film but don't complain about Miles Morales going from zero to hero in one scene), or a single cut from a comedy scene to a tragic "friends splitting up" scene, some loose character threads such as Miles' dad telling cops to chase spider-man but we never see them do it, and many other instances of odd pacing choices and poor juxtapositions of emotional story beats.But, I will end this on a positive note: All of the characters are enjoyable when they get their moment and I think the writing on the father was really good. He wasn't your typical "larger than life" father but a very honest, strong, but stubborn dad who has his flaws yet is very likable and reasonable. I wish him and Uncle Aaron had some scenes together and their dynamic was a bit more fleshed out, but as is I still like them regardless of the additional scenes they deserved.Go see it if you want to support innovative and risky animation, but be warned that it is not a perfect film (other than visually).
The Trailers to this already were pretty promising. I was a bit skeptical tho because it's still sony. Fortunately, my scepsis was proven wrong.First and foremost: the animation in this film is drop dead gorgeous. The last time I saw animation this innovative, was with the lego movie in 2014. The soundtrack is surprisingly good too. The story is pretty basic, but the pacing, the action and the humor all work perfectly as a whole. Especially the student/mentor relationship between miles and old peter parker plays out exceptionally well and serves as the emotional anchor of the movie. The rest of the side characters fall pretty flat, which isn't that bad because they give more room for miles. The only one that really bugged me was Spider-Ham, who was just a bit too over the top and silly. The Villains are ok, but nothing mind-blowing. The third act disappoints a little bit because it feels a bit overblown.Overall, Into the Spider-Verse is fun, action-packed family entertainment at its best, with a few minor issues here and there. Definitely watch it in the cinema if you can because of the visuals.


                
Uh-oh, I feel a 'here I go again' coming. As I write this, "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" is ranked #29 on IMDb's list of Top 250 movies of all time, right there in between "Saving Private Ryan" and "Léon: The Professional". Among the eighty plus comic-book based super-hero movies I've seen and reviewed, it comes in at #2, right behind "The Dark Knight", which means viewers give it a higher rating than "Avengers: Infinity War" and "Guardians of the Galaxy", if any of you Marvel fans care about that. I don't know, I just think there's just something askew about that, instinctively telling me that in this case, it's not the quality of the movie that places it so high in the rankings, but the overall popularity and buzz that attaches itself to the film. But enough of that.I actually thought the film was OK, not great, but OK. As far as animated movies go, I thought it was exceptionally rendered with bright, vivid colors and an interesting cast of characters, some of whom I was familiar with and others not. I actually do remember Spider-Ham from the dark recesses of my memory long ago. As far as the story line goes, it wasn't particularly new or innovative, how many threats to reality have you encountered over the course of your movie viewing lives? If it sounds like I'm trashing the flick, I'm not really, I think it's great for kids and fans of animated movies. Speaking of which, and relative to my argument above, the picture is outranked by the Japanese anime "Spirited Away" on the current Top 250 at Number #27, so I'm not bashing the picture for not being live action.My biggest kick out of watching the movie, and I make this statement a lot about Marvel based comic book movies, was seeing writer and artist Stan Lee drawn into the film as a store clerk named appropriately enough, 'Stan'. With his recent passing at the age of ninety five, it saddens me to know that I won't be seeing him in those ubiquitous cameo spots that I always look for in a Marvel super-hero film. As one of the original creators of Spider-Man along with Steve Ditko (who also passed away in 2018), I'd like to think that Stan Lee got his own special preview showing of "Into the Spider-Verse" before he entered Valhalla. He is one that will be missed.
Let's get the obvious out of the way. This film looks stunning for 90% of the 100min runtime. I will say however that the editing is so sharp and quick, that I thought I was going to have an epileptic fit! Also it played on the 3D blur that the old red and blue comic strips had, which sometimes made me slightly troubled as to whether I was in a 3D showing with no glasses!The story was half decent, especially around Miles and his family. I thought his relationship with his uncle was particularly a strong point. No spoilers here though!As for the rest of the movie, I once again will reiterate that Spider-Man in general is feeling exhausted. No matter what is done with the character whether it's Miles or Peter. We have been watching these characters since Toby brought him to the big screen nearly 20 years ago, being rebooted over and over. It's wearing thin for sure.Thank god this movie had a lot of style.


                
This film is absolutely dazzling and refreshingly creative in its animation style. The story is also very fun and engaging up until the point when you realize that the plot is barely hanging on by a single thread and it still manages to stand up to every other super hero film in recent memory. The last 10 minutes was also a letdown for me and the film could have wrapped up in a more succinct and original way. Still, definitely see this in theaters to get the full and nearly-flawless visual experience. Even the "dull" moments are a joy to watch. (Watch out for a 2001: A Space Odyssey-inspired sequence that will blow your mind with its stunning beauty.)


                
The first and second acts are amazing to watch.But action scene sometime is hard to catch up due to all the "stop motion lego-movie style" cutting. but that mix with all the quick camera move and stuff flying by, blocking and visual effect.
my eye got tired really fast after The first hero-villian smash battle.then the rest of the third act is just BORING.


                
I did not expect such a good movie going into another Spiderman Movie. But Marvel did a great Job showing us another Story out of their huge Comic Book Universe.
But seeing only 10 Reviews on this Page is a bit overrated. First of all the Animation is really mind-blowing and a completly new Style. This is incredible and i hope more movies risk something in this area. The Movie felt like reading an actual Comic Book which was surprsingly fun. The Soundtrack helped the Movie to create Emotions and felt cool because it fits in our Time. The Story was overall not bad, but nothing great happend. As i said earlier, it felt like a cinematic Comic Book and this also means that the Story was nothing more than this. Therefore it was a way better story than average with a lot of Humor and Action. but nothing that will be remembered long.
So Spiderman: Into the Spiderverse was a very good Movie with a solid Story. You should definitly check it out if you are interested in the Animation Style or you are a Fan of the Comic Books. Good job Marvel, try out more things and you will go in the right direction. 7/10


                
Good film, a great film even but if you believe what's being written then you will be a little let down afterwards.
Any Spidey fan will like/ Love this but "the best Spiderman movie ever is going too far.
Well Worth a watch but don't expect it to blow you away.


                
I'm not caught up in the history of Spider Man or how the franchise has evolved over time. With that perspective, it's easy to judge this movie on its own merits. The animation is flat-out amazing. Rather than the the pages of a comic book coming to life, the creators have succeeded in pulling you into their world. Unfortunately, that's where it ends. The story line is passable but mediocre at best. The characters are bland and for an animated multi-verse the villains are uninspired and unmemorable. I'm glad I saw this in a theatre in 3-D because at home on a small screen it will be like watching a Sunday morning cartoon. Albeit, one with a 90M budget.


                
This animation is full of energy and is very fast paced. I really like the colourful palette, and the fact that it really mixes things up. The animation combines 3D animation, Japanese anime elements and backgrounds that would probably have been 3D if viewed through 3D glasses. Combined with the split screens and texts on the screen, it really looks like a comic brought to life.


                
Over the past 12 years or so with the " newest" Spiderman goings on i have never really felt that anybody has got it right. Something was nagging at me in the back of my mind. All the other Marvel guys seemed to sit happily and just get on with it but not Spiderman.Then it came to me in the theatre today exactly what it was....it's at home being animated. I can't say why but it just does.It really suits being animated and needs to stay there. For me it starts where the 70's series ended and looks fantastic on the screen.The animation is at times jaw dropping and the action sequences are much better than real life green screen could ever be.With a perfect balance of humour and sentimentality thrown in , this suits both young and old. Try catch in 3D ...it brings the colours to life.
I would like to see more of the Marvel done like this as , for me, it brings it to life. Awesome soundtrack too. I gave it a 7 because Marvel is not my thing but this is as good as it gets. Well done Sony.


                
Feels like a superhero film cut free from the shackles, it's got heart, humour and great animation. It did feel slightly overlong and unbalanced with the first half of the movie being much stronger when it was focused more on Miles Morales. The second half was standard superhero fare but overall comic book fans will love this.


                
Well this will hurt but I don't know why is this rated so high when it's pretty average story with a big help from animation part. I really loved the animation which was stunning and beautiful (similar to Your Name) but other than that it was pretty average superhero with same old stuff going on. Villain was my favorite part of movie and ofcourse Nic Cage. Maybe I'm missing something.


                
A technical marvel, with lush animation that is unlike anything put on the screen previously - Spider-verse is an overwhelming stew of excess that throws so much at the screen it's sometimes hard to tell what sticks - and which part of it to look at. There are so many characters, so much emotion and so many quick fire gags both in the script and on the screen that a re-watch is surely a must to help put things into perspective. At first glance however not enough time was spent on any one plot line or device in order to give it the weight that the emotional stakes needed them to have - for example the primary villain's motivation, Jake Johnson's ageing Spiderman's love life, and particularly Miles Morales complex family problems, control of his powers, and acceptance of his role in the larger world. Slyly aware of its place within the diversifying superhero market, Spider-verse is reverent to the history of the character, both on-screen and off. Ultimately the fact that no one character stands out may be by design, they are all just cyphers to carry the film's true message - that anyone can be a superhero, or maybe that anyone can take something away from a superhero movie if it has this much in it.


                
We took a school group to go and see this film as an end of year treat.All of them loved it, there was a good story line and humour for both adults and children with some classic Spider-man jokesWhen I asked the youngest if they enjoyed the film he said he enjoyed it so much that he didn't pick his nose... If that's not a marker for a good all round entertaining film, I don't know what it...


                
Spider-Man Into The Spider-VerseMarvel's sci-fi diverse superhero flick is more than a flung news, infinitely stretched over the narrow streets, it is set in a known universe; home, New York. Endorsing its ownself into a comical idea that jumpstarts this cat and mouse chase is less promising and more exciting. The first act involves your usual teenage drama that feels like an indie film, a surprising take by Marvel. But all this trickery is shattered pretty much in its first few minutes, as this visual galore swings you like a toddler and you are beames back into your childhood memories.This vision of yours is too shattered by the makers by complicating the linear humane tale into a labyrinthe of dual identities that keeps multiplying like an algorithm which keeps you at the brisk of your seat and challenges you to stay with the storytelling. And this is where the makers shine, despite of being gifted a plethora of tracks or ideas and being free of all logistics, they have sticked to an arguably a simpler one that is constructed well enough for the audience to nod along. Similar to any other animated feature, it makes it more juicy due to its tied hands, the conflicts that the lead characters are piled upon is what makes it electrifying.But this is Lord's world at some point. And his pacing vocab can easily be pointed out in here. Similar to The Lego Movie, there are too many characters to adore on screen and each of them trying to whirl you around with their hilarious innuendos or their own sub-plots or pointing out the obvious on the stage. It is the Lego phase all over again. You are too overwhelmed at times, to enjoy it thoroughly. You are too busy to catch up with what's going on that you do feel left out.There is a sense of incompetency in the air, ironically due to overstuffed material. And this is something that can itch to few viewers as you feel being cheated. Personally, I enjoy such narration, it challenges me to push my boundaries and snaps at me on every frame for my attention. The action is more "cool" than it is smart, the artists are stealing the awe struck moments as much as they can. And with a new smooth visual effects like such, they do add the literal transcript on screen and the infamous comic sound effects written out aloud in front of you.The voice cast has done a decent work but there isn't much for them to factor than few show stealing one liners that stay with you, even after the curtains are dropped for long; the Spider-Man Noir learning the colors on cube still cracks me up. But amidst all these glossy distraction there is, the theme, the gist, is still the same old drama, no matter what Peter says in here, I am going to complete the sentence, "With great powers comes great responsibilities." Spider-Man Into The Spider-Verse is a family drama that swings its way out to create that arc into a full circle.


                
Is it worth it? Yes
Is it fun? Yes
Is it good? Absolutely
Do it a must movie? No


                
Well, i like it because not so many spiderman movies were animated.


                
The film is surprisingly dark when it needs to be and has many meanings and themes but it's also something we have seen before and you can tell what's going to happen.
At the start the FPS is a little clunky but metaphorically as the film progressed it got better as Myles was developing his powers, it was a little strange. The effects were dazzling and colourful I enjoyed what was taking place, the soundtrack too is phenomenal. Myles is a great character and I was happy he was different to last years spiderman game. The Main villain was great, he had a motive that was understanding and sometimes you kind of what them to get what they want. I do believe some people are rating this too high but hey like what you want, just give it another try. Btw there's an actor I didn't know was in the film and it blew me away to hear their voice


                
Like the Lego Batman Movie, this is a film that gets better and smarter the more knowledge you have about the titular hero and their history. Another thing they have in common is nifty visuals, although Into the Spider-Verse supplies a style that's unlike anything I have seen.Looking more like "a comic-book come to life" than anything Sam Raimi could have hoped for (it even has those dots that appear when you print graphic novels, and is presented in a low frame-rate so as to emulate 2D animation), this hilarious film is a trip down memory lane for Spider-Man and the many variations we've seen of him through the ages - be they different youngsters behind the mask, different adaptations, or in-canon duplicates from an Alternate Universe. In this one, the primary Spider-Man is Miles Morales (Shameik Moore), basically the second most popular Spidey of the comics after Peter Parker (played here by Jake Johnson).The Parker of Miles' universe, voiced by Chris Pine, dies early on in the story, inciting Miles to take on the web-slinging and crime-fighting himself, but not before he predictably gets bitten by an experimented-on arachnid and develops powers accordingly. Alternate Parker, who arrives from another dimension in the experiment that kills Regular Parker, serves as young Miles' mentor. According to an appropriate sight gag, Parker is from a universe where Clone High WASN'T renewed.If you've seen the previews, you know that other versions of the hero emerge. Hailee Steinfeld plays Spider-Woman, Nicolas Cage voices one Noir Spider-Man (yes, I just said all of that), Kimiko Glenn plays the Spidey equivalent from an "anime" universe, and then there's John Mulaney as the cartoony Peter Porker/Spider-Ham. Take a guess.Other known faces from the cartoons and comics appear. Wilson "Kingpin" Fisk (Liev Schreiber) pulls the strings of the New York underworld, Mary-Jane Watson (Zoë Kravitz) shows up in two iterations, Aunt May (Lily Tomlin) has more in common with Madame Web than the May we know, and Miles' policeman father (Brian Tyree Henry) is initially not a big fan of the Spider, unlike his low-life uncle Aaron (Mahershala Ali). We can also spot Green Goblin, Tombstone, and Dr. Octopus, or at least versions of them.Finally, it has the mandatory Stan Lee cameo - the most beautiful and profound one he could have been given, rest his soul. In addition to the Steve Ditko memorial and the "Kirby dots", this is indeed quite the love letter.Seeing the film in 3D was, for once, an enhancement. While the film is more creative than mainstream comic-book movies normally allow themselves to be (it's only partially true that superhero fans don't require or deserve this level of effort), I admit the style is often of more weight than the substance - the plot tries to be "out there" but I feel like I've seen all this on Dexter's Lab. And Sony being Sony, they can't help but pander from time to time. Aren't the dramatic moments so much more hard-hitting and edgy when there's a XXXTENTACION track? (It is fascinating that the soundtrack was reportedly made into a vinyl disc that was "Live DJ'd" when they scored the film proper, but still.)The action can also get too aggressive and fast-paced for its own good (Spider-Verse did not do wonders for my brother's headache). However, nothing feels out-of-place, even when the film incorporates elements from anime and noir as mentioned above. Not once is this amalgam of styles jarring, but there is a risk that the story loses you when you get used to the look.You can nevertheless tell that Phil Lord and Chris Miller were in on this, as it is up there in terms of cleverness with, perhaps not The Lego Movie, but the aforementioned Batman spin-off. It may be Spider-Man's best movie, though you don't need to take my word for it, as I can't think of a prior Spidey film that I outright love. Still, I can praise Spider-Verse without feeling like too much of an outcast, since mainstream fans seemingly enjoy its humor, long-time geeks love its references to Spidey history (the more obscure the better) and critics admire its artistry.


                
I enjoyed this movie for what it was... Spider-Man action. The story kept my interest, the graphics were very well done, the ending was satisfying.... this movie delivered what's most important... good, fun, entertainment!


                
A refreshingly multicultural spin on a genre that has traditionally been predominantly male and predominantly white. What I love about a film like "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" is that a wide range of young kids can watch this film and see in it people who look and sound like them. It resembles the world as it actually exists rather than the worlds of most super hero movies, where white men are constantly saving the day. It also has a funky sound and look to it. The movie teems with urban flavor and the animation, purposely pixelated to recreate the look of an old-fashioned comic book, is gorgeous.But this is still, disappointingly, a super hero movie, which, if popular sentiment is any indication, is pretty much a problem only for me. That's fine, I can live with that knowledge. The movie is just so formulaic, with a draggy central story line about a kid whose insecurity prevents him from rising to his full super hero potential until....guess what?....he does. There's one (or a few) too many scenes with other characters giving him lectures about how to become his true self, etc. etc. And the story is weak, a confusing mish-mosh of villains and mega-weapons and alternate universes. True to super hero movie conventions, the filmmakers try to disguise how messy the screenplay is by burying it under an avalanche of loud, hectic action scenes that throw a lot of stuff at us and hope something sticks.So my dislike of super hero movies and everything that comes with them prevented me from fully enjoying this movie, but if I'm going to watch a super hero movie at all I want more that look and sound like this one.Grade: B+


                
Ever since Glover begged to be a "Black Spider-Man", people were intrigued by the idea. Except purist nerds. So, here's your version where you can have two Peter Parkers in their 30's (?) and have the Black one too. Because they open up a universe that allows anyone to be Spider-man, if you can be bit by a radioactive spider, you can be a web spinning one. Okay, that's not the point to this movie though. It's basically to forgo the logic of...common sense. As in, how many radioactive spiders exists in New York City (the one this Spider-Boy exists in) Answer: Too many to deal with.
Look, it's a massive leap into a franchise that is overdone and boring. In fact, they joke about it. But the flash and dash and clever animation is brilliant and deserves the accolades, it still seems a little forced. Consider the logic again. Trying to tie some alternate universe into a changing storyline is things J.J. Abrams got a ton of flack for, somehow...fans forget his "Star Trek" went over this territory already.
Okay, nuts and bolts aside, it's fun. And funny. And good enough where you don't have to think too hard about these things. Kingpin, the villain, isn't just comically villainy. There is a point to his madness. And there are enough fun moments with Doc Oc or Liv that make it enjoyable.
Great way to launch a new style of animation others will start to rip off.
Trying to be realistic and not burying myself headfirst in the hype, this is the best Spider-Man since Tobey Maguire. Nice story, good pace, unique animations that have seemed to enchant everyone with good moments of humor thanks to the OG Spider-Man.Being a huge fan of the 1994 Spider-Man series I just couldn't help but compare it to this new Spider-Man. Clearly this cartoon/animation is made for the new generation of kids with all the modern songs and style. Personally, I am not a fan of this dashing style of animation but I still enjoyed the action packed sequences. Spider-Gwen and Nic Cage Spider-Man were my two favorites and I would love to see something with these two.The biggest knock is that throughout the first 1.5 hours, Miles is developing nice and steadily but then all of a sudden when the plot requires it, he just gets on a whole new level and acquires all the abilities in an instant which to be honest is not the way Spider-man works.Definitely to be seen in the cinema as it will not feel and look the same way at home on the TV/Laptop.


                
