Despite its meta, self-aware take on the hero origin story it still feels a little too familiar by the classic big-explosion end (a different use of the shoulder-tap with the tragic villain would've helped). That said, it nails its humour and pace (though the Uncle Aaron twist is under-explained), and Miles is a refreshing lead for the old coming-of-age arc. More significant than anything though, is the fantastic animation (the action sequences are amazing) and unique comic book-esque flair.


                
Saw it today and I love it.. Sony this time did a fantastic job, not tried to make like mcu.... Giving a comic book style, like thinking something and the words will pop up just like the comic book, which is very nice... Action are great, animation is fantastic.. It is not a story about Peter Parkar, it is a story about Miles Morale, which is something new... If you haven't watch it, go for it.. You shouldn't miss it....


                
Summary: MUST WATCH in cinemas. Do not watch this movie on your little phone or laptop.You have probably already noticed everyone talking about how amazing the amimation is, and all of it is 100 percent true. I find it hard to describe the animation and be able to justify how amazing it is, so go witness it for yourself on a big screen. The movie is funny and "over-the-top" in the best way possible. Soundtrack is really good.Pros:
All the characters are surprising well developed considering their unequal screen time, but off course this is Miles Morales' story first and foremost and he gets to shine. His arc is great and the ending to this arc is executed really well.
All supporting characters are well thought out and have their own moments to shine.Con:
I felt that a few emotional beats failed to really hit me, and be totally invested in Miles' story.All in all, Spider-Man: Into the spiderverse is an awesome movie to watch and I hope we get to see this type of animation further developed and used.


                
Visually stunning,great cast,and great storyline. Had my attention from beginning to end. Thank You Marvel


                
This movie is great it's got great story great action great humor, and most important great animation


                
Wow. It was spectacular. Comedy was impressive and highly enjoyable. 10/10 recommend


                
Woah this movie was actually really good. Into The Spiderverse follows Miles Morales as he has to stop a machine that is combining dimensions, and becomes the next Spiderman. I gotta say, I was really impressed. The animation is absolutely stunning, and there's a ton of animation jokes. I'm not really gonna talk anymore about the visuals, because that's been said to death, but the movie is just gorgeous. The action was also really engaging, it's all very fast paced, and while it can get weird at times, you can still follow it with ease. For an animated film this movie was surprisingly mature in some moments, and I think that's what makes it great. I mean damn characters actually die, and there are many emotional moments. Also there's themes of divorce, depression, among others. However I don't think this movie is the best Spider-Man movie, or even an amazing movie. I do have to say this movie definitely understands the character of Spider-Man, and I love the theme of everyone can become Spider-Man. My real problem comes with some of the characters. Miles is the only character that gets significant development in the movie, and in the respect it's excellent. Miles has some really great emotional moments and Shameik Moore does a great job voicing him. In fact the whole voice cast does a phenomenal job. However apart from Miles no other character gets significant character development. I mean I get it, this is Miles movie, and they should develop his character the most, but the other characters are really 1 dimensional to me. While all the other alternate dimension Spider-Man were very entertaining, I really don't care about them. The older Spider-Man was done really well though. He does have his own little arc in the movie. He's definitely well developed. You can see he's reluctant to mentor Miles, but he knows it's the right thing, and Miles needs this. Again apart from those characters we get the most basic information of everyone else. Each character just gives their origin, and that's it. We don't know anything else about them. Those scenes were handled very well though, without making them too repetitive, but the other characters barely have anything to them. The same thing unfortunately happens with the villains who are all severely underdeveloped. The only 2 villains we know anything about are KingPin and Prowler. We get KingPin's motivation early on, which was done once again very well, but that's the only thing we know about him. The same thing happens with the prowler, except we don't even know his motivations, he just has a connection to a character. This really hurt the movie for me because while Miles, and the older Peter were well developed, everyone else kinda fell flat for me. They aren't bad, but they just feel like a shell. However characters like Miles' Dad, KingPin, Prowler, and Gwen were good despite this. Now I know that's a significant flaw, but this movie is still great. I'm focusing on the negatives because everything else is so good. Like the soundtrack, which is brilliant. I do think some music choices were odd, but the Prowler's theme is fantastic, and so is most of the score. Also The humor, which is done well. However Another issue I have with the film is it being kinda cliche. I mean removing the Dimensional travel stuff, this is the average coming of age, origin story. For example for most of the movie Miles has no idea how to use his powers, but when he needs it the most he now suddenly, and perfectly knows how to use his powers. Again though it's done very well either way considering this is an extremely fast paced movie, and it does feel rushed sometimes. Also there's some noticeable plot convenience, especially in the 3rd act. I have some other specific issues with the movie, these might be considered minor spoilers so you've been warned. In the beginning it's mentioned how they can't turn on the machine or else it'll end destroying Miles' dimension, however later on in the movie, it changes to letting the other Spidermen enter their dimensions quick enough. Also that part is very convenient. They use, basically a flash drive to stop the device, and that can somehow control which dimensions each character goes too? Anyways my final issue is a very specific one. There's this moment where KingPin shoots a certain character (which was an awesome moment) but it doesn't make sense that he wouldn't shoot Miles too. I mean he probably could've dodged the bullets with his spider-sense, but KingPin doesn't know this, it just didn't make sense. However I do think overall this movie is great. It's very mature for an animated movie, it's animated extremely well, it has great voice actors, it's just great overall.8.3/10


                
We've gotten to the point in this golden-age of comic book movies where studios are starting to feel more comfortable taking storytelling risks. With Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, Sony not only took a huge risk with the animation style, it's lead character, and bold story choices, but it's actually a very good film in its own right. Blending a heartfelt story, well-timed humor, and a bold animation style, Spider-Verse is the best Spider-Man film to date, and one that should garner all sorts of accolades. If it wasn't for an ending that gets bloated with hectic animation, it could flirt with some of my favorite animated movies of all time list. Either way, it's fun, infectious, and shows that the superhero genre has a long way to go before it runs out of unique ideas.8.9/10


                
Largely enjoyed it, you could see The Lego Movie influence or should I say recognize the style. Less zany than the aforementioned, it's funny and cool and a bit more "grown up" though thankfully no less "out there". It is perhaps only let down a smidge by the plot but certainly no less of a movie than the well received Homecoming. Notably good beginning and end credit sequences. 8/10


                
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is an excellent movie, debatably the best Spider-Man movie (although I haven't re-watched Sam Raimi's Spider-Man 2 in a while) and so far the best movie I've seen all year.The story is fairly standard for a Spider-Man movie, social outcast teenager (except this time Miles Morales instead of Peter Parker) has a bad relationship with his father, struggles to fit in at school, through a sequence of events becomes bitten by a radioactive spider, and uses his new-found powers to fight crime. However what this movie does to stay fresh is introduce the idea of multi-verses, which leads to all these different versions of Spider-Man (most notably aging Peter Parker and Spider-Woman) working together, and what that amounts to is a really great tribute to Spider-Man and all of his different comic book interpretations. I don't even read comics and I was really impressed with what was on screen, they even pay tribute/make fun of scenes in previous Spider-Man movies, like the notorious dancing segment in Spider-Man 3 (reminds me of The LEGO Batman Movie, another animated superhero film I really enjoyed).This movie also has some of, if not the best 3D animation I have ever seen, putting even the most recent Pixar movies to shame. It's not surprising that Phil Lord and Chris Miller, (who made Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs and The LEGO Movie) worked on this movie, considering those are some of the most creative CG animated movies in recent memory. The movie is literally like watching a comic book read in front of you, there's text that appears in the corners of the screen exactly like a comic, lines that characters say follow them as they're walking around and even something as little as someone throwing a bagel at someone else have these cute sight gags which I honestly don't even want to spoil. I could talk about how great the stylization is in this movie for hours so I'll just leave it at that it's worth seeing the movie for this aspect alone.The story didn't exactly reinvent the superhero movie formula but for this movie it worked and there were tons of things about the script that played out in a really interesting way. Some of which I've already mentioned (like the tribute to the different versions of Spider-Man) but also the character of Miles Morales and the chemistry between him and Peter Parker. Miles needs a teacher to help him hone his powers, but Peter Parker is lazy and doesn't want to teach him, so that creates this interesting conflict where you wonder if he's even going to understand his powers by the end of the film. The movie also focused on the morality of Spider-Man, and whether or not vigilantes have a place in society, which felt like an idea that was left pretty much untapped in the prior Spider-Man movies, so despite the fact that this is a family movie it raises more mature ideas and themes than even the more adult entries in the Spider-Man series.As well as all of the above, the humour felt smart; there were tons of funny quips and character exchanges which I really appreciated, the film has a great soundtrack (a lot of hip-hop music that gives the movie a more urban vibe that the other movies didn't have) and the voice acting is really strong, my favourite performance being Nicolas Cage as Spider-Man Noir. Really the only problem I had with the movie was Kingpin, I thought his character's backstory was sympathetic but when it came to his motivation it didn't feel fully fleshed out.Really though this is one of the best comic book movies of the past ten years. It's beautifully animated, funny, and has a really strong story that in some areas is more adult than any of the other Spider-Man films. It has a true understanding of the character of Spider-Man and after leaving the cinema I was reminded of why I love movies. I honestly wasn't even expecting that much and I can't sing its praises enough.


                
Having watched all the MCU and new to comic based films it was pleasure to enjoy for 2 hours. Good visuals, plot line and story and great comedy. There was no slow mellow re run of the story yet something new and beyond in an interesting style and not your yet another animation franchise.Thanks


                
Not enough John MulaneyShould have had John Mulaney use the bitten binder method to save everyone. Otherwise good movie.


                
This was a great movie. But my only concern is it contains flashing images without warning. People may not agree, but they have made the same mistake as Disney Pixar's Incredibles 2 that also has flashing images.


                
I might not be fan of reading comics, but I totally love to watch them brought to life with motion and all the FX! It was great. Pretty far from reading feeling, but very close to classic stay-in reading feeling, if you know what I mean. It was visually great and most definitely great story! Got me so much into it that I never had thought "this is so unrealistic" as it does on most super hero movies. Once again - thank you Mr. Lee!


                
I seen this movie yesterday night and thought it was amazing. This movie is bright and colourful but with some characters (spider man noir) are dark. I really liked how they blended the different art styles together and put them in one big universe it looked spectacular. The characters stories were all new and improved to be more modern and it shouldn't work but it does. The only complaint i have about this movie is that Aaron Davis should've got more screen time because i think he could've been shown as more of a difference in miles's life.


                
Had a good feeling about it and thoroughly enjoyed, story was new and exciting and loved the comic book look feel to the movie.. plenty of action and comedy and movie maintains its steady pace throughout, smashing movie!A great spin on the comic book genre and of the endless reinventing of Spider-Man.. well worth a watch!


                
This film is an example of how to create a good mass media product. It is a film in wich every thing has been worked carefuly. From the soundtrack to the humor you can see a good quality and a really good narrative.
At the end we have a good film about the Spider-man Universe. I hope to see more films in this way, there too much films that do not worth to see.


                
Everyone was talking about the animation and I don't really have enough knowledge about that. But here's the things i can tell you about.Great visual even though I kinda got a little bit dizzy sometimes because the color and the speed of this movie but for me who doesn't know much about animation technical stuff, i still can tell this movie was dope.I love the story. The culture that this movie bring, the little twist that they give, the emotion. It's been a while since we got a movie like this with strong story. The music was good. It's genius, this movie have a lot of little details that make it great.


                
I loved the movie overall. I loved the art, the humour, I didn't get bored. But I think this movie would be better if uncle Aaron was a little more developed. When he dies, we should feel an emotional connection with him (it was supposed to be a sad moment for the audience) but me, in personal, didn't felt it. Maybe if we had more background story or more scenes with him, that emotional connection would, probably, exist. But besides that, the movie is great and I would watch it again.
Just because 'Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse (2018)' is animated doesn't mean it's a 'kids' film. Here, the danger is always real, with the stakes never being anything less than (on-screen) death, and experience is all the more exciting for it. Don't get me wrong, it's not overly grim, though there is some dark stuff here; if you, or your children, have seen any of the web-head's previous films, you're probably good to go. This one is essentially everything you could want from a 'Spider-Man' story, an accessible yet comic-conscious blast from beginning to end. It really is an incredibly entertaining time, a joy of a movie that pretty much just gets better and better as it goes along. It manages to expertly mask its more conventional (though, as yet untold) 'origin story' elements behind its bolder and more unique 'multi-verse' motifs. You usually don't know what it's doing until it has just done it, even if what it has just done is the most by-the-numbers superhero plot-point you could possibly imagine, which makes for a refreshing, constantly original and highly enjoyable thrill-ride that's easily up there with the best of its genre. Plus, it has one of the, if not the, best post-credits scenes of recent memory, one that not only bookends the piece with a relatively subtle yet still intriguing tease for the possible future of the franchise but also with the feature's best joke. It's a fantastic, genuinely funny note on which to end. 8/10


                
My Rating : 8/10WOW!FFFAAAAAARRRR OUUUTTT THIS IS AWESOME!!REVOLUTIONARY VISUALS!!!A GAME CHANGER IN ANIMATION!!!!


                
Spider-Man Into the Spider-Verse is the latest Spider-Man movie from Sony. I was somewhat wary of this film initially, because Sony's track record with Spider-Man films since Spider-Man 3 hasn't been too hot. Even Spider-Man Homecoming I can't say is that good, and that was done by Marvel Studios. I initially liked it when it came out, but it's only gotten worse over time. However, I'm pleased to say Into the Spider-Verse is the best Spider-Man movie since Spider-Man 2.The story follows Miles Morales as he learns to adjust to his new school life and him getting spider powers after being bit, just like Peter Parker. However, soon Perter Parker/Spider-Man and other spider characters join up with Morales in order to stop the King Pin, the main villain of the story. Any more explaining would dive into spoilers.Of all the Spider-Man films we've gotten over the years, this one is the most fun, in my opinion. This is mainly due to the fact it feels the most like a Spider-Man comic, which is no surprise as that is the point. The film's unique art and animation style, and the usage of comic mechanics, like thought boxes, makes the film feel like a comic come to life. It's a blend of several Spider-Man continuities each from the comics, some even I've never heard of before like Spider-Man Noir played by the awesome Nicolas Cage.The way they explain each character's story is done in a way that will make diehard Spider-Man happy, while also appealing to more casual fans (like myself) or just casual moviegoers. It truly feels like a comic event story in movie form. There was an event in the comics called Spider-Verse by Dan Slott a couple years ago (which I haven't read) which this film most likely is somewhat based on.The voice acting is good all around, though some voices took some getting used to. I didn't care for the voices of Peter Parker (both versions) at first but they grew on me. The action scenes are great; easily the best since the Raimi films. The music is also pretty good, especially the song that played when Miles Morales finally dawned his Spider-Man costume.Overall, Into the Spider-Verse is one of the best Spider-Man movies to come out easily. In my opinion, the best Spider-Man film is still Spider-Man 2 (from a pure quality and nostalgic standpoint) but this is a close second. If you're at all a fan of spider-Man, or just fun action movies, then give this a watch for sure.


                
This is one of the better films I've seen in years, telling a traditional story with panache, humour and feeling. It definitely throws a spanner in the superhero juggernaut because it is a Sony picture, its an animation and it is probably the best Spider-man film out there.It is both familiar and sometimes quite weird, with a quality in the artwork that means there is plenty of emotion in the faces when needed. At no point did I feel the film had nothing to say, or had run out of road. The lack of focus in the visuals in the last 5 minutes compared to the art vistas on the screen for most of the time. And yet nothing truly new or original was there, just a good story and a lot of paint.


                
One could say that it is easier to make less faults in an animated movie, but I disagree. For some reason not many animated movies have catched my interests as much as Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse did.They definitely took some big risks with the type of humour used in this movie, but knowing how well the Deadpool movies played out, this was a risk worth taking.The movie also gave some kind of sin city feeling which I really liked.If they managed to give us more screentime and backstory on the rather interesting villains in the movie, I would have given it 9/10. However, this was something I missed in movie with a shorter duration than most movies in it's genre.I think this is a well deserved 8/10 and probably the only movie that achieve just that over the last 2 years.


                
This is a really fun film with some brilliant animation. The mixture of different styles gives it an energy that is really unusual and unique and for that I would give it nothing but the highest praise.My only issue with the film was that I felt bored in a couple of places, mostly the scenes with the Kingpin. The story was fun and fairly straightforward and had humour when it was needed (including a wonderfully subtle verbal gag relating to the classic Warner Bros/Merry Melodies cartoons of the 1940s and 50s that made me laugh out loud). The film also had some terrific nods to previous Spider-Man efforts, both film and television, as well as some beautifully recreated scenes that evoke the comic books.Therefore whilst I feel that this film sits uncomfortably in the Marvel canon,it should be viewed out of that context and taken on its own merits. I found it far more entertaining than any of the live action Spider-Man films and although I felt at two hours it was possibly starting to feel a little strained,it didn't feel ridiculously overlong like those live action films do and covered up what few cracks it had in its pacing quite well.On the whole I found it pleasantly surprising and darned good fun.


                
