The worlds of superhero movies and superhero comics are not as similar as they seem on the surface. Currently, film studios are all about the "extended universe", seeing how many different titles and characters they can shove into one franchise (Avengers, X-Men, Justice League), making for an easy way to squeeze a few extra bucks out of their lesser known properties. Comics have this as well, of course. However, they also have something modern movies haven't really tapped into yet: story one-offs, a chance for a storyteller to create a unique tale and not be constrained by the implications on or from the larger universe. Spider-Verse gets to do just that, while playfully taking on the fun (if convoluted) absurdity of extended superhero universes.
Listen, I hear you. "How could we possibly need another Spider-Man movie?" Spider-Verse understands that question and has a take on it. Yes, Peter Parker is here. In fact, there are two Peter Parkers. There's also a Spider-Woman, a Noir Spider-Man, an anime Spider-Girl/Robot, and a Spider-Pig. At the center though is Miles Morales, an Afro-Hispanic Brooklyn teen who must help these other Spider-People get back to their own planes of existence. He fights with his cop dad, he adores his shady uncle, hates being simply the smartest kid in the room, and just wants to do something that matters. Being Spider-Man wasn't his idea, but hey, when a radioactive spider gives you powers, what choice do you have?
Look, I don't have any sort of hot take on this movie. It looks great, the humor pops with surprises, the voice casting is beyond perfect. It's simply a stylishly exciting and refreshingly unique take on the superhero genre, and sometimes that's more than enough.


                
Into the spider-verse really brought something new to the spider-man universe.It is very light-hearted in any way. With some funny anf emotional moments inside it.The unique animation style was visually stunning and really pushed to say that this is one of the best animated movie ive ever seen..


                
In the midst of all the raving reviews, I almost feel like a fraud giving this film such a high score. However, for me personally, this does what it needs to do and more. Let it be known that I used to watch the Spider-Man cartoon in the 90s nearly every day so yes, I am influenced by nostalgia.Animation
I don't think that a lot of people can deny that this is the most interesting, dynamic and artistic animation which stays true to the original medium yet. When I first saw the comic book text and thought bubbles in the trailer, it kind of put me off a little bit, but it wasn't used throughout the film, only to depict Miles' newly developed awareness. I can see how the neon colours can induce headaches for some, but to me it was perfect. Maybe take an aspirin before going in if you're probe to headaches!Story
There are so many things to love! Granted, I'm not a comic book reader (contemplating to get into that thanks to this though) so all of the stories were fresh to me. I loved that (big spoilers ahead!) Miles' universe's Peter Parker actually dies in the first act. This gives great motivation to an otherwise uninterested Miles, shows the need for a vigilante, stars Miles' dad's character arc, shows the danger that Kingpin poses, allows for aunt May to show her strong side (nice change of pace from the classic worried old lady) among others. Even Kingpin's motivation can be sympathised with. I agree that the other henchmen, who are normally fully fledged bad guys, could get some more backstory though. However, for veterans of the series, the fanservice is gold. (Did anyone else get excited when doctor Olivia revealed her last name?)All in all I'd say that this is a masterpiece. But does it still the hunger for any other rendition of Spider-Man? No, so -1 point there.
I have to admit that I only went to see this movie because I'm a good big brother. That said, I was proved WRONG. The art style was incredible, but I could tell that from the trailers. What had me wondering was the batsh** crazy plot conflict.
I will readily admit that comic books are often a bit sillier than most forms of entertainment, but Into the Spider-Verse actually managed to sell it. The comedy was genuine, the soundtrack was amazing, the character designs were on point, and the whole thing came together in an amazing way.


                
I've long thought that Spider-Man 2 was the gold standard for Spider-Man movies. I think it's safe to say that Into the Spider-Verse gives it a run for its money. Everything about this film, the beautiful animation, voice-acting, character development, and music are top notch. You can tell that the people behind this movie actually care about Spider-Man and care about their craft. From hilarious references to touching storytelling, this movie is just a joy to watch. It's such a unique addition to the genre and indicates that as long as talented people are involved in making these films, the superhero genre will continue to reinvent itself.


                
There have been so many spiderman films, each of which was cut off from a sequel and rebooted over and over. However, this could alone stand out to be a much better spiderman film in comparison to them all. Into the spiderverse takes you on a sci-fi adventure of multiverse, a spiderman film we have all been waiting for.The animation alone stands out to be the best feature about this film. This new style of comic book animation is top notch and a must watch especially for comic book lovers. The efforts taken in creating and rendering this film was worth it. The film is innundated with so much of high quality design, byzantine animation, one can't take their eyes off the screen and even afford to miss a scene.Even though it has a small run time to it, as most animated films do, this film offers a good character development and good storyline which is unpredictable at times making you shout out "wow" especially if you are a spiderman geek.There is an adequate amount of humor. The humor is not forced at all, it has good one liners that makes you enjoy the film from the very beginning. Into the spiderverse is a fun, fresh take on the spiderman story filled with excellent quality content, brilliant animation, lots of humor and exciting action sequences.


                
Literally said clever a dozen times in this movie for surprise reveals great Easter eggs great references and more do not miss this see it in theatres buy it on blu ray and 4K and ensure this gets a million sequels it deserves it 10/20 A+ 100/100 please see it thanks!


                
This is probably the most enjoyable Spiderman related-media I have seen in a long time.
The hype and all these good reviews were totally justified this time, since "Into the Spider-Verse" manages to be a highly entertaining blockbuster which balances perfectly well the fun and excitement with an engaging plot and impressive visuals.Definitely, one of the best releases of the year. Much better than the dull and uninspired Homecoming movie.


                
Had no idea what to expect and I was really blown away with it.


                
We all grew up with Spiderman, mine was Raimi's blockbuster trilogy. This film not only nods to those Masterpieces but gives us more. It was crazy to see the Spiderman PS4 suit in there along with the post credits scene throwing us way back to the comics. Also everytime nicholas cage spoke it was basically greatness (greatness awaits?)The plot while not complicated was well executed using fantastically funny internal monologues, well painted backstories, and of course beautiful action sequences which contain a crazy amount of Easter eggs btw! A Spiderverse shows the many shades of Spiderman, inspiring us as well to find our shade and take that leap of faith. I guess we are indeed Spiderman, Stan Lee. This movie makes you REALLY feel like spiderman.The one con I had with the movie was that while the movie didn't want to become another Peter Parker joint, Peters arc took up a significant amount of the time taking away from the other spider people (&pig). Maybe the movie could have been longer to use the others to strengthen Miles' arc into an even more explosive finale.
A fresh take on Spiderman that leaves you wanting more. The fight scenes were incredible and the animation style was used to the movie's advantage. Visually very stunning and although there are things in the movie that were rather underdeveloped, e.g. Prowler, overall it didn't detract from all the good that the movie brings.


                
Great family movie. We took our 6 and 8 year olds. The animation and creativity are incredible. It's one that is definitely worth seeing on the big screen. I wish there was more of Miles's relationship with his mom, but at least his dad has heart.. so does his uncle. He's not just a steriotypical toxicly masculine police dad. Also wish there was more Gwen, but Miles is a great character and I'm glad he was the focus. Miles is the best superhero we have had in a long time. This could be the blockbuster of the year. It's fantastic!


                
I'm not a person who likes to rewatch movies right after finishing them. But for this, I can say that everything has a first.Let's get the obvious out of the way, the animation. I love how this movie looks. The creators really put effort in making this. There are scenes where text appears on screen. It literally looks like a comic book. And while I haven't read many comic books, I still think it looks amazing. I also appreciate how Peni Parker is drawn like an anime girl, and Spider-Ham (aka my favorite one) is drawn like a character from loony toones. But everyone has talked about the animation, so you probably know anyway.The story is as amazing as the animation. Well not quite, but close. If you didn't know, this movie is about this villian king pin (if I'm getting that right) who opens portals to 5 different dimensions. Each one brings a new spider person. But the main character isn't even peter, it's miles. Miles gets bitten right before the dimension opening, and so he is a noob for most the movie. Ok I'll stop the spoilers. The emotion in this movie, while predictable, is pretty powerful. The humor, which is important to me, is pretty good. And while that mainly comes from the spectacular peter porker, there are some other good jokes too.My probably biggest complaint is that the sidekicks (noir ham and peni) weren't used enough. Like I know this is about miles, and peter and Gwen play a big role in that, the sidekicks were advertised a lot too, and they barely got any screen time. Although in the final battle, peni and ham get pretty good scenes.
Overall, I can't wait to rewatch this when it's on dvd, and please just go see it.
Special? Not really, a standard origin story with a slight bit of 'zest' it's a surprise this film was so good given that the marketing is a bit underwhelming to be perfectly honest but that's beside the point. As a film this is fantastically executed and written to a degree where a million plates are being spun and not one falls in terms of narrative strands. Solid characters, moments of emotion and horror and an excellent clash of art styles and look there's something in this for everyone, from soundtrack to costume and everythkng between I recommend you watch


                
A coming of age movie for the whole animation stream, that stays true to its medium while nicely fitting with the comics medium.
A really moving movie with an ambitious approach, that surprised me at how much spiderman is instilled in my psyche as much as Superman was.
The movie simply embraced how the character is a cultural phenomenon, and stopped treating it as merchandise.


                
This film was phenomenal for so many reasons. First and most importantly, it was the most visually impressive film I have seen to this day. The animation style alone had such a mystical and wonderous quality to it. The animators didn't stop there, however. They added so many little fun details that made me feel like I was watching some sort of blend between comic and movie. In addition to the gorgeous visual nature of Spider-Man, I was impressed by both the humor and the meta references. The reference to the cringey Spider-Man 3 scene and the post-credits meme reference were my personal favorites. There were tons of little details that I am sure I never truly appreciated because I have never been a consumer of comic books, but I have to imagine that this film is even more special to Marvel comic fans. The only gripe that I have with Spider-Man is that it failed to keep my attention in act 3. It was longer than it should have been, and it would have benefited greatly by cutting down 10 minutes. With that being said, this is the best movie I have seen in a few months and I hope that my review reaches someone who was not going to see it and urges them to reconsider.


                
I love Spider-Man films so I was going to see this regardless of reviews. I took my wife who was not so enthusiastic about a cartoon superhero movie. We both loved it and are excited to see it again soon!


                
9/10.
Miles, the main character portrays it's role so wonderfully. Honestly, the one thing I think holds the anime genre back sometimes is the storyline but this one does so fantastically you'll be hooked within the starting stretches. Funnily, the movie is filled with introduction's of all the spider-creatures which is a bit repitatve but safe to say necessary for the storyline. This good animated movies don't come much offen. So what are you waiting for? Grab some popcorns and take a leap of faith!


                
The film is like a comic book come to life, I mean that's the look the filmmakers where looking for. Attempts to be two things at once, a Spider Man film and a sort of parody of a Spider Man film. It does have heart, and never goes to far into silliness. The animation is really amazing, takes the audience into this world. And I was wondering when we where gonna see the other Spider characters, and here we finally do and it was worth it.
I hope we more movies with the characters of Spider Gwen, Miles Morales, and Spider Man Noir to name a few. It has a great story, telling us about things in case we get stuck in sub plot. Now I it differs a little from the comic. But I expect a lot of times in comic book movies. Hope to see more Spider Verse movies in the future.


                
What a beautiful film for Spiderman. Animation was incredible. Character depth was fantastic. Such a great story which had me glued to the screen from first minute to last. One of the funniest movies I've seen in the whole of 2018. Sony have had some misses the past few years but this movie is certainly a hit!


                
This movie was such a great bundle of fun, it's colorful, crazy active and so funny. It moves like a living comic book at times with so much action and laughs thrown in.
Loved how the story flowed, the characters all had great personalities and the build to the climax will keep you on the edge. Can't wait to own this one.


                
I enjoyed this movie more then anything else made in 2018. The person I went with didnt like it too much but wow I was into this from start to finish and thats coming from a pretty critical movie goer. Visuals were A+ voice acting A+. I recommend going on mushrooms.


                
Spiderman: Into the Spiderverse is Sony's latest attempt to cash in on their license to Marvel's Spider-man franchise (like Venom), is one of the best non-MCU affiliated endeavors Sony has ever produced. While Venom was a refreshing update to the character's origin story, after the disastrous outing in Spider-man 3, it still lacked the presence of his most crucial adversary-Spider-man. With the infectiously fun Tom Holland's take on the web crawler side-lined till 2019, Sony needed to keep their only superhero franchise in the public sphere. However, this time, they took the bold step of animating the Spider-man franchise with a story centered around his multiverse doppelganger-Miles Morales.For those who are unfamiliar with Miles, he's an Afro-Latino character introduced in the comics world in 2011 as Marvel experimented with shedding their homogenous base and reached out to attract readers of all cultures. In Spiderman-Homecoming, he's briefly mentioned by Donald Glover's modest take on The Prowler. He even appears in Sony's newest PS4 Spider-man game, so the ground was tilled in advance of his arrival. Moreover, his appearance is nothing short of spectacular.Miles is a charming teenager with loving parents who are willing to send him away to ensure he receives a world-class education and the best chance at success in a dangerous world. He is the by-product of Gen-X age parents who were reared the same way. When he discovers his powers after the all-to-familiar radioactive spider bite, he has a chance encounter with the real Spider-man and soon has his entire world torn apart (literally) when an experiment by King Pin sucks multiple versions of Spider-man, into Miles reality. These multiverse Spider-people include two female versions of the acclaimed hero, two additional male versions, and a Looney Toons inspired pig version. It sounds like a recipe for disaster narratively. Surprisingly, the story works amazingly well. Moreover, that's not the only thing that works well in this film.
Spider-man: Into the Spiderverse blends the beauty of 3-D animation with the stylized look of ink to paper art. The union creates a fascinating phantasmagoria of lucid animation that will leave you in awe of its quality for the first half of the movie. When you're done being mesmerized by that, there's still room on your plate for a heartfelt story about friendship, discovering one's purpose and the love of family - all the things you've come to expect from this franchise. There's enough heart in this movie to make you care about the stakes in this film-which are felt early on and repeated later in the movie to remind you that this isn't a rated-G film.Now, it would be irresponsible to ignore Stan Lee's overriding message that the diversity of the Spiderverse (or Marvel in general) is a good thing in an era of diversity resistance. Miles parrots this, and so do all the other versions of Spider-man. Moreover, it's true. There's enough room in this world for multiple versions of this superhuman and we should all welcome updated take on the character when they're done this well.This film is a dazzling display of style and story. The tongue in cheek narration finds a way to celebrate the ups and downs of the Toby McGuire & Andrew Garfield Spiderman eras. Also, it's as much of a nod to the past as it is a celebration of the future of this franchise. Now, if Sony can find a way to make its villains as intense as they were in this movie-in their live-action films-they will be able to milk the franchise for all it's worth.


                
Spider-Verse was a great movie that never felt dull. While predictable it was still fun and the animation was a unique making the film look like a moving comic book.Sometimes the animation looked odd and that it was made to be 3D which looked out of place with the rest of the film. Miles was the standout and one of the most relatable Marvel characters so far. Gwen, Peter B Parker and Spider-Man Noir were my favourites./- To me this film is a 9


                
This movie is definitely worth watching in theater! Both the visual and the story are amazing, and the characters are really lovable. I really hope more mainstream animated movies are willing to take a risk visually like this movie did.


                
