Watched this on the recommendation of a Uni lecturer. I thought it was brilliantly acted, the story was paced perfectly, and understandable despite the complexities (political intrigue not usually my thing). That is at least until the last episode when gaping plot holes appeared and half the characters that had been set up in the last 5 episodes were just forgotten about. I didn't buy the resolution - it came out of nowhere and I wasn't convinced that the person taking the fall was really guilty. Not with what they were charged with anyway. There was no resolution for even some of the major characters (most notably Anne). I felt ripped off.That said, I would watch this again just for the performances. David Morrissey was superb and Bill Nighy is always a great laugh.


                
As far as TV thrillers go, this must must be right up there. It's a six episode series which keeps you engrossed and at the edge of the seat almost throughout. The cast is really good and each of the 5-6 main characters are equally important in making the story work and they do a splendid job. The director does a superb job and probably along with the story writer is the one who gets the tempo going and keeps it going almost till the end. The main reason for not getting a10/10 rating is the fact that the way story ends and how the last episode transpires is a huge let down, especially when the first five episodes are spectacular. But let that not deter you because it still makes for a very entertaining, taut,suspense thriller, which not many TV series have ever done.


                
Although far superior to virtually all t.v. productions, it still subs speed for character development, themes, and a more fuller and less fast-moving unfolding of the story. There is an obvious attempt to replicate the newsroom hustle-bustle of a newspaper, but this effort sacrifices depth for a heavy amount of superficial handling of important themes. Also, for me, the effort to lionize the news media is a non-starter. Sure, there are some negatives about reporting and the press room, but the editor is far too soft and mushy. I understand Michael Kitchen was offered the role of editor, but declined. Imagine him playing the editor-NOT tall, blonde and handsome. Gritty depiction of reality is also impeded by the very average acting of Stephen Collins, a key role. I found his wife too beautiful for the part, but that's a personal, somewhat subjective opinion. The lead role of Cal is handled effectively, and Kelly Macdonald is a big plus for the film. All in all, this is entertaining and somewhat thought-provoking.


                
A skillful mix of politics and investigative journalism in contemporary Britain, with lots of acting talent on display, "State of Play" is an absorbing and compulsive watch , even spread over 6 hour-long episodes.It starts with a violent murder and attempted murder and soon links up with the earlier apparent suicide of an attractive young female researcher on the team of rising politician David Morrissey whose brief is energy. Freelance journalist John Simms, coincidentally the former campaign manager of Morrissey, gets involved and with a small team of journalists of a national daily newspaper, gradually puts all the pieces together before uncovering the final shocking truth about the death of the young researcher.Although there are plot holes and unlikely coincidences (for instance, of all the people Morrissey's deceived wife turns to in her moment of crisis, she chooses her husband's mate Simm), but with strong individual characters, strong, forward-moving plot and everyday realism it keeps you watching and watching. I would say myself that the ensemble acting probably elevated the story slightly above its station, besides Morrissey and Simm, both very good, there are scene-stealing performances by an emergent James McAvoy as a ruthless young reporter and Bill Nighy as the cynical, world weary editor but who nevertheless sticks his neck out for his team once he realises how juicy the blossoming story is, even if I was never fully convinced that the latter two are father and son.There are also some equally memorable supporting parts too, especially the unfortunate informant Dominic who gets completely screwed over by the team, used up and thrown aside once his usefulness to them ends, the team's young, gay transcriber/recordist, the vengeful but ultimately loyal wife Anne and on the political side, Morrissey's scheming spin doctor and cabinet-level mentor, all very much in the mix. I could however have done without the occasional focus on Morrissey's relationship with his fifteen-going-on-thirty- five, teenage boozer son and found the "grown-up" conversations between father and son not ringing true.Even watched today, over ten years after its initial production, this terse, tense mini-series still feels up-to-date, even if the esteem in which we used to hold the press has been damaged more than somewhat in the meantime.


                
The start is kicking, giving a hint that we will witness a diversified story with intertwined events, with all actions/activities wrongdoers use in order to get something or get rid of someone. Sympathies and antipathies among policemen, journalists, politicians - as well as between those groups - let dramas and twists prosper, nicely supported by very good (Bill Nighy as Cameron Foster, James McAvoy as Dan Foster, Marc Warren as Dominic Foy) and good acting (the rest).It seems, however, that some scenes are over-sophisticated and some others do not provide additional value to the logic, thus the 6 episodes of 1 hour each is a bit much (and you need to watch them all in a correct sequence), 5 or even 4 could have avoided short-term falls in tension. The ending scenes have also some gaps of logic; but anyway, a strong series within good British traditions, particularly for intelligent viewers with some interest in social/public matters.


                
