Dragon ball is the cartoon that pioneered the fame that anime enjoys today. "What FF7 did for Rpg's, DB does for anime". It showcases wacky characters that each develop over time. It is definitely for kids but, considering Japanese culture, some actions(e.g. young Goku touching/smelling "genitalia") may seem vulgar but of course in a comedic and innocent manner. This is as well, slapstick humor.... not in its finest... BUT IN ITS EXTREME FORM! (e.g. One of Goku's enemies, Ninja Murasaki, falls from the roof. Then.... the "poor" ninja lands ass-first on Goku's stretch stick, protruding from the ground. Talk about the worst anal probe ever! Thats how the guy loses. Hahahaha....)The plot is built around an odd little boy that that is blessed with great strength and physical prowess. The general formula of the series is one of a "Boss saga" type. What i mean by this is that each "chapter" always begins with a new enemy boss introduced while it ends with the protagonist defeating that boss. Later on, in the series (DBZ), the origins of Goku is revealed. Dragon ball is centered on how Goku attains super hero status. By the latter parts of Dragon ball, Goku actually "grows up". A trademark as well of the show is the many memorable characters that it has. What is memorable?? This is simply: Ulong (the shape-shifting pig), Yamcha (the outcast that fights using his "Wolf fang fist"), Bulma (the main focus of "fan service"), Goku (the monkey boy), Lange (the schizophrenic sneezing babe).....This is actually a good example of what anime generally is. All the peculiar humor that Japanese cartoons portray are nicely shown. From the sexual overtones, slapstick, stupidity, childishness, super deformed "chibi" and what not considering Jap-humor. Don't forget that this is a kiddie show. It is enjoyable though even for adults as the "oddities" (goku's old master, the ultimate "hentai" "perv" Tortoise Genie, in his eternal pursuit for sexy women.) are enough to keep you laughing.


                
I'm a 90's kid and grew up with Dragon Ball Z. I never watched the original Dragon Ball since it was never on Cartoon Network whenever I got back from school. However, now that I am 25 (getting old!) I decided to watch the original series where it all started. I had been told it was a lot more light-hearted and fun, so I was looking forward to it. Boy oh boy, was I in for a treat!Dragon Ball comes from a time when cartoons were truly free to do whatever they chose. From the 1st episode we got a taste of this and saw things that would cause a cartoon to get an instant ban...namely Goku's method of determining what identifies a girl. Goku is the main protagonist in this series as he is in DBZ, but seeing him as a kid really makes you see him in a new light. The word Saiyan is never used, so to new watchers he is just a kid with a tail. He still has the same kind personality and love for fighting (and eating!). The other characters of the series are great too. Roshi is how I remember him in DBZ...as sexist as ever. Seeing others like Yamcha, Bulma, Krillin and Tien as their younger counterparts was also a treat. Their personalities really differed from their DBZ characters and it was great to see them develop throughout the series.The fighting in Dragon Ball is what I really wanted to see. I knew that it was a lot more focused on martial arts, rather than crazy ki-blasts, powers or even flying (the Nimbus was as close as we got in the early episodes). I have to say, despite the fights being a lot less epic they were still enjoyable. A prime focus on martial arts was actually quite refreshing. The martial arts tournaments were great to see new characters be introduced and seeing their methods.In terms of the story lines, they were as I had expected from my experience of DBZ. The first few sagas were more of an introduction to the world of martial arts and Dragon Ball. The focus was on collecting the dragon balls and the main enemies were merely those trying to get in Goku's and Bulma's way. However, in later sagas you get to see true evil villains. Seeing Tien and Piccolo as a villains was weird, but the fights were great fun. It was also weird to see Goku struggle against them! Goku from DBZ would have wiped the floor of them! All in all, I really enjoyed this series. Seeing the origins of my favourite DBZ characters was great. It was a lot more light-hearted than DBZ but it had its serious moments. If you loved DBZ then I highly recommend you watch this. If you are new to the world of Dragon Ball, I would recommend you actually watch this first!


                
This anime has a good story to it. Maybe better than Z and Super. But if you're looking for action Z is a great example of that. This show is a little mature for young kids to watch due to some crude scenes and fighting. I would say the best minimum age for this is 11+. But disputes that the classic Dragonball is a good show. And it's also funny as well.


                
This was a staple from my childhood, and even watching it all these years later, it's still great. While not as action-packed as DBZ, "Dragon Ball" was still able to hold it's own thanks to it's great blend of humor, heart, and action. It's hard to actually imagine me growing up without characters like Goku and company, they don't just feel like characters, they feel like a part of my soul. Something that can't be taken away. There are only a couple of problems I had with the show. One was the Red Ribbon Army Saga, which I thought took too long, and the other is the perv jokes. I know it's from Japan and their sense of humor is different, but when Master Roshi says something perverted for the 300th time, it gets old quick. Those 2 negatives aside though, this is a great show, and I'm glad I was able to not only grow up with it, but enjoy it later in life as well.
Rated TV-PG for Fantasy Violence and Some Sexual Content. Quebec Rating:G Canadian Home Video Rating:PG Canadian TV Rating:C8 or PGDragonball is a very funny and good show.I used to like DragonBall Z but now I don't find it good.I saw this show when I was 3 also but never payed attention to it.DragonBall is actually pretty funny and good.The YTV version censores lots of scenes.I find they should keep the violence intact but if they want the show to be for kids they should cut out sex,nudity and just the harsh language.DragonBall has a way better story than Dragonball Z as well.I have not seen DragonBall GT yet.The beginning of the series is about a young boy searching for the DragonBalls and getting into many misadventures.Also there are To Be Continued's in every episode.If you want to see a good Dragonball show don't watch Z or GT watch this one.Also try to read the graphic novel's but unfortunately they have only been in translated into the french language in Canada.Anyway a pretty good show.Runtime:30min 8/10


                
