It was not long after my family moved into the very first home we had ever owned, in our line's history, that I recall watching, with my dad, a really good television show called The World At War, which recounted the history of the Second World War. The documentary series was produced between 1971 and 1974 by Jeremy Isaacs of Thames Television and featured many key interview subjects, from the common soldier in all the armies to major powerbrokers such as Lord Mountbatten, war correspondent and novelist Lawrence Durrell, Hitler's architect and Armaments Minister Albert Speer, who disingenuously tries to weasel out of his responsibility for the Nazi genocide, German Admiral Karl Dönitz, Averell Harriman, Alger Hiss, film star James Stewart, who served in the US Army 8th Airforce, and General Eisenhower's driver, Kay Summersby, and Adolf Hitler's secretary Traudl Junge. There are even segments with the last survivor of the assassination plot against Hitler, Ewald Heinrich Von Kleist. It is an amazing filmic and journalistic feat that was accomplished, for so many aspects of the war that are missing from other attempts at visually documenting it are here. Isaacs got many honors for the series, from a knighthood to the Royal Television Society's Desmond Davis Award, L'Ordre National du Mérit, and numerous Emmy Awards. Watching this series, again on DVD, and thinking back on my dad's removed fascination with it, when originally aired, made me realize that those days with my dad are now farther removed from the present than the war years the series documents were from his watching of them. Yet, I know why he was so rapt by the series, despite its flaws, and the fact that a more thorough and unbiased video history of the war is just begging to be made. It's because the series wisely focused on the ordinary person, like him. This focus undoes almost all the biases the rest of the series promotes, and makes the whole DVD set an easy recommendation for history buffs, yet to be used as a starting point, not an end all and be all. This series was not just the tales of the giants: Hitler, Churchill, Stalin, Tojo, Roosevelt, Rommel, Mussolini, Eisenhower. It was tales of the ordinary man, and how his contributions changed the world.Watching this series also nails the current lie that we are involved in some global struggle, a 'clash of civilizations', on par with the World Wars, when we are really avaricious and unaccountable myopics absurdly trying to fend off some puny backwater terrorists. This series shows those claims for what they are- lies. Now is not a time of giants that will be studied in the future for their contributions in moving the world forward, but of small men with small agendas, which is a thing quite different, in the worst possible ways, from being ordinary men, like my dad was; ordinary men who helped change human history for the better, in The World At War.
I recently purchased the "30th Anniversay" edition of this title for my first complete viewing of the work in about 20 years. Now having all the Home Theatre goodies I didn't have then I'm surprised to find how much of this documentary was/is in color. What is even more amazing is how brilliantly even handed this series is. There is very little "preaching" by Olivier or the producer. Some things are just put out there for you to see and hear and then judge for yourself.In that this series was made while the former Soviet Union was much alive it does contain some key bits of history that was only found out AFTER the declassification of of many Russian documents. For instance Stalin's offer to help Nazi Germany should it's war against Britain and France go badly. This bombshell was unknown at the time TWAW was being made. My one quibble with this series is it's obviously Anglo-centric bent. Still it's amazing for it's time how much credit they give the Russians for breaking the back of the Nazi's and they also grudgingly recognize that America whipped the Japanese practically on their own.The only technical problem I have with the DVD set is the lack of a Dolby Digital, DTS or better soundtrack. After all these years how hard would it be to give us proper sound. This led me to take only one star from the rating.Worf


                
It is a fine antidote to the drivel put out by film studios... which, for the most part, show the war being almost entirely fought by the U.S.A, with the British involved in a few skirmishes here and there. Little do they realise the scale of British fighting and loss. Perhaps even more importantly it gives coverage of one of the most undervalued (particularly by Commie-bashing Hollywood) that Russia suffered more losses than any other country in WWII. Without their sacrifice it would have been a different outcome.
Simply the definitive documentary on the Second World War. Beautifully narrated by Laurence Olivier, this is more than a documentary about the war in much the same way Ken Burns' The Civil War was more. Through the use of stunning footage from the era, World At War captures the attention and never lets go. There is truth in every single frame. With accuracy and insight, The War becomes real for generations of people who were born after the horror and those involved in the crisis are shown as real members of humanity rather than abstract historical figures. This is television at its absolute finest, illustrating perfectly the potential for the medium to educate and illuminate. An almost poetic tribute to those who suffered and died, fought and emerged victorious. It is also a unwavering indictment of those who allowed and those who perpetrated one of the greatest crimes against humanity and brought the world one of the most tragic eras of evil in history. Not to be missed by anyone who desires to understand the world as it was then and as it has become.


                
"Only you and I will know how I survived, Its because you waited as no one else did"This documentary has a unique style of telling the story, it narrates the events, facts and stats in a stoic and bold style...followed by beautiful imagery of the past giving you time to empathize and absorb the horror humanity inflicted upon itself. Throughout the series the creators display a great collection (footage, speeches, images) of war propaganda from all the countries involved. They use heart breaking interviews from war veterans and survivors alongside enlightening analysis from historians and strategists. In many of the episodes war memoirs(diaries) of soldiers are used to give a poetic and timeless affect. Personally it made me realize the importance of learning history and how it contains obligatory lessons for mankind.
Without doubt the best series of history and the best series in documentary of always !!! Very interesting, full of information important to the history of humanity that everyone should know. One of the best educational series ever. A real injustice just having a season. True quality. Highly recommend.


                
I missed the original TV broadcast, through not having a television set at the time, and although this was one of the first box-sets I've bought - about ten years ago - I'm only now finally getting to watch it. As I write, I'm only five episodes in, but I'm certain that my overall assessment won't change by the time I've watched the complete set.I also have to confess to having a personal interest in this period of history as my mother worked as a nurse in London, during The Blitz, which was covered in The Alone episode, in Disc Two. she'd talked of it as a great big adventure - she was still a teenager at the time - but watching that Alone episode tonight, alone, I had the odd sensation of wondering how close I came to not being born, given the number of casualties London suffered during the bombing. (My mother also got up close enough to shake JFK's hand, during the New Ross leg of his Irish visit, in 1963, but that's another story entirely. And, no, her name isn't Zelig!)As a history buff, of course, I'm lapping up the archive film, and the brilliantly written and edited narrative, but what makes the series special for me is the people, the cast of thousands: the faces on the admiring throngs of Germans, young and old, particularly the women and young boys; the contemporary interviews with Londoners; the London woman, whose home suffered during the bombing, who was yet to be convinced by Churchill; the faces of the Russian civilian defenders; the frost-bitten German soldiers, and colleagues who froliced naked in Russian snows; but famous faces, also, such as Russian Foreign Minister, Molotov, defiant throughout his Berlin visit who, Hitler's interpreter tells us - as if the film hadn't already told us - that he wasn't one to mince his words.Last, but decidedly not least, the brilliant narration by Laurence Olivier - his finest hour? - strikes the perfect tone throughout: defiant, also, when it needs to be, but melancholic, and intermittently optimistic, also.I'd been worried that the series might have been too Brit-centric - that most of the eulogies I've read have been by Brits; it remains to be seen, of course, whether that is the case. Inevitably, you won't be able to please all of the people all of the time, but what I can say is that, as a historical document, and as a work of art, it is unquestionably a triumph, and one which I intend to revisit, many times over.


                
