There was a time when this was an edgy comedy, but over time it just became an excuse to show degeneracy, The series natural end was when Frank beat the odds and celebrated his victory on the frozen lake. After that they were simply making more episodes for the paycheck, after the 9 lives run out and the character still keeps beating the odds, it just becomes a cartoon. Same goes with the Fiona's love life, when such story lines are dragged on long enough, the female lead becomes fickle, indecisive and irrational simply to ensure another seasons paycheck, and the character naturally becomes unlikeable and insane. Notable examples, Sex and the City, and even the Gilmore Girls.


                
Too much of everything...nudity, sex, cussing, & bad behavior. I kept asking myself "How do the parents of the child actors allow their children to participate in this?" It's shameful that this talented group of actors are reduced to this. Respect yourself and find something else to get immersed in that is good for your soul.


                
I usually don't waste time giving reviews to any title but this show is such a disaster that it made me write one.So i will keep the review simple and short. The episodes are having childish type of story which looks so unreal that you wanna pull your hairs out of your head.I know some you people just watch this show just to have some you know ;) explicit content but believe me watch Spartacus for that you will get a lot there , this show isn't even worth that.Acting of the character "fiona" is good but its not worth to watch the series. The father figure "frank" is show in such a way that seems so unreal and the Gallagher condition and how they make living and all other story just don't make any sense. So to summarize its just a lousy , childish and a boring type of serial .
I am a Canadian and culturally I relate much more to Americans than to Britons. But that being said, I far preferred the British version of this show. I stopped watching the American after the first season because I just couldn't stand it. I had already seen the British version, and maybe it had spoiled me a bit. To me, the British version doesn't need "high" production values: it is raw and real, and the actors, characters, and story lines are brilliant. It's absolutely hilarious and full of life-- one minute your heart is being wrenched and the next you're laughing your head off. But always, you're entertained. The show is fast-paced and always surprising. The characters are all quite well-developed, and all get inside you. You can't help but feel for them. In the American one, I found most of the characters to feel stilted somehow, and fake. Fiona seems as though she were written by some dude who has never dated a woman before, who was like, "Yeah, this is what my dream chick is like." Also, Frank in the UK version is way more believable. William H. Macy is a great actor but to me is not a convincing drunk and drug addict. He's just far too well-spoken. It seems like he's acting in a play.Ultimately to me the American show is just not realistic in any way. It's also way less racy than the UK version. I am so sick of American shows toning it down for prudish American audiences.If I were to analyze this series on its own, leaving the UK version aside, I would say it was decent watching, if a little cartoonish and unrealistic. The characters don't really grab me as truly relatable, but the show is entertaining enough.


                
Just saw the special Showtime preview of the show ON DEMAND, and it doesn't work. I can imagine the rhythm of the show working better in Manchester, England, but Chicago is not the American equivalent of Manchester, and it almost seems like it could have been shot in any generic blue collar area in any city in the US. And considering the series is supposed to star WH Macy, he is virtually absent from the entire pilot. He does a voice over for the first few minutes at the top, and is schlepped in drunk for the last minute of the episode. Oh, and there's some so-so humping that's neither especially sexy or funny, but is obligatory for a premium cable series. This one has loser stamped all over it.


                
The US version is awful. I started watching it only because I'm a big fan of "shameless UK" and I was expecting great acting and picture and an American version of the script with American humor. Unfortunately, it was a great disappointment. Everything in there is just a cheap knock off of the UK version. Everyone in the US version is good-looking, wearing expensive clothes, and living in almost a villa, which is unrealistic for a supposedly poor family. The acting sucks. The cast is too aware that they're acting. You get the feeling that they're uncomfortable and just amateur. The camera angles sucked. They tried to make it Hollywood-ish but they failed big time. They sucked the humor out of the whole thing. I only watched till episode 4 and all I did was shaking my head with disappointment. I can count many examples of how terrible the US version was. There were great scenes in the British version that the US version completely ruined. The UK version is brilliant, no doubt. You can feel the confusion of Frank Gallagher when he wakes up in France and his sadness when he wanders the crowded streets talking to himself. It's a shame that "Shameless US" was so disappointing. They even changed the order of events to make it easier for dummies to understand what's going on. The factor of surprise is lost. It feels like the American version is a simplified "for dummies" version.


                
Submitted for your approval (and your entertainment) a family of drunks, thieves, cheats, neglected children and sexual deviates! Let me assure you that I am not a prude, but to watch seven seasons of a show chock full of characters with little or no redeeming qualities is something I cannot do. I have no doubt that these families exist (since I have witnessed them first hand), but to center a television series around them seems akin to setting up the circus tent so the curious amongst us can walk between the freaks, hoping to see the occasional chicken head being bitten off. These kinds of families are the downfall of American culture and are sucking the very life from the existence of those of us willing to work hard and do things the RIGHT way. So...why not celebrate them? Why not make them, in some way, seem noble...you know, the nuclear family struggling to keep their heads above water? Once again, there are families out there who do this every day. Yet they do it without stealing, cheating, screwing everything in sight and drinking or drugging themselves into oblivion. I have watched one and a half seasons and, to be honest, have gotten quite a few laughs out of it, but the laughs have far been outnumbered by the grimaces and the uncomfortable squirming. Some may find this to be a guilty pleasure, but I feel myself left with more guilt than pleasure when all is said and done.


                
I'll admit I'm surprised that so many people think this show has translated well from the UK version to the US one. Having watched the first 2 seasons of the UK version, I completely disagree.The UK version of this show is so much better than this one. The characters on the UK version, though flawed, are so much more likable than the ones on the US one. I think if they would have changed the names of some of the characters it might have been a little better, because most of the characters are changed so much, they aren't even really the same characters.Fiona is just not as likable in this version as she was on the UK show. The only similarity besides being a fill in mother to her siblings is the inexplicable choice of an actress near 30 to play a 21 year old. I constantly have to remind myself that she is supposed to be practically a kid herself. All the kids are harder on this show, they don't show the vulnerability that comes through at times on the UK show, and I think that makes them less likable. You rarely see the good side of anyone on here, if they even have a good side.The case is the same with the neighbors, Kevin and Veronica. Even the one character who is not as hard as the rest (Sheila) is not translated well at all. The UK Sheila is a few cards short of a full deck, but it is funny, and she still manages. The US Sheila is not playing with a full deck either, but it's just annoying, not funny. Also, Kash's wife, and her whole white Muslim thing takes that character too far, in my opinion. She's annoying too. The UK wife was more subtle and it worked far better.If you want a show that is about horrible people generally being horrible, watch this US version of Shameless. If you want a show about people who may look horrible to everyone else but are actually likable people doing what they have to do with the situation they have been handed, do yourself a favor and watch the UK version instead.


                
Yes, the acting and direction is solid. It's the theme that I have trouble with, the shows "shameless" and yet increasing promotion of AA and 12 Step.I'm curious to see if the original UK version is also long vision Pro AA propaganda piece. My guess though is that the American version was shaped to become increasingly Pro AA in its theme.So the reader might be asking now, "What is wrong with a Pro AA stance? And mixing a little healthy therapy in with all that dysfunction?"The problem is that the fact that AA is one of numerous treatments available, not the only one and certainly not the most effective, with about a 5% success rate as verified by the most reliable studies and that is for alcohol and not opiates. Opiate "addicts" are more likely to die if participating in AA, NA or other 12 Step than if they commit on their own. There are treatments that can have very high success rates for opiates, but because AA functions like a religious cult (and many Anti-AA would say that is because AA is a religious cult) AA and other 12 Step when talking about treatment to newcomers to their program will say that it is "jail, institutions, death" for those that cannot work the 12 Step program. Remember that 95% of those that try AA statistically don't do well. Is it irresponsible for Shameless to promote AA and not also feature the views of alternative treatments when it has an opening credit sequence that begins in a bathroom with the patriarch passed out by the toilet?I'm going to say yes because AA and 12 Step ideology also tends to celebrate the "addict" period before its members found 12 Step. In some ways celebrating the earlier "addicted" period functions as the hook to get "addicts" into 12 Step.10 Major Alternatives to AA (circa 2017) Free Self-Help: HAMS; SMART; SOS; Women for Sobriety (includes Men for Sobriety); Life ring; Moderation Management; Reddit.Help involving paid professionals rational.org sinclairmethod.com (for alcohol)* ibogainealliance.org (for opiates)**Sinclair method and Ibogaine use medication to rewire the addiction pathways in the brain *most doctors can prescribe the medication Naltrexone, but Goodmancenter.com is a treatment center specificallybased on the Sinclair method. **aftercare is recommended, such as genesisiboganiecenter.com, holistichousevegas.com, and medicineheartrecovery.com
I try to be open minded. I try to not judge others but...After Watching 15 episodes I can only judge by what I see...The show is weird in that it keeps you on the hook with it's atrociousness but...You would really need to release all modicums of taste and scruples or be similar to enjoy it...It's a parade of all the most terrible and cringe worthy human characteristics served in a neat little bag of vomit.Everybody in the show is a scumbag. I get enough of that with the news and politics...Perhaps, the government is a representative of the people...This show should help you to see base humanity...It's no wonder that Thoreau chose to vacate society...He would kill himself see what we've become-generally.


                
