The first few seasons were great, with well developed characters and various engaging plots with well-timed arcs. Unfortunately, the latest season was terrible. Not only was it flat and two dimensional, it seemed to be heavily pushing some sort of agenda. Coming from somebody who identifies as very left leaning, I was disgusted to see this push a frankly childish plot through a stereotypically left political lens that harms the left wing image. With a cringeworthy and mentally unstable 'Gay jesus' plot that in my opinion, does more harm that good to the LGBTQ+ movement, much of the series stagnated and inconsiderably tackled issues way out of its reach.
What can I say at the beginning? Let start with this: It was started out as an older sister taking care of her sibling (Not in a good way) throughout the struggling with money, no future, and definitely without any education. Like I said, they are liberals.Fiona had a mentally of idiotic that affects her choices without learned one bit from it.Kevin and his wife had a struggling on improving their relationship.Carl is just innocent boy that caught in a trap in the world of ghetto, well it's Chicago, so....Frank is somewhat intelligent, but has too much conspiracy theories to push himself forward without any edge to step off.Lip is just another hothead who think the world around him wants him dead.Ian is similar to Fiona, but worse. He is arrogant, egotistical maniac with a mental of child (If only he doesn't take his pills), with no efforts on how to handle thing carefully. (I, personally, want to knock his teeth in.)Debbie is an awful, independent woman that set a bad example for her child and relationship. 1st to 4th seasons was quite enjoyable, until they added anti-white slurs, black supremacists, and in supports with minorities nationalist. Hell, they even bashing President Trump, White people, hard worker Americans, cops, and anything positive for people, for absolutely no reason and stating a ton of fiction about anyone who isn't "Democrat." Although, this TV show was quite good on relationships' awkwardness (Hello, Kevin and his hot wife with Russian) and basically on how to workout to improve a better relationship, future, opportunities, and incomes for the couple, friends and family. That's the only good part, so I'm giving it a 5 stars instead 10.
The acting is terrible, the camera angles are terrible, the color is terrible, it's just terrible.... if you don't agree with me then check out the first season of the Shameless from the UK.The thing that drove the original story was no the story itself but the actors, and in this its seriously falls short. I think that it was cast wrong and that the story is slow and bland compared with the original.Also having all these 'pretty people' in the story really doesn't due it any justice and makes it feel like the original award winning serious has been whored out.The music of the original really worked to set the tone of the series and this one doesn't have much music at all and falls short on emotion.


                
An old scheme - every second word is f--k or sh-t. That should be the depiction of the brute reality. You should feel the waft of a proud nihilism and individualism. The triumph of Americanism! And don't forget to put sex in it. More, please! Oh - and don't forget to put any kind of vulgarism, alcohol, drugs and brutality. The more the better. The unfailing recipe for a "kick ass" show. But is there anything beyond that dressed to kill package? I don't think so. Bold, original, American, provocative? Give me a brake! Too salted, too pretentious. May be it would be better to call this thing 'Shame', not 'Shameless'. Oh, I almost forget the consolation - the acting. Especially - William H. Macy. Unforgettable. As always.


                
The scene by scene self-pity and mentos moments are very tiring. Add to that the constant PC anti-Trump/pro-Obama crap just makes it episode ruining and flat out unfunny. This apart from Frank, Kevin and Carl, who make this show just barely watchable...


                
I've been a big fan of the UK version of Shameless for years and was really disappointed when I heard America was going to copy it. I just couldn't understand why, America makes great shows like Boardwalk Empire, Breaking Bad, Band of Brothers and there's loads more that are fantastic. They have the imagination and skills for making great original shows so why copy Shameless? Being a Shameless fan I might be a bit biased but after having seen the American pilot...there's just no comparison. The acting in the UK version is just so genuine and natural, the people look "normal" and that just adds so much to the show. Macy is a fine actor but is no Frank Galagher and although the show isn't all about Frank his presence sets the entire mood for the show, even when he isn't in the scene, just compare Macy to the UK Frank and you'll see what I'm talking about.If you enjoyed the American pilot I would recommend you to watch a couple of the UK episodes and draw your own conclusion.


                
Somehow, Fiona is the most amazing girl on the planet and everyone around her absolutely loves her. For some reason she hasn't started stripping or anything to pay the massive bills, and bla bla blah. Honestly, the idea that a guy from the background that guy comes from, to be so caught up in her from the few times he saw her "dancing freely" at a club, is just plain retarded. She doesn't impress me as an actress at all. Macy is a great actor, and his role is entertaining at least. Thus, the three rating. But I've had enough of the show that is just spinning a yarn about how wonderfully awesome this chick is. The few favorite parts of the show I've seen were the crazy mother's successes.All in all, I find it a show devoid of any notable content (e.g. side-splitting humor, enlightening topics, compelling writing, etc.), with some very unique characters. I've seen enough. I don't care what happens next season, I will save the bandwidth.
This show mimic's the original version in a bastardized sort of way .w.h macy's portrayal of the drunken absentee father is very 1 dimensional and unbelievable compared to the u.k father character. the grittiness of the original series is what makes it funny and great .which this show is lacking . the u.s version actors seem to be dolled up caricatures of actual people..the u.k version gives more authenticity once again with the grittiness.the characters on the u.k show resemble actual people almost like we are watching the real lives of people living in this condition.If your looking for authenticity and good humor as well as a great show .Do yourself a favor and get the original version .


                
I've seen the first few episodes and i think the British version is so much better because it portrays the reality of the dis-functionality of the father much more accurately and it gives us a more raw perspective of he's difficulties.I suggest you watch some episodes of the original UK series to be able to fully understand how hard the reality of leaving in a bad neighborhood and having the neighbors next-door who are in fact Irish gangsters.Now not wanting to put down William H. Macy's work I must say that this show is just a poor imitation of the original Shameless
Admittedly i do not like movies and shows which are copied & pasted from the original. Despite this i gave this show a chance and watched 9 episodes.
I found the show to be not worth at least my time and decided to rewatch the original version instead. They could have gotten away with it if they started a cross-over between the English & American versions, not unlike the primeval tv-show.
They could have let the English family visit family in America thereby kicking off the American series but they choose to copy it..badly. Complimenting the actors is like complimenting people doing a play-back show which doesn't take real effort because the actors had a myriad of examples in opposed to the original actors. I have to say that i am disappointed in the lack of creativity and the fact that a people who's language is the same as the people in the original show need the show to be copied and placed ore locally to be able to enjoy it. To me this is nothing any of the people working on the show should be proud of but i am assuming they are anyway, at least they're getting a paycheck.


                
