Note: I have not seen the UK version.I wasn't sure what to make of the first episode of Shameless. I wasn't sold on the characters and the direction seemed directionless. In fact, it wasn't until the third ep that my eyes were opened. It's as if the actors have found their mark and the characters have come to life. While the ensemble cast is solid, and Macy is at his irascible best, it is the performance of three of the actors which makes Shameless something special. Emmy Rossum, as the 'adult' glue that holds the family together, has rightly received the most press. Her role requires a combination of strength, resolve, humour and vulnerability - qualities that would thwart a lesser actress. Rossum is able to convincingly bring it all together with fire and sexuality in addition to her other qualities. Equally effective in his role as the younger brother Lip, Jeremy Allen White brings a world-weary innocence to his character. Blessed with a malleable physiognomy, White is at once rascal and protector of the brood. White makes us want to know Lip better. That's rare.In a smaller role but probably my favourite is Emma Kenney as little sister Debbie. Her deadpan wisecracks supply the laugh-out-loud moments while her heartbreaking scenes of longing for parental love bring a tear to the eye of the most hardened soul. She can act toe-to-toe with Macy and still steal the scene.The rest of the cast is almost as good. Their performances would be wasted, however, without a tight script and fluid - but not frenetic - direction. The third episode brought all these pieces together in a fascinating show. Whether the writing and direction can sustain this level of quality over a season we don't know. What we do have for now is some of the best ensemble acting you will see on TV or on film.


                
I'll start by saying that if you have watched the UK version of this (Which by the way was made by Channel 4 and Company Pictures and NOT the BBC as these other reviews suggest) You probably won't enjoy this first episode. Its a straight transition of the script with some adjustments.However having seen shows that were changed beyond all recognition I can say that is a good thing.The cast are excellent in their roles and the story which is far from the usual tame fodder of American drama is handled with honesty and realism. The characters mostly have their own interests to consider as well as the kids trying to keep their family together. William H Macy is ideal in a role which doesn't allow him much initial screen time but I'm sure future episodes will focus on him since Frank is such a fascinating character. Can't wait for episode 2.


                
the original British version is one of my favourite shows on TV and when i first heard that they were remaking it in the states, i like many others had serious doubts of it translating well, especially if you think of how glamorous American TV is and how unglamourous a show like shameless is. However i can safely say that John Wells and Showtime really have nailed it in adapting the show for the US audience. this can be said with how successful the show has been in America, which is great because it sort of mimics the same success the UK version had when it debuted in 2004. Despite there being some flaws, Showtime have overall done a terrific job in adapting shameless. while the story lines for the first season are pretty much americanised versions of the first series of the British version, there are several episodes that have there own story lines and the whole of season 2 completely deviates from the British story lines, in fact while watching season 2, the show felt more of a completely different show rather than a remake. the acting from everyone is very good, especially from Emmy Rossum, Joan cusack and William Macy. the story lines that the US writing team come up with are generally very inventive and have that same tongue and cheek humour that the British series has. the chemistry between Lip and Ian as well as Fiona and Steve is one of the strongest aspects of the show. the music is also great and fits into the show well. Now i am going to talk about the flaws of the show. even though i am from the UK and am not entirely familiar with American culture and how people live, there doesn't seem to be that much poverty to the show. the show just seems to be too glamorous and clean as opposed to the grittiness of the original UK version. another problem i have is William Macy as Frank. to me, David Threlfall IS Frank and while Macy isn't bad in the role, he just doesn't have that same quality that Threlfall delivers in the UK version. many fans of the UK version may also find the deviations in this version to be quite off-putting.Overall, do i prefer this version to the original? the answer is No, i don't. while the acting, the story lines, the music and the overall feel to the show is great, this version just doesn't have the same spark as the original one has and i can also relate to the UK one more. if you are a fan of the UK version, you may find this remake hard to enjoy, however if you are able to ignore the fact that it is based on a British show and treat it as an entirely different show altogether, Shameless USA can be a very fun and entertaining show. if your American and haven't seen either version, then you probably will enjoy the US version more than the UK version.


                
I don't know if you can call 2011 the year the BBC invaded American television, but it comes darn close. The first of the shows to premiere in the new year will be Showtime's version of the British award winning Shameless. Shameless follow Frank Gallagher, played by William H. Macy, and his not quite normal family. For instance the youngest of the Gallagher clan is quite obviously not Frank's yet that isn't even the family's biggest concern. Nor would it be the fact that in order to make ends meet and keep the electricity from being turned off all the kids chip in including the youngest daughter who takes up a collection that is supposed to be turned into Unicef. Yeah those are problems alright, but like I said they aren't the Gallagher's biggest problem. Their biggest problem would be Frank and his inability to stay sober long enough to pay more than his bar tab at the neighborhood pub.With that being said the first 21 minutes of Shameless doesn't detour much from the British version and that's OK. Instead of feeling as though I had seen it before (which I had) I just felt as though I was being introduced to a new slightly (overly) dysfunctional family. This was mostly in part to the cast who not only owned their roles they owned whatever scenes they were in and I don't say this lightly. Not once during the preview did I feel as though this was a family I was supposed to pity and feel bad for. This was a family I wanted to know and to hang out with. Luckily for me starting Sunday January 9, 2011 I get to hang out with the Gallagher family.


                
"Shameless" is the type of show that just has that certain "je ne sais quoi" and not for reasons that one would expect. The Story lines get more bizarre and insane by the minute and the characters can be often rude, crude, offensive, and obnoxious. The main guy Frank is played by William H Macy, and boy does this actor know how to bring a character to life... he is so bad from head to toe and his performance is uncanny. Frank is the reason why Fiona told her boss boyfriend " I'm a Gallagher it's what we do". Abandoned by their mother and tormented by their father... The Gallaghers are a bold bunch of 6(give or take a few) that live in the south side of Chicago.. that alone is hilarious!!! they skip school, and often drop out all together,they smoke pot in the house,fight, lie, steal and do drugs in front of kids.. Shameless will take you where no other show has taken you before. Seriously.With a cast of moderately known and unknown actors and actresses... The chemistry between them is solid and can be such a pleasure to watch along with the supporting cast.If you have watched this show once or twice and didn't like it chances are it's not a show for you and never will be because the better this show gets.. the worst it gets at the same time. Shameless is a show that's good because of how bad it is and sometimes the craziness is unexpected and shocking. If you love this show like me.. you probably plan on watching it until the very end. I've watched the British version once and it wasn't my cup of tea, not sure why but I like the American version better. If you haven't seen an episode yet here's my advice: keep an open mind, and give it a chance, you might just be surprised at how entertained you are... hey even my Grandma laughed.. that has to count for something right?
As a fan of the original it was with some trepidation that I watched my first episode of the US remake, hell we haven't forgiven you for what you did to 'Life on Mars' and the US 'IT Crowd'? It's worth tracking down that still born pilot, just to see how badly a reinterpretation can murder every joke... Then you have the US Office and Being Human, which were, passable, OK if you haven't seen the originals they were OK shows.But... Shameless is the first UK show I have seen where the US interpretation is, possibly, better than the original. It sticks pretty close to the UK script so it's not detracting from the original creative vision, but the production values,acting etc. are all first rate, and plus it doesn't try to dumb it down or sanitise it too much (all though it does a little).All in all whether you are a fan of the original and want to check out a decent re-imagining - it's worth a look, or for our stateside cousins, if you've never seen the original then check it out - it doesn't f**k it up, and for most remakes... That's high praise!(remembers Life on Mars, shudders)


                
I watch this show over and over and love it, but have to wonder about some of the lines given to the youngsters. Years ago, children in shows were protected by their parents or guardians from having to do or say anything that was inappropriate for a minor. I guess like everything else today nobody cares and parents and guardians think nothing of it as long as money is to be made. In a scene with Carl playing a video game "Debbie yells "Eat my ass"; I found that disturbing, because of her age. Anyone else saying it would have been meaningless and not even noticed. I will not be surprised to see this type of show on regular TV in a few years, and the F--K word as a norm in any childs daily language. I remember my brother being suspended from school for using the word damn. Yes, that was a long time ago.


                
Outstanding cast, writing and direction. Too bad that it's audience is limited to cable. But certainly only suitable for adult viewers.Perfect blend of pathos, outrageous comedy and drama.It is amazing and disappointing that William Macy has not won a major award for his portrayal.Joan Cusack is priceless.Louise Fletcher's performance as the grandma is awesome and deserving of a major award too.The other members of the cast constantly surprise with their acting abilities.This program is not to be missed! I cannot wait to see season 3.


                
The actors in the series are all very good, but the characters they portray are an example of the worst scum on the planet: a collection of users, abusers, murderers, thieves, addicts, and general low-lives. I would be very unhappy to have any of them live within a mile of me! I tried to stop watching a few times, but the attraction is similar to that of passing by an accident and slowing down to take a look at how it might have happened. No, I have not seen the UK original, so I am not making any comparisons.


                
I started watching this show cause my wife and i had just finished watching weeds and needed of another comedy that can fulfill that need. Needless to say Weeds was kind of a disappointment for the last season. Regardless I starting watching this show and was quite amusing and somewhat believable, (I have friends that have done similar things in the show so it does not surprise me) but there are a few things i find hard to Believe. In the case of actor Justin Chatwin who portrays steve Fiona's love interest. The character plot of these two rather unbelievable, why on earth who someone who just met this girl be willing to buy her a new Dryer and does not make sense whatsoever. No one in there right mind would ever do such a thing for a person they just met. Also the fact that I've seen Justin Chatwin portray a gay drug dealer in weeds makes it even difficult to believe his character as steve in Shameless. I like the show very much even though it is not Original but never the less now and days nothing is original, and for that reason only i give this show a Solid 8.
Some of the story lines are insanely far fetched, but growing up in Chicago everyone knows a real family like this. You want so hard for them to succeed. I'm hooked and can't wait for the next season.


                
Sammi should have wiped out the entire Gallagher clan after the way she was treated by this family. Especially her dad. I would have saved him for last. It's amazing that people can treat others so callously and not expect any reprisals from the victim, but then act shocked when something happens like Sammi chasing down and trying to shoot that worthless scum who locked her in a box to die. She should have been a better shot. And one more thing. The lunatic that gave the go ahead for Frank's liver transplant, should have been walked to the curb and executed. All well, it's only show biz right?


                
This review will really encompass the entire six seasons of Shameless since I binged all the episodes early this month when I first got my Showtime subscription. Based on a British show of the same name, the adventures of the Gallagher family have taken some surprising twist and turns through the south side of Chicago. It is hard to review the complexities of this show but I think I'll just take it character by character until I feel like I have done this genius show justice.I'll have to start with Frank, the drunken patron of the Gallagher family. Frank is probably the most despicable person, and it is a testament to the brilliant actor William H. Macy that somehow he is still likable. Just when I think Frank has achieved an all time low, he does some wholly grotesque and hilarious to push it over the edge. There is no justice that that could ever make up for all of Frank's wrongdoings. He was especially bad in this season's finale causing the end of Fiona's wedding.After season 7: Showtime's grim yet hilarious depiction of poverty returned for a seventh season and showed no signs of slowing down with its raunchy and absurd developments of the Gallagher family on the south side of Chicago. Frank (William H. Macy) finds himself cut off from his family after ruining Fiona's (Emmy Rossum) wedding. He wakes up from a coma and proceeds to start a new family finding replacements in a homeless shelter about to be shut down. From there he begins his own homeless shelter milking the media and desperate donors for cash. Fiona has her own plans as she nurtures her entrepreneurial spirit and buys a laundry mat from an old cat lady Etta (June Squibb). Lip (Jeremy Allen White) struggles with sobriety after dropping out of college and intending rehab. He works as an intern for a company that is investigated by the FBI for fraud as it seemed to be a fantasy sports company. After he manages to rip off the company he returns to work at the diner Fiona manages and sparks a romantic relationship with a waitress but takes another shot at getting back into college and can't handle the results.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Shameless does a fantastic job at remaining gritty and keeping to it's roots. Where some people would be tempted to give the characters a rags to riches story they have stayed true to the reality of the Gallagher's lives. William H. Macy is fantastic as the deadbeat, selfish, alcoholic father whose health continues to decline (as it would if this was reality). The kids are also great, and with their neglectful upbringing they continue to fail as they believe they are not worthy of success. It is amazing how shows aim to leave people with a sense of everything is going to be alright in the end but instead Shameless provides you with a negative viewpoint on what really can happen. This is the reality of alcohol and drug abuse, criminal behaviour and just generally not growing up in a supportive and safe environment. Too many people feel they are invincible and this show proves that there is nothing further from the truth.


                
Shameless, is a remake of a older British show. The show's storyline goes around the family Galagher and their friends. Who live in a bad neighborhood, have barely any money and both father and mother are pretty much out of the picture as far as parenting goes.Honestly when I read the description of the show I wasn't very interested and if it wasn't for being bored I would have never come across this hidden gold mine. Shameless is daring, bold, funny and very offensive in a good way. The characters have amazing story lines and the acting is superb, everything in the show goes over the top and then some, and in most shows this is rather annoying but in Shameless it only adds to how brilliant it is. If you get offended easily don't watch it, If not then I strongly recommend watching the pilot and judge for yourself.8.4/10
I just started watching the show on demand and although the setting is not absolutely identical, the resemblance to Les Bougon from Quebec in 2004, it is too close to ignore.The System-screwing family, The friendly cop that chooses to ignore and even help them out The racially different last child The father's love for beer and more specifically, the general cynicism and lack of self-censorship which is what made Les Bougon a hit.I loved the first 2 episodes I watched and I am now more than intrigued to keep watching. I'll just have to stop comparing it to Les Bougon while watching. That could be though as it was my favourite show then.I am also very curious about the British version. I have a lot of watching planned for the next few weeks.


                
The first 4 or 5 seasons are wonderful. Then it becomes repeating, still likable but less interesting. Also the usual american agendas of military and religion starts to appear, sometimes too much, and the worse product placement that you can have, mostly cigarettes, beer, vodka and oppioids.I'm not bothered with the lgbt topics, otc i think it's a good way to spread information about it.


                
Shameless doesn't really get any better in season 8, but it doesn't get any worse either. The normal family drama is present, and the funny predicaments they get themselves into are there as well, and there's actually a little bit of character development this season. Overall, it's exactly what you expect from Shameless, and even though some viewers may find themselves getting a tad annoyed with the repetitiveness of the storylines, I still find the show very enjoyable.


                
One of the best run series on TV. Sure, the challenges that each Gallagher endures can be a bit exaggerated, but it's to be expected. The show hits on several societal obstacles so it has something for everyone. By the end, you'll have a favorite Gallagher to call your own.


                
I love this show. It is one of my favorites, however I've been somewhat disappointed on the last two episodes (as of 09 November 2016). Cannot tell where the story line is going. Steve the boyfriend should have come back. The series is teasing fans that there will be some break through on the family starting to be successful after many years of financial struggle, but nothing seems to happen. Perhaps a little more patience is required. Give the fans a little bit of light. It is painful seeing this family struggle so much. On the plus side, I love Frank. He is one of my favorite characters on TV currently. And Fiona is simply the best big sister ever.
The show has everything to be called as a great show- entertaining plot, superb individual performances and it doesn't let you leave the chair. As per the name says, it is completely shameless. And being shameless doesn't stop it from being spectacular. I might even put this show in the category of Game Of Thrones or The Walking Dead as far as the entertainment is concerned. But the only thing missing is that it has no definite purpose. Episodes are based on normal day of the family but at the end of the day you don't know what difference would have been made if there was no shameless in your viewing list.Wanna binge watch, go for it and don't expect it to keep an impact on you. Otherwise its a great show.


                
I watched S1 and S2 couple years ago, then had a long break and now I'm watching S3 to S5. Shameless is one of Showtimes best series ever.I didn't like the changes of Season 4. It gets much darker, it misses the fun of the previous seasons. The quality is still the same but Season 4 is pure Redemption, all the things that has been piled up, it went down hard. Season 5 gets happier again. Shameless is strongly evolving since the 4th season with major changes in the life of the characters. On a side note, the product placement is out of control, every major fast food company is featured, they even added a little of dialogue about McD in.
Been watching wince 2012, I feel ots losong some of the shock value it has been known for. Becoming more of a drama sitxom which is its original intent. Im too far invetsed to turn back. Want to audition since Im so close and have experience.


                
Though it doesn't quite compare with the original UK series, we're liking pretty much everything about the Showtime clone. Just read on Wiki that showrunner John Wells resisted pressure to set this series "in a trailer park or in the South." Good call! Frank Gallagher, Chicago barfly, welfare cheat, smalltime grifter and stay-at-home deadbeat dad, could only exist in a grubby Rustbelt environment, preferably within sight of the El. William H. Macy's shaggy hair and pleading spaniel eyes make Frank seem more like a bad, bad dog than the despicable dirtbag he is, and yet somehow his sociopathic scams and bonehead harangues rarely fail to amuse. I love the way Frank's resourceful offspring, instead of just your typical sulky teenagers and sitcom wiseasses, are all such distinctive, 3D characters—especially good work by Emmy Rossum as feisty 'hood girl Fiona and Jeremy Allen White as wised-up prodigy Lip. Superb supporting cast (Joan Cusack can be a little bit much, but it's great to see Joel Murray (Freddy on "Mad Men") and Louise Fletcher (she's Frank's mother!) again), ingenious over-the-top story lines, scruffy South Side locations and many little bits of delightful weirdness—Frank's Hound Dog Taylor T-shirt, the incident in the icefishing shack, the foster child rescued from the polygamist cult, the white social worker who's fluent in Black English, Ian's ménage à trois with the Milkovich kids...


                
When I first heard about this show, I was unimpressed and didn't really care to see it. I didn't even care much for the first episode although there were parts that had me completely stunned by how far some things were taken.Fiona is a strong young woman in her early 20's who basically takes care of all her siblings (There are a bunch of them) because her dad, Frank is a drunk f**k up. Frank continuously hurts everyone around him just so he can continue his lifestyle of drinking and drugs. Each episode has a main dilemma as well as several little issues for each individual character.
