I saw Amadeus at the Cambridge Film festival. I was told it was the story of Mozart's life, was critically acclaimed and the pinnacle of the festival. How much was I disappointed, often irritated and by the end I felt thoroughly used and exploited by what I can only describe as a terrible, terrible film. But why? Well I was quite excited by the thought of a film about one of the greatest composers and musicians of all time, the potential to create really powerful film with some emotional and awe inspiring scenes accompanied by his most famous and rousing music was tremendous and, seemingly, obvious. Instead Amadeus chose to focus on how irritating Mozart the man was, and featured a few uninspiring scenes demonstrating his genius in composition. Good Will Hunting managed to make maths exciting, but Amadeus was given the most moving medium of all, Music, by one of the most incredible musicians who ever lived, and they made it more boring than dry paint that's been dry for a very long time.For such a critically acclaimed film I was expecting certain things. First was good music, but this was a taken. It was about Mozart, of course the music was good, it was Mozart. All they needed was Mozart's greatest hits playing in the background to be good! So I give it 0 points for the score, you want good classical music then buy the CD.  I would say that Fahrid Murray Abraham was very good as the narrator and main character, putting in solid performance. As far as the other acting is concerned the mixture of accents from Shakespearean English to Italian, German and inevitably American never related to the actual nationality of the character was enough for me to hate every performance, if I hear Elizabeth Berridge say Volfey in a German\American accent once more I consider suing for mental aggravation.You want good classical music with a complex story and impressive cinematography then watch 2001 A Space Odyssey. If you want the story of a flawed but fantastic composer then get Shine out on video, you wont be disappointed. If you prefer your musical period drama documentaries full of irritating actors, pretty costumes, tedious storylines and bits of opera then do watch this, and if you would prefer to while away your time for three mind numbingly boring hours then check out the directors cut. Amadeus, you owe me £5 and three hours of my life, I wont forgive you until I get them back. dan


                
Wow. I've just read dozens of pages of rave reviews about how this movie was awesome, the best, amazing, and yes, even incredible. Are you serious? Most likely this is because they were no doubt impressed by the score which featured masterworks by one of the greatest musical geniuses in all of history. Or, perhaps this was their first exposure to music of this caliber.But to anyone who knows the real historic truth about Mozart, these raving positive reviews are the equivalent of these uniformed reviewers wearing a t-shirt that says in big bold letters: "I know absolutely nothing about music history".Of course, any complete novice of classical music would be impressed by a totally fictional and insulting movie about Mozart simply because of the music. And the obvious fact, they don't realize that what they are watching is pure fiction, ignorant to that it is revisionist history, and to anyone who knows who Mozart really was, an offensive insult. In reality it's a film that exploits Mozart's music in order to win over the uninformed, and then proceeds to fill their heads with a mockery of who the man really was. The result is the masses, who know nothing about Mozart, go away impressed by his music but believing a fictional mockery as the truth. It uses his creative works to perpetuate a mockery of the genius who composed them. Sad, really sad.


                
This film might have been able to get by on wonderful music and grandiose spectacle, but casting an American actor to play Mozart (and his chick) is a serious mis-service to history. The fact that many reviewers approve of this movie & rate it so highly is proof of this. I'm not against American culture per se (far from it) but the Americanisation of history in films (i.e. which gives the impression that many significant figures from the past grew up somewhere near Disneyland) is a terrible thing - it whitewashes cultural diversity & gives a totally distorted view of the world as it was, and still is. This cannot be overlooked. If an Austrian actor was chosen for the part (not Arnie) the film probably would have made less money so I guess that wasn't an option? Better to cast someone who appeared in "Animal House"? Instead of a "Directors' cut" how about a "Realistic cut"? Please explain?...well, if one of the characters in "Amadeus" had stepped out to buy a cheeseburger from Macdonald's or had switched on "MTV" at some point in this movie, it would not have seemed out of place - in what's supposed to be the story of an Austrian composer who lived in the 18th century!  In other words, Houston, we have a problem!


                
Amadeus tries to demonstrate the idea that you can destroy a man's career, but you can't stop his divine talent from being unleashed onto the world.The movie tries to show this with three external plots: the plot to destroy Mozart's career by Salieri, the plot of Mozart's fame and the plot of Salieri's fame (where fame roughly represents their musical reputation). Salieri succeeds in destroying Mozart's career by killing him. Mozart's fame endures as his divine creations are valued by posterity. Salieri's fame on the other hand, fades as his musical works are largely forgotten.The movie starts out with Salieri as an old man recollecting about his triumph over Mozart. By this point, the world has forgotten him and only remember's Mozart's music. From there on, the movie goes on to show us Salieri destroying Mozart's career.The movie was a waste of time because from the first scene on, we are told what will happen: that Salieri's jealousy destroys Mozart's career but not his everlasting fame. Then the movie goes on to show us just that, with no surprises of any kind. The portrayal of the main plot of Salieri destroying Mozart is thus predictably episodic. And with no meaningful internal or relationship turning points to keep us interested, the movie plods forward trying to make us pity poor Mozart. The movie limps to its inevitable conclusion and drags us through a 3 hour picture show with no drama. Even the subplots of Mozart's fame (which endures) and Salieri's fame (which dies) are not punctuated with highs at the end. All we are left with is a 3 hour sap story and way too many scenes of random operas. If we wanted to appreciate Mozart's talent, time is better spent just listening to his music or watching an opera instead of sitting through this picture slideshow.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca
I was assuming this would be a study of the composer that was focused on his music - instead what I got was 'Animal House' antics by the main character - Mozart. It seems this film was from the 1970's directors mindset of Altman or Mazursky....if a critical insightful scene can be turned into slapstick then full speed ahead. As another reviewer stated save for F. Murray Abraham there wasn't another actor or actress worth a darn in this mess..Mozart was a genius and also had deep faith as noted by his final compositions - you'd never know it by this pathetic biopic just as the powers that be omitted in their biopic of Dutch Shultz in 'Billy Bathgate' his (Schultz) pleading to have someone get him a Catholic Priest to baptize and hear his confession before he died in Newark-NJ. His wish was fulfilled but Hollywood made sure that triubling fact wasn't included.


                
Quite simply, this is the movie the convinced me that the Academy Awards are nothing more than a popularity contest.  Not only does this film not deserve a Best Picture, it deserves little recognition except for the performance of F. Murray Abraham.  Save your time and money, see "Attack of the Killer Tomatoes" instead.  At least the humor in that movie is funny (sort of).


                
Yes the movie delivered due to the performances of the actors BUT there were problems regarding screenplay and historicl attention to detail.The producers of the movie decided to go to the direction of atistry here ignoring the fact that there was a very good historical legacy waiting to be told more compellingly so that we may delve more into Mozart.The focus was too much on Salieri.Interesting a direction it was,it took away from AMADEUS.This movie was way over rated due to people's respect for Mozart's legacy.Good movie for classical music fans but it certaily was not the masterpiece classic it seems to be distinguished as.......


                
This movie disgusted me. I felt like I was watching a badly-written skit from Saturday Night Live. What really bothered me the most was seeing Mozart, a truly self-centered bastard, go bonkers and not care that his wife and baby were starving to death. His wife had to beg for food from strangers because her husband was such a self-absorbed jerk. If this actually happened, then Mozart was very narcissistic and probably bi-polar, too. I'm tired of movies about crazy, self-centered geniuses. Too painful to watch. We were supposed to enjoy his kooky, wacky personality and crazy behavior, but I felt sorry for his wife, who was forced to suffer from his insanity.
What's wrong with these people?  Mozart is portrayed as a dumbass and a genius?  If he was like that, I hate him and people like that, it's as if they haven't lived a single day in their lives.  This movie is a bad movie because of the music, which gets on my nerves.  The directing isn't great and the storyline is boring.  There is no inspiration, no acting and the way Mozart dies is pathetic.  The guy makes him think too much and his dumbass brain works too much?  That's what he gets.  Mozart is no hero, you want a heroic movie.  That's Scarface and Braveheart.


                
