Mediocrity is not only the topic of this movie but also the movie itself. Is is mediocre to say least. One would expect more out of a movie called Amadeus. The correlation with Mozart is totally out of place. There is nothing in this movie about nobility, greatness, extraordinary people or anything else among the lines of higher understanding or one self's quest for betterness.The characters behave totally out of place. The action is taking places in the mids of aristocratic society yet everyone from the emperor to the opera director and to the servants behave like 21st century below-average income American citizens. The German (or Austrian) culture is fully ignored giving way to the "american style" (as it appears to common individual, not as it is in real life).The actions the characters take, as well as the results of those actions, are totally unwarranted. No reason is given as to way the character would act in the manner described or why their actions would yield the shown effect. This is deliberately so that it allows for "desire gratification". This is taking a wish out of real-life (son-father relationships is the mill for most such wishes in this movie), setting up a scene that will make one recognize his (perhaps frustrated) desire in it, and then, contrary to what would've happened in real-life {and by doing so destroying character consistency}, gratify it (with the proper evolution in the plot). This technique is also used for social manipulation in forming a distorted view of reality. One example is when "the great Mozart" has to submit his work to be evaluated by a committee despite the fact his works is great, he is intimate (i.e. close friends) with the emperor and the emperor could just appoint him. Like please, get real, in life people DO get appointed even when their work sucks just because they have access to the decision factors. As it must've become obvious by now, I am highly resentful of this type of "your situation is better than you think and you should accept it as it is the same even for the most noble".Art should propose a message and argue its validity, not try to impose it by all sorts of subliminal affirmations.Acting is terrible. Like no one really expects the people playing ballet on the scene truly be ballet-players. But they SHOULD move in at least a decent amount of sync. And when the piano is played, again, some correlation between the melody and the motion of the hands over the keys is expected.That being said, this is perhaps one of the best movies for its purposes. The story is told trough the eyes of the mediocre court-composer Antonio Salieri. The troubles of the characters are the troubles of the average individual of the 21st century (like bad credit, alcohol, bureaucracy, father, mother-in-law, etc.). What disappoints me about the movie is that these issues are not treated from a higher-perspective like one would expect but instead they are settled within the scope and understanding of the average individual.


                
The movie loses a lot of it's punch when you find out afterwards that a lot of the content is in fact BS. Mozart travelled to a lot of European cities during this time. His music was a lot more successful than portrayed in the movie. 
The 'paupers' grave was BS. It was common during that time for non-aristocrats to be buried in 'common graves' that were re-used 10 years later. 
The bitter rivalry between Salieri & Mozart, the basis of the movie & that Salieri killed Mozart are BS & most likely come from a Pushkin short story. The movie totally ignores that Mozart became a Freemason 7 years before death & the importance it had it his life.


                
When this film was released in 1984 you literally could not escape from it<U+0085> ads were everywhere, all over the TV and print media. My usual impulse is to refuse to see any film that gets crammed down my throat hundreds of times before it even arrives in theaters, so it can be quite some time before I get around to seeing a movie even if the reviews are generally good. My impression from the numerous trailers for 'Amadeus' was that it was a farcical treatment of a real-life classical composer, starring a man with a stupid grin wearing a fright wig, accompanied by a lot of people in 18th century garb dancing in ballrooms.Yep, that's what it was. I finally watched it last night, 30 years after Tom Hulce's ventriloquist-dummy grimace first appeared on my TV screen. It was even the ultra-long director's cut which added about 20 minutes to what would have been a long film in the first place. I finished it, but I'm really not sure why. Obviously they spent a lot of money on it, F. Murray Abraham was good, and naturally the music was good, but I don't think it lived up to the hype and accolades. Maybe my taste is all in my mouth, but I don't regret not beating down the theater door to see it 30 years ago.


                
We watched this movie in music class during our unit on composers. Not only is it historically inaccurate it is not interesting. The plot could have condensed to 30 minutes but instead it stretches on for 3 hours. I and most of my classmates were over it by the second class.Instead of this I recommend watching an actual documentary about Mozart which will be much more entertaining and informative. 4 out of 10 stars --------------- ------------------------- ----------------- ------------- --- -------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ----- ----------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------- --------------------------- ----------------------- ------------- --------


                
