A rip-roaring film about the problems that occur when you have a passion but not the talent to create outstanding work in the area of your passion. On the one hand, there is Salieri, a man whose entire life is devoted to music and who can't think of anything else 24/7, but who lacks the genius it takes to be remembered for his work by people two hundred years from now. And then, Mozart: a childish, immature kid who composes the greatest operas ever with the utmost easiness and who knows that he is a genius and therefore despises all the musicians and composers that are beneath him. I feel with Salieri. He is not an unsympathetic character at all, I understood most of his actions and I truly understand why he is envious of Mozart. After all, he is right: What is the point in working your life out in order to create something that will be forgotten the minute you die or even before. What is the point of striving for some kind of recognition, if, no matter what you do, there are at least a thousand people who know how to do it better? If you think of all the works of art throughout the centuries then there is probably just a handful of works that are worth being mentioned. Think of all the people who devoted their entire life to art but who never managed to amuse anyone but contemporary society. It's a shame, isn't it. Nowadays art has become an industry: We are confronted with more and more works of art, but which of these works can truly be called a stroke of genius! Very few, I believe!
Milos Forman's adaptation of Peter Shaffer's award winning stage play of the life and ultimate downfall of composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (Tom Hulce) and his difficult relationship with arch rival Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham) is certainly something of a flawed work, albeit, one that is incredibly pleasant and engaging nonetheless. The principal focus of the film is on the character of Salieri, from his guilt ridden suicide attempt at the beginning of the film, through to the scenes in which he recounts his story to a priest from the confines of a mental hospital. From here, the film deals mainly with Salieri's crippling jealousy over the younger composer and the natural rivalry that intensifies between them, as Mozart's natural talent and flair for presentation finds him embraced by the Emperor (Jeffery Jones) and the people of Vienna.As Mozart gains more and more success, it is Salieri's obsession to destroy the composer at any means necessary that drives the narrative further and further. Although you could argue that the whole thing is woefully inaccurate in a historical scene, you can't help but marvel at the film's style, wit and excellent period evocation. Shaffer's script fizzes with depth and amusing character quirks that should resonate with anyone who has some familiarly with the actual story at hand, while Forman's direction is close to Kubrick's greatest film Barry Lyndon (1975) in terms of scope, scale and detail. Here, the director is aided by cinematographer Miroslav Odericek's and his staggering use of composition and lighting, with the look, combined with the costume and production design evoking the true grimy beauty of the period.There is also a great pace being maintained by the editing of the film, with some interesting juxtapositions between the worlds of these two composers, and the intelligent use of Salieri as the teller of the story, which opens the film up to ideas of the unreliable narrator, thus somewhat anarchically excusing itself from the more obvious inaccuracies. This all goes towards making Amadeus (1984) a fascinating character study with some wonderfully bawdy comedy and, unsurprisingly, that fantastic use of music. A great look at one man's shallow obsession to share his art with the people and god, but is overshadowed at every turn by a much greater talent, something he only realises too late.


                
This is a very good movie albeit a bit long. There are some inaccuracies but they should be forgiven as the movie is Good


                
AmadeusAll the music based sequences is shot beautifully and set accordingly and wisely by the makers as it was a major part of the protagonist, and plays a major role in the tale too and is not just another tool that works behind the camera. It is rich on technical aspects like costume design, production design, background score, make-up design and editing. The script is elaborate, satisfying and justified thoroughly through the complex character's perspective whose narration is the window of writer where it can be and is brutally honest and clears up all that is hoax and distraction. Peter Shaffer; the writer, has done an appreciative work on writing this finely detailed script that is full of tactics but is surpassed by its brilliant execution by Milos Forman whose work pays off well in here. The performance objective is scored majestically by F. Murray Abraham and Tom Hulce, in their parallel role are doing some of their best work. The build up to the scrutiny of the politics in here is the key that is developed well enough to lure the audience in. Amadeus dances on the beat rhythmically and stay true to the tone of the feature for around 160 minutes, which doesn't happen often.


                
Sometimes, it's hard to be a retired history teacher. After all, when I see many historical films, I see the errors in the script--where the writers take HUGE liberties with facts. As a result, you would NOT want to go to certain movies (such as "Pocahontas") with me, as I invariably complain about the crappy writing and lack of historical accuracy. While "Amadeus" is a gorgeous film to watch, it is also a film you would probably not want to watch with me! While vaguely following the events of the adult Mozart's life, so much of the film is wrong--terribly, terribly wrong. And, in the process, the film does a terrible disservice to the memories of the folks portrayed in the film. To me, history is like a holy book--you don't just change it to meet your needs--but here in "Amadeus", facts just aren't particularly important. In the film, Antonio Salieri is a bitter, nasty no-talent. It's easy to urinate on his memory today--it's not like he has family members who will defend him after 200 years! And even worse is the portrayal of Mozart who is shown to be a two-dimensional man. On one hand, he's a musical genius. On the other, he's a blithering idiot whose laugh makes your skin crawl--and there's absolutely no evidence that this aspect of the character is the least bit like the real Mozart.Now if you completely ignore history, the film is good---very good. The sets and costumes are lovely and it looks as if you have been transformed back to the 18th century. It certainly deserved Oscars for Art Direction, Costume Design, Makeup, Direction, Sound and other technical categories. F. Murray Abraham is great as the conniving Salieri--even though he's very fictional. Tom Hulce, on the other hand, is so annoying at times with his horrid and piercing laugh that I could see why this film didn't result in him being catapulted into stardom. Without this laugh, he would have been MUCH better.Why couldn't they have just created a story about FICTIONAL characters instead of fictionalizing real peoples' lives? If this had been done, the film would have been exceptional in every way. As it is, it's a severe irritant to anyone wanting to know about the real life characters portrayed so badly in this film. And that laugh...that HORRIBLE laugh has got to go!


                
This mostly fictional account of the relationship between Mozart and Salieri, a journeyman contemporary composer, is well filmed but has "too many scenes," to paraphrase Emperor Joseph. At three hours, it overstays its welcome with repetitive scenes. Was it necessary to spend 20 minutes on "Don Giovanni"? The film's portrayal of Mozart as a vulgar buffoon is hard to reconcile with his genius for creating sublime music. Also, it gives the impression that Mozart only composed operas whereas the vast majority of his output is non-operatic. While Abraham is brilliant as Salieri, Hulce's idiot act becomes tiresome, and Berridge is badly miscast as Constanze. Jones is amusing.


                
Amadeus is a movie on the life of the legendary composer Wolfgang Mozart. From a very young age Mozart has had a gifted ear for quality music. Among other things Mozart carried a horrible attitude toward anyone who tried to counsel him. He was very immature, and irresponsible in a number of ways. He had many adoring fans but the fame and attention goes straight to his head. Not even the kind words of his lovely wife could take him off of his high horse.From the very beginning of the movie, Mozart was shown as a very childish young man. Not only was he childish, but he was also disrespectful. There was no one above him as far as people to respect. His father tries to steer him in the right direction but goes with no success. After being banished from his original home he seeks redemption in a new country. He goes to try and conquer another city with his remarkable musical talents.The film itself was well written and well executed. The music was good and the majority of the actors fit their roles very well. Costumes and makeup were perfect; they really did a great job of giving you an idea of what people looked like in those days. The overkill wigs and the extreme dresses put me in the mind set so I could better understand the setting.The major cause for my overall dislike of his movie was the character Wolfgang Mozart. The fact that Mozart was so obnoxious and immature made me happy to see the conclusion. His humor was never funny, his laugh was brain wracking, and his arrogance was angering. The only thing good about Mozart was his ability to crate music. I have no sympathy for people with his character.For people who are interested in the life of a legend this would be a great movie. The director got the story right. The actors brought out the characters very well. The character Salieri was played very well. For the most part his is an overall good movie. I would rate it 4 out of 5. My personal opinion toward it is skewed off of my strong dislike for the character Mozart. Not everyone else may feel as strongly as I do but the movie itself was impressive.


                
I think this bit of history is the tragedy of the Roman Catholic church as well as some more recent Christian churches in America that have lost the meaning of the word GRACE. Mozart (Amadeus) was one of the greatest classical music composers of all time. Yet he was murdered through the use of psychology by a crafty satanic jealous Catholic priest-Salieri. He could not see how God could give such a great musical gift to a man who he perceived as being toally immoral! Salieri denied the Christina faith and sold his soul to Satan like Dracula in the movie BRAM STOKER'S Dracula! Some of the world's most evil people are connected to the church! As witness to what manipuLators clergy are and were, the chess opening, The Ruy Lopez, was invented by a Spanish Bishop of the same name!So, I really think I benefit from not being accepted in church. And I think I have some evil Salieri in my own life, some smug self-righteous religious jerk who tries to destroy my life as well. And as the movie ends, the point I also see is that at the end of even a great historical life, the Grim Reaper comes for you and they wrap your body in a shroud, throw you in a hole and cover you up with dirt! Like the French Princess had quoted from Ecclesiastes in BRAVEHEART "Death comes to us all"!


                
Forman, though he worked in Hollywood,was Polish; and his films often contain traces of the more subtle European art-house sensitivity. The most sensitive of these decisions in case of Amdeus was to invite the Academy of St. Martin's in the Fields to play the music in this film. Under the conduction of Sir Neville Mariner, St. Martin's had been definitely the best interpreter of Mozart's music in the 20th c. and their playing just lifts the film to another level.Having said that, the film is also visually stunning, though it relies heavily on the acting of F. Murray Abraham as Salieri and Tom Hulce as MOzart to carry it through. And they do carry it through with real aplomb. Especially Salieri comes across as an unforgettable character, though probably because his part is so amazingly well-written, from the brilliant description of the 'Gran Partita' in the beginning to the unbelievable death-bed sequence of Mozart where Salieri takes down whatever Mozart dictates, and what he dictates impromptu is the unfinished Requiem. Again a brilliant thing about this was how Shaffer and Forman constructs this sequence, breaking down the Requiem into its individual parts and lets the music just build up and carry us away. Working with a background score consisting of the best pieces of Mozart has its advantages, and Forman is so very much aware of that, that he consistently uses the music to overwhelm us.


                
You do not have to be a lover of Mozart's music to enjoy this film. The circumstances surrounding the composer's death remain a mystery, and it would be a mistake to see the film as a historical account. The achievement of the film lies in the extent to which it enables us to share in the joyful and almost boyish enthusiasm with which Mozart (Tom Hulce) expresses himself through his music, and to marvel at his eternal optimism in the face of constant adversity, much of it caused by his jealous rival Salieri (Murray Abraham). Hulce's performance is wonderfully spontaneous and energetic, with Abraham's appropriately menacing. Not a great film perhaps, but an enormously entertaining one nonetheless.


                
Amadeus: 7 out of 10: Brilliantly filmed fictional account of the rivalry between Antonio Salieri (Well deserved Oscar winner F. Murray Abraham) and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (Tom Hulce in a daring performance). The costumes and settings are spot on as only great Hollywood historical dramas can pull off. (This is one place independent film doesn't hold a candle to Hollywood). With the exception of Elizabeth Berridge as Mozart's wife the supporting cast is excellent (especially Jeffery Jones who plays Emperor Joseph the 2nd like Martin Sheen playing a Kennedy.) The plot line of an old Salieri confessing to a priest how he turned his back on God after realizing the almighty gave Mozart not himself this divine talent is a wonderful and emotionally satisfying tool to hang the plot. Salieri is a wonderful protagonist as it is easy to identify with the jealousy one feels towards those to whom talent comes so easy and seems almost squandered. Besides Berridge's performance there are a few minor quibbles with the film. The music is very opera heavy and not terrible representative of either Mozart's work or some of the pieces that invariably made him immortal (It's a bit like doing a biopic of Beethoven and leaving out his 5th and 9th symphonies.) The movie is also bit long and drags some in the middle. In one scene during the performance of The Marriage of Figaro the Emperor yawns and Salieri goes into great detail how the number of yawns affects how long the opera will run. At 2 hours 40 minutes it saying something that Amadeus only rated one yawn from myself.


                
At its core, Milos Forman's multi-award winning adaptation of Peter Shaffer's play 'Amadeus' is really just a soap opera with extremely lush production values.F. Murray Abraham is captivating in his Golden Globe and Oscar winning role of a man driven mad by jealousy. Relating the tale to the audience via a young priest, it creates an intimacy that helps to pull the audience in. Tom Hulce feels a bit too "I want my MTV" era contemporary as Mozart, but he brings a giddy energy to the role that works as a great counterbalance to Abraham. In the end 'Amadeus' isn't good history, but it is a good soapy tragicomedy.


                
Amadeus. A twisted story of the prodigy and genius Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, the most brilliant composer of all time who according to this film was a young rock star who somehow wrote boozed up masterpieces all day while dealing with a persistent fever. Set in the late 1700s, Amadeus is a classical biopic directed by Milos Forman who seems to have given the musical genius some annoying habits like an ugly boring wife and a ridiculous laugh that he insists on delivering time after time. Mozart's supposed secret rival, Antonio Salieri, a sleazy jealous wog, who years later finds himself in an insane asylum on a confessing bender to a priest tells the story of Mozart with help from a harmonious soundtrack.This movie won Oscars, eight of them, so it can be a bit boring. This 1984 cast has reserved Mozart for most annoying character who is aptly played by Tom Dulce. The god crazy rival, Salieri, whom begins the movie by trying to kill himself is fine tuned by F. Murray Abraham.God is referenced repeatedly (even the title) and is the motive behind the frustrated Salieri. Beginning his confession from youth, Antonio Salieri describes his love of god/music and hate of Mozart the tramp leading to his downfall, the confession bender.The opera and classical performances scattered within this film are thoroughly enjoyable and authentic being filmed in the original theatre Mozart performed them in Prague. Important to note, the film isn't historically accurate though which is great for catching douche bags at parties as a conversation trap.The extras of the eighties deserve extra credit for their ability to outperform their contemporary counterparts (and most actors of the eighties) in something that should be straightforward, but never is now. No characters demand more screen time than the tormentor and tormented which the story revolves around.As the film progresses and Mozart's talent, Salieri's character evolves from praising god to hating him whilst using everything in his power to secretly ruin his rival. As Wolfgang degenerates into a sickly mess he leaves his house less frequently providing...The most horrific scenes of the film. They always occur when anyone attempts to contact Mozart via knocking on his door. The repeating drone of the door being loudly hit shatters what precious mood you've managed to absorb from the costumed lineup.The failure of Salieri's plan is evident with his decayed elderly form juxtaposed regularly with his retelling. Well worth watching if you have any respect or passion for music.Everything in moderation, even god. I give this two and a half joints.By Travis Lipshus for more reviews goto http://travislipshus.blogspot.com.au/
I can't say that this is a great movie, but I did enjoy it.  It had it's good parts and it's bad parts.  I think the only major complaint I have about the movie is the length of it.  The film isn't bad, but it's VERY long!  Oh...and I have to complain about Mozart's (Tom Hulce) laugh.  Could it have been any more annoying?  I'm sure that's what Milos Forman was going for, but a little too annoying if you ask me.I must admit that I'm a bit surprised this film won an Oscar for Best Picture, sure it was good, but Best Picture?  Well, ok, I guess so.  I was also VERY surprised that the F. Murray Abraham won an Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role.  I thought he did a fine job, don't get me wrong, but I didn't find his acting to anything Oscar worthy.If you're into classical music, then you should most definitely see this film.  I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone that can't sit through a film more than 2 hours long and isn't into films of this type.  For those of you out there that do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris


                
The movie successfully surprised me with its depiction of Mozart's character and of how he lived his life. But the movie also did very well in depicting the genius of Mozart. I also like how the movie integrate the music into the whole picture, especially on the music writing scene later on. The perspective in the story-telling is also a very nice aspect of this movie. By using Salieri's view of Mozart, the movie nicely confirms the adagio of a hater is indeed a true lover. Especially in this case, the hater is someone who also has quite a talent though not equaling Mozart himself. F. Murray Abraham nicely portray the old Salieri very well, projecting the amazement, hate, guilt and envy all at once. Tom Hulce quite successfully depict his role with the stupid maniacal laughter.


                
Perfection is a feat often sought but rarely attained (perhaps never, some say). Antonio Salieri, the man who never was Mozart, recounts his life and the great influence this peculiar man named Amadeus had on his entirety. From Salieri's outlandish dreams to royal career, Mozart's ingenuity eluded him and he could never quite figure out "how?"For such an eventful and studied life, Mozart certainly endured a lot despite having all the talent in the world. Skill was never a question, but showcasing and having others comprehend his beauty at the time often was. Salieri, despite his best (and vile) efforts, never approaches the perfection Mozart produced at a whim. To create perfection so easily is the great struggle that haunts him to this day. But maybe perfection is never truly the goal. This extraordinary biopic is as entertaining as they come. Whether for the great score, pleasant acting or overall story that will live forever, Amadeus is certainly a tale to tell.


                
Tom Hulce memorably portrays brilliant composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart(said to have perfect pitch) a deeply gifted musician with one big drawback: he is also a vulgar buffoon, with no real appreciation of his talents.F. Murray Abraham(Brilliant, unforgettable Academy Award winning performance) plays Antonio Salieri, another contemporary composer who is a sophisticated, cultured gentleman, but unfortunately, who also has only a fraction of Mozart's talent. This jealousy causes him to become not only a bitter enemy of Mozart, but estranged from God, because he cannot understand why God would give such an exquisite gift to someone so unworthy...Two towering performances and beautiful production compensate for over length and some pompousness, but it is really the philosophical duel between Salieri, Mozart, and God, that make this picture so good.


                
There's a scene near the beginning when we are first being introduced to the horny and slightly zany Mozart (Hulce), when he enters the court of the Austrian Emperor, surrounded by outlandishly attired royalty, couturiers, chatelains, stewards, Knights of the Round Table, personal trainers, and shoe shine boys. The Court Composer, Salieri (Abraham), admires the twenty-six year old Mozart with a passion and has written a little tune to celebrate his arrival at the court.Mozart is pleased and flattered. He asks if he can play it at the piano. He sits down and plays the simple ditty. Then, listening intently, he hits one of the chords again and again, and asks, "That's a little off, don't you think? Shouldn't it go like this?" Then he rips through the tune, deconstructs it, and does to it what Sonny Rollins did to "I'm An Old Cowhand" and Stan Getz did to "Autumn in New York." Salieri looks on. His smile slowly fades into a frown. And the plot is set in motion. Salieri has slaved all his life to become a composer, driven by his love of music, in spite of his poor background and a father whose discouragements were strenuous.And here is this young punk, prodded on by a stern musician father, performing as a child before royalty, a prodigy, giggling maniacally, mocking him, rippling along and making Salieri's tune sound like something children might sing in Kindergarten.Salieri hates Mozart for being everything that Salieri is not. He plots against him, tries to knee-cap his career, spies on him, makes an attempt to steal his work even when Mozart is on his death bed, expiring in his mid-thirties. Salieri winds up telling the tale in flashback to a priest who visits him in the insane asylum in his old age.The curious thing is that Mozart really WAS a musical prodigy. He could play the piano when he was tall enough to reach the keys. He learned the violin. He wrote a minuet was he was eight and had his first symphony published as a prepubescent boy. A similar skill in mathematics shows up at a similar age. By the time Mozart was my age, he'd been dead for thirty or forty years. It's a sobering thought. Too sobering. Calls for a bit of single malt neat. Hold on a moment.There, that's better. Thank you. Those musical skills are obviously something constitutional. The subsequent opportunities to "learn" how to do it are adventitious. It's "curious" because it makes you wonder, if this ability isn't confined to a single culture, how many Mozarts have been born and died unrecognized among, say, the Australian aborigines. Not only didn't they have a stage father. They didn't know what a piano was. They had no instruments at all that allowed one to control the notes being played.It's also "curious" because neither musical talent nor skill in higher mathematics is measured on any of the usual intelligence tests. Psychologists tend to dismiss these skills as mere "aptitudes" or "talents", as if calling them by a dismissive name discounts their importance. (The fact is probably that you can't measure them easily with a pencil and paper test.) Anyway, returning to the film, Abraham deserved his Academy Award, for what it's worth. He's quite good. So is Jeffrey Jones as the Emperor with the impenetrable expression and the eyes of a carp. Hulce and Berridge, who plays Mozart's wife Constanze, look the part but sound like two kids from Sherman Oaks. Hulce has the added disadvantage of speaking like Ryan O'Neal. I'm not certain that semi-deranged cackle was necessary -- we get the picture without it -- but okay.Most of Mozart's music that we see on the screen are excerpts from his operas. I was never a big fan of opera. But I suppose in a big splashy award-winning movie you must fill the screen with colorful display. What's the alternative? Have Mozart sit at the piano and play one of his breathtaking sonatas? Milos Forman must have learned from MTV that you can't even do that with Elton John.
... they are usually, by definition, different worlds featuring alien cultures but here the worlds are ostensibly the same, the world of music, which, as we are often told, is International. Theoretically that is, of course, true, but try telling that to Antonio Salieri, a leading musician of his time who has reached the highest heights only to run across Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart who, as far as Salieri is concerned, is composing music on another plane, one inaccessible to mere mortals, in short Salieri felt a little like Bing Crosby when Frank Sinatra appeared on the popular music scene. Foreman's film, which is sumptuous and chock full of music, is really about Salieri rather than Mozart and F. Murray Abraham manages to inhabit the embittered Italian admirably whilst Tom Hulce offers light relief as a Mozart who is portrayed as immature at all times except when actually composing. Whilst its main appeal will be to lovers of Classical music I would argue that there is something here for everyone, even a Sinatra fan like me.
