First of all, I didn't really want to go. After all that happened with this movie and after everything that Queen members said, I expected it to be bad. Very, very bad. But then I saw all those positive reviews and thought "Hey! Maybe it's actually good? I mean, miracles happen from time to time and I don't want to miss something good based on something as epic as Queen". So, I paid for a ticket. I was a fool...Bohemian Rhapsody is exactly as I expected it to be. Even worse, actually. And the biggest problem with the movie is the fact that the band didn't want it to be a movie about Freddie. I mean, sure, they're all very talented musicians and it's probably painful to live their lives in Freddie's shadow, even while pretending that the band still exists without him. No matter what they do, the people think "Freddie". So, sure, I can see WHY they didn't want this movie to be all about him. The problem is... there was no other way. The story of Queen is the story of Freddie Mercury. Who, aside from many other things, was a very complicated person. And the only way to make a movie about Queen and Freddie is to focus on Freddie's inner world. The same way that the First Man focused on Neil Armstrong. Remember how people said a lot of bad things about that movie just because it didn't focus on the American flag? But that was exactly why the First Man was so good. It wasn't yet another movie about American heroes in space. It was a movie... about... Neil... Armstrong. Bohemian Rhapsody does exactly the opposite. It turns Freddie into another character of the show. One of the many. And it's one of the things that pretty much ruin the movie.Like I said, Freddie was a complicated person. A true artist with the unique soul. And without even trying to look deeper into his soul, this movie makes him... well... a freak. Personally, I consider it a crime. Not because I'm one of those crazy fans, but because he deserved more... WAY more than what they did to him in this movie. And it's not about Rami Malek, no. The man is quite good and I hope that this movie will be good for his career. The problem is - writing sucks. Hard. We see Freddie saying and doing things, but we don't have a slightest idea about why. WHY does he do all that? How does he feel? Remember Sully? The movie about Capt. Chesley Sullenberger? Remember what Tom Hanks did there? Sully didn't have any action scenes, the landing sequence was quite short too. The whole movie was about Tom Hanks showing Capt. Sullenberger's feelings in his eyes. Clint Eastwood directed it in a way that we didn't even need words there. Tom Hanks' eyes and the right directing were enough. Bohemian Rhapsody? Nothing like that.Thanks to an awful writing and the pressure from the actual band, it turned out to be a movie about a group of cool and friendly guys and a freak with a superiority complex who were unable to do the things in a normal way. Meaning, feelings, thoughts, emotions... this movie doesn't have anything of that. It aims for a single thing - a bright and exciting picture. Something that is FUN to watch. A bright picture that shows us funny scenes of how famous songs were made, Freddie saying funny and shocking things to people, etc. Even the gay part is surprisingly dull and shallow. One kiss here, one hug there... No feelings involved.To make things worse, even though the movie is pretty straightforward, it's full of lies. Very convincing lies that make the band look even more cool. There are characters that weren't even based on actual people, there are scenes that weren't even based on actual events, etc, etc, etc. As the result, the movie feels like a convincing something that was ordered by Brian May and Co to make them look better. And that's exactly why the one should never ever involve the actual people in biopics about them. They'll want things done in their way. And it'll destroy any attempt to make something real. Brian and Co wanted a colorful yet shallow movie full of fiction, in which the cool British guys make a fool out of the EMI executive, who never ever existed in real life, they've got it. Bohemian Rhapsody is sure bright, colorful, it looks amazing, actors are quite good, even though many of them are TV actors, the concerts look shockingly close to the real deal, and yet, it's an awful movie. And the final scene (which is Live Aid, by the way, don't expect any Innuendo depression in this movie) is a nice example why. They've literally re-created Queen's Live Aid performance. They had a lot of time for a long and very expensive Live Aid cosplay. And yet... they didn't have enough time to show us Freddie's complicated soul. I call it a failure. But again, I hope it makes Brian and Co feel better about their lives. Clearly, it's the true goal here.


                
I'm not just a hater here to hate. I am a massive Queen fan and have been as long as I can remember. The problem with this film, is it simply isn't the story of Queen. Without going into details that would spoil the film for any of those who haven't seen it, almost nothing that happened in the movie actually happened to the band and Freddie. I love Queen and I love Freddie Mercury, but I am truly disgusted at the way this film branded itself on preserving Queen's legacy when all it does is stuff falsehoods into a fictional retelling of the band's history. If you liked this film as a film, that's one thing. But, it is in no way, shape, nor form, the story of Queen. Hopefully Sacha Baron Cohen will someday get the chance to make the historically accurate account of Freddie he hoped to make. In the meantime, I guess we'll just have to deal with this Disney-style nonsense.


                
With a lack of substance in tandem with a stale presentation, this film left me bored and pissed off. Simply put Bohemian Rhapsody is the worst film I have seen all year and left me not only wanting to see Sacha Baron Cohen's Queen film but literally any other director take the helm but the utterly incompetent Bryan Singer.Bohemian Rhapsody is a film that depicts the story of Queen and primarily Freddie Mercury, from the origins of the band all the way to their performance at Live Aid in 1985. It shows many of the band most iconic moments like their global tours and the creation of of the titular song Bohemian Rhapsody. It attempts to show the dynamic of the members, the rise and eventual fall of the band. I say attempt intentionally because in my opinion this film fundamentally fails at building any form of compelling narrative. Firstly I want to point out two things, I am not the final judge on whether this film does justice to Queen or justice to Freddie Mercury. I don't know the band personally and I'm not informed enough on the story to make that decision. I also wanted to say that I have heard various reports on how inaccurate the film is and whatnot . I am not in tune enough with the story to know how severe these inaccuracies are and personally I have no issue with a film creating creative liberties to improve itself.A biopic should be more interesting than the story it is trying to tell already is. Take for example First Man, this biopic of Neil Armstrong is true to life certainly but you also get a grasp of who Armstrong was, visually the film is stunning and the characters and script is well written and entertaining. This gives me a reason to watch the film rather than just read the Wikipedia page. The same cannot be said for Bohemian Rhapsody which I honestly just found boring. There are many reasons as to why it is boring but it mostly comes down to the pacing for me. The film is way too long and is tortuously boring. There is long segments where very little happens and as it trudged along at a snails pace I could only marvel at how little substance was stretched out to a two hour film. Not only is this film severely lacking in much quantity but also in any form of general artistic direction. It constantly feels pointless and as though it doesn't even know what it's building towards. This creates what I feel is the real issue of the film, the fact that it's just not entertaining. It is merely fun in the sense that you can look at bright colours and listen to Queen music for two hours.I really was hoping that Rami Malek would ,perhaps not save this film, but at least pull it up a bit and I don't think he necessarily did a bad job, I thought his mannerisms and voice inflections were masterfully performed. However I think Malek couldn't really give it his all with the script he had. I had a major issue with the script and I saw vividly how far it dragged the film down. I am not entirely sure if the film uses real dialogue from the band or not but it all sounded incredibly over dramatic and overtly simply written. For a film that had real people to base itself on, it really cannot create compelling or fun characters. Now I'm not the verdict on whether these characters are true to life or not however I do think they are vitally flawed and miss a lot of the steps in character based narrative. An amazing example of this is Brian May who in the film serves no other purpose other than he was actually there in real life, after two hours I still have no clearer image of who this character is or what significance he has in the story other than playing guitar. The most perplexing part about this is that this is a common theme for every single character. I was astounded to find absolutely no well written or interesting characters. This is particularly surprising when it comes to the larger than life Freddie who is written off as simply cartoonish. Firstly it does not help that all the character speak in simplistic dialogue that is only ever funny or openly only existent to move the plot along. Although the plot does focus around Freddie, I never really felt as though his character was being really developed or explored. The film always feels more like it's just moving along his life like a slideshow.Overall this film is just lazy and does whatever it can to ensure it draws in as much money as possible while still remaining "fun" and "eccentric". For example, the film has no original score, it only plays Queen music. I understand why some people may be confused as to why I want to bring this up, why it is such a big deal. The reason why I think it's so distracting is because it means that throughout the film either the music hasn't been matched to the scene properly because they desperately want to play a Queen song or the scene is oddly quiet because they couldn't find a Queen song to match it. I'm not suggesting the film ditches the Queen soundtrack altogether but it still should use some form of backing track to fill in scenes and compliment the film on a smaller scale. I have various other nitpicks to this degree. All of the scenes with Freddie singing are really distracting because it is clear that Rami Malek is not singing. Now I have no issue with him not singing but the film shows close ups of his face during concert scenes and doesn't even attempt to mask that it's not Rami Malek singing. I've seen a lot of people talking about how the ending is fantastically shot and it feels like you're actually at the Live Aid concert and I absolutely disagree. I felt the CGI was terrible and made it feel incredibly plastic and false and the cinematography was barely mediocre and showed nothing new or special. I also feel that during this scene and other concerts, the songs are cut off at quite odd times that ruin the scenes pacing. Overall this makes the concert scenes an odd mash up of weirdly edited music and false looking CGI where it has no place being.I definitely think there is potential in the Queen story, I think there are incredibly eccentric and compelling characters to be shown and there is potential for an epic story of the rise and fall of these titans. However even though given all of this on a silver platter Bryan Singer fell flat on his face and made a boring drag of a film. I understand some people say the film is just trying to be fun. Firstly the heavy dramatization and characterization of Freddie (albeit an incredibly basic one) shows it is trying to be somewhat a serious drama. Even if I am just wrong and am "reading too much into it" and it is in fact just a fun Queen film, it failed as it is drawn out and boring. The film isn't exactly shockingly terrible in terms of cinematography it is mediocre, however due to the extreme lack of substance and poor pacing this standardized cinematography does nothing to make the film anything more than abismal. The flashy advertising and idea of this film may coerce you into seeing it but it is honestly the worst film I have seen all year and not worth your money. This absolutely incompetent film offers nothing more than only the information of the band matched with a Queen soundtrack and some flashy colours behind it.


                
<f0><U+009F><U+008C><U+009F>1/10It's simply a crime to make a movie about Freddie Mercury and make him look like a man without qualities! It's not the actor Rami Malek, he's fine. It's not the rest of the cast, they're fine. It's not even the script as a plan in general - the plan to make a movie along these lines is also fine. It's the depiction of Freddie Mercury as a man who can only speak in one-liners, and slowly at that, a man who is just there in the room without any real presence, as if at a costume party where a princess arrives and maybe everyone wows at her costume, but in the room she has no more authority of a princess than on any average day (what else could you expect?). Thus Freddie Mercury in this movie just is and nothing much happens with or around him. That's atrocious! Freddie Mercury was a workaholic (partying included), a musical genius entirely devoted to music! Not a man without qualities who just is there not really knowing what to do! Such a sad waste!


                
I'll keep it short.This FILM sucks. It's poorly made. It's cliche. The writing is lacklustre and unemotional. It feels rushed. The STORY is a great one. What a great band. Shame they weren't given the respect they deserves with this poorly made high school project.


                
Sometimes there's a movie that really divides critics and audience. Sure a movie about one of the most iconic person of Rock (and music in general) should make Bohemian Rhapsody one of them, and it does. Honestly, the movie it's not bad -not totally- but it is messy. The structure is messy, the timeline is wrong and the characters are more selfaware than they need to be, but more on that later. It felt like they wanted to make a love letter to Queen, but the structure wasn't even nearly satisfactory as it should be, resulting in a Russian Roulette of cheap emotions and an unclear message by the end.Rami Malek is good as Freddie Mercury, reproducing several peculiarities of the original artist, but for me his acting was more of a series of impressions (a caricature) then a true representation. Don't get me wrong, it's still very good and very unique, but I've seen another Biopic this year (First Man) and by comparing the protagonists, I feel that Gosling's Armstrong is more of a "character" then Malek's Freddie and I don't know whose fault it is. Anyway, great casting too, I honestly want to know how they rejuvenated Brian May and taught him to act so fast. But even with a cast almost identical to the original band, the movie restricted everyone so they could make Freddie the absolute main character.This and other things are totally the screenplay's (and the people who wrote it) fault. And there's some Bryan Singer there too. The movie paints Freddie as a legend, a god from the first to the last frame, never letting us empathize with his character, his struggles or his wins. We're humans, the movie needs to humanize its protagonist so we can sympathize with him. The film even has a "bad influence" character so we could put all of Freddie's faults on him, what a shame. It seems like every single person involved with the band (except that one producer) was aware of what Queen means today. They're always convicted
that they would be successful, talking and acting this way, at least it's how the story shows us. The screenplay also manipulates time and events to fit the narrative created to the movie. Rock in Rio was in 1985 with a very well know Queen, not in '79. Freddie discovered he had AIDS in 1987 and definetely did not use it as "plot point" to empower the Live Aid performance, and he didn't was the first to go solo too, making an entire scene insincere. Propably one of the most poorly written scripts of the year.I honestly don't know where it's totally Bryan Singer's fault or some kind of Studio's censorship, but this movie is flat in emotions. Everytime the band argues about something there is a miraculous riff that saves the scene and in the next one everything is alright, they have a new song to perform. Unfortunately, not even an inspired Rami Malek and the Live Aid performance reproduction (which was cool) could save the picture. Makes me wonder how Sacha Baron Cohen wanted to make it. Probably he wanted to make a true Biopic of Freddie's life, not just a stack of exposition scenes.Probably he wanted to make it right.


                
Very poorly written, no real story arc and not really based on true eventsIf your a Queen Fan, watch the full Live Aid set online and enjoy yourself much more. The film ends up basically being a 2 hour montage of a Queen tribute band


                
Words that come to mind after watching this film include: Contrived, boorish, superficial, overacted, and a complete waste of the material. The public deserves better than to watch a two hour retrospective about the lives of people who were unwilling to share the real truth about themselves. In short, this film was an insult to the audience.


                
How in the world does this film win best drama at the Golden Globes let alone even qualify for it???? It's nothing more than a propaganda film that whitewashes the truth about a great band and the great musicianship of Mercury. There's a reason why Sacha Baron Cohen didn't want to do this role - because it left out so much about Freddie. This film had NO STORY and is unworthy of being called a movie.


                
A quite a lot of false or not true facts for Queen old fans. Also, main actor is not nearly visualy similar as Freddie was in reality.


                
What a dreadful piece of muck! This film will go straight to DVD/Streaming once the word gets outIf you love Lifetime Channel and droll, contrived footage - this is for you. If you enjoy a well written and good acting, this is your worst nightmare come true.I would save your money, and watch real life clips of Freddie Mercury and not destroy his legacy and your memories of his life by watching this badly acted film


                
I was scared to see this, mainly because most Biopics paint people in an absolutely horrible light and Queen was one of my favorite bands and Freddie one of my favorite rock vocalists. I was ready to rant and rave if it turned out to be a smear campaign of one of my rock heroes.Fortunately it wasn't, it was actually a fair treatment of all of them. And, in fact, it was really generous towards May, but then he wasn't the focus of the film.And the cast actually looked like Queen. So that is a plus. Everyone did a great job and props have to go out to Rami Malek, he would have been great if they gave him actual dialogue.So why the single star? Honestly, it's because of the trailer. As in, if you saw the trailer you pretty much have already seen the movie. Not just the highlights, but the entire movie.Queen was an epic band. Bohemian Rhapsody was an epic song. But Bohemian Rhapsody the movie has absolutely no meat on it.You walk in with high hopes, and the cast is great, but the movie as a whole is a let down. It ends at Live Aid (as it probably should) but even then it doesn't seem anywhere near as epic a finale as it should have been for such a memorable and lauded performance.Ultimately, there should have been more to it.


                
Ok, so I do like Queen a lot ..... and their music. But I thought this movie should have focused and elaborated more on the band and the music they made not his affairs and other small things that don't matter like him being gay even though he was. (And we all know it).. And I felt it was just..... too Hollywood and not in-depth enough and factual.... it was just "another movie".. But also, I will admit I liked the music a lot that was about it. And the acting was "ok" and it seemed like it moved pretty quickly. Other than that "MEH". So I have to give it: 1 star minus a star if you have 20/20 vision. Just, "MEH".. I'm just being honest..!!!


                
The sole reason for this movie's commercial appeal is the timeless score, but a Queen fan would arguably enjoy simply watching actual footage of the late charismatic musical genius rather than this historically inaccurate and exploitative blockbuster.The only positive generated by the creation of this motion picture was exposing Queen's incredible discography to a new generation. But if that's your intent, save your money and buy one of their numerous "greatest hits" collections instead of watching this abomination.Fun fact: This was the lowest-rated movie to receive the top honors at the Golden Globes in 33 years. It's that bad.


                
If you're making a biopic, learn the chronology. 70 to 74 to 78 to 76 to 81 to 77 !!!
If you know Queen PROPERLY this film is appalling. If you like the Adam Lambert version of Queen, you'll probably love this crap.


                
The movie is just plain bad and would not see it. It is a desperate way for the record labels/ bands to get more cash so the big record labels have more money to spend on there artist. The movie sucks really bad.


                
The film is probably OK from a music point of view, but is simply a disaster in filmmaking aspects. The editing is a mess. There are some scenes connected quite awkwardly, and the transition of the central figure Freddie is quite rigid. The character development is highly problematic as well. The supporting roles are flat and one-dimensional. The storytelling is too direct and takes a lot of shortcuts. Most of the dialogues are not well-written.In one word, the film could have been much improved if a professional director and screenwriter had been hired.


                
This is quite possibly the worst movie ever made it's probably realistically worse than xuxa movies.
Rami is absolutely a horrible Freddy really mr robot playing the Irresistible Freddie mercury. The script is very week and undeveloped no understanding of Queen being bi or the 1980s.
Really it could be a 3 but sooo many published 10 out of 10 lead me to believe that there needs some balance this is not the best movie made, the soundtrack is queen but worked into sound bites that chop the songs like well I can't say imagine not one complete song in the whole move.
How much did they pay you? Is a line from the film this review was not paid for and is only the first honest one here although the film critics are being more realistic
Love Queen but they and Freddy deserve much better than this Hollywood movie.
I know how hard it is being honest when you get a free ticket to a film 8.4 is the current rating within a few days it it will be less much less, what's the point of making such a 50 million dollar film with a two bit script????????
"What's it gonna take for all of you to forgive me ""
Any mention of them breaking the cultural boycott of apartheid South Africa by playing Sun City?
Thought not. At least they admitted they did it for the money the lovable rogues.


                
Rami Malek looks nothing like Freddie Mercury. Absolutely the wrong choice to play him. Just not believable.


                
This is the worst movie i have ever seen. The actors are Bad, the Story is Not consistent, people apear and you dont who they are and the whole Story does Not reflect the Real Story of mercury and Queen. Also the last 20 minutes is the ugly actor redoing the live aid concert. What the hack? I can See a better Performance for FREE on Youtube. This really is crap.


                
The 91st annual Oscar ceremony will be held soon, in the list of the main contenders for a number of awardsthere is Brian Singer film Bohemian Rhapsody. I deliberately endured a pause, waited until the first waves of delight and anger subside, carefully watched the movie in the original, all of more than two hours and now I would like to express my opinion on this biopic.
Remember the 1991 Oliver Stone film called Doors - there was still thin Val Kilmer playing Jim Morrison? After so many years, all the flaws of that picture become apparent. In the foreground, Jim himself, the other participants are registered superficially and as if passing by. Then, in 1991, Manzarek, Krieger and Densmore were somewhat offended by the fact that in the film about the group of the group itself there could have been more about themselves.
And now the new biopic, now about the Queen group - one of my favorite and respected ones. I am 47 years old, and I found the period when the group still existed and released their later albums (1989 and 1991). Many of us watched the 1986 concert film Live in Budapest several times. We remember that real group, we saw Freddie on the screen and saw who he was. And those of us who started to study the team's biography thoughtfully understood that Queen is not only Freddie. This is Freddie, Brian, John and Roger. All four wrote songs and played on a variety of instruments. And when Mercury died, the group quickly turned into ... well, into a parody of itself. Arguably, one can argue, but all later releases with George Michael, Paul Rogers and now with Adam Lambert are, in essence, a quality hack. The Queen were from the same breed as the Beatles - remove at least one member, and everything will immediately collapse.
Then Ione can argue, but what about the enthusiastic reaction of May and Taylor on the film with Ramey Malek? The answer is very simple - another chance to bask in the glow of past glory. Name at least one thing from the post-Mercury-post-Deacon Queen and so on the same scale as the records of 1973-1991. Do even try to recall.
So. Singer film. What we got in the end? Enchanting nonsense for 120 minutes for the audience of the 21st century, having the most fragmented understanding of Freddie and the whole group. An objection can immediately be heard here - yes, but in 4 hours the whole history of the group cannot be shown. Well, and who prevented to focus on, say, two significant moments in the history of the group - the recording of the 1975 album A Night at the Opera and on the performance at the Live Aid concert in 1985? Instead, we saw a chaotic race through the long history of the team, with incredible jumps from 1973 to 75, from 1980 suddenly in 1977, and so on.
I have not yet spoken about the grossly factual errors. Among the most egregious are, for example, John Deacon on bass as part of Smile, or selling a van to get money to record a debut disc, or a completely wild moment learning a We Will Rock You song in the year of 1980, although the thing itself was written and recorded in 1977 or John Deacon, suddenly singing in studio recordings.
Well, okay, viewers in their mass don't give a damn about all these delights, probably. Well, maybe the actors were great then? Not so. Ramey Malek as Freddie is not even a joke, it is a pure farce brought to the point of absurdity. A slender young man with very noticeable artificial teeth mannerates and grimaces for two hours, trying to portray a singer who, even in the years of same-sex relationships, radiated masculinity and strength. Immediately, we see a certain vocalist, who had fallen into Smile from where (all Freddie's early musical projects were simply ignored) (and by the way, it was possible to spend more time on Tim Staffell,) just as quickly changing his relationship with a girl for romance with men, and then throwing up absurd parties ... and so on, swiftly and at the top, skipping important events and moments of biography.
For some reason, it reminded me of the hackneyed cliché of a number of books and films about the path of a genius - lack of understanding of relatives, the way up, excesses, painful searches for themselves, psychological drama. And yes, all this is present in the "Rhapsody".
Well, but what about the other members of the group? Actually, can they save the movie? No, they do not save. May is shown as such a good-natured brat with no special character traits, Taylor is d epicted as that kind of cutie, worn off with one of his songs and suddenly fiercely quarreling with Freddie, and Deacon just looks like occasionally talking furniture. Oh yeah, he's showing the song on the bass. Next thing on him - silence.
The critics are absolutely right in one issue - Malek is trying very hard, but he overplays terribly, the beautiful picture does not carry any content with it. Instead of a truly interesting team history, we absorb a bright and mannered video clip with small pieces of facts. Clip feed for clip generation.
And one more thing - Live Aid was undoubtedly important for the band in terms of reviving interest in their music. But in general, they could even asa solo event gather 130,000 spectators, as was the case in 1988 in Brazil, for example.
What can be said in conclusion? Alas, the film was completely unsuccessful, in my opinion - a complete failure. I do not recommend watching at all, well, except for fun.
My rating is 1 out of 10 (I give a point for the music of the group that sounds in the film).


                
Why didn't they show us how he got his singing voice?


                
Good and exciting movie. But ignore lots of important facts and phases of the band. The movie selects specific moments over the years, but it's too superficial even when tries to tell Mercury's life story. Worth to watch though. Excelent acting, soundtrack and atmosphere all over the movie.


                
Don't waste your money on this. It was way too long, with little depth and substance. Queens music is mediocre at best, and the movie tries to rely heavily on it to keep it going. The only reason this movie will become popular is because of its political message, because it's just downright boring.


                
