This movie is a must see for any music and movie lover
Queen fan or no Queen fan,anyone who sees this movie will be going through a rollercoaster of Emotions
Beeing it Queens music or the story behind the music
Rami Malek puts down an excellent version of Freddie Mercury, but all the actors play great in this movie
In my opinion best thing to do is ignore the criticism and go see it for yourself.


                
I'm a 75 yr old Gramma that saw this movie with her son and grandson. We all Loved it!
I "heard" Queen music as I worked and raised my 4 children, but never really knew the band it came from.
My children Lived with Queen music, and totally identified with them, especially in their band performances.
My grandson heard Queen because his father played it all the time.
We saw this movie as a family and the movie was about family, friends, and loyalty. The typical band movie is about rising-to-fame, falling-from-fame. This movie is about hanging together as family, as loyal friends ..something we Really need more of today!! The 2 :15 time frame flies by and you're left wanting more...more... more...
Rami Malek is awesome as Freddie! He, his 3 co-stars, last director, music director, and entire crew deserve nominations! See this in a theatre that has great sound where you can appreciate the depth of the music!
One of my most favorite movies in 75 years!


                
Wow! I feel mind-blown after watching the world premiere yesterday evening. I am whether a megahuge Queen fan (although I really like many of their songs), nor do I know how accurate the storytelling is (, but I suppose pretty accurate since both Brian May and Roger Taylor are co-producers of the film), but I found the movie both intoxicating and moving. I have read some of the professional reviews, and I cannot comprehend their search of documentary wisdom in this movie; this is not a documentary, but an entertaining story of one of the world's most iconic bands. And the film delivers on all aspects. (And the critics were so wrong about the song Bohemian Rhapsody upon its release).As Brian May pinpointed in the interview on the red carpet, he found that the casting was excellent (I don't remember the exact word he used). But he is so right. Every major role is perfectly casted, and all the band members are brilliant. But I must emphasize Rami Malek's role as Freddie. It has Oscar written all over it. What he does, is almost beyond comparison. Chapeau for even taking on this role, and then delivering what he does. Even better, although marginally, than Michael Douglas in Behind the Candelabra. And Gwilym Lee as Brian May is also a bull's eye, but Malek really carries the production on his tiny shoulders. It was like watching our beloved Freddie all over again.Many, many memorable moments, but the Live Aid performance recreated: it is one of the best scenes I have ever seen - and I have seen lots and lots of films. Chapeau for director(s) and producers and the whole team for to me delivering the best film YTD in 2018!!


                
I dont know how to elaborate more than this. If you are 35 and younger, you will understand after seeing this movie.


                
For those of us of a certain age Queen, and especially Freddie, defined us. Sitting through this movie I had goosebumps. The casting just works and watching the actors playing May and Deacon you'd be forgiven in thinking someone had access to a time machine. Even Kenny Everett was instantly recognisable.
I left this movie a strange combination of elated and terribly sad. Elated to hear the music, watch the story and yet sad that Freddie was so desperately lonely.
Ultimately, I think Freddie would have approved of the whole thing. His genius and flamboyance shone through.
Truly brilliant.


                
Rami Malek will be forever one of my favorite actors since the day I've watched Mr Robot, I knew he will be one of the biggest star someday. Freddie Mercury is legend, everyone loves him but not everyone knows his story. Freddy Mercury is fearless, but not everyone knows about his desperately lonely. I dont't know how accurate the storytelling is but this movie is absolutely mind blowing and brilliant, such a perfect tribute to the legend!I'm not saying this movie is perfect or masterpiece, infact this movie has some issues with the director and delayed. But after I walk out of the theater, my heart is filled with joy, tears of happiness, brought so many emotions. That's how you know the movie is fantastic, darling. The casting was brilliant, bravo! I can't get enough with Rami Malek, he obviously worked so hard, Rami Malek pulls off an amazing performance, he just brings Freddie back to life and I don't think you will see any better film about Freddie Mercury again. It's an oppurtunity of a lifetime, every aspects of this movie was executed beautifully. Also the whole cast was so close to perfection! Gwilym as Brian May, Ben as Roger, and Joseph as John are amazing as Rami. Truly magnificent. I recommend to go and see this movie, whether you are fans of Queen or not.


                
Wow. What a truly inspiring film.
Made me feel that being eccentric and different is ok as long as you are you!
The film brought so many emotions - laughter, sadness, joy - very heart warming.
At times I forgot I wasn't actually watching the guys from Queen - they all looked so like them - especially May and Mercury.
I thought Rami rocked the role. Massive respect to this guy!
Would happily pay to go back in and watch it again! My film of 2018!!!!


                
I love it when it happens again and again,
critics are too lost in their purist world to see something well done.
Just watch the movie, it is worth your time!


                
Quite simply the critics are wrong! This is a fitting tribute to the best performer and band of all time.


                
Forget the critics. If they want a full biography movie go to discovery channel.This is the his majesty Queen's movie. Made by and for the fans and non fansI never watched movie 2 times in cinema - this is the only one i did. I watched on CGV cinema, had my tears, and decided to try the IMAX experience, and it is worthed it.Rami Malik was excellent, all the casts were!
You always thought "We are the Champion" was a cheesy song made for the competition or olympic winners. After watching this movie, boy my view will never be the same of this song. This song deserve a country to use it as national anthemn.10/10I reiterate - Forget the critics. Go to IMAX and enjoy this movie


                
This film is a masterpiece and it pains me to think that people get paid obscene amounts of money to watch films for free and then slate them to appear clever. Bohemian Rhapsody will be a film that goes down in history and so it should; it is a phenomenal cinematic experience


                
Just watched "BoRhap" and I'm now an emotional wreck! Utterly brilliant, the cast were fantastic! I'm so blown away by Rami Malek as Freddie, plus Brian May too! Definitely Recommend <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C>


                
I don't think I've ever been so excited to see a movie, EVER! As I'm sure many of you my age will say, I was brought up listening to Queen by my dad who was a huge fan. One of the only times I ever remember my dad crying was when Freddie died. That love for Queen has been passed on to my little boy, so off we went (a little disheartened, I might add, following the critic reviews) to watch the movie. Ten minutes in, my little boy turned to me and said , 'mum, I love this already' The film has you right from the get go! I honestly don't know what movie those critics saw, but it can't have been the same movie. At times I forgot I wasn't watching the real Queen. I laughed. I cried. I got goosebumps. I cried some more. I absolutely loved every minute of it. The cinema was packed out and as the credits drew, the audience clapped and cheered; something I have never experienced at a movie before. Do not be put off. Just go! If you have kids, take them too!


                
Just watched Bohemian Rhapsody with my wife, my 16-yo daughter and 14-yo son. It's quite simply one of the best movies we've ever seen. Rami Malek's performance as Freddie Mercury is phenomenal and worthy of an Oscar. The other actors are great too. The music is naturally magnificent. We're talking of Queen after all... We rated Bohemian Rhapsody 10/10.


                
Ok it's the opening day, the cinema is packed, probably 90% Queen fans. The fans ranged from a young girl of about 10 to old gits like me.Demi Malek is awesome throughout. He obviously worked so hard to not just look but to sound and act like Freddie. Then again they all did.There have been some negative "professional" reviewer comments and I did read them and I really couldn't work out what they wanted - perhaps a mix of Philadelphia Story and Mama Mia.The complex relationship between Freddie and Mary Austin as well as Paul Prenterband finally Jim Hutton was explored and dealt with appropriate sensitivity.Personally I felt it was short and would have loved to peek more behind the curtain to understand where the music that shaped my adolescence came from.If you've never seen it go to YouTube and watch the Queen performance at Live Aid. The reaction of the crowd wasn't overplayed it was if anything understatedBy the way Bryan Singer is credited as Director but he left and Dexter Fletcher stood in and made a pretty good jobWant to see it again


                
After listening to the reviews calling Bohemian Rhapsody a bog standard bio I think it's time for me to put my two cents in to the ring.Personally I must have been watching another movie. Or is that I just understood what the makers of Bohemian Rhapsody were trying to achieve.Actually let's start with just that.Bohemian Rhapsody is a tribute to the legacy of Freddie Mercury and also the band Queen. It was primarily made for the fans of the the band and to showcase the band and its history to a new audience.To do this the film primarily uses a straight forward story telling style. This also means that events and time lines have to be condensed and fictionalised to tell that story in just over 2 hours. This also means that many real characters have to amalgamate in to a couple of fictional personas. I personally had no problem with this. I also liked the fact that the film poked fun at future events using also comic casting. Those who have seen the movie will know what I'm talking about.
It seems to me that the critics wanted something that real Queen Fans have no real time for, namely a movie that explores Freddie's wild private life. We know what he did. We know a lot about his wild side. But Queen Fans want a film about the most important elements of Freddie's life. Namely the band and its music.Bohemian Rhapsody does something better.Instead of showing a debauched indulgent life, Bohemian Rhapsody instead shows us a man trying to come to terms with his extraordinary life. It shows how with the help of the truly talented other members of Queen he was able to do that. It also shows his Joy, his loneliness, plus some of his mistakes and missteps along the way, and of course his complex relationship with Mary Astor possibly the one person he truly loved.It tackles his sexuality and some of the aftermath of his partying. It also shows the beginning of his illness. This is all achieved with sensitivity and respect.Now for the music.Bohemian Rhapsody is possibly at its greatest when recreating queen on stage. Using a mixture of real singing from the actors, Queen and Freddie's over dubbing and sound alike artists to create a totally unique feel to Queens songs. Recreations of the bands greatest hits are mixed, to sound fresher than ever. Some even help the movie to move along showing headlines and critic's reviews as the songs play out. Then there's The Live Aid performance. Much like the real concert it almost dwarfs everything that has gone before on film. We the audience really get to experience what it was like to be at that event. Not just from the crowd but from the bands point of view. Almost every highlight from that performance is featured.The performances.Everyone agrees Rami Malek is a revelation as Freddie after about 20 minutes you totally forget that this is an actor. He is Freddie. This can also be said for Gwilym Lee, Ben Hardy and Joseph Mazzello playing The rest of the band in fact in the case of Lee the transformation into Brian May is astounding. As the film primary focuses on Freddie you can feel a sorry that aspects of the other members of the band aren't fully explored. Rogers womanising is hinted at but Brian's private life and his relationship with his father are not. John Deacon remains the enigma of the band.
Lucy Boynton gives a carefully measured and sensitive performance as Mary Astor coming to terms with the changes in Freddie's life.
Unfortunately Allen Leech has the unenviable task of playing a composites of some of Freddie's lovers and can be seen as a bit of a cliche villain. But he gives a good account of himself.
As for the rest of the cast. Everyone else is solid.The film begins with Live Ad and ends on that same day.If you're a fan of Queen I defy you to leave your seat as the credits role..
To Sum up. Bohemian Rhapsody is a celebration, not an expose and it should be treated that way by those pay their money to see it..
The Critics obviously didn't get it.


                
Love of my life11/10 in short this film is SUPERBNow I've got that out of the way - the theme is loveLove of a friends , love of a man for a woman and man for man, love of a family ,love of work colleagues , love and adoration and the search of love for oneselfBe prepared it's an emotional roller coaster - it's a film of dreams hopes and aspirations and the ups and downs all of that encompasses . It's a film about trust and deceit . It's about a maverick and it is about Mavericks that make them unique.This couldn't have been done any better , I personally hate films longer than 100 minutes but after 137 minutes I waited till the end of the credits and wanted an encore !I think the success of this film will see a raft of musical biopics - Rocketman about Elton John comes out next year , and I'm sure someone will make one about George Michael , Prince , David Bowie , Michael Jackson , Marc Bolan the list is long ... and I could even see a remake of Pink Floyd the wall with a story and dialogue in there rather than relying on the music and animation of the 1982 version .You probably know the story and you know the end but it handles the life of Freddie Mercury and Queen from their beginning in 1970 till the highlight of Live Aid in 1985 and fifteen year period of rise and fall and return to superstardom - I want it all and I want it now .RIP Freddie 1991 - you were so loved , you are still lovedDedicated to Mary Austin the love of his lifeThe show must go on.Pad.A 11/10 ( in the rock tradition of spinal tap level 10)


                
What a movie!!! Wanted to get up and sing. But then I couldn't because I was crying...!! Congrats to the maker!!!


                
I swear if Rami doesn't get an Oscar for this role, I will be done with movies forever. This movie was so brilliant, nothing dragged, there were no boring parts, no looking at my watch wondering when it'll be over. This is a must see. Even if you're not a Queen fan.


                
My friends and I had unexpected free time and decided to see a movie. We had seen previews for Bohemian Rhapsody several times at the theatres, and when debating what movie to see, I suggested BR. My friends were so/so but went along with the recommendation. They came away - blown away. No one expected to be so captivated by this movie. We all like Queen music, but not one of us had ever seen them live. We realized right away that the music of Queen is timeless. There is not a winning Sports Team that at some point doesn't play or have a slide show prepared to "We Are The Champions." People ask if this is a documentary. It is more than a documentary. It is a brilliantly entertainimng story about the creation and rise to fame of one of the greatest bands of all time. I thought I knew the story, but I had so many missing parts that this story brilliantly unfolds. The reason why Freddie Mercury had such a big range was finally made clear to me. His coming out story is both tough, hard and poignant at the same time.
The final scene is a magnificent walk down memory lane for many of us about a time when the world was united in the cause of charity and helping the downtrodden, a subtle reminder of how far we have strayed from being a Global, caring village. That scene is epic and should go down as one of the greatest movie moments of all time.
The sign of a truly great movie is the one that you were so/so about seeing, and came away wanting to get right back into line and see it again.


                
Excuse my biased opinion (being a massive queen fan) but this cast portray the band and Mary Austin superbly. I understand the movie took ten years to make, something to do with disagreements between the director and Brian May/roger taylor!!!Well let me tell you this, it was well worth the wait. The amount of studying and research these young actors must have did is clearly testament to their performance in this phenomenal story of the greatest band ever to grace the earth.Without spoiling the film, all I can say is that a certain record producer must be gutted or certainly would have been. Definitely two and a quarter hours of your life you will never forget. By far the best film containing music about a life story I've ever seen.An absolute must watch folks


                
I've been excited to see this for months. Finally got to see it and I was not disappointed. Malek was outstanding as Freddie. I sang along to all of the songs and cried at a few of the sad bits. I'm rating this 10/10 I don't think you will see a better film about Freddie Mercury any time soon.


                
This is my first ever review but I felt the movie was just so good I had to post something. I saw it last night in an IMAX screen taking my non- music loving 17 year old son with me. Am a lifelong Queen fan & was blown away by this - the performances by the four actors playing Freddie, Brian Roger and John were outstanding. Ignore the critics, they must have been watching another film. This is my favourite film of the year. I laughed & cried and have spent the next day watching Queen concerts & bios. The movie will stay with you long after you've left the cinema. My son , who isn't into music of any kind loved it. See it in the biggest screen you can to take in their stadium performances. Freddie we love you


                
SO GOOD! I never listened to Queen As Much, but it made me cry and understand a lot more!!!


                
A great example of why you shouldn't rely on critics. Had I listened to them, I would've missed out on one of my new favourite movies. Walking out of the theatre, I already wanted to watch it again so now I'm planning on buying the Blu-ray as soon as it gets released. Technically, it might have some flaws, but I can wholeheartedly say I fully enjoyed the movie from the very beginning to the end. And that's quite a compliment for a movie this long!
The acting is stunning and the casting is impressively done. Rami Malek is one of the best actors out there, in my opinion, and did Freddie Mercury justice. He did an excellent job at embodying the legend, and he's deserving of winning the Oscar that he is nominated for. There were plenty of moments during the film that I was in awe of him. All of the actors were great!What they wanted to do with this movie was to honour Freddie and Queen, not making a full-on documentary about Freddie's life, as the critics "complained" about. I'm actually glad they didn't go down a dark path and instead focus on the highlights. But I'm also confused by how some critics think they shied away from the darker aspects of Mercury's life? I didn't feel like they did that at all. In fact, I think they handled it appropriately.I'm happy with the soundtrack as well. I honestly wouldn't mind if it had been three hours long. Plus, the recreation of Live Aid is spot-on.All in all, wonderful movie that made me happy and emotional, and gave me a bigger love for Queen. Ever since I saw the movie I've been listening to Queen songs on repeat.Well-deserving of the awards and recognition it is getting, including Rami Malek who delivered a high-quality performance.


                
