For a movie that's supposed to be a biopic, there was far too much embellishments and alterations to the truth. Everything from the firing of the manager to the addition of Mercury to the band as well as his diagnosis was vastly different from the reality. The movie was less about facts and more about creating a more dramatic fiction. In this hot mess, some people's names have been dragged through the mud when they actually did no wrong.Greats sets and accurate costume designs are a small compensation for a corny movie that irrevelantly rewrites history under the guise of poor scripting and mediocre acting.Hopefully the positive reviews are merely hype at its peak, and that people will look back on this movie in the future and realise it was all hot air. The critics were dead on correct about this movie after all.


                
This MIGHT have made a great fantasy film...IF IT WASN'T BASED ON REALITY, A REALITY WHICH IT CLEARLY MOCKS!!! I can clearly see now why Sacha Baron Cohen separated himself from the making of this biopic and why it was turned down by other directors and writers. PURE FANCY. EVERYONE KNOWS the kind of life Freddy Mercury lived and the things he did, this is a fanciful attempt by the other members of Queen, all of whom are largely inconsequential in comparison to Freddy, to save face and present a pleasant PG13 fiction about them. GARBAGE. Avoid at all costs or accept as pure fantasy if you like.


                
So many inaccuracies and such lack of depth. The music is of course great and the production values lavish but the story was just so by the numbers and shallow. Garbage.


                
I grew up with Queen and am a huge fan. This movie was an insult to the entire band. Irritating and disappointing to watch. The story line concentrated on Freddy and the directing was really really bad. The acting wasn't anything to write home about either.
I spent 2 hours waiting for the movie to hit the mark and it never did.
Such a tragedy of what could have been a brilliant movie about a brilliant band. A complete waste of time and money.


                
I liked the band before I saw the movie. Now I'm not just overdosed, but actually disgusted by their music. And it's because of the very distasteful, cheesy and commercial-like way if using it in the film.
As about the movie there's nothing much to say because it can't be considered as a truthful biopic which it's supposed to be. It's because that the main focus of the movie is successful and greatness of the band and nothing more. It can't be simply even considered as a movie. It's much less entertaining than watching a live concert.
Everything is wrong to the core in this one. Awkward acting, unfunny jokes, campus editing, boring storytelling.
It's a commercial. Maybe for the upcoming tour. Or it's just another greedy attempt to make money out of the heritage of the great band.


                
Queen and the great Freddy Mercury, could they have been portrayed any worse ?This film is an endless succession of stereotypes, devoid of any sense of the era, and with a lead actor who turns a passing reassemblence to Freddy Mercury into a silly caricature of the man with his overacting and utter lack of skills .As a child of the 70/80s, and a huge fan of Queen and Freddy I didn't expect to be impressed by a contemporary take on the band, but this movie isn't even trying .


                
Great film! The Live Aid performance is carefully reproduced, it makes you feel really there! The problem is... the story around Live Aid is more Led Zeppelin's than Queen's Queen was not disbanded in 1985, they were just finishing the year-long The Works Tour in which they played Bohemian Rhapsody and Radio Ga Ga back to back at the end of the main set list almost every night. Led Zeppelin were in fact separated since the dead of John Bonham and they did reunited for the Live Aid show, with Phil Collins on drums. And also... Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987, two years after Live Aid, so it is false that on that performance he or the band knew he was ill. So, is it OK to change the story that much to get a little more drama? I mean, imagine you make a film about The Beatles in which Lennon gets shot minutes after the 1969 rooftop concert, just to get tears from the audience.
A collection of old cliches. No drive, no real drama, no interesting lines nor anything of value. Any plain boring documentary on the band is much more entertaining and has the bonus of being accurate. Sets look artificial, the extras are from a B list movie I could go on, but it just didn't make me care enough.Music was nice though. Through no fault of the filmmakers.


                
What the hell was this? It was like Straight outta Compton, a movie to promote a band with 2 hours of musical montages. Story was secondary. It was just peppered in. It was basically a behind the scenes of Queen's music.Someone for the love of God explain to me why the girl was the "love of his life?" They looked at each other once after a party and then she was the only one that "got him." No reason was ever given or shown of heir relationship.Let's forget the winking into the camera overacting for a minute by Rami. Did he ever bother to see how Freddie actually behaved? Not even close. It was a caricature of Mercury.One scene after the other was filled with cliche after cliche with the obligatory "Freddie first performance" was a mess to the record label "fighting" them. We've seen it a million times before. Like the disapproving father, but in such as overly written bad way.It's like they tried to shove 2 years worth of history and data into each scene. They missed a chance to do an actual great bio on Queen, which should have been about Freddie Mercury.Glam over substance, which in the end, leaves me dissatisfied.


                
This movie is a waste of time. If you really want to learn the Queen story, watch a few clips on YouTube, listen to the songs and you'll be fine. The whole movie is focused on Freddie Mercury (not cool) but the very shallow performance by Malek, portraits a man that was obnoxious and stubborn in every aspect of his life. The fake teeth is one of the most ridicilous props I've ever witnessed in films. Typical biopic cliches throughout the film, which compeletely erases the creative proccess behind the band. There's no way i would recommend this movie to anyone.


                
Freddie's character and actions were captured expertly, even if his story was not.This movie's primary conflict was Freddie vs himself, or Freddie vs Paul. This arc is shown quite well, allowing us to sympathize with Freddie's misguided actions and his true desires at the same time. However, this arc is fully completed with approximately 45 minutes left in the film. This forces the story to rely on a secondary arc, Freddie vs the band, but that arc also ends with 30 minutes remaining. The film then turns to a tertiary arc, which is Freddie and Jim, or Freddie vs his parents. By this point, we are so far removed from the primary climax that this tertiary climax feels like the movie is truly dragging on beyond its boundaries. But there is *still* 20 minutes left after this third arc is completed. The result is that the Live Aid concert feels exactly like watching a concert. Most of the emotional attachment has ceased long ago, and while watching Freddie perform is fun, there is no reason to include it in a film unless there is an emotional reason to do so.So how do you invoke an emotional response from the Live Aid concert? The answer is extremely simple: show what actually happened.In reality, the second arc, Freddie vs the band, is *entirely fictional.* Now, this movie needed a secondary conflict since the primary conflict ended so early. One band member selling out is an extremely common trope for the music genre, but it can be forgiven if it actually happened. However, that did not actually happen for Queen. The band continued to play live shows, and they even had to cancel some of their regular shows to attend Live Aid. There was no hiatus and no internal conflict. Including this cliched arc can also be forgiven if no other conflict actually occurred, but that is also not the case (which I'll discuss after a couple paragraphs).I propose that the movie should have been made by showing the truth. Freddie vs himself, the primary arc of this film, should become the minor arc. It will occur first chronologically, but it is still the secondary arc. After that is complete, the completion of the tertiary arc, Freddie vs his parents, can then occur, or it can be removed completely since it is not known to be a true event. Finally we reach the primary arc of the film: Queen vs the world.In reality, most people had forgotten about Queen before the Live Aid concert, and that concert reminded them that they actually enjoy Queen. Without that concert, Queen may have gone down in history as a successful band during its time, but also a band that could not live up to the rock legend status that they still have today. This concert was the life-or-death conflict for Queen, and it absolutely should have been the climax of the movie. Removing the band argument scenes leaves room for scenes showing the band's decline. Perhaps they perform at concerts that are only half full, or nobody in the crowd knows the lyrics to a popular Queen song, or they are rejected for a new record deal. Just as things seem hopeless, their manager pulls every last favor he has to get them a spot in Live Aid, and the band knows this is their final chance. Now instead of going into the concert emotionless, the viewer is filled with tension hoping that the band's performance is a success. Then the show begins and the crowd starts to remember how they love Queen. They sing along and get active...The movie also said that every band got 20 minutes, which is another false fact. Each band got 15 minutes, but Queen played for 20 because the crowd loved them so much. Even in the film's version, there is no reason to leave this fact out because it only serves to make the band look better.... Then once their 15 minutes is up, they begin to walk off stage. The crowd begins chanting "Queen! Queen!" and the concert director tells them to get back out there. BAM! That's an epic climax with the crowd's love as the conclusion. Now the final 5 minutes of the concert is all the "wasted" time in the movie, and it feels like an excellently satisfying ending rather than the 45 wasted minutes at the end of this film's original script.I believe it is absolutely inexcusable for this movie to show such poor screenwriting ability when the best script is simply a historically accurate depiction of events.
I'm sorry.. This movie is REALLY bad. First of all, the PG13 rating becomes an obvious hindrance about half way through. Your gonna make a movie about a 70s rock/glam band and make it PG?!! LAME... Second of all the time line is WAY off. I'm not a huge Queen fan but as a fan of music in general I was constantly laughing at the time line. I won't get into it all but anyone with a passing knowledge of popular music will call BS... performances are decent but man this movie sux.


                
This movie has a lot going for it. The problem is that is just to realistic, so much that the entire film just becomes so boring that I just thought oh boy this is just to much realism for me. The acting setting and music is perfect but it just gets extremely boring very fast cause the film does everything a 100 pro cent correct. Maybe it's just me maybe I am completely wrong in my opinion but when a movie bore me to sleep I cant just lie and say that the film was great even if it does everything absolutely right. So maybe other people will like the film and I can completely understand that but for me it was a big mess sorry.


                
