"Bohemian Rhapsody" had everything to be a great biopic. The story of singer Freddie Mercury is rich and different from many who lived in show business and at the time of the emergence of stadium mega-bands in the twentieth century. By itself is exotic a guy who was born in Zanzibar, Africa, spent his childhood in India and then was forced to immigrate to England because of a revolution in his country, began to study design and suddenly joins with a quasi dentist, a quasi-physicist and an almost mechanical engineer to set up a band that would be a hit-maker in the '70s and' 80s.But "Bohemian Rhapsody" is a lazy film that does not deliver even the basics, which would be a facetious, linear biopic based on historical moments of the band and its vocalist. It is a superficial, erratic work that adds nothing new or relevant to the biography of Queen or Freddie himself, one of the great voices in rock history.The film, for example, touches on important issues that deserved to be further explored. Ready a few: why is Freddie's relationship with the family so cold and filled gaps? How was your childhood in Zanzibar and India, where, by the way, did he start playing piano? What kind of influence could he have suffered from this life in these two places? In what family, immigration influenced him or not to be what he became? Why deny the name and origins? These are questions that could have been asked and were not answered. In the film, his family is almost a tip in history.Freddie's own relationship with his homosexuality, as well as his internal conflicts, lack and solitude are not properly treated / harnessed to try to understand who Freddie was. In short, it's a very little-delivered movie.Of course, the production suffered several problems. Initially, Freddie would be played by Sacha Baron Cohen, but divergences with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, ended up dynamiting their participation. The place ended up being occupied by Rami Malek, known for his participation in the TV series "Mr Robot", but delivering a Freddie just acceptable and nothing remarkable.After that, Bryan Singer himself was fired from production with two weeks to go. Direction this one that fell in the lap of Dexter Fletcher. But the film ended up having the same face of Singer's later work, with little depth in approaching characters and work short of expectations. "X-Men: Apocalypse" (2016) is an example.In fact, "Bohemian Rhapsody" only lends itself to Queen's good songs, especially those that represented turning points in the band's career - Bohemian Rhapsody, Love of My Life, We Will Rock You, I Want to break free "," We are the Champions "," Another one bites the dust "- to bring comfort to the heart of the viewer. It would have been more fruitful and cheaper, though, to listen to Queen's greatest hits on Spotify.The screenplay by Anthony McCarten and Peter Morgan, who is responsible for such good films as "The Last King of Scotland" (2005), "The Queen" (2006), Frost / Nixon (2008) and "Rush" (2013) also sins by not providing basic information, putting Rock in Rio in a random time and space between 1975 and 1985 and creating bad dialogues. Nor does it seem that there was a band there creating great hits. And even these moments of creation of the musicians sound fake and soulless.If Malek is far from striking, but does not compromise a gear that is flawed from beginning to end, the actors who make the other members of the band - always seen through the narrative with extreme generosity - are weak. Gwilym Lee (Brian May), Ben Hardy (Roger Taylor), Joseph Mazzello (John Deacon) is there to not compromise and be the sober pieces of Freddie Mercury's egotrip. Meanwhile, entrepreneur Paul Prenter (Allen Leech) is depicted as the villain in the film, responsible for the friction between Freddie and the rest of the band and even for his temporary separation.So, "Bohemian Rhapsody" goes through its 2h15min owing a lot. His most memorable moments turn out to be Malek's scene in the rain, when Freddie decides to leave the bottom of the pit to resume his career with Queen and the historical presentation in 1985 Live Aid, a key point for the band and Freddie, in a context where the singer had just learned that he had AIDS, a disease that would eventually contribute to his death six years later. But unfortunately all of Queen's timeline in the movie does not even hit 70% of what actually happened. Just as the viewer leaves the cinema without even knowing the name of a disc of the band.Singer, by the way, chose to put a fake Queen's pocket show inside the film to portray the performance at Live Aid. I do not know if that was the best option. It seemed like a lazy option to me. For it was not a movie or a real Queen show, bringing noises everywhere.So "Bohemian Rhapsody" ends with the false feeling of coming out on top, when in fact it left more holes and a bit of entertainment in an absolutely expendable movie.


                
Bland and trite. A paint by numbers re-telling of the story of one of the most fascinating figures in music history.


                
More like stars in your eyes than a biopic. Incredibly kitsch and painfully wooden, this film is hugely underwhelming and does not do the memory of one of the greatest showmen ever to grace this earth, any justice whatsoever. The highlight of the, otherwise dull and painfully slow film, is the very well made Live Aid finale. Using the original audio recording of the Wembley performance provided a much needed lifeline to a flailing film adrift in a sea of mediocrity. Dreadful acting and an even more limp screenplay. And did Freddie really have teeth like Tim Nice-But-Dim?Save your money. Stay at home and watch the gig on YouTube. Very loud!


                
Wow this movie made so many time line errors i do not know even where to start?
This was really disappointing considering two official band members (Brian May and Roger Taylor) were credited as producers?
Also i really do not agree with those that are praising Rami Malek's portrayal of Freddie mercury. personally i think sacha baron cohen would have did a much better job at this.
This move comes off like a LIFETIME film and not a serious Queen or freddy mercury Biopic for the big screen. I grew up listening to Queen's music and am a long time fan and this move was extremely disappointing for any real follower of them and for those that do not know much about the band or freddie mercury this movie is not a very good teacher.


                
As a Queen fan since 1973...there is not much I don't know about all things Queen
This guy looked like he was actually lampooning Freddie with his ridiculous teeth..he got it all wrong.The direction was cold and tried to over romantisize the facts...he was a brilliant performer but also a guy who willingly shared his condition with the innocents who were not famous enough to have movies made about them.Now let us get to the facts...they got most of them wrong...things in the movie never occurred ...and the things that did were in the wrong order. HOW ON EARTH could the producers ( Executive Producers May and Taylor i should note )get them performing songs on a tour that were written 7 years later??? It makes me think Messrs May and Taylor just added their names for the accolades.It also hinted at Bohemian Rhapsody was a coming out song ...IT WAS NOT!!Some people have mentioned Oscars...which is of course ridiculous...for me an opportunity missed.Listen to the Greatest Hits album instead. No word of Barcelona???The Live Aid set was NOT the best performance...as any REAL Queen fan will
tell you.This is just fodder for the masses and IMDB should stop putting up clear false reviews with a 10 score.
As a sentimental trip back in time I suppose it works. As a movie it sucked. Too many wooden performances and it didn't tell me anything I didn't already know. To be fair I was never a big Q fan. Never bought an album. I preferred my rock with a little less pomp but with a bit more meat on the bones. Somebody to Love will always be their finest 5 minutes.


                
Just like the Titanic, you know the outcome. This movie dropped off after Live Aid. Some would say the last 4--5 years of his life we're the most interesting. So yea, kinda lame.


                
The only 'pro' of this movie is the fact that it revived the interest to Queen and Freddie's legacy. The movie itself is very weak and superficial. The actor playin the main characted hardly resembles such a strong charismatic personality as Mr. Mercury was. Luckily, there are many documentaries and other footages that can show people the real story.


                
It was high time his movie was created. You can tell how much hard work was put into all the characters and in creating the plot (the lack of concordance with the reality was quite disturbing though, I must admit). It soon became obvious that Freddie can hardly be depicted by anyone, really. However, I could not help but think Rami Malek would make a much better Mick Jagger.


                
The reviewers are correct. The movie plays out like a Youtube video of Queen. So why don't we all just watch a couple of Queen documenteries for free on Youtube then ? Good actors boring film. Because its like spending millions of dollars to re-shoot a Queen documentary with actors. It doesn't make any sense at all. It's like spending a million dollars to re-create a tomato rather than going to the store to buy a real one for almost no cost. The film has "Watch the real thing on Youtube" written all over it which is not good. Don't care if Brian May or Spielberg produced it either.I'd rather watch a Freddy Mercury based movie with a complete fictional story say like a dark twisted erotic action thriller than this.The movie made me feel a bit stupid. Like when you take a photograph with your cell phone of an actual printed photograph. Or like when some people use their cell phones to take photographs of another photograph on a computer screen.They could have made an action thriller with Freddy Mercury character for the lead role. Explosions, machine guns, sex, opera houses and rock music. That would be interesting to watch. Instead they re-shot a Youtube documentary. Wake me up when Freddy Mercury is a character in Mortal Kombat video game or has his own action movies.Ideas for the producers for erotic action thrillers :Freddy Goes West, Freddy's Back, Tales from the crypt : Innudeado, High On Mercury, High On Mercury 2 The Opera House Tapes, Unshaved and loving it, The Vengeance Of Mercury, Planet Mercury etc..


                
Why is this film rated so high - its terrible... nearly all the facts are wrong. although Rami Malek does a pretty decent job of portraying Freddie Mercury I found myself checking the internet for dates and facts - you only have to read the goofs section on IMDB to see just some of the inaccuracies.If your going to Biopic a truly legendary band like Queen...GET YOUR FACTS RIGHT!!!


                
Yesterday I finally watched the film and I was left hugely disappointed.Characters of the movie are barely developed, events are extremely compressed and none of them were given enough coverage, the director doesn't quite understand what deserves the viewer's attention: was it Freddie's bisexuality, his wild parties, his loneliness, his flamboyant character, his relationship with his father, his love for music, his vocal abilities, etc. etc. etc. There wasn't nearly enough drama despite his untimely demise. Nothing was given enough screen time unfortunately. The film turned out to be bland and flashy, with very little substance.Freddie Mercury deserves at the very least three full-featured films each 3,5 hours long. This film doesn't do him any justice.
I'm going to be frank, I did not like Bohemian Rhapsody. The story writes itself, and that's part of the problem. There is very little effort put in and it feels like the director skimmed Freddy Mercury's Wikipedia page and whipped this film together as a cheap cash-grab on the legacy which Freddy made for himself with little care on providing a deep, respectful, and meaningful biopic on the legend of Queen.The biggest problem with this film is its blatant disingenuous nature, opting for Hollywood cliches over either fact-based story-telling or fantastical surreal execution. What results is a muddled mess which is neither true to life nor outrageous enough to capture the spirit of Freddy Mercury at any point, instead opting for a middle-ground that takes the shortcomings of both approaches with dull, drawn out bits of melodrama which never goes deeper than surface-level and moments of artistic liberty with about as much artism as Freddy the Hedgehog and as much liberty as North Korea. I find myself disgusted knowing that Sacha Baron Cohen's R-rated version of the film would have been much more interesting than what I'd watched, and I expressed the same concerns over Cohen's ideas that the surviving band members did. This film is so safe and laid back and set on preserving Freddy's image that it makes AIDS seem better than a common cold, and is filled with numerous sex scenes ripped straight from daytime television. To say that the film was sanitized would be an understatement; this film is about as uncomfortable with its homoerotic subject matter as Catholic priests are with adult women. The scene of Another One Bites the Dust was so dated in its portrayal of homoeroticism that I thought the movie should have been called Freddy Goes to Hollywood. With its PG-13 rating, there certainly could have been more done in terms of the sexuality, and especially given the Freddy's AIDS there certainly should have been much more touched on here and it should have been a bigger focus rather than the fluffy melodrama before this point. If you're going to do a film about a legend, it deserves only the best, deepest, most sincere telling one can give, especially when this film goes on to portray Freddy as a perfectionist and then hands the directorial duties over to Bryan Singer, director of mediocre, soulless, sub-par blockbusters such as X-Men: Apocalypse and Jack the Giant Slayer. If this film wanted to be a great one, it should have been more like Walk the Line, a serious and gritty film about the lives of those in the band, or it should have been Whiplash, a crazy wild ride that sacrifices realism in favor of bashing you over the head with stupid, stylish, vacuous, guilty-pleasure no-holds-barred entertainment.Rami Malek did an excellent job as Freddy Mercury, and the interactions between he and the bandmates are some of the only bits of livelihood in this otherwise paint-by-numbers Hollywood film. Though much of the melodrama was overlong and petty in the grand scheme of things, the actors did a fine job bringing scenes to life with some charm despite lackluster pacing and proper editing (Perhaps the filmmakers were running out of tape and had to make do with a single cut.). Malek brings an energy to Mercury that is miserably not met by any other element of the filmmaking process, and the creative overdubbing from multiple voices to mimic Mercury's is practically seamless and renders the aspects of the film outside of musical performances utterly trite in comparison, as I found myself struggling to stay invested in the in-between parts.The soundtrack is decent, but lacking a few staples in Queen's career. Notable exclusions are Stone Cold Crazy, Death on Two Legs, Bicycle Race, I Want It All, and One Vision, which are each among Queen's greatest tracks. Instead, we get two versions of Bohemian Rhapsody, Keep Yourself Alive, and The Show Must Go On. This could have easily been remedied with more focus on the music rather than petty infighting with the band, allowing more songs in the movie, and with less redundancy in the film itself regarding tracks which appear more than once. There is also a grave missed opportunity to portray David Bowie performing Under Pressure with Queen, which would have been incredible especially given Bowie's recent death and comparable legendary status as a musician. Instead, Bowie receives a single passing mention in the film and not a single legendary artist mentioned are shown performing (eg. Jimi Hendrix, Elton John, or even REO Speedwagon who hardly have much of a legacy to tarnish). Several songs are even out of order in the film, such as the second version of Seven Seas of Rhye, Fat Bottomed Girls, and Another One Bites the Dust.The inaccuracies are plentiful and too numerous and too important to ignore, especially given the pseudo-factual presentation of the film. Much creative liberty taken throughout the film's plot destroy the film's credibility throughout. In reality, Freddy discovered his condition after the Live Aid concert, and even the concert itself was no matter of difficulty as the band hadn't broken up, and Freddy's solo project was not a problem for the band, and Queen was not squeezed into Live Aid last minute as the film portrays, and Freddy did not give an emotional speech about his AIDS just prior to the performance, as all of these contrivances were added to appeal to the generic Hollywood drama formula. Even the formulation of the band is gratuitously simplified and given that boring ol' Hollywood sheen, and thus literally every element of the film must be brought into question as I truly believe at this point that not a single moment in this film is true to real life. Is this the real life? No. It's just fantasy, and the true shame is that it's not even a self-aware way, which would make such liberties borderline acceptable.If you want a great biopic about a legendary musician, watch Walk the Line, and if you're not interested in Johnny Cash then there's certainly nothing worth watching I suppose. If you liked this film, you're certainly allowed to, but many people I've seen praising this film simply love the band Queen and the soundtrack of the film and they overlook the unforgivable shortcomings of this shamefully lackluster motion picture. If you insist on bringing your family to this, you'll have to Tie Your Mother Down, otherwise she'll be leaving in offense as she grew up with Queen and truly cares about the legacy this film abysmally fails to tell.


                
This movie lives solely on the music of Queen and presents absolutely nothing interesting on its own.There are fantastic Biopics, that are not only a recounting of all facts known through wikipedia, but a statement of interesting filmmaking. Take for example American Splendor, I'm not there, the Wolf of Wall Street or even Loro currently in cinemas.These all have their very own approach to making a movie whereas instead of watching Bohemian Rhapsody, I could have just read the Queens Wikipedia entry while listening to Queens Greatest Hits Album...


                
As a former Queen-Fan I liked the music, but the movie is really bad.
And Rami Malek is miscast, Freddie was so much more of everything.
Little jokes here and there like in a TV series. Horrible.


                
I wanted to love this film. A lot of respectable people love this film, and I don't want to take that away from them. If you're a casual Queen fan, or if you lived through these performances, you'll enjoy reliving it. However, if you know the band's story, this isn't it. I cannot stress enough how fake the plot of this film is. It's almost totally fictional, like the children's book version of real life. Freddie Mercury is basically Nanny McPhee in this movie, waltzing into peoples lives and being perfect and enchanting. The band is always friendly, and they're always right and everyone else is always wrong. There are some cartoony, mustache-twirling villains, who were not like that in real life. So know that this film is INCREDIBLY misleading. Don't take it too seriously as a biography.On a craft level, there are also issues. The script is predictable, touching on all the greatest hits, but never doing anything really interesting. I hate to say it, but I think Rami Malek has trouble overcoming the wig and teeth. He does't look anything like Freddie Mercury (even with the makeup), and he's not even doing his own singing, so I wish they had just cast someone else. Malek really tries, but it never comes together. He's nothing like Freddie. Lucy Boynton is wonderful as Mary Austen, though. Warm and charming as she needs to be. Most of the actors playing Queen are serviceable too. And there are some fun cameos I won't spoil.The concert sequences are okay for the most part. I was never bored watching these, but the truth is, you can go on YouTube and get the same experience. Watch the music videos, watch Live Aid. This movie's recreations are watchable, they're just not special. The green screen is kind of obvious, the choreography is awkward, and it doesn't feel very real. The songs do the heavy lifting.Overall, Freddie Mercury deserves a much better movie. The story here is not true. Worse, it's predictable. Freddie deserves better than inauthentic and boring. But that's what this film is. There are some fun moments and some decent performances. But I can't recommend this one. Some people are going to enjoy it, and I'm glad for them. As wonderful as the songs are, and as much as I love this story, the movie just doesn't do any of it justice. It's a bad film, if I'm being honest. It's bad.


                
I love Queen. Freddie is a legend. This movie is not good. I didn't have high hopes, but I thought it might be kind of interesting. I actually can't stop thinking about how bad it was.First, what was the point of this movie? Was it supposed to focus on Freddie? Was it supposed to be about Queen? It didn't focus on the other band members much at all, and I was left wanting to know more about them.It jumped from one significant event to another. Queen was formed and then BAM suddenly they come out with A Night at the Opera and then WOW they're playing stadiums. What about their other great albums? What about their rise to fame?Rami Malek did a pretty okay job at playing Freddie, but he was portrayed as kind of vapid which I'm pretty sure is not how Freddie was. I also had issues with the portrayal of his sexuality and his death. We all know that stuff, but I feel like the movie just looked over that. Fine, I'm sure the writers didnt want to focus on that, but I mean... Suddenly one day he is gay after looking at a trucker? AIDS was mentioned maybe twice in the movie, but the AIDS crisis was a pretty significant event in the 80s and, you know, Freddie had AIDS, so maybe a bit more focus on that would have been good? I would also have liked to have seen a little more about his relationship with Jim Hutton, rather than just Freddie ringing Jim's doorbell and then suddenly he is invited for tea with Freddie's family and then they spend the rest of Freddie's life together? Also, what about Freddie's relationship with his family?!The movie focused way too much on performance and the big songs rather than on Queen itself and the effect Queen had and still has in the music world. Also why did they have to recreate the Live Aid performance? I can and have watched it online numerous times, I don't have to see actors recreate it. It would have been better of they just showed the actual footage or had the footage interspersed throughout the movie performance. I know that is where the writers wanted to end the movie, but it wasn't a good ending, sorry.The directing was also kind of terrible. The fast back and forth during conversations is unnecessary. I love cats, but why were there so many shots of the cats? And during the Live Aid performance, why did they keep focusing on Mary and Jim and then the fake audience?WHY?!?!I am a fan of Queen and Freddie, I know the music, I've watched the performances numerous times, and I know the history. If you're one of the people that didn't know about these things before, I feel sorry for you. This movie probably introduced you to the hit songs, but that's probably it.In conclusion, only see this movie if you want a very PG-13 version of Queen/Freddie, if you don't know anything about Queen/Freddie and want a really bad/ shallow/ inaccurate/ incomplete look at their lives, or if you want to be disappointed. Why did it have to be like this.
Only good music of Queen helped me to survive the overdramatized acting of Freedy character and poor cast all together. Would recommend to listen music on your stereo or watch good documentary about Queen rather than this.


                
Utterly mediocre in its best portions, unbearably bad in others. Multiple instances where the writing and direction are indisputably bad; cringe-inducing dialog, pointless shots, oversimplification and melodrama galore, subplots that go nowhere and make you go hmm. Rami Malek is good and I like the guy too, but there were many MANY better performances last year than this.This had so much potential.Generic 100 Genuine 0 Heartfelt 0


                
Mythical heroes are hard to make movies about, especially rock 'n' roll stars. After all, how can a wild, prolific celebrity like Freddie Mercury possibly be brought down to Earth with the rest of us?"Bohemian Rhapsody" tries to humanize him, and it affords Rami Malek plenty of showboating in the role. If for nothing else, it's a movie that's in love with its subject. The rags-to-razzmatazz Queen biopic worships the ground Freddie walks on with a devotion that borders on fetishistic. Hell, sometimes it just makes Freddie into Rock 'N' Roll Jesus. (A pivotal scene in the third act finds Freddie confiding a secret to his bandmates inside a church, as if they're his feather duster-haired disciples.)The original director, the troubling Bryan Singer, abruptly left the project, and how much of the film he completed before dropping out is unclear. Yet his fingerprints are all over "Bohemian Rhapsody." The concert scenes - and it feels like there are hundreds - have all the coldness, sterility and grandiloquence of one of his "X-Men" films. Like the rest of the movie, they're edited within an inch of their lives and too often confuse blinding backlights for dramatic heft.The movie tracks Freddie's rise, as well as the band's, in a blurry, relentless cavalcade of dramatic arguments and shows. Freddie, in his 20s and with a garish fashion sense, yearns to break into the music world, and he meets his would-be bandmates (Gwilym Lee and Ben Hardy) outside a pub. They need a lead singer, he wants the gig, and one hour and many montages later, they've added a bassist (Joseph Mazzello) and recorded four albums, and Freddie's realized he's bisexual.All that hurried hullabaloo envelops a blustery record producer (Mike Myers), a serpentine manager (Aidan Gillen), and Freddie's romance with Mary Austin (Lucy Boynton). Boynton is underutilized in the film, but so is everyone. The other members of Queen have zero personality apart from their tremendous wigs - their interchangeability is a bit like those homogenous dwarves in The Hobbit series.Yet the film's larger problem lies in its failure to find deeper substance to the band and their continued popularity. Queen, an ordinary band with an extraordinary lead singer, has been turned into a myth on par with more interesting musicians like Elvis Presley and The Beatles. They've been the basis for a wildly successful blockbuster stage musical, "We Will Rock You," and everything from "Guitar Hero" to "A Knight's Tale" has cashed in on their legacy. They feel less like a band than a product, and "Bohemian Rhapsody" happily hawks said product at sixteen bucks a ticket.The movie jitters between subjects, sometimes examining Freddie's sexuality or raucous personal life, sometimes looking at the band's musical process, but never marrying these focuses together into anything coherent. This rote structure recalls Freddie's own opposition in the film: "I'm tired of touring," aren't you?" he says to the band. "Album, tour, album, tour. I'm sick of it."That Malek manages to act through his ridiculous prosthetic teeth is the film's biggest achievement. But his peacocking and hip-gyrating only thrust skin-deep. Malek, like his other talented colleagues, never gets to play a human being. Nobody in "Bohemian Rhapsody," least of all Freddie, wants anything, has any goals. Malek simultaneously brings something liberated and something robotic to the role, as if every step, every tilt of the head, had been carefully choreographed weeks before shooting.And yet, despite the film's litany of problems, there were moments I was drawn into the action. Some of the quieter, slower scenes gripped me, and for all its playing fast-and-loose with the band's history, I left "Bohemian Rhapsody" feeling that it's largely harmless. It doesn't bring any of the subtlety or emotion to Queen that, say, "Love & Mercy" did for Brian Wilson, but "Bohemian Rhapsody" is a comfort film first and foremost, a marshmallow sandwich between two slices of white bread. Surely (and hopefully) there will be better movies about Queen, but few, if any, of them will have performances as virtuosic as Malek's.


                
I was not that impressed with the story line of Bohemian Rhapsody. I realize that it was probably true, but why did they have to show Freddie talking on a public pay phone making eye contact with a truck driver going into a public restroom in slow motion? To emphasis his homosexual nature? Ok, I get it, but I didn't need to see that. Or asking his girlfriend to move next door and turn the light on when she was there to show she was thinking of him? Weird, but not much of a story line. Or showing his many cats in the house all the time? Freddie's overly flamboyant attitude? Freddie's lackluster appreciation of the producer, who was great, but portrayed in the movie as an asshole. Where was Brian May playing great guitar and the fabulous Roger Taylor who sang a lot of the high parts? I would have rather seen concert footage of the real band. A very sad, tragic movie with grandiose, off the wall moments, which had very little impact and did practically nothing to inspire the audience in a positive way.
I am quite disappointed from this movie.
Firstable the story itself is quite intresting, which is quite favorable for the director. At the moment the movie begun, I was sure of what we will see at the end. I would even say that it underestimates the spectators. The movie tends to explain some details of the life of Freddie in a very artificial and appropriate way, for instance - "I have a big mouth, my voice cover 4 octaves", the initial game with the mic stand etc.
We all know that the band insisted to show the peak of the career, but with such an artist like Freddie I feel quite offended of the quality of cinematic art presented there, I would say that the movie rely on the glory of Queen and thats all. Another suspicious scene was when Freddy announced to the group that he has AIDS - they hug him right away. During the 80's there was no that much information for AIDS, so I really doubt that people with families and kids would hug a HIV positive person, no matter what. Freddie, giving a press conference was the only moment when the director used some effects and it was really bad, it can't be compared to what Gaspar Noe could have done with that scene showing that Freddie is high.
Malek tried his best but could not save the whole movie and to be fair, Cohen could handle this role the better.
The make up and the artificial teeth gave a caricature image of the whole character and in some moments it was much close to parody.
And to be honest, Life Aid is not the best moment of Fredfie and Queen, you can see so many people there, but come on, this is Queen, its not enough for Queen.
Lets also not forget that Freddie was intentionally contaminated with AIDS, this topic is not at all in the movie.
We all know that the members of Queen insisted on how to present the story, but its too old, too boring, there is nothing original in it, it is censured, so I really doubt that Freddie would have enjoyed such a view.
This film is a slog throughout most of its run time and the film feels like it was edited in a blender. As a story it just doesn't hang together very well and the film is not even sure what type of story it is trying to tell. Is it a rags to riches story that leads to self-destructive behavior? Is it the story of a band forming and having a falling out? Is it a the story of a bisexual man pulled in opposite directions by his heart and society? Is the story an artist kicking against convention especially his family's disapproval? The film tries to tell all those sorts of stories and it short changes all of them by doing so. Perhaps the film is trying to be like the song Bohemian Rhapsody in the mixing and matching of genres and plots. But it becomes a muddled mess that is real bore to sit through.Worst the film is very much in love with Freddie Mercury the performer; the man not so much. The treatment of his bisexuality is shameful. The Paul-Freddie relationship and the subsequent AIDS material has all the hallmarks of a gay/AIDS panic film of the 80's. Add in that Paul is cast as usurper and seducer (as well as the extremely underdeveloped relationship with Jim) and the film treats bisexuality as a medical condition and moral failing. Freddie Mercury did not have queerness forced upon him. It is shameful the film does this.It is also shameful that the film add ad hoc meaning to a lot of the songs. "Another One Bites the Dust" is not a song about men dying from AIDS. The film really forces the greatest hits into contexts they don't belong. The recreation of the songs is pretty good, and of course given they are using remastered tracks they sound great. But their narrative meaning is rendered weirdly. It just doesn't feel right.Likewise, Rami Malek, while he give a pretty good performance, isn't quite right. He is ever so slightly not Mercury in his being and much of the film feels like a skillful impression as a result. Add in the use of the actual Mercury vocals and the very poor writing and the central character falls into something like the uncanny valley. I don't believe that voice is coming out of the guy in the movie because it isn't.Nonetheless, the musical sequences are polished and they are dazzling recreations of the shows. When the band is playing the film is quite good. I can only speculate that this feature is why the film has been embraced by so many. It doesn't hurt that the best sequence-Live Aid-occurs last and leaves a warm impression leaving the theater. But looking back you realize how much crap you had to sit through to get there.


                
About as predictable as a movie can be, to the point of insult. also, why must movies like this story stray so far from how things happen in real life? it's weird. people with even a modicum of intelligence know why this movie received the praise it did and his very little to do with the merits of the film or the performances. Make this movie 15-20 years ago...its treated the way it deserves; as a second rate rock biopic that plays it safe. Make it now in the current climate...its great and blah, blah, blah. Freddie was the lucky one to get out of this disaster. Shame on the writers and producers, shame on the remaining members of Queen, double shame on the Academy, and shame on us for A) not recognizing the agenda or B) ignoring it because its easier that way.


                
I don't understand the hype around this movie. I was hoping that film would be made similarly to Straight Out of Compton...where you are taking through the background and progression of the group but that is not the case. The movie doesn't talk about any of Freddie's childhood, where he learned to play instruments/sing, what got him interested in music, what shaped him to be the person he is.NOPE! Instead we are dropped into the night that he meets the band it just goes from there. The director spent so much time talking about his sex life that they almost forgot that he was in a band. There is no progression of how the songs were made or anything. Instead, they briefly introduce the name song and boom, its already written and perfectly performed. The best part of the film was the final scene where they perform at concert, that was pretty epic (and the only reason that I am giving this any stars).Overall: Worth a watch if you have absolutely nothing else to see or do.P.S. Can we get a redo of this film with a different director?
