I'm fan of Queen& Freddy himself, but the same time I graduated film school and I love cinema, that's why I also like to be as objective as possible in my reviews of movies. Here I will try to make my criticism honest.Yes, sometimes professional film critics are deliberately malicious, and their opinions are detached from reality, but sometimes they are also right, and in the case of 'Bohemian Rhapsody', this is the second.First of all, the film distorts a lot of facts from Freddy and Queen's life, and if it were not significant events - I would not care at all, but these are important things and especially in a biographical film this should not be done, just to make the movie more dramatic. Fred's life was dramatic enough, if only the creators of the film really wanted to make an interesting movie, they would go even deeper into Mercury's childhood and the fact he escaped with his family, against persecution, from his own homeland. And this in turn could be the starting point / foundation for a deeper, better portrait of the Queen singer.Unfortunately, there is no depth here, the worst part is that this film is schematic, completely flat, only glides over important topics, does not carry out any serious psychological analysis of such a fascinating, complicated character that Freddy was.
I don't accept excuses, that "this is the story of the band and not Mercury himself". Because firstly, one does not exclude the other: it was possible to include in the scenario a deeper analysis / truth about Freddy and the band, and secondly the band's history is also poorly told. The best moment of a rather boring, long-lasting, first half of the movie is the recording of '' Bohemian Rhapsody ''. The rest is a fast, also quite jumping and chaotic montage of musical scenes depicting, carelessly, Queen tours and writing of individual hits, and while I understand that in a 2-hour movie it is not possible to show each creative process in the smallest detail, it was still possible to show it better from the pov of the characters - band members, thus also build better and deeper characters in this film.The second half is better, I admit, both in terms of pace and in terms of writing/story, and the icing on the cake is the Live Aid concert. The performance, photography, camera work, acting of the main actor is at the highest level in this scene, unfortunately it is not enough to save this movie from failure.Malek's acting, imo, certainly doesn't deserve an Oscar nomination. He tries his best with an empty and schematic screenplay, writers / director's mistakes are not his fault, true, but Oscar is an award for outstanding acting performances, which are not limited to robotic mannerism, it must be accompanied by the psychological, emotional depth of the portrayed character, and there is no such depth in this film, in this main character. The only really emotional scene that attempts to penetrate into Freddy's soul is the scene of conversation in the rain. It is here, that Malek's creation is the truest and the best.But again : when we look at this role through the prism of the whole film, majority of Malek's work is the mentioned mechanical mannerism - perfectly recreated- but it is not enough to rate this role positively, let alone reward it with an Oscar nomination. Imitative mannerism, gestures, faces alone - it is only a skeleton, an acting sketch, especially in a biographical film, and not a full, beautiful, complex image, which should be any biography. There is simply no soul in this act, and it's just a shame, if you play a figure as extraordinary, colorful and complicated as Freddy Mercury.
In addition to the obvious mistakes of screenwriters and director, Malek himself (for me), does not rise to the task. Sometimes he is just Mercury caricature, and large, artificial teeth don't help to erase this impression, in fact, the opposite. The make-up department didn't do good job here, famous teeth of Queen frontman could have been done better, much more subtly, it would look less ridiculous. Returning to Rami Malek - he is still a young talent who - like any actor - needs more workshop and acting experience, plus really good material, to really shine. That is why I predict Rami Malek will not win an Oscar.I still think that the great mistake of the Bohemian Rhapsody creators, was to part ways with Sacha Baron Cohen. When I found out that he had left Mercury's biography project, I felt it was a big mistake from film producers, because I was sure Cohen wanted to tell an uncompromising, interesting story, not forcedly smoothed , and it seems, my intuition did not disappoint me then. Cohen, a remarkable & colorful character like Freddy, would have fit in perfectly in this role. In addition, after hearing the interview, in which Cohen told why he finally left the movie and what vision of Mercury he had - I regret even more that it was not him who played the Queen main singer. He wanted to portray Freddy as a complicated, controversial figure, with a great appetite for life, but also a great artist who mixed the big ego with great sensitivity and shyness - I have no doubt that it would be a great role. Now it's just a missed opportunity.As a result, we got schematic, "polite" movie, ironically - because Freddy Mercury, as well as the entire Queen, were as original, unapologetic and creative as you could be and deserve much better. Sorry, but real Queen fan, who wanted raw, real, complex, deep, uncompromising truth and story - just cannot like this movie. Mercury and all the Queen story has so much potential (wasted in this movie). I guess I'll just wait for another film, bold and great this time, I hope.


                
I am clearly in the minority, and do not understand the love for this movie. The story jumped around entirely too much. It didn't build up the relationships or people. What could have been an amazing biopic fell short. It scratched the surface and never went deep in the storyline.


                
A crappy biopic of one of the most interesting characters of modern music.
You made a movie that doesn't even show Freddie partying as it was, or the legal fights against the band?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?
No, sorry, 52.000.000 dollars to make a PG13 movie of the least PG13 artist.
You've got 4 stars from me, because the scenes of him, live at different concerts, made my day at the cinema, but it was an insult to smart people.
-The winners write history, Mr. Mercury. I'm sorry.
"What about the other band members?" was a question I must have asked myself fifteen times throughout the film. The narrative follows Freddie Mercury, who is an irresistible badass, but completely flattened all the characters around him, including (but not limited to) all three band members, Mary, and all of the record label guys. Side note: RIP Mike Myers' career. He has fallen so far, playing a (fictional) douchey record exec with a questionable accent who passes on Bohemian Rhapsody because it's too "out there". That abysmal performance is emblematic of the entire film, which disappoints in almost every way.
Rami Malek portrays an emaciated, pitiable Mercury with a checkered past and some alluded-to sexual exploits. His primary qualm in life is that he's lonely and doesn't feel loved. Idk if this is actually true... The whole emotional scope of the film seems faked, and it upsets me that it's so hard to tell when this biopic is making facts up. What a waste of opportunity.Not having grown up in the eighties, but still quite a big Queen fan, I did NOT get a sense of the impact of Queen's meteoric rise to fame, their overall influence on rock music, nor Freddie Mercury's absolute genius. Instead, the lead singer came off as a flamboyant diva who whipped out hits at convenient times; and the rest of the band mates were so 1-D that, literally, any fights between the friends were solved by... Wait for it... The power of rock n roll. Wtf?The picture was, in reality, so much more complicated, with drug addiction, philandering and gobs of money influencing these musicians. Instead, people acted like a bunch of children reading an inflated do-gooder script. Why, Hollywood, WHY must you make a mockery of life as we know it? It seemed to try to avoid the trope of most musician biopics that play up the common problems for artists on the road, but in excluding those conflicts, the film became superficial and boring. It tried too hard, sadly.
Tbh this movie could have used more explicit drug use, gay sex, and WAY MORE LIVE QUEEN!! But I do have to give four stars for the delightful anesthetic, the wardrobe, andddd the ample use of Freddie Mercury's actual voice instead of Rami Malek's. But still, you're better of watching Highlander for a fuller Queen soundtrack.I'll be checking out a proper documentary on queen next!
I wanted to love this movie I really did. I was blown away by the first scene of the film and Malik's likeness to Mercury. Sadly, after this I grew even more disappointed. The way they have written this is so formulaic and boring unlike Queen's ethos. The whole thing just seemed like a Hollywood adaptation to the story and a money making opportunity.Freddie Mercury was a fascinating character and to try to understand him we had to have an insight into the way he lived his life. Unfortunately with the age rating of the film there's no way they could do that. They've exchanged reality for a Family-friendly movie and it really misses the mark.


                
It's an okay movie to watch if you have no idea who Queen, however, lower your expectations. This seems like another disrespectful Hollywood attempt just to make money andThe same way that last airbender movie could have been directed way way better, this one is the same: Good story with a big potential, badly written, badly directed.The movie tells very little about Freddy's personality, or anyone's, which leaves it on a very superficial level.The actor looks like Freddy, imitates his moves but missing his energy. Hearing Queen songs sung worst than the originals in a movie theater wasn't a joy neither.


                
This movie starts similar to many bios with hope and excitement. Then it gets fun even a bit of funny, far less than the trailers would lead you to believe. Then the remainder of the movie gets awkward that turns sad. The cartoonish buck teeth fired on the actor playing Freddy appear to cause him a lot of discomfort and there are SO MANY close ups of his mouth as the actor struggles with the gargantuan teeth it becomes a distraction to an otherwise brilliant portrayal. The movies reviews make it sound like a fun lark, a rockin roll romp, full of Queen up beat songs and good times. Not accurate.


                
First of all, some people here - the most fanatical fans of Queen - have to stop writing two-sentence reviews, like "genius movie, Oscar for Rami Malek" & give 10 stars, because this is what makes the review biased and dishonest. I'm also a fan of Queen and Freddy himself, but the same time I graduated film school and I love cinema, that's why I also like to be as objective as possible in my reviews of movies. Here I will try to make my criticism honest, substantive, and not too long (so that everyone wants to read it).Yes, sometimes professional film critics are deliberately malicious, and their opinions are detached from reality, but sometimes they are also right, and in the case of 'Bohemian Rhapsody', this is the second.The film distorts a lot of facts from Freddy and Queen's life, and if these were unimportant events - I would not care at all, but these are important things and especially in a biographical film this should not be done, just to make the movie more dramatic. Fred's life was dramatic enough, if only the creators of the film really wanted to make an interesting movie, they would go even deeper into Mercury's childhood and the fact he escaped with his family, against persecution, from his own homeland. And this in turn could be the starting point / foundation for a deeper, better portrait of the Queen singer.Unfortunately, there is no depth here, the worst part is that this film is schematic, completely flat, only glides over important topics, does not carry out any serious psychological analysis of such a fascinating, complicated character that Freddy was.
I don't accept excuses of the most fanatical fans of Queen (who cannot come to terms with the fact that many critics / reviewers, very rightly criticize this movie), that "this is the story of the band and not Mercury himself". Because firstly, one does not exclude the other: it was possible to include in the scenario a deeper analysis / truth about Freddy and the band, and secondly the band's history is also poorly told. The best moment of a rather boring, long-lasting, first half of the movie is the recording of '' Bohemian Rhapsody '', a humorous accent with a rooster and Galileo. The rest is a fast, also quite jumping and chaotic montage of musical scenes depicting, carelessly, subsequent tours and writing of individual hits, and while I understand that in a 2-hour movie it is not possible to show each creative process in the smallest detail, it was still possible to show it better from the pov of the characters - band members, thus also build better and deeper characters in this film.The second half is better, I admit, both in terms of pace and in terms of writing/story, and the icing on the cake is the Live Aid concert, so really the edn. The performance, photos, acting of the main actor is at the highest level in this scene, unfortunately it is not enough to save this movie from failure.Malek's acting, imo, certainly doesn't deserve an Oscar nomination. He tries his best with an empty and schematic scenario, and the writers / director's mistakes are not his fault, true, but Oscar is an award for outstanding acting performances, which are not limited to robotic mannerism, it must be accompanied by the psychological, emotional depth of the portrayed character, and there is no such depth in this film, in this main character. The only really emotional scene that attempts to penetrate into Freddy's soul is the scene of conversation between Fred& Mary, first at Fred's house and then in the rain. It is here, that Malek's creation is the truest and the best.Unfortunately, when we look at this role through the prism of the whole film, majority of Malek's work is the mentioned mechanical mannerism - perfectly recreated- but it is not enough to rate this role positively, let alone reward it with an Oscar nomination. Imitative mannerism, gestures, faces alone - it is only a skeleton, an acting sketch, especially in a biographical film, and not a full, beautiful, complex image, which should be any biography. There is simply no soul in this act, and it's just a crime if you play a figure as extraordinary, colorful and complicated as Freddy Mercury.
In addition to the obvious mistakes of screenwriters and director, Malek himself (for me), does not rise to the task. Sometimes he is just Mercury caricature, and large, artificial teeth don't help to erase this impression, in fact, the opposite. The make-up department didn't do good job here, famous teeth of Queen frontman could have been done better, much more subtly, it would look less ridiculous. Returning to Rami Malek - he is still a young talent who - like any actor - needs more workshop and acting experience, plus really good material, to really shine. That is why I predict Rami Malek will not win an Oscar.I still think that the great mistake of the Bohemian Rhapsody creators, was to part ways with Sacha Baron Cohen. When I found out that he had left Mercury's biography project, I felt it was a big mistake from film producers, because I was sure Cohen wanted to tell an uncompromising, interesting story, not forcedly smoothed , and it seems, my intuition did not disappoint me then. Cohen, a remarkable & colorful character like Freddy, would have fit in perfectly in this role. In addition, after hearing the interview, in which Cohen told why he finally left the movie and what vision of Mercury he had - I regret even more that it was not him who played the Queen main singer. People, who can't stand Cohen (they don't understand him) say it's good that he was replaced by Malek, because Sacha supposedly only meant/wanted controversy and scandals, that he would show Freddy only as crazy sex addict, taking drugs and nothing else. However, all of this are just primitive attacks, not supported by logic.Whoever saw 'Borat' and really understood the message behind it, knows that Cohen is an extremely conscious and intelligent actor / artist, at the same time, I will repeat: extraordinary like Freddy. He is a master of imitation, a master of using various accents, a great actor and, additionally, he can sing very well - which he showed in his role in '' Les Misérables ''. Cohen's strengths don't end there, because physically, with stature, he is much closer to Freddy (who was a well-built man) than frail Malek, has naturally dark eyes and hair, and with a bit of characterization, I have no doubt that he could have been the most wonderful Freddy Mercury. What's more, if he was allowed to do what he wanted with this role - to portray Freddy as a complicated, controversial figure, with a great appetite for life, but also a great artist who mixed the big ego with great sensitivity and shyness - I have no doubt that it would be a great role. Now it's just a missed opportunity.As a result, we got schematic, "polite" movie, ironically - because Freddy Mercury, as well as the entire Queen, were as original, unapologetic and creative as you could be and deserve much better. Sorry, but real Queen fan, who wanted raw, real, complex, deep, uncompromising truth and story - just cannot like this movie. Mercury and all the Queen story has so much potential (wasted in this movie), which is weird to say and how it all turned out, considering living Queen members were involved in this movie. Sorry guys, you did awful job. I guess I'll just wait for another movie, bold and great this time, I hope.


                
Rami is an excellent actor, but casting him in this role lacked the physical prowess of Freddie. Also, the teeth prosthetic seemed to disturb Rami's speech, much mumbling. A lot of the rave reviews here seem to be based on sentimentality rather than objective criticism.


                
All biopics are linear to a degree, but this takes it to a new level. The music is great, the storyline average and the acting weak. Like my soufflés, it sagged in the middle and I spent the last hour and fifteen minutes willing the end to arrive.I felt I should enjoy it more, but was left feeling I would have been better off serving up some of their albums on Spotify. Save your money - play an album.


                
The movies value is only for the acting, props and mainly, Queens amaizing music. The plot is politically sabotaged, to please the crowd that just wants more of these sexually orientated stories. Mercury was genius musically and the BAND, as he said, is just as important, they should of showed that, the friendship and composing it took for the records. The movie shows only the pitty the film makers want us to have towards Fredy, just as he didn't want. Plain stupid. I regret my time wasted.


                
Watching this movie was like drinking a flat, stale beer. it was too expensive to ditch, but I wasn't enjoying it, and I felt no buzz (despite any 'oscar buzz'). It's very poorly constructed, with most of the scenes being fabricated fiction rather than fact (so don't get excited; it never happened that way).I rarely felt like I was watching Freddie Mercury. Only in a few concert scenes shot from a distance. The buck teeth prosthetic was too extreme, and kept distracting me (freddie's weren't as pronounced), as did the grey/blue eyes of the actor (Freddie's were very dark brown). It was very hard for me to believe that this blue-eyed Caucasian was Indian. They really should have cast an Indian actor, because in scenes with his family, he looks like he was adopted. However, I did think that the actors who played the drummer and lead guitarist did exceptional jobs. They and the actress who plays Mary were the only thing worth watching. (Though Mike Myer's appearance was entertaining as well.)I was very disappointed in this movie. It could have been so much better. But it's basically a collection of mediocre Youtube videos from a mediocre tribute act.Three stars are for the star performances of Gwilim Lee, Ben Hardy, and Lucy Boynton, and a half-star for Mike Meyers (entertaining, but too similar to the Shrek voice). The rest all combined was only worth a half star.The biggest let down of all, is how they chose to fabricate series of events, rather than portray them accurately,which was way more interesting and entertaining than the fictional series of events they came up with.


                
Bohemian RhapsodySinger's adaptation of the ups and downs of Freddie Mercury and the infamous Queens, is barely of the quality that their music was. This is an unstable feature. Fumbling down the road, it drags, leaps and skips out all the crispy and husky bits that actually makes it appetizing. There are only few genuine moments that gives you the electrifying feeling of the stage and that too can only be achieved if the audience reaches out for the makers. It doesn't serve you its thrills and chills like it should.It makes you work hard for it. It makes you earn its sweet and juicy moments. It is a very difficult feature to watch. The uncomfortable in the uncertainty that the entire trajectory is covered under, itches you till the last frame of the feature. It is so bizarrely confined in its world that it never grows beyond its frizzy bubble. Even the last act, to which the entire feature builds up to, is so under pressure that it collapse before it even builds itself up.Singer is working so hard to make your feet groove that you can practically watch him sweat behind the screen. And that is so not a delightful sight to encounter. And in that ten to twelve minutes of a sequence, he barely draws out a nod from the viewers. The rest of the personal experiences of Freddie Mercury that is depicted in here, is so non cinematic that none of the drama conveys the message clearly. Again, it is so poorly constructed and written with such dull skills, that it comes off as two guys sharing the moments by reminiscing about it and they neither care nor feels to share the actual momentum of that chapter.The first act is your usual rise and fame dipped with mistakes and hints imputed by tiny innuendos that would give away the rest of the act. And the middle one, are just series of events that you have already predicted, being performed and projected with none whatsoever energy or enthusiasm from the makers. The editing is the major conundrum of the feature. It is not well shot or molded out. It is benign and juvenile at times, that it looks like it is mocking its own concept. It takes its material for granted and fails to communicate the gravitas of that feeling or moment. Malek is investing all his chips in. And you can point that out easily. His study on the lead singer of the Queen is plausible and way too technical.It is so mechanical that it is left out a bit dry. There is no depth in his eyes, it is always calculative. He doesn't go with the flow. He is measuring the crust of his performance which makes it less and less shallow. He has given enough range by the writers, McCarten and Morgan, to flaunt his skills and create a powerful impact on the viewers, but at those times the feature grows weak. Bohemian Rhapsody should have had the performance of the year and should have been the musical of the year, at least it had the potential to, but it's nothing more than a swing and a miss.


                
An opportunity missed, this could have been so much better - the early years were cheesy in the "gee let's do the show right here" vibe - the middle missed his whole hedonistic, promiscuous lifestyle (did that happen?) at least we get a good sing song at the end!! Too much sanitisation by the other old Queens me thinks!!


                
After seeing all the user reviews I have to say, were some people watching the same film?Pacing was absolutely horrible and while I give it points for trying hard, they tried to do too much at all onceEditing: who the hell edited this thing? A lot of the writing structure was absolutely juvenile and made it look sillyHistorical accuracy: This is a biopic FFS. I get that it's going to be stylized for Hollywood but they couldn't get some of the smallest details right and swept right over a lot of the things that people needed to knowThe biopic basically ignored like a decade of their career not to mention the fact that Freddy is literally the only one that gets any character development in the two hoursFreddy's struggle with the cultural identity and his disease was skated overBands conflict with label over the direction of their music was ignored
Music fans in general and those easily entertained will love it and while the acting was spot on, this could have been so much better.The studio very obviously changed this from R to PG13 in order to make it vanilla and pander to the lowest common denominator
This film was everything I feared it would be: just like every other rock band biopic out there. Seriously, take any rock band biopic, keep the story but switch out the band for Queen and you have Bohemian Rhapsody. It was rushed, over dramatic, derivative, and never allowed you to have any emotional connection with the characters. It felt more like a dramatized documentary than an interesting story. I have a feeling this film is piggy-backing on the music and legacy of Queen for ticket sales/good reviews more than anything.


                
While Malek tries to inject life into the film, it feels completely segmented and disjointed, as if the film pieced together 6 small parts of Mercury's life where characters were different people and didn't show development between any of the segments. And you can't even claim the plot is disjointed because they have to squeeze real life down into a simpler, short narrative because they took plenty of creative liberties.
The simple, fundamental problem is the terrible script. They manage to make a fascinating true story seem at points unrealistic and at others boring. The first act was the lowest point in the movie. It seems very hard to believe that Queen, one of the most legendary bands of all time, was formed by three guys in a going nowhere, not very driven bar band where their lead singer leaves them, and then someone watching who apparently had little musical experience joins them, and almost immediately and without challenges they rise to great stardom. The movie just glosses over and makes it seem easy and natural that these random, previously completely irrelevant local musicians become international superstars. The narrative in the first act was no conflict at all, led by Freddie and the others just support him and songs just magically flow out of them (the first session they have, they already have Killer Queen in their back pocket?!). The creation of Bohemian Rhapsody was especially absurd to the point of being laughable - all the lyrics and exceptionally complex rhythmic and tonal changes just come to him? No natural artistic challenges to work through and change things, especially for one of the most complex songs ever made? The lack of effort they ever have to put in to make great music felt like a disservice to artists.
The characters are very poorly developed throughout. The other 3 band members are completely indistinguishable and indistinct for the first half of the movie, and even after that they are completely flat characters with little personality. His relationship with Mary begins with no reason beyond he thinks she's pretty, and of course they immediately fall in love with no depth to their relationship. Why he chooses to marry her, and how Freddie's sexuality was dealt with in general, was perplexing and poorly explained. Had he never felt any attraction to men before marrying her, but then when going on tour we see his perspective to suddenly be bizarrely sexually charged?
Freddie's character more than any other suffered from the discretized narrative chunks. Early in the movie, he's a hardworking, scrappy guy who loves music and manages to get this band to take him, though he has an odd and flamboyant style. Then we see a jump to him being essential to the band and out of nowhere bringing them success. How he had the musical experience or talent to do this is unclear. Despite his individual and flamboyant style, during this period there is never a hint of conflict and he's clearly the leader. Then there's a jump from this unrealistic period of perfect harmony to an equally unexpected shift to Freddie being utterly self-absorbed and flippant towards the band. He lives it up, parties hard, and alienates the band. During this period, the reporters scene seemed out of place and jarring, as it showed very different emotional issues than were shown in the flamboyant party style surrounding it. It also implied a frustration that people only cared about Freddie's life and not the band or their music, which wasn't shown anywhere else.
And then we reach the only part of the movie that shows something that could be quite good, but of course they ruin it. A picture of Mercury as an uber-talented but self-absorbed person who pushes everyone away develops, and he seems destined to hit rock bottom. Paul could've been a fascinating antagonist in creating this spiral and pushing others out for his benefit only to ruin Freddie, but their relationship is horribly set up and never clear who holds power and investment in the other. The shift in Freddie trusting everything to Paul to turning on him by Mary's word was inconsistent, and then the ending redemption arc for Freddie made everything ring hollow and gave the movie an immoral message: Freddie rises on talent, only cares about himself and pushes others out, but then everyone loves him again because of one concert so his talent bails him out anyways. Not only is that arc not what actually happened (he didn't really push the band away), but it leaves a horrible message. There's an interesting story there, but they were too afraid to actually follow it (and it wouldn't be true to Freddie's story, raising the question of why they brought the arc in at all).
The music is perfectly acceptable, the Live Aid concert is good, and Malek does what he can to salvage the wreck. The humor often didn't land with me, but wasn't a key problem of the movie. As other reviewers put it, it does feel like an AI adapted a wikipedia page into a script, and the outcome isn't good. Who thinks this movie is one of the best of the year??? There are some decent individual scenes, mostly thanks to Malek, but the plot is riddled with holes and character inconsistencies, and aside from hearing good Queen songs, none of it really feels fun to watch.


                
Apart from the soundtrack, which is of course excellent, this was terribly hum-drum. Malik was distracting and the rest of the cast straight out of the Grange Hill school of acting, but that was perhaps because the laughably clunky band-supervised (co-producers) script was so utterly bland and lacking in even a trace of originality. Still, the songs are good and the audience I was in cheered at the end (and not because it was the end like me, I don't think) so if you're a mega mega fan (I'm just a lowly fan) of the band then maybe you'll cheer too.


                
Stop me if you've heard this before: Failing pub band loses its lead singer. New singer shows up, the band gets a record contract based on his front man persona, the get hits, he becomes a lonely alcoholic, leaves the band, fails in his solo career, comes back to the band. Yawn. Queen put out some great music but as a band, their story just isn't very interesting. Well-acted but kinda boring.


                
This movie was not bad by any means; however, this movie had the potential to be much greater. The movie did a good job show the grandness of her majesty, but it never got connected emotionally. Overall, by the end of you still feel as detached from the legends as before. I imagine the way some one wrote this script was by trying to find a way to make a movie about their favorite band. When you value the subject of the story over the story, you end up with a lame movie. In summary, if you took all the queen music out of this movie it would be a bad movie.


                
I've been Queen fan since i was 14 yrs old and I'm now 52 so there's a ton of stuff i know about this band, but after seeing this film i was left gobsmacked at how bad this film is, so if your a Queen fan and I mean a REAL QUEEN FAN don't waste your money just download it from the web cause that is what i should have done. They had a scene in which they starting to put together the song "we will rock you" with the foot stomps starting in the studio, the one little problem i had with is Freddie comes into the studio with a full on mustache, the song was released in 1977 on News of the World album, Freddie didn't grow a mustache til late 1980/81 after The Game album came out. This was just a number of things that that bothered and there's many more.
I'm really surprised that Brian May had a hand in putting this together you think he of all people would been able to put facts in this film
then fiction.
I'm just REALLY, REALLY, REALLY upset that this film didn't do any justice for Freddie and Mr. May you should be ashamed of yourself.Queen fan for Life ROCK N ROLL!!!!!!!


                
Bohemian Rhapsody started out life way back in 2010, with Sacha Baron Cohen set to star as Queen's hypnotic frontman Freddie Mercury. With band members Brian May and Roger Taylor heavily involved in the development, Baron Cohen eventually left, citing creative differences with the way they wished to approach the story as the main reason for his departure. The years went by, and in 2017, the wheels were well and truly in motion with Bryan Singer in the director's chair and Rami Malek in the lead role. The production was famously dogged with problems, and when Singer was eventually fired for unprofessional behaviour (reports say he was frequently disruptive on set, even failing to turn up for three days straight), it felt like the film would never see the light of day. But Dexter Fletcher filled the vacant director's chair and Bohemian Rhapsody was released to huge box-office numbers, and recently received Academy Award nominations for Best Picture and Best Actor, amongst others.Remarkably, despite the film's difficult production, there's no sign of patchwork or a clash of directorial styles. Bohemian Rhapsody actually has much greater problems, and while anybody looking for an easily-digestible Queen sing-a-long with find much to love here, anybody hoping for a deeper re-telling of one of the music's most enigmatic figures with likely be baffled at the film's eagerness to share the credit and Wikipedia-entry approach to story-telling. We briefly get to see Mercury before he took to the stage, working as a baggage-handler at Heathrow while his parents worry about his lack of academic ambition. His experience as a young immigrant is summarised by a single racial slur, and the film isn't too concerned with exploring this any further. Perhaps screenwriter Anthony McCarten (who wrote last year's similarly formulaic Oscar-baiter Darkest Hour) felt like this would be too much of a drag for the audience, so he quickly moves to Mercury introducing himself to Smile guitarist Brian May (Gwilym Lee) and drummer Roger Taylor (Ben Hardy), coincidentally mere seconds after the band loses its lead singer.A few montages later and the band now known as Queen (bassist John Deacon (Joseph Mazzello) completes the group) are signed up by manager John Reid (Aidan Gillen) and land a contract with EMI Records. The characters act and talk like they already know how the story turns out, and the film only manages to scratch beneath the surface when dealing with Mercury's relationship with love-of-his-life Mary Austin (Lucy Boynton) and her gradual realisation of his sexuality. The rest consists of band squabbles that always seem to conclude with the writing of a hit song, rock movie cliches like the alcohol-fuelled parties and accelerating ego, and cartoon supporting characters (Mike Myers' meta appearance as EMI executive Ray Foster spectacularly misses the mark). By aiming for 12A/PG-13 certificate, Mercury's story is oddly sexless. For a man that radiated sex and sexiness with every air-punch and pout, the lack of raunchiness adds an unwelcome TV-movie quality. It only really comes alive when Malik is allowed to do his thing on stage, climaxing with an extended Live Aid performance that will have you singing along and waving your arms. It's a great impression by Malik, if hardly a great performance, and it helps reminds us of how great Queen really were and how timeless their sound is. Bohemian Rhapsody has certainly made me a bigger Queen fan, but this isn't the biopic the band deserve. That being said, I haven't come across a single person that agrees with me, so what do I know


                
Queens music was, is & always shall be fantastic. The late great Freddie Mercury was such an incredible talent & is still sadly missed to this day by his friends, family & many fans.Sadly this film is very low production quality. Its more of a Lifetime TV movie of the week than cinematic story. The direction is terrible & very disjointed. So is the confused editing. Story is very weak & the screenplay is utterly appalling. It gives the actors nothing to work with & makes the 4 Queen band members appear as bland 1 dimensional impersonations with zero charisma.Freddie Mercury was an incredible talent but here he is depicted as a selfish & unlikeable diva. The actor playing him is pretty weak & unconvincing to me.Brian May is another incredible musical talent & is given literally nothing to do in the movie despite being at least 50% of Queens success story.Same for Roger Taylor he comes across as a very unlikeable serial womaniser. The real Roger is nothing like that!John Deacon is given so little to work with & depicted as a dumb buffoon. The real John Deacon is a highly skilled musician!I am shocked May & Taylor allowed this movie to go ahead its not flattering to them & just serves as a music company promo docudrama rather than a proper tell a story about the band cinematic movie event.Massive letdown for me as a lifelong Queen fan.


                
I can 100% confirm that this movie is completely reliant on the audience to enjoy the music. There are elements to the film's sequence of events that you normally find in a satire of rags to riches band movies, but not added as a joke. It's one of the most disappointing movies I've seen all year. The biggest issue with the film is that it comes off as incredibly disingenuous. An extremely paint by numbers story that you've definitely seen already if you've seen any musical biopic ever made. I feel so sorry for Rami Malek lending his fantastic acting skills to this underwhelming film. All I could think when watching this movie is "How the hell are people supposed to get anything out of this film if they aren't fans of Queen?" Really disappointing.


                
This wasn't the train wreck I expected from the reviews, but for a film with themes of not following a formula and getting experimental, it's pretty formulaic. I could've forgiven this if it had stuck to the real story or at least of made it interesting. Instead we have another average historical biopic with a stellar performance.


                
