Cool movie for sure, I enjoyed it a lot. However, I don't think it should be given 10/10s because it wasnt THAT good. I'll explain why, going through the main different things that made the film:Music (11/10)
Queen rocks. Every song was great.Story/characters (7/10)
At the beginning it was very clunky, not having a main goal or motivation. Also it hopped forwards in time a lot, which can sometimes work in movies, but not to the extent they did it in this one. It just felt rushed. Also a lot of the scenes werent really anything more than just showing us how some of the songs were made, which is interesting, just not relevant to the story. However, later the story gained a driving force as it settled into the time period just before Live Aid. Before, I would say the story was a 5/10 stars, but by the end it probably reached around 9/10, a really solid film by the end. Conflict, important character motivations, and interesting drama were only introduced about halfway into the film. I wish they just started the film then and cut out the beginning.Acting (9/10)
Top notch, of course. The only thing I would say was negative for this was that Malek's acting at the start was a bit shaky, but improved greatly by the halfway point in the film. Perhaps this factor also led to me disliking the start of the movie. All the supporting characters were great as well as Malek. I especially liked the actor who played Brian May, I thought he was perfect for the role.Cinematography (6/10)
Nothing special. Just your average cinematography.Editing (5/10)
This really was the worst element of the film in my opinion. The editing at the beginning of the film was a bit clunky, distracting from the story. My least favorite part was the artificial blurring, especially in the interviewing scene. I assume this was done in editing, not in cinematography, because it looked so unnatural. It was extremely distracting. I think it was meant to make the scene disorienting, but all it did was make me less invested in the movie, because the effect was so annoying.Overall:
38/50 = 7.6/10


                
I am huge fan of Queen and lead singer Freddie Mercury, so I was highly excited about seeing a biopic, I had been hearing about the making of this much-delayed film for a few years, including the departure of original leading actor Sacha Baron Cohen. I saw a good number of trailer for it, it looked like it was going to be fantastic, and it was released four days before my birthday, so I hoped it would be a perfect treat, directed by Bryan Singer (The Usual Suspects, X-Men, Superman Returns, Valkyrie, X-Men: Days of Future Past), and Dexter Fletcher (uncredited, completed the film after Singer's departure). Basically in 1970, Indian British Parsi college student Farrokh Bulsara (Rami Malek) works as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport, but dreams of becoming a singer, and has a hobby for song writing. One night he goes to a nightclub to watch a local band called Smile, after the show he meets the band, guitarist Brian May (Gwilym Lee) and drummer Roger Taylor (EastEnders' Ben Hardy). But the band's lead vocalist bassist/vocalist Tim Staffell (Jack Roth) quits to join the band Humpy Bong, Farrokh offers to become their new lead singer, and their songwriter. The band are also joined by bassist John Deacon (Joseph Mazzello), and they rename themselves Queen, they play numerous local gigs across England, until they sell their van to fund and produce their debut album, Queen. Their musical style lands them a contract with EMI Records, and at the same time, Farrokh legally changes his name to Freddie Mercury and becomes engaged to Mary Austin (Lucy Boynton). Queen slowly climb to stardom, with a further two albums, Queen II and Sheer Heart Attack, and go on tour to the United States, it is there that Freddie begins to question his sexuality. In 1975, Queen record their fourth album, A Night at the Opera, they insist that the first song released is "Bohemian Rhapsody", but executive Ray Foster (Mike Myers) refuses, saying radio will not play a six-minute long, so they leave EMI. Freddie meets DJ Kenny Everett (Dickie Beau) on Capital Radio, who debuts the song on the airwaves, despite mixed reviews, "Bohemian Rhapsody" becomes a smash hit, reaching Christmas Number One (and again in 1991). Shortly after returning from the band's world tour, Freddie is heartbroken when Mary breaks up with him when he reveals to her that he is bisexual, but she aware that he is actually gay. He then forms a relationship with his personal manager Paul Prenter (Allen Leech). With albums A Day at the Races, News of the World, Jazz, and The Game, the success of Queen continues into the 1980s, Freddie has grown a moustache, but tensions arise between the band members over the direction of their music and a change in Freddie's attitude. After a lavish party at his home, Freddie falls in love with Jim Hutton (Aaron McCusker), one of the waiters at the party. They shortly part ways, with Jim telling Freddie to look for him when he finds his inner self. Freddie is bombarded with questions on his personal life and sexuality, during band's press conference to promote their 1982 album Hot Space, no questions about the album itself. Freddie's relationship with his band mates dissipates when he announces that he signed a $4 million deal with CBS Records to go solo. In 1984, he moves to Munich to work on his first solo album Mr. Bad Guy and engage in non-stop gay orgies with Paul. One night, Mary pays him a visit and urges him to return to the band, they have been offered a spot in the benefit concert Live Aid at Wembley Stadium, organised by Bob Geldof (Dermot Murphy), she also reveals that she is pregnant. After discovering Paul withheld information about Live Aid from him, Freddie breaks up with Paul, who is response goes on television to discuss Freddie's sexual escapades. The AIDS virus outbreak is spreading worldwide, Freddie secretly has himself medically checked and discovers that he does have the infection. Freddie returns to London to meet with his band mates and current manager Jim Beach (Tom Hollander) to ask for forgiveness, they reconcile and are given a last-minute slot in Live Aid. During rehearsals, Freddie reveals to Roger, Brian and John that he has AIDS, they promise to keep this between them. On the day of Live Aid, he reunites with Hutton and then reconnects with his family, with his father's Zoroastrian maxim, "Good thoughts, good words, good deeds." Queen's 1985 Live Aid 20-minute performance, with six of their greatest hits, and the a cappella section that became "The Note Heard Round the World", is a tremendous success, helping increase the rate of donations during the event. Following Freddie's death from AIDS in 1991, Beach and the remaining members of Queen create the Mercury Phoenix Trust to help combat the spread of AIDS worldwide, and his tribute concert followed in 1992. Also starring Aidan Gillen as John Reid, Ace Bhatti as Mercury's father Bomi Bulsara, Meneka Das as Mercury's mother Jer Bulsara, Priya Blackburn as Mercury's sister Kashmira Bulsara and Max Bennett as Mary's new boyfriend David. Featuring the songs "Somebody to Love", "Keep Yourself Alive", "Seven Seas of Rhye","Bohemian Rhapsody" (the title song became popular months before when it was used in the John Lewis & Partners advert), "Killer Queen", "Fat Bottomed Girls", "Love of My Life", "You're My Best Friend", "Now I'm Here", "Crazy Little Thing Called Love", "We Will Rock You", "Another One Bits the Dust", "I Want to Break Free", "Under Pressure" (featuring David Bowie), "Who Wants to Live Forever", "Radio Ga Ga", "Hammer to Fall", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "The Show Must Go On". Malek gives a superb performance as the flamboyant, troubled and iconic Mercury, his look (including the teeth), accent and mannerisms are spot on, Hardy as Taylor is okay, Lee as May is good, and Mazzello as Deacon is alright, Myers is great and almost unrecognisable, Boynton is good, and other supporting real-life characters are alright, special mention should go to Murphy as Everett and Murphy as Geldof. To be fair to the critics, there are things I do agree with in their opinions, the troubled production may be something to consider, the facts are not all correct (for example, Mercury was tested for AIDS, but not diagnosed until 1987), the pacing is a little iffy at times, some supporting performances are a little flat, and it does have clichés. But for Malek, the brilliant music (most from their Greatest Hits albums) used in some clever and poignant scenes (including the making and recording of them), the emotional moments, and of course the spectacular recreation of Live Aid (the first scene filmed), this is a must-see movie for any Queen and Freddie Mercury aficionado, a great biographical drama. Very good!
The music is great, Remi's performance was amazing, and the recreation of the Live Aid show was exhilarating to watch, but I have two issues with the movie. One, it was not really a biopic on the band, because we dont get any background on the other band members besides Freddie Mercury. They mention wives and kids, but we never see them or find out anything about them. We don't get any info on the other band member's lives when the band started, like we did with Freddie, other than the mention of "dentist" and "neurophysicist".The second problem is that Freddie's issues seem to happen and then resolve so quickly they are glossed over. Freddie's father is clearly not ok with his lifestyle but suddenly seems proud of him and hugs him as he's headed out the door to perform at Live Aid, as if everything is ok now. His drug and alcohol problem doesn't seem to be such a problem other than he shows up late for rehearsal and the other guys are annoyed. There are a lot of things that should have been covered that likely just couldn't have fit in a typical movie length production, but there are so many good stories that weren't included.Anyway, it's completely worth seeing, the music is great, and Remi WAS Freddie Mercury. The performance and concert scenes were creatively well-shot and fun to watch. Just wish that more of the rock and roll lifestyle and history of the band could have been built into the story.
You may enjoy watching this movie, until You realize that most of the facts and chronology is distorted and both band and Freddy strongly whitewashed. What's left is just another sentimental blockbuster.Rami's performance is just outstanding though.


                
Bohemian Rhapsody plays out well in just about all aspects, except for chronological consistency. Seeing how many others have covered this, I will not delve any further into the plots inconsistencies. When watching, one simply has to remember it is not a documentary. It is a rock n roll film made by 20th Century Fox. This was a fun movie and if you are a fan of Queen, or rock music in general, you will never cease to be entertained.


                
'Bohemian Rhapsody (2018)' does feel like it's trying to do a deep-dive on Mercury himself, showing the highs, lows and everything in-between in an attempt to humanise him, to show the man behind the musical myth. It never quite manages to do so, however, despite a blistering lead performance. It always seems to just scrape the surface of the man's psyche, only occasionally dipping a little deeper into his inner workings but still never really coming close to painting a clear picture of his out-of-spotlight self. Instead of focusing fully on this, the piece just glosses past important moments and relationships in order to get back to the 'fun' stuff, ultimately coming across as pretty shallow (especially when you stop to think about it). Thankfully, though, that 'fun stuff' consists of a series of admittedly check-list and narratively flimsy, yet undeniably entertaining, scenes in which we're treated to the origin of several key Queen tracks and then given a performance of each of them, or even a full twenty-minute live-aid concert, all presented in ear-pleasing surround-sound. The only downside to these sequences is that the actors are lip-syncing the songs, despite having performed them properly on the day. While this allows us to hear Queen in all their glory, it does take away from the believability of the picture in some key moments and gives off an ever-so-slightly disingenuous feel; the characters in the film aren't the same as their real-life counterparts, no matter how well they represent them, and they aren't really singing. Still, as I mentioned, hearing these songs blasted from a cinema-quality sound-system is a treat; it really is difficult not to smile when they're being played. It's not like the film is ever unenjoyable, either, even in its most 'check-list' or hollow of moments. It also doesn't scream "troubled production", despite being the very definition of the term behind-the-scenes. The most you can tell it's a tale of two (or three) minds is in the sometimes strange post-production choices, which are clearly Fletcher's doing. Overall, while the movie isn't always deep, it definitely could've been deeper, and it strangely misses out a significant chunk of its star's life, it's ultimately an entertaining time that will certainly please fans of the band. 7/10


                
The rest of the movie feels too safe and filtered and manipulated to preserve and portray an image..


                
Based on pure entertainment, this is a very enjoyable movie with Rami Malek's performance being the stand out along with the obviously great music, but as a biopic I found it lacking. It's not entirely accurate and if you're watching this to find out about the great Freddy Mercury you may be disappointed.


                
As far as music history goes, Queen, and frontman Freddie Mercury in particular, are one of the undoubted all-time greats, with a unique and intense energy to their music that few acts have ever been close to matching. As far as music biopics go, however, Bohemian Rhapsody really doesn't live up to the potential of what is an incredible story, and although it has its moments, it's a generally rather superficial film that lacks the immense energy that makes Queen as a band and Mercury as an individual so legendary.But let's start on the plus side, with the fact that fans of Queen will undoubtedly have a good time with Bohemian Rhapsody. That doesn't immediately render it an incredible movie, but if you're a fan of the band's music, and have an interest in Freddie Mercury's story, then this film will prove a far more entertaining watch, with the odd musical number here and there getting my toes tapping effortlessly.The problem with the film is that, while it features some good songs and tells a great story, it really fails to get to the crux of what makes Freddie Mercury such a legendary figure, going over the fifteen year span of the story in rather superficial and simplistic detail.As a result, if you want to learn about the history of Queen, this is a great film to watch, but I was left wanting a whole lot more, particularly a deeper analysis of Mercury as an individual, rather than the simple facts of what happened to him. In that, Bohemian Rhapsody is a fairly generic biopic, and it doesn't do quite enough to spark an immense interest in something that should be so much more spectacular.Above all, the film's first half is a really disappointing watch. Jumping back and forth between a focus on the band as a whole and Mercury alone, it's an infuriatingly messy period that's peppered with a few random and rather emotionless (albeit entertaining) musical numbers, making for a disappointing and underwhelming opening to the film.What's more is that the dialogue is really rather poor throughout. Apart from the fact that the majority of the humour really falls flat, too many scenes feel like a slow-moving slog through some very iffy dialogue, as the film attempts to create a sense of pathos as we see Mercury discovering more about who he truly is, but unfortunately misses the mark with a heap of dialogue scenes that lack the emotion and energy that I felt the film was really in need of.So, the first half is an undoubtedly disappointing, and with a rather superficial and generic biopic setup, as well as less-than-stellar dialogue and humour, Bryan Singer's direction means that the film often comes across as a rather boring watch, with none of the vigour or deep emotional conflict that's needed to transform the story from a history lesson into something a whole more affecting.Fortunately, things do turn around about halfway through, and although it all takes a very long time to get started, the film's second half introduces some strong dramatic conflict surrounding Mercury's sexuality and increasingly flamboyant lifestyle, which makes for a far more interesting watch.While I can't say that the dialogue or humour improves particularly towards the end, there is at least a sense of dramatic depth and emotion that shines through eventually, and that's what makes the film's second half a far more engrossing and entertaining watch, concluding with an excellent medley of Queen's greatest hits that finally packs a good emotional punch, even if it does all feel like too little, too late.Rami Malek's performance is an interesting one for me, because it's the only part of the movie that's got a bit of flamboyance and energy to it from start to finish. On the one hand, that's an excellent portrayal of Freddie Mercury when contrasted with the people around him, and Malek does a great job at bringing him to life right the way through, particularly when things become a little more emotional in the second half.On the other hand, there's a bit of a clash between Malek's performance and the rest of the film's rather underwhelming nature. In the first half above all, it feels like Malek is really overacting, and you're not able to see him as Freddie Mercury for a long while, definitely not until the screenplay gets its act together towards the second half. It's an energetic and hard-working performance, and that ultimately comes good, but there's something about it that just doesn't mix in with the rest of the film, feeling a little distracting and even jarring at points.Overall, then, I have to say that Bohemian Rhapsody is a bit of a mixed bag. While it tells the story of an incredible man and his part in an incredible band, it fails to really inject the same passion and energy that Queen's legacy has left on the world, coming across as a rather superficial and simplistic biopic that starts off in very disappointing fashion, only coming good a long way into the film, before a very entertaining but belated finale.


                
Well, what can I say, as a die hard Queen fan since 1981 when I was 12. The Movie was brilliant! Has it all, the music, the story, the laughs, the tears, there were one or two for my youth! The wife was a blubbering wreck by the end. I wasn't far off. You forget sometimes what a powerhouse Freddy Mercury was.They don't hold back on anything, the story is honest and leaves you in no doubt as to FM's likes and dislikes.The casting is freakishly good, Malek is perfect, a little on the thin side but you forget about that 5 minutes in. The rest of the band, down to Brian May's voice are perfect.A bit of poetic licence taken with timelines but only a die hard like myself would notice. The story is woven together perfectly with a brilliant heart-stirring finale. Bring the tissues.
All in all, what I expected and lots more. See it on the big screen. ASAP. This will sell out fast, if it hasn't already!
G


                
The movie stands mostly because of the character of Freddy and the Queen, and not his/their portrayal, altough the work put in is visible. It's worth watching. Queen has been the best!


                
I always liked most of Queen songs to begin with. So I was kind of apprehensive when going to the cinema at first.
Nevertheless bringing some extra popcorns and drinks was sort of an insurance incase the movie was bad. Luckily for us, the movie was so good that we had to finish eating them outside after the movie was over. It is very engaging to watch.
This is one movie where the main cast members seemed to have incredible chemistry as if they were Queen in real life.
I recommend this movie to anyone who need something to take their work stress or life problems away from them.


                
It stands out between all those band movies, because it is music by Queen. But otherwise, it covers rather traditional moments like signing a big contract or iconic concerts. Anyway, Malek's performance seems pretty authentic. Enjoyed it.


                
Films that draw on historical subjects can produce an interesting divide in the viewer based on how familiar you are with the subject. A great deal of the "Bohemian Rhapsody" reviews to date have expressed disappointment because it's a paint-by-numbers of all the major points of Mercury's life.As someone who grew up in a household where my father listened primarily to classical music and my mom listened to a radio station called "The Sounds of Sinatra", I'm embarrassingly unfamiliar with most music before 1998. My knowledge on Queen boils down to A) songs I recognize by Queen like "Bohemian Rhapdsody", "Killer Queen", "Somebody to Love", and "We Will Rock You" and B) songs that play on commercials or in summer festivals or movie soundtracks that I knew of but didn't know they were specifically Queen like "Under Pressure", "Another one Beats the Dust", and "We are the Champions" (thanks "The Mighty Ducks" for the assist on that one) and little information on the band members. I honestly have no idea how people can keep track of the names of so many band members of groups that came before their time. The point, however, is that your knowledge of Queen is going to affect how you see this film.If you follow the school of film criticism that the film's intent matters, I'd suggest that this film was made for people like me. Reading the interviews with Queen's surviving band members, director Bryan Singer and producer Graham King, this was a passion project because they wanted to educate. Look at Graham King's quote:"But I was also fascinated with the idea that there is so much about Freddie Mercury and Queen-arguably one of the greatest bands in history-that the general public does not know....This is such an important story to tell, and, for me, it was crucial that we not only celebrate their music and achievements, but also give people a better understanding of the band's history."At the same time, if you're not going to see the film specifically to rediscover Freddy Mercury from a backstage perspective, this will read kind of like every other rock biography in existence. The protagonist is a man driven by pure id and does whatever he pleases and, for the most part, doesn't care who's in his way. It's the result of having all the right creative instincts and being isolated from reality by handlers who want to feed off of him. The protagonist's ego becomes oversized and he sews his wild oats. He either gains self-control or doesn't (they often dies young) but the audience is encouraged to see his beautiful soul and his contributions over his sins because that audience is biased before the movie stars by an appreciation for the music.
It's not really the fault of the film if it all follows a predictable script: The screenwriter is beholden to the details of the subject's life and Freddy Mercury is what they had to go with.Some of these entries (Love and Mercy is a good example) manage to transcend the genre even with figures who fall into the same narrative but Bohemian Rhapsody is largely beholden to the genre. As interesting as Mercury was of a person, the story flattens some of the more interesting chapters of his life by not involving his origin as a Parsi immigrant (his family is largely absent beside the opening chapter) or a promising student. His conflict with his surname and legacy and status as an immigrant is never explored.Similarly, there was a harmony among the members of the group that is overlooked in the film because conflict is juicier. To what degree were they ok with his gay lifestyle? There are erroneous complaints that the film straight-washes Mercury (not true), but it would be interesting if his band mate's reaction was covered. Similarly, the band was held together because "they were a family" but I was told that more than I was showed it.Part of the problem is screen time: With his marriage to a woman that fell apart because she was upset with him for being bisexual (it seems that there is a misunderstanding over whether bisexual means faithful), his bandmates, his family, his lecherous manager, his exploration of himself some of these chapters get short shrift.On the whole, it's certainly watchable but it had more unanswered questions than room to fill.


                
This is my first time I writing a comment. I watch this movie first show on a local cinema. The acting of Rami Malek is marvelous. I am big fan or Queen. I like to write here what really happened to me for watching this movie. Few weeks before its release I am disappointed that no cinema in Pakistan show's Bohemian Rhapsody. Few days before I come across a facebook page a cinema near my shop (where I running my own business) showing Bohemian Rhapsody on Friday. I so happy after see this news finally watch this movie on the cinema. A day before I discuses with my friend on the phone that tomorrow I am going to watch this movie he said to me that there is strike going in the country so you are not able to see this movie tomorrow. So I told him that whatever happened I am going to watch this movie. The next day (Friday) I check my cinema facebook page again they cancel the two earlier shows of other movie due to law and order situation. but Bohemian Rhapsody show which is on 5.00 pm is not canceled . So I went to the cinema bought the ticket sit's in the hall . I surprise after few minutes I check my right , left, front and behind only me in hall and entire hall is empty. Movie starts right on time after half 'n hour I again check the hall I am surprise nobody there entire hall is empty. It's strange for me that I am only one person watching this movie and it is the first show of the movie. So really enjoy this movie. I give full credit to the management of the cinema allow me to watch entire movie. After the movie end I went back to my shop I am on the road suddenly my cousin phone me and say's where are you? I told him I am going back to open my shop after watching the movie he surprise and said that do you know what happened ? I told him no I watching the movie. He told me a religious leader is murder and there law and order situation in city (Rawalpindi Punjab) don't open the shop go home immediately it is risky to be on the road . So I take a cab went to my home. Reaching the home I realized that I take a huge risk to watch this anything can happened to me. In our country in these kind of situation anything could happened. But as a fan of Queen it is worth to take a risk.


                
Let me start this by saying that I am a huge fan of Queen. I love Freddie Mercury, Brain May, Roger Taylor and John Deacon. I even dressed up as Freddie for Halloween one year. Point is, I love Queen so I was naturally excited for this movie. I don't believe it's as bad as everyone says it is, but I don't think it's as amazing as the general public is making it seem either. This movie has very obvious and frustrating but also has incredible things in it. Firstly, Rami Malek as Freddie Mercury is perfection. I saw Freddie Mercury reincarnated. He nailed everything about him including his mannerisms , the way he talks, his body movements, literally everything. I also really liked the moments we got with Brain May and Roger Taylor, even though they don't get much character. I can't say anything about John Deacon because honestly he doesn't have a character here. He's only in this movie because he's the four member of Queen. He doesn't get a single thing to do and always gets picked on by other characters. Everyone in the movie does a good job as well, and the whole Live Aid segment gave me so many chills you don't even know. Where this movie frustrates me is their depiction of when things happened. They act like they've never collaborated with David Bowie or Michael Jackson, they tell us News of the World came out in the 80s when it was released in the 70s, and Freddie wasn't diagnosed with aids until 1987, after 1985 which is when he's diagnosed in the movie. They also never mention Jazz, Flash Gordon, and skim over most of their albums.
This is Queen. One of the most influential bands of all time. You have to accurately present information to the audience. This movie also has classic cliches, which very easily comes across as lazy. As they say in the movie, Queen isn't like every other band. Queen IS Queen. I just wanted to quickly share my opinion on the movie after seeing it twice. This movie had so much potential to be one of the best of the year. We get stuck with something which I do like, but still wanting something better. I'm very curious to see what the Sacha Baron Cohen version of this movie would've looked like, but unfortunately we probably will never see that version. I still recommend seeing this movie to anyone who's a fan of Queen, just don't expect something great from this movie.
I think that's not a perfect movie. It has a lot of big problems, but there's 2 things wiches saving the movie and makes it great:
1.The actors, especially Malek ( 100% oscar winner)
2. And the Queen's music


                
Bohemian Rhapsody tells the history of how the British rock band Queen was created and it also tells the life of Freddie Mercury played by Rami Malek. I listened to Queen and I thought they were good, but I wasn't a fan. And then I watched Wayne's World and they played Bohemian Rhapsody and I remember listening to them and I have been a fan ever since. Funny enough Mike Myers was in Wayne's World and he's in Bohemian Rhapsody as well. That's just a little trivia of the day. And let's be honest who hasn't head banged to that drum solo, I know I have. Rami Malek nails it as Freddie Mercury that for the whole movie I thought that was Freddie Mercury and not Rami Malek. If the movie were bad, I still would've walked out of the theatre admitting that Rami Malek carried the film from start to finish. Even if you like Queen, or your not a fan of Queen, its really interesting these four random people with nothing in common got together and decided to form one of the most iconic rock n' roll bands today. But Bohemian Rhapsody does get confusing, but not awkward. The movie focuses on Freddie Mercury's life and the title is one of their songs so it gets confusing on which side should this focus on that I was left in the middle. One part of me is glad that they choose to focus on Freddie Mercury's life as we get to find out more about him, and the other one wants that part to focus on their songs that they didn't cover. And as much as I love Queen, there are way too many songs by them that are crammed in this two and half hour movie. I'm not talking about the songs that they come up with, but the whole soundtrack is their song and that's it. No other bands like Credence Clearwater Revival, Led Zeppelin, The Who, just Queen where I asked myself I know that this is supposed to be about the history of Queen, but do we really all their songs in this? The balancing could've been done better, but with what everyone did they have given us a biographical film about Freddie Mercury, while at the same time not going into too much detail about his life and also saving room for the history of Queen as well. So overall, this is a fun movie to watch if your fan of Queen like myself, but its still worth the watch even if you don't like Queen. And also say what you will about the movie, you have to give credit to Rami Malek, because he absolutely destroys it as Freddie Mercury.


                
My youngest son who was born years after Freddie Mercury died. He started to sing some Queen songs when he was still a toddler. I knew then that their music was going to live forever. They have joined The Beatles and Abba whose songs transcends generations.A lot about Freddie Mercury is well known. Bohemian Rhapsody brings very little that is new to the table.Credit has to go to Bryan Singer for framing the story from the band's beginnings to their triumphant performance at Live Aid in 1985.I was worried that some white actor would play Freddie Mercury, real name Farouk Bulsara who was of Indian origin. Rami Malek is at least of Egyptian origin.We see young Freddie working at an airport. When a student band loses its lead singer, Freddie offers his services, he could reach some high notes and he dresses extravagantly. When the band has some initial success, he becomes legally Freddie Mercury.The band members have a tumultuous relationship. John Deakins is more normal, Roger Taylor could be temperamental, Brian May had big curly hair and a homemade electric guitar. All of them could write songs and fight to get it on the albums. Together they created a string of hit songs. Some of them catchy: We Will Rock You, others were more extravagant such as Bohemian Rhapsody.Freddie though although he has a girlfriend from the early days of the band is soon struggling with his sexuality. As the band gets bigger, his appetite for a hedonistic lifestyle increases. This includes casual relationships with men and self destructive behaviour that causes further conflicts within the band.Singer knows how to lift the film with Queen songs. He does well to recreate the events of Live Aid which is the point where the band best known songs get pump out.Queen aficionados would know when liberties have been taken with the truth and the timeline of the band.Malek delivers as Freddie, especially with the accent. I thought Joseph Mazzello was good as Deakins. I enjoyed the unrecognisable cameo from Mike Myers as the record head.After Bohemian Rhapsody finished, my wife turned around and said she was really entertained by the movie.


                
Bohemian Rhapsody plays it safe. It's a typical biopic with some pretty cheesy moments/dialogues and one-dimensional characters. Given the legendary status of Queen - and especially Freddie - it's a shame, that the film doesn't take more risks.On the other hand, the setting and direction is good, film is full of energy, casting is great, the music is divine and Rami Malek's performance as Freddie Mercury is (despite some limitations) outstanding.The film definitely isn't any masterpiece or historically accurate, but it serves well as a simple memento of undying musical legend(s).


                
The main show here is Malek. This movie is his masterpiece. His energetic antics on stage, his accent, his prosthetic buck teeth and his tragic tension bring Freddie Mercury to life. He is the most interesting thing in this movie, as he should be. The second most interesting thing is everyone else's performance, especially Ben Hardy's, playing Roger Taylor.The last thing that stands out is the historical polish. The 70's and 80's are faithfully recreated, along with all the Freddie's funky clothes. The flying camera shots of the giant crowd at the Live Aid concert are impressive. This is all somewhat expected, considering the film's high budget.But that is where the interesting things end, unfortunately. All the other aspects of the film are good, but to me, nothing else stands out enough to justify the standing ovation that this movie seems to be receiving from the public.The story, in particular, is one big missed opportunity. It would have been interesting to see Freddie's development as a singer in his younger days, perhaps his flight from his country of birth. There is none of that. Once Freddie meets the band, he is already the perfect singer. From then on, it's a steady rise upward and the film ends at the top of Queen's fame. There is drama towards the end, but that drama is touched upon lightly and treated like a nuisance in an otherwise awesome hall of awesomeness.One of the more interesting historical moments with regard to Queen was the release of the fatalistic song The Show Must Go On right in the middle of the rumours about the singer's health. None of that either. That songs gets played during the credits.The part of the story about the break-up of the band feels like it's been taken out of a cheesy kids' movie about a teenage band and the dialogue is appropriately cheesy.In short, this film is about great performances and it is a nice audio-visual treat for those who are interested in the band. Malek's performance is well worth the price of admission. There is, however, little else of note.


                
The main and possibly only reason to see "Bohemian Rhapsody" is the performance of Rami Malek though some people familiar with the band Queen and their music might enjoy it for that reason though very seldom do you hear a complete song sung at one time.


                
I loved the movie don't get me wrong, but I feel like they wanted to make Freddie into a villain and into this huge a-hole. I don't know personally if he was or wasn't, but I feel like the band mates wanted to be seen in a good light and like every issue they had was Freddie's fault. To me Freddie was the first male diva, and you know what, he deserves to be that diva. I feel like Sasha Baron Cohen got it right when he talked about how we wanted to just see Freddie and not the whole band, because they liked it or not, he was the face, the soul and the heart of that band. They wouldn't even be Queen if not for him.
Bohemian Rhapsody had great music, an excellent performance my Rami Malek and creates an amazing atmosphere that makes viewers feel like they are at the concerts. It is this incredible combination that makes Bohemian Rhapsody such an enjoyable and entertaining watch.While the film definitely delivers whenever Queen were performing, they can't always be on stage and whenever they are not I can only say the the pacing is slow at times and may even seem formulaic. How many times have we seen a movie about a band that hits every checkpoint as they do in Bohemian Rhapsody. You got the simple pattern of, 'formation of band, label disapproval, success, descension, lead goes away, lead fails and abuses drugs, returns to sing kumbaya. I mean, seriously, outside of the eccentricity that is Freddy Mercury brought alive through Malek's performance, the rest of the movie can be seen as quite a drag.But, the movie still got me singing along and on an absolute Queen craze afterwards, so I guess they did something right.


                
Very good film, enjoyed it and nostalgic I remember Live Aid and that incredible performance! At times I kept seeing Mr Robot rather than Freddie Mercury but he did do a good job portraying him. Anyways enjoyed the film.


                
