I just saw the world premiere and oh boy let me tell you about it:This movie might not be a masterpiece but my heart is filled with such happiness and joy after watching it that I think it's going to burst (sorry for the cheesiness), Freddie Mercury, Brian May, Roger Taylor and John Deacon are so exquisitely portrayed I sometimes forgot it wasn't them, the performances were so on point and so powerful you could feel the energy burst through the screen. ¿Have you seen the famous car scene in Wayne's world? well, now imagine a full room doing the same, people couldn't help but sing along (lets be honest, it's impossible not too).I laughed, cried, sang and wished I could have seen Queen live, this band will live forever.


                
What a night this was! I went to the world premiere in my local theatre with the purple carpet event on the big screen and all that jazz.When I saw the first trailer I didn't think much about Rami Malek as Freddie or the whole movie at all since the majority of biopics are generic and pretty much formulaic. Back then, I even considered dropping Sacha Baron Cohen a huge mistake. But boy was I wrong. Malek shined like he's never shone before. I think Susie Figgis outdid herself as a casting director here.Ever since I joined the casting industry, I really started seeing what it means to work here, how important this part of showbiz that is, and how just a single miscast can ruin a project. Susie Figgis is a veteran casting director, known for many big and widely loved projects and she did well here. She did extremely well. Up until the moment I joined this business, I paid little to no attention to the actor ensemble, with the exception of clear miscasts that just stood out and you couldn't unsee it. But yesterday I just sat there, mesmerized. Gwilym Lee did an outstanding job portraying Brian May, in fact, I forgot he wasn't him. Lucy Boynton was one of my absolute favorites, portraying Mary Austin and her love and devotion towards Freddie. And Rami Malek. Oh, boy, Rami *was* Freddie Mercury. While I was sitting there in the theatre and staring at the screen I didn't have a feeling I was watching actors play their parts. I felt like I was watching Queen.I don't have much to say about the plot, or the costumes, the setting, the cast. Everything was close to perfection. A perfect balance of drama and comedy. Exactly how life is.I was five when my dad came to me, kneeled, put his large and on my tiny shoulder and delivered the tragic news about Freddie passing. Queen was basically the soundtrack of my upbringing, so I didn't take the news too well. I wept like I've just lost a dear friend. Dad and I spent the remainder of that afternoon blasting the tracks we oh so loved.Queen has been the soundtrack of my life, therefore it's impossible to have an unbiased opinion about 'Rhapsody', but I must admit I had my reservations at first. But in the end, I loved it. The last twenty minutes of the film I spend sobbing and wiping the tears and mascara tracks from my cheeks. I can't remember the last time I cried this much in a movie. And I don't know if it was the music, Freddie's tragic fate or the relationships he had, both with lovers and his family, or maybe it was an amalgam of everything, but from the first minutes the movie started building up, it rose block by block until the huge skyscraper that the story was, finally concluded and all the lights turned on and it shined like a marvelous gem.Until this day, Live Aid remains the biggest, most epic music event in the history of civilization and it is remembered by millions. And _Bohemian Rhapsody_ did it justice. Malek did justice to Freddie. And I left my seat long after the credits had stopped rolling. The show must go on, and it does.


                
Wow. What a brilliantly made film. Brian Singer (The Usual Suspects, X-Men) has walked a sublime tightrope of a wonderful engaging, funny and emotional film without turning it into a turgid Hollywood smarm fest. Rami Malek is of course the star and his performance as Freddie is uncanny. Most of the vocals were Freddies originals but he does attempt some of his own,with commendable success, and you quickly forget it's not actually Mr Mercury himself.
Unlike some biopics the music itself does by no means fall by the wayside and there is a multitude of Queen classics crammed into the just over 2 hours running time. And with Roger Taylor and Brian May as the executive music producers for the film expect nothing less. I was pleasantly surprised as to how much of the movie was dedicated to the music and if I wasn't in a cinema I would have spent half the time air guitaring and singing at the top of my voice. Of course we have a lot of the film dedicated to Freddie and his declining social life, behavior and ultimately health, and this is handled with so much respect and emotion that at no point does it seem forced or uncomfortable.
The film follows a classic rise, fall and rise again formula culminating in a final fist pumping, rousing half hour which sees the band bust out (what some say is) the greatest live performance of all time as they re-emerge for Wembleys Live-aid concert.
Realistically the film won't go down as an all time classic and may not be up for any Oscars (except for Maleks performance maybe) but what we do get is a barnstorming, foot-tapping, heart pumping movie which for me is without a doubt one of the greatest Music biopics ever made. Go see it.
But the movie has me giving it 8 stars. I had never seen Queen live in concert but I honestly feel like it's happened now.It seems a little to long at times. Keep your eyes open for Mike Myers, he's there just well disguised.I will be greatly surprised if Rami doesn't get the Oscar nom.I was busy chasing a 1 year old when LiveAid happened in 1985. Now I've experienced it LIVE!


                
As a queen can I went in with high expectations of this movie and it is beautifuly shot. Rami is superb as Freddie and catches those little Freddie nuances. I thought the chap who played Brian had it down to a tee also. The guy playing deacy though not given lots of lines had him just right too.
I was hoping for a bit more of the Freddie 80s NY gay clubs that he used to frequent regularly. But as I spotted Freddie's sister at the premiere then it's obviously got the family blessing and so I can see why that's not a major part of the film. It's very difficult to span the 15 years in a couple of hours and there where a few fast forwards. I would have liked to have seen some of the years up to Freddie's death as I know the band became very close indeed. But maybe that's something the band didn't want to explore. I did come out if the cinema with a lump in my throat. One of the clear things to take from the film and real life is Freddie's life long love for Mary Austin. He must have been a very conflicted soul.


                
Some people don't like this film because they feel it is not historically correct. I tend not to want to know very much about the private lives of rock stars et al, so I can't really comment on the factual accuracy of this film.But in my view this does not matter; this film is not meant to be a history lesson and apart from any upset that might be caused to those who feel misrepresented I don't think factual accuracy is needed.What this film is an engaging account of the life of Freddy Mercury. It can be a bit maudlin, and some of the characters are one dimensional but it matters not. Malek's performance is a tour de force of acting, and if you let yourself you simply get carried along with the energy. Mercury was an elemental force in the music scene and here we get the chance to hang on to his coat tails and enjoy the ride.A splendid, entertaining 2 hours.


                
Bohemian Rhapsody is far from a perfect biopic, but it's thoroughly entertaining and Rami Malek is a revelation as Freddie Mercury. He deserves all the awards for his performance.


                
First of, Rami Malek was born for this role, I'm sure that Freddie Mercury would be pleased with Rami's performance. The music is powerful, it was stuck in my head for weeks after I saw it in the cinema, but the way the story was told was exquisitely incredible and moving. During the Live Aid performance when Freddie's former wife teared up during the song "We are the Champions" so did I, the passion that Freddie had for it simply undeniable and at the same time heartbreaking because we don't have singers like him today who feel the same about music.Not only did Rami deserve the Golden Globe award but he and the film itself deserve an oscar. Bravo performance from him and the music, the way it was portrayed.
When I first saw the trailer for this I couldn't figure out whether this was a spoof comedy. Rami Malik looked like he was taking the Michael with those teeth! So I stayed well clear of it. I'd also heard something about Byan Singer being sacked last year meaning they had to get someone in to the rescue the movie. However everyone I met and trusted said nothing but positive things. Having now seen the movie I have to say that I really enjoyed it. The acting by Rami was fantastic and I knew little about this chap. I thought he was a Brit. This is a star turn by a Californian actor... well done. Although I love the music I can't say that I knew too much about Queen so I enjoyed watching their journey to stardom unfold. It's one one the best movies I've seen this year a true crowd pleaser. You will laugh, cheer and cry. Go see it and see if you recognise Mike Myers!


                
Great movie tastefully written. Funny scenes making music...and very serious as well. A must watch for all.


                
I grew up with Queen. I remember seeing Bohemian Rapsody on TV for the first time and I remember being mesmerized by Mr. Mercury's performance. They didn't sing like that in church. Last night I saw Rami Malek and was just as fascinated. The story, the direction and the design are as slick as any Hollywood movie, but what captured me was that I as a "consumer" was watching the actor Malek looking at Mercury's life from the inside. He didn't embody Mercury (impossible) but observed it. Just like he observed Mercury's surroundings and his battles. I was fortunate to have met and workshopped with Augusto Boal. He once said: "Theatre - or theatricality - is the capacity, this human property which allows man to observe himself in action, in activity." Here we see an actor who applies that principle to his role and lets us all observe the actor Mercury through his action. Boal's mission was to use theatre to induce social change, I think it was Malek's mission to have us look at our own daily performances, because we all are, to use Boal's word, spect-actors.


                
Don't know what to say. I think it's a fantastic movie.


                
Ein muss für jeden sowohl RockFan als auch quinner


                
I think this film will end up like it's title song and become more appreciated by critics over time. Rami Malek is staggeringly good as the iconic lead singer Freddie Mercury and the rest of the cast is spot-on. As expected, the music is fantastic (given that Queen's music is fantastic) and gives the film a grandiose feel. The highlight is without a doubt the Live Aid concert and is just really amazing to see recreated on film. Bohemian Rhapsody definitely hits the standard music biopic notes, but it's fun and engaging enough to make it unique.


                
This was one of the best, emotional, thrilling bio movies that has been made of this lifetime. The reason why I say this, is that this movie is not just based on one-person Freddie Mercury, but this movie is about Queen, meaning all four members, how they came together, showed their talents and how each contributed to their group success. While I was watching this film, it felt like a rollercoaster as I was full of emotions from the start of the movie to the end of the movie.This film focuses on the group Queen and not just about the main star of the movie. So, you get to see how good Brian May is when he writes some of the songs and John Deacon and Roger Taylor. I went to watch this film again for the second time as it was a dream come true for me. I have been waiting for years for a Queen movie to come out and this movie was top. This film focused on how the group came together and showed some of the best moments of their life and some of the sad, bad moments of Freddie life.The film did not focus that much on the drama that was in Freddie life but it focused more on Queen. Watching this film made me thinking about how much I love Queen songs and I have once again started to listen to their songs and watching their tours again. The beginning of the film really sets the tone of the ending of the movie. Rami Malek who actors in Mr. Robot does a brilliant job of bring Freddie Mercury alive and throughout the film I really was thinking, wait is that really Freddie Mercury.Personal, I don't understand why some people give this film a bad rating or review, this film was the best tribute to Queen the music group and Freddie Mercury. This film once again did not focus too much on the bad things in his life but only the important things that happened in his life. You also get to see the experience of how they came together and how each of them came up with some of their and our most favourite big hit songs such as Bohemian Rhapsody, we will rock you, another one bites the dust, love of my life and we are the champions.You also get to see the birth of one of the greatest performers of all time in music history who to me is up there with Michael Jackson.So, to my fellow music fans, movie fans, queen fans, rock fans, please do not listen to the movie reviewers as I do not understand the little criticism of this movie.We need to now see a Beatles, Michael Jackson movie, like this movie which focus more on the music artist instead of focusing on the bad parts of their life.This movie is about Queen, all four members not just about Freddie Mercury and how he lived his life. Go and watch this movie. 10/10 rating. 5/5 starts.


                
For the fans of Queen (among which I include myself) the movie is a blast! Seeing the characters play the real characters is a wonder; can see them outside a concert, relating to their environment, family, friends is very good!
The film is totally focused (or only focused) on Freddie Mercury's character, passing over the rest of the band's components, which are relegated to mere secondary characters.
The Live Aid Concert scene is memorable and practically identical to the original. Very well!!!
For my taste, the only flaw is that Rami Malek is a little less tall than the original Freddie.


                
You know how your parents tell you about how good rock and roll was in their day? Well this is as close as you're going to get to telling your parents they were right. This movie is astonishing. The music is off the charts entertaining but of course you already knew that. The acting is perfect and take you through the life of what a rock star really is. Crazy partying as well as some personal struggles. The attention to detail and mannerisms of Rami Malek are spot on. Great movie that's enjoyable from start to finish.


                
Being a fan of many genres of music, and my obsession with the life of musicians, makes every movie like this, which tells the stories of bands and artists, very exciting for me. Being young, I never saw Freddie Mercury live, and have only really seen him in footage from concerts and short snippets of interviews. Yet, from them alone, the clear confidence and the fiery, showman like nature of Freddie Mercury, made me believe, that being yourself, and thriving under that, can give you a huge chance of being successful.Going into this movie, I had heard a lot of things about how this movie failed to show the flair that Queen and Freddie Mercury possessed. And that the changes of director and cast members meant that this movie didn't have the identity that a movie about Queen needed.However, I felt that it was quite the opposite. This movie told the story of how Queen rose and peaked, with many set backs along the way. It also showed how important each member of the band was, in grounding and supporting fellow members when needed.A story that had the right tone was key for this movie. There were scenes that were were over the top in some moments, but it worked. The loud, glistening perfomances worked well against the sometimes quite life of these artists. So the odd eccentric moment gave the sense of duality that a movie needed. The success of this movie was mainly down to superb performances across the board. Rami Malek was incredible as Freddie Mercury. Incredible. His ability to portray the duality of Freddie, the fiery showman like nature that I mentioned before, on stage and in front of any type of crowd against the slightly subdued man, that hid when he was confronted emotionally. Rami Maleks emotional timing, and superb use of body language meant he dominated the screen every time he was in shot. This performance was supported fantastically by the other cast members, who all made this movie seem like a documentary.Being a musician, this movie constantly inspired me. Especially the sequence where the band made Bohemian Rhapsody, my favourite Queen song. The transition from the intimidating first world tour, to a quiet country home, with just the band made me made me feel part of it. Followed by a sequence that showed a band that feared nothing, and one that wanted to test the industry. Incredible film, once again driven by impeccable performances, making it feel even more real.A must see for everyone, especially those who need inspiration, and a confidence boost. All helped by the infectious vibrant aura, that came from Rami Maleks Oscar worth performance As Freddie Mercury.My only complaint is that there wasn't enough!!!
What a great movie. It just swept me along. Fine performances. Freddy lived life in the fast lane and sadly paid a high price. Such a talent. Such chutzpah. Such creativity. A really larger than life character that was born to perform. A true artist. I felt like I was really watching him. Wonderful!
Highly recommended.


                
I don't know what movie these so called reviewers saw, Bohemian Rhapsody was great! Sorry to break it to you, it's not a documentary. It's an entertaining movie about Freddy Mercury and Queen. Great performances and great music!


                
8/10 : A must see for generation X, the Live Aid performance was well done, I can tell you coz I went to that gig, he stole the show by a very long shot.... he made the hairs on the back of my neck stand on end ...the rush was of his performance was epic, I hate to say it, but was mystical, on that day he had everyone of the 100k+ people in the palm of his hand, I've never seen anything like that before or since..


                
A truly moving story of one of the most loved musicians of all time. Story, casting, everything, was executed beautifully. Easily the best film to ever exist under this genre. The live aid performance was mimicked with outstanding accuracy, the acting of the entire band was utterly superb. And the constrast between happy Feddie and broken Freddie was immaculate.The only con of this movie is maybe the duration of the songs during the film, as I thought each one finished pretty quickly. They should have expanded the screen time of Live aid to make it more moving than it was (it was already quite moving but could have been better).Overall, a fantastic film, normal people would find it entertaining.
Queen fans will find it glorious.R.I.P Freddie MercuryP.S Mike Myers was the EMI guy?!?!?!


                
It's not 100% accurate and leaves quite a bit out, however it's well acted, nice to look at with an incredible live aid sequence that won't be forgotten any time soon.


                
Dear readers.Let me start of saying this is a really well crafted movie. Not a moment i was bored nor not interested while watching this movie. Rami Malek comes with an oscar worthy performance, also because it is not easy playing Freddie and this is defenitly one of the most interesting movies you can see this year. I never cried during a movie yet, but this movie came really close! This movie really gave me goosebumps. You can see there is a huge difference in the metascore and in the user reviews; I get both sides. If you expect seeing a documentary that is 100% correct about Queens journey to succes, then this is not the movie for you. This movie has alot of beautiful emotional scenes where you wish you were living in that time. Seeing this movie in theater was part of it being such a good movie. Because it being a music-movie it is really important to have good sound quality while watching this movie. The editing of this movie is also really well done. This movie is paced pretty fast at some times, but the editing and the music together make it a journey to never forget. I bet you'll be listening to queen all day after seeing this movie.Have a great day!


                
Let me say straight off that I was never a fan of Queen or of Freddie Mercury, (too anthemic for my tastes), and I have always thought 'Bohemian Rhapsody' the most overrated song of all time, (though apparently the music press didn't think too highly of it when it came out and it was left to the public to make it a hit), so I approached Bryan Singer's Mercury/Queen biopic "Bohemian Rhapsody" with a certain amount of trepidation. You might say I went to scoff and stayed to cheer.As biopics go, it's reasonably conventional. We begin with Freddie about to go on stage at Live Aid then we flash back to the beginnings, circa 1970. It makes his talent clear from the start and it ticks all the right boxes as it chronicles Queen's rise and as a dip into the business known as showbusiness it's almost perfect. It's at its best when it dissects the songs, and in particular the title song, to show their genesis and, speaking as someone who never really liked them in the first place, all of this came as something of a revelation. I am now hearing Queen's songs in an entirely new light.Of course, Mercury is the central figure throughout and is virtually never off the screen. At first Rami Malek looks strangely bizarre, more like a young Mick Jagger, and those extra teeth don't help but as the film progresses he grows into the part. His foibles are basically overlooked while his minder and his manager become the villains of the piece. Freddie is positively Christ-like when set beside Allen Leech's Paul Prenter. Leech, best known from "Downton Abbey", is superb here, a truly hissable villain if ever there was one while other members of the band are convincingly played by Gwilym Lee, Ben Hardy and Joseph Mazzello. As the real love of Freddie's (early) life Lucy Boynton is excellent in an underwritten role.The film ends as it began with Queen's appearance at Live Aid and director Singer gives us the entire set, a rock-and-roll tour-de-force lasting a good twenty minutes or so. When it was over there wasn't a dry eye in the house, (mine included), while the elderly couple beside me stood and lead the cheers.


                
