My wife and I both enjoyed this immensely. We are Queen fans and attended the tribute concert a after Freddie died.This film is extraordinary, first and foremost, for Rami Malek's performance. The physical resemblance is only a small part of that. He had Freddie's body language down to a tee.But the crowning glory is the vocals. They are absolutely mind blowing. I don't know how they did it, I'm assuming it's Freddie's voice. The lip sync is flawless. If it's Malek singing, the Oscar is in the bag.I've heard there are some negative reviews floating around. I find that astonishing. I hope Malek gets at least a few nominations for this. He should get multiple awards.


                
This movie was a brilliant portrayal of the mixed up life, and massive talent that was Mercury ... and that is in no way meant to diminish the other fabulous musicians who made up this wonderful band. Whilst Freddie's life and death are quite well documented, his inner turmoil is not - this movie opens this up for all to see, and highlights actions and individuals who had a large influence on his fragile life, both good and horrendously bad. If only he could have been happy with the knowledge that he had one of the best singing voices, if not THE best, that ever fronted a rock band. Rami Malek does a wonderful job of portraying him, and in so many ways has captured his mannerisms to a tee. Loved it, and listening to the music in an IMAX auditorium was brilliant.


                
One of the best movies of the year! The performances are all excellent. The music surpasses what I had imagined. Brings back the eighties superbly. The last 15 to 20 brought tears to many in the showing I was at.
Don't miss it.


                
Biopic.Charts the rise to fame of one of the greatest rock bands ever.Touches on Freddie Mercury's (his stage name) background, then how he met the band and became their front man, the development of their unique sound, their meteoric rise to fame, and the key moments leading to Band Aid.Briefly (probably too briefly) touches on Freddie's AIDS condition.The film starts at the same moment as it ends with Freddie arriving on (Live Aid) stage, the last 15 minutes is their whole Live Aid performance.Before the film my wife said to me ...
"I'm not a fan, I didn't like their music, and I'm not looking forward to this"
After the film my wife said to me ...
"I really enjoyed that, think I'm a fan"So ... this film is good, whether you think you're a fan or not.


                
Impossible Not to get swept up in, almost as difficult to stop yourself sing along to, Huge performance from Rami Malek, As moving as it can be funny. A triumph, defiantly a fitting love song to Freddie and Queen.


                
Best biopic I have ever seen. I have so much praise for this movie I don't know where to begin. Rami Malek pulls off an amazing performance, with the other actors also pulling off great performances. Best part of it (aside from Rami) is definetly the live aid recreation. It really makes you wish you were actually there. The way in which the songs are implemented throughout the movie are also a highlight. One of the best movies of 2018 and definetly one to see in the cinema (especially when you have the entire audience going 'stomp stomp clap, stomp stomp clap' during We will rock you). 9/10. Would highly recommend.


                
Oscar for Rami Malek for his role of the bjggest singer ever born on this planet.


                
Well, the moment we have all been waiting for has finally arrived with the release of the highly anticipated Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody. So now just one question remains, was it worth the wait? Well, in my honest opinion, abso-freakin-lutely! This incredible story takes us on the journey of one of the most iconic rock bands of all time and gives us a look at not only the birth and life of the band but a peek behind the curtain into the life of one of music's biggest legends and Queen frontman, Freddie Mercury. From their humble beginnings playing college shows to their historic performance at 1985's Live Aid concert, Bohemian Rhapsody will take you on one hell of a rock n' roll ride.Rami Malek takes on the role of Freddie Mercury with all the charm and swagger that the real man gave off. Never one to be ignored or denied Malek's Mercury is cocky and charming and just captivating to watch. Even through Freddie's highest highs and lowest lows he gives a fantastic performance. Many were worried that with the departure of Sacha Baron Cohen who was originally slated to play a much wilder and dark Mercury, that the film would gloss over Freddie's personal life, but honestly what we get from Malek's version of the film just feels tasteful and right. You don't need to see the binge drinking, drug use, and copious amounts of random sex to know that Freddie used all those things to fill a void in his own soul and it is heavily implied throughout the film without the audience having to attend every party. Instead, we get much more substance and story which just feels way more important. He is the happy-go-lucky frontman, one second and the tortured artist the next and Bohemian Rhapsody does a great job of making you really feel for this man and not just him, but the people around him whom his actions effect. You get a bit of an inside look at his relationship with Mary Austin played by Lucy Boyton (Sing Street). Their romance/friendship is both sweet and heartbreaking to see. I know many were worried this film would downplay his sexuality and instead focus on his relationship with Mary, and while the film does focus on this relationship with her, it definitely does not leave out his sexual exploits with men and his eventual relationship with Jim Hutton (Aaron McCusker).While many would like the sole focus of this film to be Freddie Mercury you can't leave out the rest of the band because, let's face it, with them there is no Queen. Freddie's bandmates bring a lot to this picture from the sarcastic and at times confrontational Roger Taylor (Ben Hardy) to the band's voice of reason Brian May ( Gwilym Lee) to the quiet talent of John Deacon (Joseph Mazzello). These guys bring a lot to the table as Freddie's family, friends, and biggest support system. Despite all the over the top requests and ideas of their lead singer, these guys jump in with both feet to fuel the fire and bring us some of the greatest music rock has ever seen. It is pretty awesome to watch on the big screen.Overall, I scored Bohemian Rhapsody with a solid A. This is an entertaining, fun, funny, and at times the heartbreaking film that definitely deserves your attention. Fans of Queen should breathe a sigh of relief because this is a solid movie. So head to the box office and buckle up for one hell of a ride with this rock royalty and allow yourself to be taken away and inspired with Bohemian Rhapsody.Bohemian Rhapsody hits theaters everywhere November 2nd.


                
The film struggles with pacing issues that cause the first act of the film to move to fast. Not to mention a couple of inaccuracies that's is sure to bug queen fans like it did to me. Other than that the film is really fun and quite touching in other parts especially the live aid scene which was by far the best part. Queens music is fantastic as always but rami malek as Freddie mercury is insanely amazing. Halfway through the movie I forgot I was even watching rami but instead Freddie that's how good he was. The supporting cast is great as well every member of the band feels authentic and realistic. Overall I had an amazing and fun time with bohemian rhapsody despite its flaws. Remember this is a biopic and creative liberties were taken meaning it's not a documentary.


                
Director Bryan Singer ("X-Men" series) brings the life of Queen's frontman Freddy Mercury (Rami Malek "Mr. Robot" TV) and the band to the big screen with a vengeance. With screenplay by Anthony McCarten ("The Theory of Everything") and story by McCarten and Peter Morgan (Writer, Producer, Actor), the film chronicles the mates climb to music notoriety, highlighting Freddy's frontman antics, the now notorious 1985 "Live Aide" concert performance, and of course the death of Freddy to Aids in 1991. Malek, who is unpleasantly overly made up to mimic Freddy's unique jaw line, teeth and hair, is plausible as the driven young British Zanzibar vocalist Farrokh (his given name). As the mature Freddy, he's given all the outrageous costumes (by Julian Day) and Freddy's dances moves, and pulls them off with ease, even though his lip-syncing is over the top at times. What Director Singer does well here, is provide backstory to the raise and demise of Mercury, including a look into his personal family dynamics, his little know love affair to Mary (Lucy Boynton "Murder on the Orient Express"), who graciously sticks by him through his ups and downs, and a look at the effect Freddy's significant lovers Paul Prenter (Allen Leech "Downton Abbey" TV) and Jim Hutton (Aaron Mccosker "The Astronaut Wives Club" TV) had on his life, both who give moving subtle glimpses into Freddy's behind the glamour world. To McCarten and Morgan's credit, they provide an in-depth look at Queen's band members bassist John Deacan (Joseph Mazzello "The Cure"), drummer Roger Taylor (Ben Hardy "X-Men: Apocalypse") and guitarist Brian May (Gwilym Lee "Jamestown" TV), demonstrating that the band was truly comprised of all four guys. As with most music oriented bio-pics, the film is packed with all the music and excitement one expects from Queen, and it's loud and powerful. Mike Meyers ("SNL") has a nice cameo as Queen's EMI chief Ray Forster - although I think I saw and heard "Austin Powers" in his performance. And, Aidan Gillen ("Game of Thrones") does a nice job as the guys music manager John Reid. Only a fool would pan this film, so check it out for yourself, and relive the 70's and the rise of Queen!


                
Within minutes of this ride Rami Malek became indistinguishable from his character..I'm no film critic but to me that's the exact measure of a great performance. I'll watch the awards in this latest round expecting to be disappointed again. No matter their choice I know this extraordinary portrayal of a special man deserves accolades.


                
Rami Malek nailed nailed nailed his role, wow! This film was near perfect in every aspect - writing, directing, cinematography, sets, visuals, score, soundtrack (clearly), and casting! Unbelievable how true to life looking the rest of the band was. Queen fan or not (I have always been), it's an excellent all-around story, and a great film for fans who want to know Freddy's rise to fame. Fan or not, you need to see this film so realize why it will clean up at the Oscars! A well deserved 9/10 from me!


                
Absolutely love this epic tale. Not many movies can bring me through the full range of my emotions in a short space of time...and totally awe-inspiring as well.Being a Queen fan, I am fully aware of the history and what should or will transpire...yet it didn't detract from the experience at all. My friend watching with me didn't know who Queen were, and he fell over himself praising what we had witnessed at the end.Would have given it a 10 out of 10 if they didn't mess up some time line and music choices...still... it would have been even more enjoyable, I believe, if one is not aware of the incorrect time-line of certain songs and music.Based on a true story and beautifully executed...Freddy and Queen are legends...and thanks for sharing this experience with us.Absolutely brilliant and highly recommended!!(Only consideration is...unless you have a fantastic sound system at home hooked up to the screen...watch this in a cinema...the immersion factor is unreal.)9.5 out 10!!!


                
Brilliant film. Could have cried at a few places easily. Once looking things up on Google there's a few facts that aren't spot on however this will be to fit it into the time available


                
Hugely enjoyable. It's certainly not perfect; the influence of Brian May and Roger Taylor can be felt at times when scenes start to feel a bit rose-tinted, but Rami Malek superbly portrays the lonely, conflicted, tortured genius that was Freddie Mercury. Gwylim Jones, Ben Hardy, Joe Mazzello and Lucy Boynton are all excellent too and the music, of course, rocks!


                
It's as good as everyone makes out!! The cast is incredible Malak's performance is spellbinding and the Wembley sequence took me back to my childhood. It uses the story of the band, but does change things around to make it a film that's easy to follow and not a six hour documentary. After this movie you will be rocking to Queen on the way home.
If there is one thing in particular that I liked about this movie, it's the fact that this is an ideal opportunity to introduce Queen to a generation who might have never heard of them!
From the acting to the cinematography, not one thing about this movie is bad! I don't care if there is some discrepancies between the movie and what actually happened. This is NOT a documentary.
It is also not a Freddie Mercury movie, this is a Queen movie! And it was an absolute privilege to see how some of my absolute favorite songs were created.
All in all, this is one movie to watch that will make you feel nostalgic, excited, sad and incredibly happy.
If you're not a Queen fan, believe me, you will be!
I only gave this a 9/10 because there are 2 or 3 moments in this movie that I could have done without and used the couple of minutes to feature some more songs.
Going on the list to be one of my favorites for sure!


                
Bohemian Rhapsody is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Its story is so good, and the acting is so amazing. Rami Malek is born to play the role as Freddie Mercury. I watched the movie 2 weeks ago, and I want to see it again. When I saw the movie, I really thought that it was Freddie I watched and not Rami. And it isn't just me, all people I've talked with, thinks that's is one of the best movies ever.
I totally recommend this movie to all people, and also if you don't even like queens music. This film will be great for you. Don't love queens music, that's impossible. I literally listen to the music 5 hours a day. Every day. Their music is just amazing.
That's my small review of Bohemian Rhapsody, thanks for reading it.


                
Bohemian Rhapsody was probably one of the best movies I've ever seen. As a big Queen fan, I can say that some facts aren't really accurate in the timeline, but the movie was AMAZING.First of all, let's talk about the acting. God, Rami Malek's acting was absolutely incredible. He may not look exactly like Freddie, but he has the same expressions he had. I've seen other stuff with Rami, and he always was amazing, and BoRhap was no exception. The acting in general was really, really good too.Then, telling Freddie's life, I personally think they sugarcoated it too much. But it makes sense, since many young children were seeing it. Apart from that, it was pretty good.In conclusion, this movie was simply fantastic. I saw three times! And the music -I'm a big Queen fan- was incredible (duh). I really recommend it!


                
I adored this movie about Freddy Mercury, although I am not a big fan of the Queen. I listened to their music sometimes and I knew their story before, but I never had the opportunity to get inside Freddy's life and personality so much.
This is really a wonderful movie, well built, the plot is perfectly written and the protagonist is fantastic in his interpretation of Freddy Mercury.
Each part of his life is told and explained without being excessive, especially in those aspects regarding sex, drugs and illness. I cried a lot, especially at the end, because the pathos is very high. The final scene of the Live Aid concert is magnific and totally aderent to te reality.
A must to watch.


                
Bohemian Rhapsody great film and by far one of my favourite films of the year such a great story and some great acting performances i would recommend this for any Queen fan.The performances in this film where amazing were amazing especially Rami Malek who played Freddie Mercury did an excellent job and looked exactly like him and he played the role perfectly in my opinion.There some excellent moments in the movie and some where very emotional and for a Queen seeing what he went through and learning his story was incredible and i shed a couple of tears during the movie.The movie was also really well directed and showing the live performances the band was incredible and it felt like i was there watching the band live all those years ago.
You can tell everyone put all there passion in this movie and it was brilliant.Now some of the movie was historically incorrect ive heard from other Queens fans that how he got Aids and how he found out played out differently in real life than it did in the movie so for Queen purists that can be annoying but it does not ruin the movie.A great movie with great performances that i enjoyed from start to finish i also loved the Live Aid performance scene that was just perfect and really showed that Freddie was the best live performer and no one could play a crowed like he could.
They dont make Musicians like that anymore.Verdict 9.3/10 Just a great movie with great performances and i would recommend it to any fan of Queen.


                
A good movie with a touching story. I remember watching the hit Bohemian Rhapsody <f0><U+009F><U+008E><U+00B6> on a black and white TV <f0><U+009F><U+0093><U+00BA>.
Rami Malik has acting as Freddie Mercury is ace <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008C>


                
Rami Malek's representation of Freddie Mercury was stunning and completely unexpected. The critics were wrong in 1975 when they first heard Bohemian Rhapsody, and they're wrong about it now. Admittedly, the movie offered little to no elaboration on the backstory of Mary Austin, Brian May and other significant characters, but BoRhap is the story of how a poor Pakistani boy went from working as a baggage handler to being the lead singer of one of the biggest rock bands in history. I suppose this may be due to the inherent disinterest of director Bryan Singer and how he continually disappeared from set on days end. There are defects in the movie. There are plot holes and perhaps not enough angst as I personally would have liked, but no movie is perfect. For a singer such as Freddie Mercury-it was nothing short of everything I wanted.


                
A quick, passionate, royal and tipically British visual poem about one of humanity's legends. Must see movie for everyone who loves some rock in their life, but can still enjoy the love of art and just being a wierdo. A great, beautiful, incredibly talented wierdo.Here's to you Freddy, we still love you.
Rami will get places, Mark my words.


                
Personally I found this movie to be entertainment at it's finest, the music and the drama keeps you hooked in.
Now, I've read some critic reviews which suggest that the band hasn't been quite depicted properly and so on.. but I really don't think it matters at all for most of us viewers who care about how the movie makes you feel


                
