A great experience by TVF , I am wondered that such a cool series does exist in India. Sometimes I compare it with Breaking Bad (with script quality and content) , sometimes with silicon valley ( with the plot ). Thanks buddy for this wonderful creation. Arunabh great work.There's been a very small part of the series which made me felt like its not real and its a drama ( in 4th one : bulb jalega boss ) , otherwise its beautifully created to make a great impact on audience. Leo Tolstoy once said " A bird never flew on one wing ". You all are heroes of Pitchers.There could be more studies need to be done for all up coming episodes. Like in Breaking Bad you can see that they approached a Chemical Science Professor to have better understanding of dialogue deliveries.Titles need to be rock solid (not to be filmy) to have a better impact on viewers.So far it has made such impression that people eagerly waiting for next episode and seasons. All the best guys.


                
The show was really very good seen it from the first episode and giving the review, it's gives a real idea showing us how the wheels are turning when you are starting something new, I'm really happy with the show honestly but there is a reason why I'm giving it 7 stars. The things that I liked about the show was that was giving us the basic idea of how a startup is done, and it's good to see that how in country like India the trend of web series is growing and this show is the pioneer in it thanks to TVF guys. Really perfect assembled cast everyone played there part really nice, the lady who plays the role of the coders wife she's really pretty and music selection, editing, cinematography and coordination was also perfect. The things that I didn't like about the show is that after watching 4 episodes I thought about an standard that how the finale should be but the final episode really had many plot hole, the episode itself came really late after wait of 4 weeks or a month I Guess over that the finale was shifted to TVF's site instead of YouTube( Good Business strategy by TVF), where you have to sign in. Bottom line: A good show with a mediocre finale I can say, but one of its kind in India so I'm giving it a 7 if it would be out on time or the finale would have been nice then definitely I would have given 9 or 10.
