"Pitchers"- An inventive script, impeccable screenplay, true-to-life characters, splendid acting and humor at its best.Arnuabh Kumar started "The Viral Fever" on YouTube when he got rejected from MTV because their show was too intellectual. Now here he is, with "Pitchers", which is intellectual.Some IIT guys with a penchant for filmmaking started making small videos, and now they have reached a level where we can proudly say that they are encouraging everyone. Their satires on the social issues, politics, and everything bad in our country is commendable."Pitchers" have taken the creativity to a whole new level, lovable characters and immaculate writing are the souls of it.Gives the feel of "Entourage".Kudos people, Keep it up.


                
TVF Pitchers is an audacious attempt by TVF to make a sensible TV show in India. The theme of the story is one which majority of the IT and young people will relate to. The main difference about this show is its improved direction, better storyline, original music(No constant irritating background music) and decent dialogs. Also the actors fit the role and their acting is satisfactory. The storyline is interesting, comical and also realistic which is a rare find in the Indian television industry. The show however sometimes losses its focus and tries to overdo a little. Despite its little imperfections the series has begun well and is something I would definitely continue watching. Kudos to the makers for a daring attempt.


                
I had only just heard of TVF. I knew they were into making spoof videos. I wasn't aware of what Pitchers is. Or the fact that there was a Permanent Roommates before it.And then, one morning, I woke up to a post on Facebook. I do not remember whether it was a news article or a post share. All I remember is the content: TVF Pitchers had secured a spot on IMDb's Top 250 TV Shows.At first I was surprised. When did IMDb start a Top 250 for TV Shows. Even more surprising was the thought that if Pitchers had a place here, then it wasn't a spoof video. It was much more. What was it ? I searched, read and quickly realized what it was; a dream of millions of youngsters waiting to be realized that had come into fruition. And suddenly I saw the possibilities; no longer would we have to wait eagerly for the next season of The Big Bang Theory to begin or no longer would we have to wait for Season 3 of Silicon Valley to start. We could have our own. Indian shows, at par with their American counterparts, using Indian history, culture, memes, jokes and situations Indians could identify with.I set myself up to watch this. But then I thought, following chronology would be better. And so I started, not with Pitchers but with Permanent Roommates. Saw all 5 episodes and quickly realized, yes, the doors have opened. Of course, the Indian version of 24 had proved it. But this solidified it. The possibilities were now endless.Then I started watching Pitchers. I started with the first episode. In the first 10 minutes ending with the show's opening (the gang of four walking into a bar), it was already a winner. The production values, cinematography, the catchy opening intro, writing, the analogy with beer (brilliant piece of writing), flawlessly smooth editing, it was all there. Right there. And all in the first 10 minutes.I thought maybe it'll lose its first episode charm. I was wrong. With each passing episode came sequences and situations that were not only believable and highly identifiable but situations that you actually felt with, connected with and reacted with. From Naveen's speech, to the frustrated software engineer Jeetu's outburst, you not only feel every moment but feel like applauding and clapping with them.There will be a Permanent Roommates Season 2. There will be a Pitchers, Season 2. There will be more shows. But there can be much more. There can be short films. There can be full fledged 2 hour internet movies (at Hollywood Standards so that we can bid Bollywood goodbye). There can even be a TVF's dedicated channel (if the government allows it that is).But most importantly, this is the beer for all content that will follow. This is it; this is the spark we all needed to realize that yes, its possible. We don't need TV channels, huge production budgets, lots and lots of crew members to make it happen. We need dedication. And with Pitchers, we've seen that dedication. We've seen that quality. More inspiring than its story-line of four friends creating is a startup, is the fact that TVF created Pitchers.Hopefully, Pitchers inspires people to create. If not a startup, then perhaps several shows that will take Indian entertainment several steps forward. Of course we have Permanent Roommates. And we have Office Office. And the Indian version of 24 (if at all there are more seasons). And we will always have several other shows. But then, maybe in the distant future, Pitchers will be remembered as the show that started it all. Or the one that changed it all for India.And this, I feel, is why Pitchers deserves a watch. At least once !!!


                
Best to watch!!! Well it's the show about the problems that engineers do have to face to get a well start up.!and it's not like that it's for engineers only..as it applied to others also...:) it not only includes the business problems but also includes the other personal life problems too like the main lead actor naveen bansal has got his girlfriend..he could barely spend 2 to three hours with her..so that's also a big problem in today's age;) then looking for the second actor,who got his father problem but his wife supported him though..his father is some kind of hermit type guy it's also a big problem specially in India each and everyone have to face this..well then i would like to say that tvf has looked up in a very new concept that's being very missed while in today's bollywood films chiutyapa is going on films like "kick",and no need to give any other examples like "happy new year"..OK tvf keep it up..and we are looking up and excited for your next season:)
Dialogues, Screens, Emotions and Spirit. One of the best web mini-series I came across. Story of guy who with his colleagues pitches idea, get funded, emotions between friends and lovers. A must watch series. TVF Pitchers from the house of The Viral Fever. I love the acting of all its character; they made justice with there role. Sometime laugh, sometime wet eyes. This is complete screen stick show. You will be finding dialogues inspiring and motivating. 'If you are from some technical background, you should try this series.'
I have been watching movies, TV shows, short films, documentaries from childhood, But I haven't seen something relative and witty like this. This is my first review of anything else on IMDb. There is drama, there is love, awesome music, there is a hell lot of sarcasm, and last but Not the least this show is all about the youth and the journey of Star- Up straggles.


                
There is good, and there is exceptional. As a viewer, I could firmly say that I am more than glad to have made the choice of watching this one.Ranked amongst the "Top 250 TV Shows" on IMDb (higher than House of Cards and even FRIENDS), the fact hardly stays a surprise once we begin watching the series. Crisp, compact, very urbane and has a boyish-charm attached to its humour, idiosyncrasies and tender moments alike. Almost felt revisiting the Graduation days!In the simplest of words - "Entrepreneurs and Beginnings" have found a distinct cinematic meaning and a whole new level of respect amongst the masses.#TVFPitchers Two-thumbs up!


                
Well balanced show. With all that it requires to grab the audience it has each and every element in equal proportion. Though the length of episodes gets increased in as show goes on but no viewer for sure would regret it. Pitchers not only connects to startup peoples but also to each and every youth who tries to build his carrier. All the four characters are equally appreciable. it also has equal balance of love and romance in it, in its won way. Tvf team is doing good and shall keep there work on. hats off the complete team. Tvf channel is recommended to be followed for more such series. i am very well looking forward for Pitchers season 2.


                
Another exciting mini-series from TVF, The Pitchers. This show is based on the life of four friends who are going to start-up. It shows their struggle, hardship, and what not to kick start there start-up. The show is all about entrepreneurship, friendship. The actors have done justification and laid ever-lasting effect on the viewers. It has got full comedy, it is a must watch show and might you get motivated and start doing what you always wanted to do. It shows the real struggle of the people who really wants to start there company. The frustration through which the employees goes as they are living a monotone life. The role of yogi is breathtaking and he is the center of all activities. At the end a must-watch-show...


                
Tvf Pitchers is going to be remembered as cult TV series.There is so many reasons, first of all the cast and direction was amazing. I mean if u watch this you will definitely end of having a huge crush on this this. This is really awesome TV series. Currently in my opinion there is no other TV series in India having content wise so rich as Pitchers. This is for a must watch for who keep complaining that Indian TV series as bullshit and all that. By watching this show one can easily realize what i am trying to say. This gives an appropriate and befitting reply to Hollywood Junta who keep complaining. Coming to story, it is so content rich and true to the situation that you cant imagine till now at least in India. It was wisely written,nurtured and developed that you feel like why this not come earlier. And believe me if u opt for single episode you will end up by watching all the 5 episodes in one sitting. That is the charm of this show. GREAT SHOW IN Indian TELEVISION HISTORY. IT CAME AS A BLESSING FOR YOUNGSTER LIKE US WHO ARE REALLY FOND OF SOME CREATIVE SHOW LIKE PITCHERS. HATS-OFF TO WHOLE CAST AND CREW. WELL DONE..


                
This show has broken new grounds. What started as a internet experiment turned out to be revolution. The tvf pitchers is a entertaining, funny, thought provoking, and very well written. Jeetu and his frustration, yogi and his abusive persona, Naveen and his cool demeanour, and last mandal and his weirdness. They all comes together and deliver a performance which makes you believe that these guys can be from your life. You can definitely relate to them. Their trial and tribulations makes you feel that you can also achieve your dreams. This show is inspirational and it will stay with you for a long time. If you have not watched it than please go ahead and see it...


                
This is the first time I am writing a review for a series because the thing which I have watched is nothing sort of brilliance. The mini series has all the entertainment factor which many bollywood big budget films don't have. It has fresh and refreshing concept which will keep you stick to each and every episode.Naveen is the charm of the series. He is very much honest with his character. You will never feel bored while watching him. Yogi is something like Abhay Deol from ZNMD. He too is enjoyable. Jeetu's character has simplicity with sense of humour. Last but not the least Mandal's character is what makes you laugh throughout the entire series. They all have done a marvelous job and have equal share in the success.TVF has done a tremendous job in making this series and letting us know that Indians too have potentials to make sensible a good drama other than the senseless Daily Soaps. Do watch this "TVF Originals Drama" on Youtube and share as much as you can.9/10 or 4.5/5


                
As of most viewers, especially the so called Youtube followers who have seen clips uploaded by TVF online, they might think that they know what they are looking for at, but honestly the show revolves much beyond that. The actors simplicity and the tale's complexity blends and makes the perfect tonic for laugh in each episode of the series. In a total of five episodes, the show gracefully sums the perfectibility of something which has a limited spectrum and but a wide scope to prosper. Cinematography of a the show is amazing, along with the sound direction also has a promising future. The story revolves around Naveen and his three friends who leave their prosperous jobs and work together to run their struggling start-up in an exceptionally competitive market. The actors are undoubtedly funny and the plot is unpredictably palpable. A must watch show, specially for those who understand the language, other than that the show brings a positive attitude from each actor's character which its possessing.


                
Honestly saying, when i started watching TVF Pitchers i was not expecting this much, but everything is here is just amazing, amazing story line with both comedy and drama, undoubtedly amazing acting by all actor, Naveen as Naveen Bansal is amazing, Mr. Yogi angry young man with comedy and *#@* , decent coder Mr.Jitu and last but definitely not least Mandal who proves that he's not at all a zero but a ZERO(x10) for his team, Lets make this short and simple, Final words: Yes!, India can make shows like this with this standards, must watch TV Show, especially the working professionals of IT and Engineers, great work TVF. Definitely waiting for the next season.


                
Its always nice to see a product of TVF Production house. Their sketches and shows are very popular among the youth. This one is based on the theme of startups which is in vogue these days. Anyways, speaking of the whole series - it was nicely edited and directed. Dialogues were great although not slapstick for which TVF house is known for. But altogether it made for a nice watch. One negative thing I found in the series was the wrong casting of Mandal and Yogi - Mandal who comes around as a chipkoo and stupid was casted as a stereotype guy who had above qualities written on his face. Instead, it should have been someone who comes across as opposite - that should have been more funny and experimental. Arunabh playing Yogi was also done due to cost cutting I believe because he acted badly and moreover he is not a 'pretty man' to watch on screen with lame ass physique and baldness. But, the script is so strong that you tend to forget such shortcomings and even cheer for these characters. Overall, I will rate it as 9/10. India should have more of these shows and this should also be on TV and not just youtube.


                
Really loved all the 5 episodes. Guys, your content is fresh, hopefully the Indian Middle Class moves away from Saas-Bahu Soaps and start watching TVF. Great Going Guys! Loved it! The group should come up with more content, awaiting to view Room-mates season 2. You should also come up wit a season 2 for TVF Pitchers. The line "Tu Kya Hai" is a punch of sorts! Hope your episodes inspire the new breed of entrepreneurs and helps alleviating fear of losing out. Prashant good job! Good show all the actors and Special Note to Biswapati Sarkar, for the last episode. Mandal, for being the underdog in the team of 4, The 'ZERO' of the group but the adding value to the whole team in time of need.


                
I'll start as all reviews should start: I thoroughly enjoyed the series. If you're wondering why this is a web-series rather than a TV Series, the answer is that TVF Pitchers is simply ahead of it's time. The clumsy Indian television is not ready for this gem.The thing that stands out most in this is the writing. The writing has a soul, and there isn't a moment where any scene seems out-of-place. I simply haven't seen this magic in Indian TV and frankly, I don't expect to.It is shot in such a way that it feels very true-to-life rather than an empty candy wrapper on expensive sets (balika vadhu; cough! cough!).The casting is absolutely perfect. Traditional well-built handsome models give way to the more humanistic "common-man".Quite frankly, I didn't expect the casting to be good. But Naveen Kasturia and Jitendra Kumar will give you shock of your lives by touching your hearts. Must admit, did not see this coming.This series will give you everything in the right amount: Emotion: The non-cheesy breakup scene got me. Clichés: There are none. Comedy: TVF is an expert in this; but doesn't over blow it (which is commendable). Dialogue: The dialogue is the spine of the movie and it's just perfect with the right pop- cultural references and unapologetic cursing. Character Arc: Each and every arc is beautiful, especially Jeetu's Romance: Your only chance to see a realistic romance. Pacing: Each episode will make you wish it was 10 times longer.In conclusion I would say that there are some series that are made for money, and I have nothing against them. Then there are some series that are made from the heart. You end up falling in love with them.Do yourself a solid, go watch it on YouTube now. Thank me later


                
Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema....... Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......Awesome direction , superb acting.....a wonderful script......good luck guys you will rock the cinema.......


                
First of all I would like to congratulate the makers of TVF PITCHERS on their amazing work. It is fantastically directed, compact screenplay,Excellent dialogue quite evolving one. Also each character is so well developed,everyone justifies in their roles. Now we can say Indian TV series like TV Pitchers and early Permanent roommates are breaking the traditional path of Indian TV Drama. People use to wait for the episodes like they use to wait for sherlock or Big Bang theory I never thought some Indian series and that too by Tvf would make me so happy n so emotional at same time and people who followed it none of us wanted it to end though we were happy for Naveen's team . Thank you TVF for NOT insulting your audience like Mainstream serials in India do and for NOT treating them as idiots who can not understand anything as Mainstream movies in India do.


                
If you have been a fan of TVF Qtiyapa's short vid's, then you are going to love the new TVF Pitchers. No, its not the same funny videos that they make, this one is a online mini-series about 4 friends working in IT field and decides to quit the jobs and start something of their own. If you have watched the TVF's Permanent Roommates before, you will know TVF is not low on drama and comedy, but this one does not only will make you laugh but also make you fall in love with the characters. My Fav. one is Jeetu. He's like just any other IT guy who doesn't get enough credit for their work, listens to his wife and is scared of his father. This series is a must watch, not only for all the IT professionals but for everybody. The characters are love-able and the people playing them are doing a great job. Hats-off to TVF for coming up with something like TVF Pitchers!
Cant wait to see what happens next. Keep it up guys. Don't understand why IMDb needs 10 lines to write a review. Does not makes any sense. I am writing these extra lines as I have to write at least 10 lines. My review is summarized in the title and the first line itself. Anyways enough about IMDb. Its something i look forward to watch after my tiring day. It provides you with great fun and entertainment along with a crisp of events. A must watch for today's tech generation. The best thing, majority of the Indian population is able to relate themselves to your series :). Many guys do wanna take the leap of faith with startups but they are afraid. Hope your series inspires us so that this fear of failure can be crushed. I loved the story, acting, direction, everything. Please make more such series. Thank you!!


                
