I rented this thing, based on movie critic recommendations and the comments on this site.  Is this a case of the emperor's new clothes?  I am not afraid to say that this is a complicated, unfocused mess!  I will agree that it is very imaginative.  Unfortunately, it is the over-active imagination of an 8 year old.  I know there is some symbolism behind the story and imagery, but the weirdly meandering plot distracts you from appreciating it.  I will also agree that it is very different from American animated fare.  That is a warning and not a compliment.  I now realize the stupid dialog and plot lines from the Japanese cartoons they show on Cartoon Network are par for the course.


                
The best thing this drivel had going for it was the artwork. Some scenes were very pretty. Apart from that it was a disgustingly oversentimental attempt to outdisney Disney. the plot didn't make much sense and the characters were all somewhere in the range between mildly annoying and making me want to scream SHUT UP at the screen.


                
Why?  Why do so many people hold this very average film on such a high pedestal?  Being quite a big fan of Anime I'm not new to the genre.  This was a serious head f***.  I will say the production design, use of color and music score were amazing.  However, in terms of plot, story structure, catharsis, plant and pay off...it's all over the place.  I felt the world had no rules to it and therefore lacked any real tension.  I felt the story lacked any logic to it and therefore had no reason behind the motivation for characters.  Why did she do that? What is that supposed to be?  What was that all about? When will this end or start making sense?  With so many positive reviews and awards I'm confused.  Perhaps I just didn't get what others got from it...  All I have to back me up is the crowd of friends with whom I went to see the film with.  And I'm the one who had the most positive words to say about it.


                
An over-mannered and terribly awkward movie - the plot struggles to cohere and the animation is by and large rigid and inexpressive (look at the faces of the witches, for instance). Worst of all, however, is the voice acting. The lead, especially, squawks in the most grating way imaginable; some of the more gifted members of the English-language cast do their best, but struggle with a very limited script and emotional range. There are a few flashes of style in the visuals, but this movie is a clumsy and unfortunate reminder of how far the animated genre still is from mature achievement even as long after 'Akira' - there are less acclaimed animations you would be better off renting instead.


                
Two kinds of people will love this film. People who think anything,and I do mean ANYTHING made by the Japanese especially concerning anime and games*cough* Final Fantasy Series* is crafted by God himself.a.k.a.fanatics,and people who have a INFINITE reservoir of patience.Everyone else and by that I mean people who will call out B.S. no matter how so called good their past works are will hate this film with a passion.I watched this film for the first time in 10th grade and now as a sophomore in college I watched it again on Youtube because the same person who uploaded the entire movie called Howl's Moving Castle also uploaded this too,and I said what the hay I'll give Spirited Away another chance. I did,and It still bored the hell out of me. Although I must admit I did understand it a little better this time.Plot:Girl and family moving to new place. Girl's father runs off road. Girl's parents see old building. They want to explore. They see food, eat food, and turn into pigs. It suddenly turns night. Weird boy comes out of no where tells girl to leave. Weird creatures start moving all over weird town. Boy disappears for 80% of movie. Girl can't remember her name,boy (before he disappears that is says he can't remember his name either. Girl gets job, and so on and so on.. That sounds like a okay weird plot, and done right it could have been great,but the Japanese aren't known for their plot or character development skills or excitement for that matter. Bottomline: The storyline and pacing of it was boring as hell, cheesy, and a good deal confusing, and holey. If you have insomnia this is the movie for you.Visuals: Okay for hand-drawing.Characters. In the end you don't care if she gets home or not and you will p*ss yourself laughing when you find out what the boy's real name is.Everyone is easily forgettable once you turn the VCR off.Dubbing: The dubbing was very good to me. I hate Japanese dubbing because their men always sound like girls,and the girls always have high pitched squeaky air-headed voices,and I can't understand a d*mn thing.The one's who say English dubbing sucks are prime examples of Japanese worshiping fanatics. All dubbing sucks to them as long as it's not Japanese.Bottomline: P*ss isn't gold no matter what Japanese worshipers say. If your not one of them this movie will bore and outright confuse you on most parts. Make no mistake of that.
This film was awful!  It was boring and pointless.  Just a bunch of ridiculous things happen, with no really well-thought out reason.  The characters are stupid, and the adventures quite silly.  There are much better cartoons (and films) out there.  Thoroughly disappointing.


                
I was sooooo looking forward to seeing this movie, I ended up seeing it at the El Capitan theatre in Hollywood in Digital projection and all, but this movie was booooring!!! The story makes no sense and is rather boring. The animation is ok but trust me folks, this ain't no beauty and the beast...............far from it. The best character is the old hag witch, other than that the other characters are bland and nothing is ever explained. Like how did the girl know how to pick out her parents from all those identical pigs?? And there are other inconsistencies but i rather not go into it. Bottom line, IT STINKS!


                
This film is critically acclaimed across the board,is IMDB's No1 animated film and won an Oscar for best animated feature! And for the life of me I can't think why! What a boring film, how any child has sat through this is beyond me. Every situation in the film is dragged out to the extreme. I absolutely love animation and at first I thought I was only used the the Disney and other conventional animated movies,but no,this film is FAR too long & tedious. A major disappointment.Only good thing was the music.


                
Some call Hayao Miyazaki the Disney of Japan. In regards to this movie, I would like to offer my own analogy: he is the Don Bluth of Japan--he's an amazing animator, but a horrible storyteller.The story starts out with Chichiro and her parents. They stop off at what looks like an empty carnival and the parents begin eating. This show of gluttony and greed transforms the parents into pigs, and as night falls, the spirits that inhabit this place come out. Chichiro winds up trapped with the spirits and winds up being captured by a witch who steals her name and forces her to work in the witch's bath house. Now it's up to Chichiro to get free and save her parents.There are obviously more characters that I have not mentioned, but that in a nutshell is the plot. The problem is that Miyazaki doesn't want to develop it. Instead he opts for what seems like 1000 different sub-plots.One deals with a river spirit, one deals with the witch's sister, another deals with a spirit called No-face, and the list goes on. The main plot is essentially forgotten until the very end of the film, and is resolved in the most trite of ways.This is really the movie's big problem. It's as if Miyazaki and crew came up with a million ideas, and rather than pick one or two, they picked all of them. It doesn't only affect the plot, but also the look of the film. I understand that many of the creatures are traditional Japanese spirits (and I'll be the first to admit my lack of knowledge of Japanese culture), but there were simply too many weird creatures that serve no purpose. The witch for example has a baby that fills an entire room and three severed heads as assistants. Why? Because they could.I honestly hated this movie. When it was finished I felt flabbergasted. It was uninvolving, nonsensical, pretentious, and boring. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but I honestly cannot understand why this movie is so well-loved. In my humble opinion, it is complete and utter drek.


                
No just no. Thats gonna be my main statement, the movie is to ridiculous to respect and along side that it barely makes sense. This whole ordeal just shouldn't exist. Its to crazy and makes me wanna shoot babies. I can't even name everything, god the Noface character killed me. The town and everything that went on in it was way to much I'm sorry. Just didn't make sense whatso ever. People think its good because they feel there has to be some sort of reason behind a speed trip this crazy. They feel that it has an intelligent aspect because they feel everything represents something or depicts something. It doesn't, I'm gonna tell you that right now, nothing in this movie makes sense, the title, the characters, the plot, the settings, nothing. If I filled a tub with acid and cut my self in several places the things i would see would very closely resemble this movie. Jimi Hendrix could've written this movie and it wouldve been better just cause the music would rock. People that are uninformed feel that authors and directors make everything represent something, everything. This is not the case, now I'm not trying to offend the director but I'm sure he just wanted to make a movie that seemed like a spectacular dream that the viewer was having. And he did a good job, but i bet if i went and asked him what things represent he'd be like "well you see the noface character represented a creature that eats everything". Thats exactly what it is, nothing more or less. See the reason its #48 on crack list 2076 is because its just like every other Japanese movie and crazy but this ones animations and art were just so brilliant. Thats it and since its on it people think its an amazing movie.OK no one believes me, heres what ill do, ill get some acid and speed, get incredibly high and film a movie. It will be exactly the same except it won't be animated. Now you see this is why the Japanese people are unique is because they do not need to get high in crystal meth to precipitate these insane ideas. The movie lacks subtlty, reason and plot, end of story.


                
I'm sorry but perhaps I need to watch this flick again. I am a bit of a movie buff - hey I even tend to call myself an independent filmmaker from time to time. But either this movie went way over my head or the drabble of hype surrounding it has got waaaay out of control. I can't believe this is on the IMDb's top 250 list.I watched it from beginning to end with the hope that it would redeem itself by presenting an odd and unexpected twist to pull the whole thing together and move it to a level of brilliance (as many movies - particularly foreign films - tend to do). No deal AND I will never get my two hours of repressive throw-my-TV-across-the-room-this-flick-bites-so-much-I-can't- believe-more-than-one-friend-recommended-it time back. So before folks start recommending it to people sit down and watch it 10 times to see if you actually like it or (making a judgment here...eek sorry but) if you are just super excited to be watching alternative media. BTW, I get the super-excited-to-be-watching-alternative-media deal but try ordering off- line, visiting an independent video store in your city, or downloading foreign flicks if blockbuster doesn't have a good enough selection (which they hardly ever do). There are some great foreign films out there - this just is not one of them in my opinion.


                
I don't write many reviews but I felt compelled to say something about this one. I have seen this ranked high on IMDB for years and I could not bring myself to watch a Japanese animated film. But I ran out of things to watch and thought, "heck -- it's very highly rated so how bad can it be." Well -- famous last words. I got about 1 hour into this mess and I had to stop and read some reviews to see if I was missing something, or if I could find out how the ratings were so high. I saw several strong reviews which seemed legitimate, and so I forwarded about 40 minutes toward the end to see if something cool happened in the last 20 minutes to justify the preceding two hours. (Sorry -- I would not normally review a movie I did not watch in toto, but I saw 75% of this and that was enough of a sample size...) Basically this was bad. The plot was bad, the lines were bad, the characters were weird. I understand that people see a lot of symbolism in this movie and that it speaks to deeper themes. But any message is so buried in this bizarre plot and these incomprehensible characters that it is lost through all the muck. I'm not quite sure why this fails where things like Alice in Wonderland or the Wizard of Oz work. Those movies (stories) arguably have bizarre plots, characters etc., but somehow those work and this does not. (Perhaps the animation is a part of it.) I was tempted to say that this is just a children's movie; but then I realized that I would not even put a child through this. Even if this entertained a child, I don't know that it would be good for their development to sit through this nonsense. They might as well watch four episodes of Scooby Doo; at least that has a plot and some semi-logical resolution. Part of this could be cultural too; perhaps this plot and symbolism work better in the Orient; not sure. But now I'm regretting that I did not stay with my gut feeling and dodge this one. I was inclined to give it a 1/10 just to counter-balance some of the high ratings here, but I don't want to go that far; 3/10 seems right. Maybe I'll try this again in 20 years and see if I perceive it differently; but for the next two decades this one is on the shelf...


                
It's been years since I watched Spirited Away.The animation is nicely done.However, there simply isn't any real story.There's no storyline development.Scenes are generally independent of previous scenes.The film depicts what I suspect might be akin to an LSD experience.I couldn't escape the feeling that the "screenplay" was written by a young child.I kept waiting for a story to develop, but it never did.I recall a desire to leave the theater, as one pointless scene followed another.


                
I have no idea how this is ranked 27 on Top IMDB Movies. I only watched it to try to discover why it was ranked so high. If you are not an animation-film fan, then it will have no value to watch. That being said, I really wanted to like it. It starts good in the first 5 minutes, but quickly becomes a disjointed fantasy world that doesn't really make much sense. Maybe this is just a movie made for children, but it's surprising it is ranked so high with so many adults rating the film.I would suppose from a technical animation standpoint, the art and visuals are great (I wouldn't know. In a way it didn't seem any better than Scooby Doo or the Flinstones I watched as a kid). The score is actually excellent, and that's the only reason I give it a generous 3. Oh, and the ending is decent, too- at least we finally discover what that overlong, boring, and disjointed adventure was all about. Even on its anime merits, this shouldn't be in the top 250, yet alone top 30 unless it was strictly an animation film or tv show list.2/10


                
Spirited Away is annoying!The little girl needs to get hit with a spoon and pranked and for some reason, I want to kill her but that's not nice!The animation is gorgeous and the film is beautiful to look at.The film is probably best to watch at about 11-16.Sorry, find this film not worth watching. Watched it at a special screening and felt like running out! Chihiro cries too much, whimpers, and sobs throughout the whole movieAmy Rose and Cream are better!End of funny rant.


                
Now, I wouldn't dare infringe on the spoiler warning rule and spoil whatever enjoyment other could potentially derive from this, in my opinion, miserable little flick, but seriously, I cannot truly believe that nobody has yet picked up on the similarity between its story line and that of Disney's A Bug's Life a few years before. Yes, the animation has deep class and wisdom, but I am sick and tired of critics lauding its originality - it's been done! And not at all long before,and much better. In and of itself, outside of that largely robbed storyline, I don't think that Spirited Away has any value.


                
