As a huge fan of both animation and Japanese cinema, I have long felt more than a little embarrassed by my ignorance of celebrated director Hayao Miyazaki. Having tried to rectify this situation somewhat by watching the highly acclaimed animé Spirited Away, I no longer feel so bad about neglecting his work for so long: I found the film hugely undeserving of the glowing praise heaped upon it and I imagine it'll probably be quite a while before I tackle another of Miyazaki's 'classics'.Although Spirited Away is undeniably impressive visually, with stylish animation and imaginative design throughout, everything else about the film leaves A LOT to be desired, especially the trite story, in which a little girl, Chihiro, gets lost in a strange world and encounters a series of whimsical fantasy characters while trying to find her way home. It's The Wizard of Oz, but without the star quality of Garland, the amazing flying monkeys, catchy tunes, cute dog, and over-sexed dwarfs in garish outfits; it's Alice in Wonderland without the pungent whiff of opium; it's Labyrinth without the allure of a teenage Jennifer Connelly, the star power of Bowie, and the magic of Henson; it's Coraline, but<U+0085>.errr<U+0085> nowhere near as good (speaking of Neil Gaiman, it reminded a lot of Mirrormask, which also bored me to tears with its random, meandering narrative).


                
This movie is very long and very weird. I don't understand why so many people loved it.


                
It's not something new that chinese and japanese animation has always inspire, dazzle and marvel all of us, westerns. Despite quality (in some cases good; in others, bad) the sets, the characters, the animation and the colors always made us want to plunge inside the screen to follow the adventures in their quest; most noticebly, in my personal opinion, the Tv Series "Evangelion". When the trailor to the voyage of Chiriro hit the theatres, not a single skeptical and even so called hateful eye, could manage to blame any of its excentricities and its obvious scientific impossibilities. but has we have seen in many other movies before, either animated or not, many of them are not attempting at plausibility, they're rather a metaphor. What this movie r is all about is love, and how we can step out of our fearful world to try to catch our beliefs, save the ones we love. In that area, the movie plainly fulfills its mission: it has emotion everywhere, being that same emotion supported by a dazzling animation. Mutch to my desmay, I truly wanted to like Chihiro, but it became somewhat of a bore: like many other movies it could have been told in half the running time, some scenes were totally expendable, and somewhere around the middle of the movie, it becomes a total compliment to gore and dirtyness. Sincerelly, over two hours of dazzling animation aren't enough to make a movie all that great. In the bottom line, as for me, the movie only was average worthy in the instrumental main theme; Chiriro 'flying' from room to room towards Yobaba and Chihiro's fabulous view from her room. It's eye candy, in fact, but it doesn't make us plunge. That's its main and fatal sin.


                
I don't get it. I just don't get it.What is so great about this movie? There is virtually no plot or story, no interesting characters, and the main character is shrill and irritating.Sure, there are a handful of beautiful animations, but it's not enough to make up for a terrible story that drags on and on, going nowhere.People compare this to Alice in Wonderland which is insulting. This is just another overrated film that people keep praising because everyone else praises it.


                
Maybe it's the dubbing (for it's the English version that I watched). I had high hopes this time that Japanese anime characters are going to be finally lovable, and it failed once again. The story wasn't too bad when Chihiro first got into the bathhouse and when all the funny, innovative characters, a lot of whom taken probably from traditionally Japanese legends and folk tales, are introduced. But most of them were simply introduced and left alone, not making any difference to what would go on. Perhaps the smooth and "predictable" story-telling of American animes that gives some significance to every character that they care to put in front of the audience is addictive. As for the main character Chihiro, I'm slightly consoled at her pretty much genuine appearance (small eyes, build and height of a child). However when the little boy comes in I sadly knew where this movie is going right away. There just can't be a proper Japanese anime without a hint of dubious relationship between their male and female pre-teen leads. And it's always just a hint, for the little girl and boy do seem to remain incredibly pure and innocent and righteous against all odds. Then again it might be the translation and dubbing - but when Chihiro finally learnt her lesson of "love" in the sky when flying with Haku, it truly made me wince and spoilt whatever innocent fun the movie offered earlier. The dark, childlike qualities of Japanese animes always make it difficult for me to believe that they are totally healthy.Aside from the lack of convincing character development I would have liked the plot to be a little tighter. The interesting array of characters presented at the beginning was rather dearly missed throughout the film. When Chihiro went to look for Yubaba's sister I thought it almost came to a standstill and could use a second episode to explain a whole lot more things. Perhaps it's, again, the training of every-part-fits-in-nicely American animes that makes me miss the point about a lot of things in Spirited Away.


                
Remember when you were in elementary school? And every once in a while you'd get to see some movie on a Friday or something? And it seems OK at the time? And years later you hear about it again and realize it sucked? This is that movie.Summary: Some girl and her parents get sucked into Spirit world. The parents F up and are turned into pigs. Then the girl gets into weird situations and eventually she gets her parents back (not marking spoiler because it's a kids movie and you know it will turn out OK.) This movie will RAPE your brain. It is a loose collection of strange and random scenes. While many aspects of the movie are OK, this is just TOO WEIRD. If I were you, I would only watch this while drunk or high.


                
I was very disappointed with this movie. It falls in line with all the other pitfalls any anime would produce. Poor dialog, poor plot, and very unstable characters. The story is at best the spawn of an elementary school child's imagination. How this movie made the IMDb top 100 is beyond my comprehension. I really think the rating formula is flawed if this movie beat out Braveheart, Saving Private Ryan and Forrest Gump. How did that happen? Flawed rating system maybe? The only thing remotely good about this "movie" was that the animation was good, but if I wanted just the art and no good story or plot, then I'd just go to an art gallery instead. I cant stand it when in ALL Japanimation films, the camera angle will just focus on an inanimate object for like TEN SECONDS! There is a part in this movie were the girl says goodbye to the "River Spirit Boy" and their hands pull away from each other as they part. After their hands leave the frame, the director seams fit to film the ground for another 5 grueling seconds! The whole movie is like this!
sometime u start a movie with a message but at last u lost very thing from it .it is really awful that you miss main source of it.watching a animated movie with a hope to enrich you is the motto .i watched this movie today comparing it with kungfu panda ;that is a masterpiece of all time later one is far superior than former one after watching it.i think animation and music is only high point of this movie.there is no panache in this cinematic verge.it is not gonna touch your nerve. background score of this movie is well? good .movie i have described formally is far better than later one even in case of moral massages ,animation ,soundtrack,characters ,etc.if this is a masterpiece any animation movie could be.i have many example of it like kung-fu panda,finding nemo,ratatouille ,bee,up.up is a masterpiece.


                
Young kids usually don't find any movies to be weird, but this is a film young kids agree is too weird. This film was not produced with American kids in mind. Young kids don't care about symbolism or subtle details, they want action or comedy all the way through. If you're a parent who wants to entertain your child, rent Good Burger, Pirates of the Caribbean, or The Pink Panther remake instead.In Japan, animation has a very broad appeal which extends into a higher age range, Japanese children also have background knowledge on the spirits of Shinto and the spirits' harmony with nature. This means that in Japan, this film can be appreciated and marketed well to a large demographic, young to old.American children however are less fortunate, kids aren't even in tune with their own cultural heritage, much less be expected to understand the Japanese style of this film.This film is ranked 1 better than "Bridge on the River Kwai" in the IMDb top 250, I'm not going to say "Kwai" is an inherently better film, but it does appeal better to its intended audience. The intended audience for "Kwai" is someone who likes war films, and possess a degree of patience. Most people who watch "Kwai" will meet this standard. A knowledge of Japanese culture is not required, but does help if one wants to appreciate subtle details such as Japanese officers making sure not to turn their backs to Commander Saito when they leave a room."Spirited Away" almost requires some knowledge of Japanese culture, and this is asked to children, many of whom have been outside their own backyard. American parents are often just as oblivious, and sometimes less so, as they have no prior exposure to anime.A majority of American adults who don't understand this movie may be intrigued by the unfamiliarity of the style and message. This can lead to a positive overall feeling and review. Children, however, don't have the patience to watch a film twice, nor the capacity to understand a film's deeper meaning. Young children who like this film are usually already into anime. Even if a kid is into anime but doesn't like this film, they will kid themselves into believing they liked it even though they don't. This is because saying they like it matches the expectations children have of themselves due to their still-developing personalities. eg. If a kid likes anime, he wants to like all anime.Miyazaki has always had "Made in Japan" stamped over his films, which limit their global appeal. He has never made, for instance, a film about Africa, and if he did, it would be made in Japanese animation style, not made to look like African art.Ironically, Miyazaki randomly references non-Japanese cultures, confusing American children even more-so. The witch is based on Russian lore, so what are the chances of an American child knowing this? If he is such a brilliant film-maker, he should find a way to explain the cultural references to foreign audiences who are unfamiliar to it within the film, not only on DVD extras.


                
