Beauty and the Beast is without a doubt one of Disney's finest classics. The first animated film to ever be nominated for best picture and after you see it, you could understand and agree with it's nomination. Beauty and the Beast is going to be one of those films that will always be remembered, I know that it's a movie that I will show my children one day. It has unbelievably terrific animation, a beautiful story, lovable characters, and is just over all a perfect movie. I really love this film so much, I don't think anyone couldn't fall in love with it.Bell is just a simple girl in her town in France, she reads books constantly and her father is an inventor. They are sort of the outcasts of their town due to their "oddness". But Bell is being pursued by the town hunk, Gueston, simply because she's the one girl he cannot have. One day when her father's inventions are about to be displayed at the fair, he gets lost in the woods and stumbles across a castle and is held prisoner. Bell goes after him and comes to the castle; it turns out that her father is being held by a beast who is cursed with this hideousness unless he finds a true love before a rose he has welts. Bell trades places with her father; the house also has living objects, a candle holder, a clock, a tea pot, all who are also cursed until the curse is broken. They look at Bell as the perfect opportunity for the beast to find a true love, but he must learn to be a gentleman, but Bell brings out the best in him and it turns out that this might be a happy ending after all.This was actually the first movie that I ever cried in, the ending was just so beautiful and heart felt, you'll have to see what I mean. The songs are just so lovely and perfect for the scenes that they are performed for. Beauty and the Beast, the song, was just one of the most touching songs ever. This films is a major recommendation for me, it's one of my favorite Disney films of all time, it's a timeless classic that is just perfect and reached a new level of great animation.10/10


                
The only animated movie to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination, and it deserved it.Magic from the opening prologue to the final credit, "Beauty and the Beast" is the last real classic to come from the Disney crew before John Lasseter came along. This was one of the few movies I happily paid to see twice in the cinema, and sitting in a sparsely-populated Friday night audience (I was living in Barbados at the time, and it was hardly the most artistic place on Earth... it was a crying shame that there was hardly anyone there while "Home Alone 2" went through the roof) the second time, the magic remained.You all know the story, so apart from pointing out the movie's one flaw (the prince's spell had to be broken before he turned 21 or he would remain a beast forever; so if it was cast ten years before the events of the movie, wouldn't that mean he was 11 when the spell was cast...?), let's look at how well the movie works. You have a monster who's more human than the movie's medallion-man villain; you have a heroine who's PC but engaging with it; you have a supporting cast of magic utensils who wisely never upstage the couple at the centre of this love story (and despite the Disney animated trappings, it IS a love story); and you have a captivating story, beautifully told.The movie's also got wonderful design of its French setting and characters, with the ballroom scene a standout (the tiny but appreciative audience were impressed by the sight of the Beast and Belle in their evening wear - the only time I've ever seen cartoon characters get wolf-whistled in a cinema); and Alan Menken's score is his finest work for the Mouse, with matchless lyrics from the late and much lamented Howard Ashman - how many musicals can you name where ALL the songs are brilliant? But ultimately it's the movie's very real heart that makes it a keeper; the cliche "You'll laugh, you'll cry" is all too true in this case. A lot of movies called 'classic' don't deserve that appellation, but this one does.I'll be slaughtered by anime fans, but what the hell... one "Beauty and the Beast" is worth a thousand "Akira"s. And "Shrek"s. And, I'm willing to bet, "Treasure Planet"s. This is a truly adult animated feature that's also one for the entire family. Forget "The Silence of the Lambs" - this is the real best picture of 1991.


                
a great movie story done with wondrous animation and lovely music.  the pacing was perfect, the music blended extremely well with the action, and each character was developed charmingly.  the contrast between the mean but insecure beast plays very well against the lovely but bright and secure belle.  the animation was top notch: even now, after disney has had time to develop better computer animation techniques, it still has beautiful color and flow.  except for pinocchio, I don't know any disney movie more lovely. It's a movie that appeals to children of all ages, especially adults : )enough of the "technical stuff"  let's get on to my emotional attachment to the movie.I remember the first time I saw B&tB so vividly; I was completely enthralled by the movie that all I could do on the way home was smile and cry.  I've seen it many, many times, yet the ballroom scene still gives me goose bumps. Angela Landsbury as Mrs. Potts sings the title song with so much feeling that every time I hear the song, I'm swept away back to that ballroom.
I was also moved by Belle's strength of self worth and generosity.  She is a heroine I'd love girls to emulate.  She knows what she wants, but yet is sensitive to others in trying to achieve that goal.  She also learns to apologize and to forgive, no small task.I've loved this movie from the start, and it has grown into an obsession. I collect everything I can now, and watch it when I need a lift.  So I know my opinion is strongly biased : )  but I hope you get a chance to see this film and judge for yourself.  I realize it is difficult to get access to the videos or laser discs (check out the spanish version cover imdb is using in B&tB's page) but it is well worth the search.  The first time is most magical.  I envy you.


                
Words fail me as I try to express my feelings about Beauty and the Beast, the best cartoon movie ever made! Praise is all that I can find for it and anything that I or any fan writes about it simply cannot do justice to this tour-de-force of top-class animation and elegant story-telling.Beauty and the Beast marks one of the first and best uses of digital animation for the range of human emotions that it captures. Even today, there is no sequence as memorable as the ballroom sequence where Belle and the Beast dance to the strains of the title tune. Speaking of tunes, no mention of this movie's artistic merits is ever complete without a mention of the songs. The lyrics written by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman are absolutely poetic (Tale as old as time/Song as old as rhyme) and the voicing of the songs by Angela Lansbury, Celine Dion, Peabo Bryson and others is simply incredible!The two best song sequences in the movie are 'Be My Guest' and 'Tale as old as time'. The script is excellent taking the old but fairly well-known fable and developing it into something modern yet touching and poignant. The new innovations of the scriptwriters to the original story such as putting a feminist touch on Belle, the development of the relationship between Belle and the Beast, the talking cutlery are fully fleshed out and have been integrated into the pace, moving the story forward and never slowing it down. The characters are sharply developed. Belle is a vibrant bookish girl who lives in a world of fairy tales, yet dearly loves her wacky but likable inventor father. Also it is worth mentioning that she is shown to have an individualistic bent of mind who sees the handsome but shallow Gaston for what he is and spurns his advances. She has the spunk to wear the type of clothes and act the way she wants unlike the other dumb village girls.At first she fears the Beast, but when he saves her she appreciates him and finds the prince within the Beast. She is intelligent, compassionate and has a mind of her own. She's also very outspoken and courageous as is evidenced by her opting to take her father's place in the Beast's castle and in her tirade of reason against the Beast when he rebukes her for putting herself into danger by trying to run away from the castle. With her strong personality, she makes a terrific role model for young girls everywhere. Long before Titanic, this was the first successful attempt at female empowerment. The Beast is a fierce ape-like creature whose short temper stems from his frustration at being unable to find true love. Gaston the narcissistic village champion who thinks that brawns are more important than brains is ridiculed by the movie and eventually exposed as its villain. Even minor supporting characters such as the clock, the lamp and the teapot are fleshed out and will enchant both kids and adults alike.I actually started crying during the movie's finale when the Beast dies after the struggle with Gaston and my sorrow was turned into joy when the curse is broken and the Beast gets transformed into a handsome prince. The transformation effects are simply mind-blowing (for a cartoon movie!).Some eighteen years after its release this movie only gets better with time. Cynics who normally dismiss cartoons and G-rated fare should see this movie and experience a change of heart. If this movie does not move them, then they should go admit themselves into a morgue!My Grade:A+!


                
This is Disney's greatest achievement. From the first shot of the castle right on to the end view of the stain glass window it is funny, frightening, and powerful. Every shot is even more enchanting and fantastic than the last. Walt Disney would be very proud of this film.Howard Ashman and Alan Menken have done what most composers can only dream of. To create a "script" in every lyric and every note that is heard. This film is nothing short of spectacular.Every voice is flawless. Robby Benson in particular reminds us all that you do not have to be in front of the camera to give off a believable and touching performance.The film is Oscar worthy in every way. The viewer would be well advised to bring a box of tissues during some of the films more tender moments. The ballroom scene is an example of how seamless the animation really is. Other tearjerker moments include a fight between Belle and The Beast which ends with the Beast leaving the protection of his castle to rescue the one who could break the spell from a pack of savagely monstrous wolves, the transformation of a monster into a man, and a dedication to the late Howard Ashman. You too will fall instantly under the spell of this beautiful story. If there is ever anything you will miss out on don't let this movie be it.


                
I agree with the commentator who mentioned that we should "live the fairy tale" because Beauty and the Beast is a wonderful story that teaches the viewer not to judge a book by its cover. This movie is my favorite movie of all time because so much of it applies to myself. I am very much a bookworm, and I used to keep to myself a lot. Eventually, I met my prince and am now living happily ever after. I hope that everyone can live this way or live the fairy tale. A lot of Belle's attributes are worthy of praise: intelligence, kindness and bravery. At a young age, I was taught to value these characteristics and to incorporate them into my own personality. It is probably these three attributes that my friends like about me, therefore Belle is an excellent example of a role model, especially for young girls. She also teaches everyone, and not just children, that perserverence pays off in the end with love and happiness. The objects/servants are a colorful lot, much like your friends, family and everyday acquaintances. They add color and meaning to your life and offer humor: the best medicine. Overall, the scenery and the animation are incredible. I especially loved the details in the castle! It is no surprise that the movie was nominated for an Academy award. 10 stars out of 10 =)


                
No other Disney movie in my oppinion, except for some of the classics from fifty years ago can compare to Beauty and the Beast. Disney hasn't made any good movies really in the past fifteen years except this. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Disey, Musicals, or movies at all. It is a true classic!!!!!!!!!!


                
I still remember watching this movie when I was very little. I did not appreciate it as much then, but now because I am older, I can cherish this blessed masterpiece. The music in this movie is one of the best film scores ever and contains the catchiest Disney tunes. Who could ever forget the ever-popular ballroom scene? This movie, in my opinion was Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's best! I also think that this is the best Disney movie made after the great Walt Disney passed away.I had the opportunity of seeing the Special Edition on IMAX. What an experience! The scenes were breathtaking to see on such a large screen. I even found the new song "Human Again" very entertaining.It's such a shame that Disney hasn't made a movie like this since "Mulan". "Beauty and the Beast" will be forever remembered as the epitome of modern-day Disney movies (and should have won the Best Picture Oscar instead of "The Silence of the Lambs"). Bravo to Disney!


                
The first and possibly last animated movie to be nominated for best picture, and it should have won. This is an absolutely beautiful movie, and it makes me miss the art of hand drawn animation. Don't get me wrong Scilence of the Lambs was great movie and its really a tough choice but i think this one should have won. I hate to admit it but it brings a tear to my eye every time I watch it. If only Disney could get back to the likes of this film, and stop dicking around with the boring cgi movies. I hope someday we will see an animated movie win best picture, but sadly i think it will not happen, the only one in my opinion that came close was spirited away, and thats still no Beauty and the Beast.


                
Just rewatched Beauty and the Beast with my movie theatre-working friend at where he works. This was actually my first time seeing it on the big screen and in 3-D, to boot! What can I say except after 20 years, it's still one of the most wonderful of the animated Disney fairy tales to be depicted in movies. No wonder it was the first of its kind to be nominated an Oscar for Best Picture. And the songs by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman like "Belle", "Be Our Guest", and the title song were also worthy of the nominations with the last one deserving of the win. And those voices, ah, what voices! I mean, Paige O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (Beast), Richard White (Gaston), Jerry Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), and Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Potts) just make the picture perfect with their line readings and singing. The last one, especially, when singing the already mentioned title song which would also be lovingly rendered by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson during the end credits. Really, all I'll say now is Beauty and the Beast gets a very high recommendation from me. P.S. I also loved the dedication at the very end "To our friend Howard, who gave a mermaid her voice and a beast his soul. We will be forever grateful. Howard Ashman (1950-1991)".


                
Only second to "The Little Mermaid" on my list of favorite Disney classics, I have been captivated by "Beauty" ever since seeing it in the movies in 1992 (I was 7). The film combines the best of Disney: stunning visuals, appealing characters, great music and a timeless story. The first thing you notice about B&B is the gorgeous artwork - the film opens with an eye-popping shot of a forest and remains a visual delight throughout its 90 minute run-time. B&B includes some of the best Disney songs as well, most notably "Belle", "Something There" and the title song. I own the soundtrack and the score is just as good ("The West Wing" and "Transformation" being my favorites). I also think Belle and the beast make a great couple. There's chemistry between them and their romance doesn't feel forced, but natural and genuine. I was very pleased with my 1993 LaserDisc so I was quite hesitant to obtain the blu ray, fearing it would ruin my enjoyment from the film (wasn't too familiar with the format just 2 years ago). Gladly, I was wrong and the film looks breathtaking in HD (although I do reduce the saturation, given the colors are a little too garish to my taste). Now we just have to wait for my other favorite Disney classic to arrive on Blu Ray, The Little Mermaid.


                
Beauty and the Beast tells the story of Belle, an unusual but beautiful girl, who goes in search of her inventor father and comes across a mysterious castle. She enters the castle in search of her father, to discover it is occupied by a beast. She becomes his prisoner. The beast is loveless and thankless, but she soon begins to fall in love with him, and he with her. The film's end is happy, satisfying, and inspiring, showing what the power of love can do.Beauty and the Beast is a charming story of love and magic. It features lovely music. Songs like "Beauty and the Beast", "Be Our Guest", and "Belle" are catchy and fun to listen to. It features first-class characters: the quirky Belle; Gaston, the hateful attractive villain; the Beast, a character one can't help but feels sorry for; the enchanted objects - Mrs. Potts, Cogsworth, and Lumiere, characters that bring a lighthearted quality to the movie. Beauty and the Beast also features excellent executed animation. It isn't hard to tell all the talent, the sweat, and the heart that was put in this film. The ballroom sequence, and the sequence that shows when the beast becomes human are among the most outstanding animated sequences in recent cinema.Beauty and the Beast is great in another aspect: it's ageless. Although it appears to be a children-oriented film, it doesn't take much for an adult to find it extraordinarily appealing. It's a fabulous film for the whole family to watch and enjoy.When I first saw Beauty and the Beast, I fell in love with it. It's a beautiful tale, an engaging musical, and wonderful fable of romance. One of the greatest examples of traditional animation in recent years, it will go down in history with other beautiful Disney masterpieces, like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Fantasia, and Cinderella.
I dunno about you, but this flick is without a doubt one of Disney's best and their most beautiful movies, which makes it my all-time favorite. The characters are very well-developed and have multiple dimensions to their personalities, not to mention particularly different to the typical Disney character. Belle's wanting to escape her life to see the world(which is the reason why, amongst other things, she is my all-time favorite Disney princess) and hate for Gaston, the best-looking guy in town, Gaston's vanity and lust for Belle's hand in marriage, and Beast's evolution in his hate for Belle to his love for her, which she experiences too, helped make this movie the beautiful masterpiece it is.The music, which was by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman, is without a doubt the some of the best music Disney has made. From the eerie, yet beautiful twinkling of the "Prologue", the introduction of Belle and Gaston's personalities and wants in "Belle", the the get-up-and-dance fun of the musical extravaganza "Be Our Guest", and the simply magnificent "Beauty and the Beast", amongst the other songs of the film, work together to push the story forward, express characters' inner-most thoughts and feelings, and are just plain entertaining. Menken's scores too were quite beautiful, especially the "Transformation" score, which conveys extremely well a range of emotions, from Beast's dying to the triumphant finale.And what would this movie be without the animation? The sweeping of the camera to Belle and Beast dancing in the ballroom during "Beauty and the Beast", which gives me the chills every time, to the ominous darkness of Belle's trek into the forbidden West Wing, along side with the music, make it a treat for both the eyes and the ears.All in all, the movie is a pure masterpiece in many ways and forms and it clearly deserved all the awards and nominations it received, including the nomination for the Best Picture Oscar. This is a movie all Disney fans should watch and I guarantee you'll enjoy it.
It has been said that the pen is mightier than the sword, but when this age-old phrase is converted to modern times, it translates to "the desktop is mightier than the pencil." There's no denying that the computer has become a tool used across the world, whether for political reasons, or for business or especially for educational purposes. Computers have also been adopted by the film industry to give their works of art a shinier feel and along with the visual effects wizards, the filmmakers who use these electronic devices the most are the animators. After a while, it was uncertain whether the cel-based animation used to create such classics like The Little Mermaid and Pinocchio would be completely dropped in favour of the quicker and slicker style. While studios like DreamWorks may have given up on them, the folks at the world's pioneering animation studio are still behind the pencil-and-paper animation that has enchanted families for generations. Looking back at one of their essential works, Beauty and the Beast brings back memories of not only nostalgia, but also warmth. Quite possibly the greatest love story ever told, this "tale as old as time" has always been told by bringing pen to paper. From its candle-lit beginnings by a French writer many years ago to the Disney animators who brought joys to people of all ages, Beauty and the Beast has always touched the heart.The main part of what makes Beauty and the Beast such a brilliant film is the fact that the relationship between the two title characters doesn't feel artificial or one-dimensional, even though they're drawn on paper. Unlike other famous fairy tales, Beauty and the Beast feels quite realistic in its definition of love. The story breaks all conventions by not going the "love at first sight" route and letting the romance progress at a reasonable pace. Belle also proves to be the most interesting Disney heroine, as she doesn't fit the norm of typical princesses like Snow White and Sleeping Beauty. Unlike the aforementioned characters, Belle is not bland, but actually as a personality. She defines individuality and seeks to do more than just marry a prince. Her annoyance at Gaston is not only humorous, but also shows that her ideas of romance don't consist of "a rustic hunting lodge... my latest kill roasting on the fire... and my little wife, massaging my feet... while the little ones play on the floor with the dogs... we'll have six or seven," as Gaston puts it. The Beast is also a rather stubborn, but loving personality. Despite his tough exterior is a nice person at heart which Belle begins to realise the more into the relationship they enter.Adding to the brilliance of the chemistry between Beauty and the Beast are the songs from Alan Menken and the late Howard Ashman. Although both did terrific work on The Little Mermaid and their cult musical Little Shop of Horrors, the music in Beauty and the Beast stands as their best. The title theme song is quite possibly one of the most romantic songs ever written, combining beautiful lyrics with a very memorable melody. This song enhances the film's famous ballroom scene to ever impressive heights, already helped by the breathtaking animation in the sequence. "Beauty and the Beast" was not written as just a way to sell soundtracks and win Oscars. It adds another dimension to the characters as they continue to fall deeply in love with each other. It is both moving and deep. The other songs provided by the team also contribute wonderfully to the film, from a show-stopping Broadway number called "Be Our Guest" to the very funny ode to "Gaston." They're bursting with energy and humour made even more poignant by the fact they would feature the last lyrics written by Ashman (who had also already contributed some work to Aladdin). It's a brilliant way to end his career and the end credits homage him perfectly: "To our friend, Howard, who gave a mermaid her voice and a beast his soul, we will be forever grateful. Howard Ashman (1950-1991)"Probably one of the most important ingredients that make Beauty and the Beast such a success is the startling animation. The animators at Disney did a terrific job at making everything absolutely perfect, from the character designs to the sets. Each character has their feel, whether comedic or dramatic, and the animators allow them to breath, seamlessly combining the actor's voice to the moving drawings. The sets are also worthy of mention, particularly the look of the Beast's castle. The Gothic castle is drawn and painted beautifully from top to behind, so much so you're forgetting you're watching an animated film. The film is bright and colourful, but also dark and dreary when necessary. As mentioned before, the ballroom sequence combines Menken and Ashman's music with the animation flawlessly, giving a completely magical feel to it. When computers are brought into the scene, it seams in perfectly, not feeling distracted in the least. Beauty and the Beast most certainly stands as Disney animation at its finest.Some of the best animated films in the world have come from the Walt Disney studios and Beauty and the Beast is deservedly one of their crown jewels. At the film's release, it was honoured with an Oscar nomination for Best Picture, a rare feat for an animated film. It proves that like its heroine, Beauty and the Beast steps out of the comfort zone and thus it succeeds magically in taking people off into their hearts and children within.


                
Beauty and the Beast (1991): Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson, Richard White, Rex Everhart, Jerry Orbach, David Ogden Stiers, Angela Lansbury, Jesse Corti, Bradley Pierce, Jo Anne Worley, Mary Kay Bergman, Kath Soucie Kimmy Robertson, Brian Cummings, Tony Jay, Alvin Epstein, Frank Welker, Scott Barnes, Bruce Adler, Jack Angel, Vanna Bonta....Disney entered the 1990's with "Beauty and the Beast", by far their most unabashedly romantic film and for many viewers, their all-time greatest achievement. There is so much to admire and love about this terrific film which was adored by the critics and hailed as an instant classic at the time of its release in 1991. It was so loved that it became the first animated film ever to be nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars. The 18th century French fairy-tale is given a twist to cater to a more modern audience A selfish and heartless prince (Robby Benson) falls victim to an enchantress' curse and is transformed into a beast. His castle is bewitched and even his domestics are turned into household objects such as candelabras, clocks, feather dusters, teacups and kitchen utensils. Only the love of a woman can redeem the prince and only when she sees past the monster and into his humanity can he become human again. Enter Belle (Paige 0'Hara)the beautiful single daughter of an old and eccentric inventor Maurice (Rex Everhart) who lives in a small town in rural France. Belle stands out from the other townsfolk in her fondness for books, her individuality and her intellect. Bored of provincial life, she longs for "adventure in the great wide somewhere". She's pursued by Gaston (Richard White) a hunky but vain, self-absorbed and wicked hunter who wants to marry Belle and make her his "trophy wife". When Maurice sets off to sell his new invention to a fair, he becomes lost in the woods and stumbles into the Beast's castle. Before long he becomes his prisoner. Belle comes to the rescue but in order to save her father she must replace him as the Beast's prisoner. What ensues is a "tale as old as time". Despite his monstrousness, Belle learns to see past all that and in time tames the Beast herself. Their relationship is based on respect for one another as human beings, exemplified when Beast saves Belle's life and she in turn saves his. But it's not long before the villagers discover the Beast's existence and Gaston leads a murderous mob to attack the castle. The late Broadway singer Jerry Orbach provides comic relief as Lumiere, an amorous French candelabra and David Ogden Stiers portrays the stuffy British clock Cogsworth. Broadway icon and British actress Angela Lansbury portrays the kindly voice of reason, Mrs. Potts and young Bradley Pierce portrays her son Chip. Jesse Corti plays Lefou, Gaston's awkward and goofy sidekick. These minor characters, purely there for comic relief and cuteness, not only entertains younger audiences but they are so wonderfully portrayed by the actor's voices that even adults can enjoy them. It is through voices that can act as well as sing (Paige O'Hara, Richard White, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury are all Broadway singers) in harmony with a solid plot and superior animation that this film truly shines. Beauty and the Beast still ranks as Disney's all-time greatest after 16 years. In fact, Disney does not make films like this anymore, owing to the excess use of computer graphics which can often dominate the story itself. Shortly after the success of the film, a Broadway musical was made, one that is still enjoyed to this date. And this film contains many wonderful song numbers: "Belle" - a gossip song as the villagers follow Belle on her way to the bookstore, "Gaston" sung by Gaston and his drinking buddies in his honor, "Be Our Guest" as the enchanted castle's staff entertains Belle for dinner, "Something There" a duet sung by the leads as they begin to fall in love and the title song "Beauty and the Beast" sung by Mrs. Potts as the newfound friends waltz beneath an opulent chandelier. This romantic song was popularized when a young Celine Dion, not yet a major star, sang a duet with Peabo Bryson for the soundtrack. With its theme of beauty found within, a woman's courage and virtue rewarded, the movie is also a sort of women's empowerment film for girls. Belle, the first Disney princess of the 90's, is strong, resourceful and dares to be different. Far from being a damsel in distress, it is she who rescues the Beast from doom and fights the villain Gaston by firmly renouncing him as a lover. Brilliant music and songs by Alan Menken and a splendid cinematography that used stunning computer-graphic art for such scenes as the ballroom waltz, this film was ahead of its time and marked the beginning of the great Disney films of the 90's - Aladdin, Lion King, Pocahontas, Hunchback of Notre Dame and others, all which used special effects made of computer graphic art. For this film, animators drew inspiration from Romantic 19th century art(Fragonard and Bouche) and from Loire Valley castles. Animators also drew from Cocteau's 1946 live-action version. The look of this film, the attention to detail, is a real winner and it's a pity that Disney does not return to pure animation. For me, this is the zenith of Disney animation and a representation of classic Disney at its best in the 1990's. This is a wonderful film for both young and old and looks as great as it ever did, thanks to restorations as seen on the new DVD version, where you can enjoy seeing how the film was made and scenes that were never part of the original theatrical release. Enjoy this romantic classic today with a date or with the whole family.
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is one of the greatest Disney films to ever grace audiences. A personal favorite, the story of Beauty and her growing love for the Beast is one that people have enjoyed through the years, from the theater to Broadway.I first saw Beauty and the Beast when I was a little girl, around the time that I watched the other Disney classics. And, like I did with the others, I fell in love. The stunning animation and soundtrack coupled with the captivating story kept me in my seat till the very end.This movie is thrilling, with it's message of how love can happen even if the people in question aren't incredibly beautiful. Although the idea of the Beast changing to a prince doesn't sit well with me-- Beauty fell in love with the animal, not the man-- the film is a treasure from Disney.


                
When I saw the first advertising for Beauty and the Beast -- a cardboard stand-up in a movie theater -- I nearly burst into tears. Just the ADVERTISEMENT was hauntingly beautiful, tapping into some deep human reality. Hasn't everyone, at some time, felt like a hideous beast hungry for someone to love us as we are and in doing so, transform us into something beautiful?The film itself more than delivered. Belle was the first Disney heroine who wasn't either boy-crazy or a doormat/victim. She has brains, heart, and above all, character. The Beast's transformation from monster to hero is believable and poignant. In a world where possessiveness has become the norm (witness the selfish custody battles of birth parents tearing children from the only homes they've ever known), the Beast's heart-wrenching insistence that he had to let Belle leave because he loves her is a breath of fresh air.The music is perfection, the animation astonishing. Together they raise filmmaking of any kind to new challenges. The ballroom scene is heartbreakingly beautiful.If you've been in a coma for ten years or have some other excuse for never having seen this gem of a movie, correct that omission as soon as possible. And have a hankie nearby.


                
This movie is without doubt the best animated movie of all time. The artistry was perfect. I was spellbound at the animated sequences to the songs "Be Our Guest" and "Beauty and the Beast" especially. The characters were very well drawn, and because of the dark and colourful backgrounds, the film looked beautiful. The songs are fantastic. Another movie with great songs is "The Hunchback of Notre Dame"(which has the best beginning to a Disney movie). In fact, all the Alan Menken scores are brilliant, with the exception of Home On The Range, which is one of the weaker Disney efforts. My personal favourites, were the songs I just mentioned, and "Gaston" was great fun too. The incidental music was the best in any Disney movie, and that is the same with the other Menken scores. The music in the transformation of the Beast was phenomenal, as well as the animation, and reminded me of the last movement of Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique, which is really frightening. Another Disney with great incidental music is "The Lion King". The story is quite simply one of the best love stories ever, and the characters are wonderful. Belle was voiced beautifully by Paige O'Hara, who has a beautiful singing voice. I love Belle, she is beautiful, clever and strong, and is one of the best Disney characters for those reasons. Gaston was made into a complex villain, and quite narcissistic(great idea Disney). When he was nasty he was quite frightening, and Richard White can really sing. Jerry Orbach and David Ogden Stiers were really entertaining as Lumiere and Cogsworth,(I just love how witty, elegant and debonair Lumiere is) and Angela Lansbury gives a brilliant rendition of the title song. The best voice over was that of the Beast, who was very frightening, and there were some parts that were truly sensitive. Why are some people fussed about him as a human? Remember, true beauty comes from within. In conclusion, an essential to your Disney collection with a very poignant ending. 10/10. Bethany Cox


                
This is in short the most magical movie, Disney has ever put out. I have watched it so many times and every time it just feels equally or more magical. The songs are perfect, the animation is perfect, the villain is not the "evil-just-for-being-evil", but realistically motivated to do bad things which fits the movie perfectly. And finally, the romance between Belle and beast are among the most real and beautiful ever done by Disney if not the best.The story is definitely a tale as old as time.


                
Along with Lion King and Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast is widely considered by most as Disney's finest film. That is simply a completely fair observation considering how good everything about the film is.The film follows the story of a man who was turned into a beast by a witch after he failed to help her due to her hideous appearance and a sweet young lady named Belle. As Belle is held prisoner by the Beast, both begin to discover what each other are deep down. Why do I absolutely love this film? Simply said, I love everything about the film. I love the voice acting, I love the classical animations, I love the story itself and the characters and also find the songs surprisingly good! This film has a magical taste to it. It just has this sweetness to it that many film nowadays attempt to accomplish but obviously fail, most notably Twilight. The relationship between Beauty and the Beast works so well during the film and it also adds a lot of comedy to it. I loved the pacing of the film and find that this is one of the most enjoyable movies of all time!
I finally have a legitimate excuse to review this movie. One of the great ones. One of the greatest animated masterpieces of all time. There's no real reason to hate on this movie; it really is a gem. It's been talked about to death that all I can hope to do is bring my own opinion to the table.The story is still good. It's perfectly paced and excellently executed. The best scenes involve Belle and the Beast falling in love. One of the best elements in the movie is the romance. Unlike most Disney romances where the couple meets, falls in love, and gets married a few days later, Beauty and the Beast takes its time. You never know how long it takes the couple to fall in love; it could be weeks, maybe even months, so its open for debate and allows the viewer to draw his/her own conclusions. The characters are still memorable. Belle is beautiful (duh, the title tells you that), but she never flaunts it. She is constantly taunted and mocked, but does she care? No. On top of that, she's smart, kind, and anything else you look for in a Disney princess. The Beast is drawn great and you do believe he's evolved throughout the course of the film. Gaston is one of the best villains of all time. I love how egocentric he is, and when he doesn't get his way, he becomes this vengeful, hateful person. His transformation is just as believable as the Beasts.The side characters...do I need to say anything about these guys? You all remember the quick-witted Lumière, the snobby Cogsworth, the gentle Ms. Potts, and the hilariously stupid LeFou. They're all memorable and I don't need to say anymore about them.I guess I'll talk about the things that I don't like about the film. The first thing is the design of the human version of the Beast, or as Disney so persistently calls him, Adam. It looks goofy and unlike Disney males of the past. Adam looks very out of place, but that's just nit-picking. The 3-D is another gripe I have with the movie. I did not want to see the movie in 3-D, not because it's not a good film, but because I own the movie. Why would I want to pay $13.50 for a ticket when I could pop it into my DVD player FOR FREE? But, after the 3-D Re-release of the Lion King, everyone began to praise the 3-D animation. So, I spent the money on the ticket, and within the first 5 minutes of the film, I regretted it. The 3-D isn't a cheap conversion like The Last Airbender or Clash of the Titans, as I am told that Disney put a lot of money into re-releasing the movie in 3-D. But still, the movie is so clearly NOT shot in 3-D that it just doesn't look good. The opening shot in the forest looked great, but that's it.Final verdict: Though I don't think the movie is worth seeing in 3-D, still take your kids to see it. The animation, the characters, the story, and the music is perfect. It's a better alternative than something like The Smurfs. Raise your children on stuff like this, parents of America. I hear some theaters show the 2-D version, and by all means, go see that. For the problems I have with the 3-D, I won't deny that it was great seeing this film on the big screen. Do yourself a favor this weekend and go.
You know, two of the best aspects of Disney's version of Beauty & the Beast, seemed small and insignificant to most, but have stuck with me since I saw this in 1991. #1 They freely admit that this is a "tale as old as time" – they're not hiding that fact and #2 they're also completely up front with stating "she's the one" to break the curse, i.e. they don't make us wait until the end (LIKE MOVIES DO ALL THE TIME) to reveal what we've known from minute one. I respect that.Those are just two things of, I dunno, 50 great things about this near-masterpiece of filmmaking. A beautiful score, fantastic and timeless songs, gorgeous cinematography, hilarious dialogue and "sidekicks" and secondary characters, a story very moving, strong leads, adventure, suspense, love, fun<U+0085>this movie is all of those plus so much more.Watching it (for the 20th+ time but) now in the usual-Disney "We Want Even More of Your Dollars" way, the re-release, of course in 3D, it still held up for me. My friend and I in the theatre were rocking back and forth with the wonderful musical segments while mouthing the words – trying desperately, albeit probably failing, not to disturb other movie-goers.I will say this, despite my 10/10 Star rating<U+0085>the movie did look 21 years old, unfortunately. Some of the background characters did not move while the foreground was in motion. This was, sadly, unintentionally humorous. That said, I am a huge supporter of hand-drawn animation, or, movies people put their heart, soul, sweat & tears in VS clicking the mouse. This was old-school animation and I am fine with that. I just think this was better served, in 2012, at home to appreciate.Sure, I love re-watching classics or even movies I just like a lot, on the silver screen, but this wasn't one of those. Anyone that knows me knows I do like 3D, but I have NOT seen a single Disney 3D movie that impressed me. Especially converted ones. The ONLY good 3D imagery here was the rain & snow, and I said the same thing about The Nightmare Before Christmas's re-release in 3D. Sad, there were a lot more 3D to choose from, but I ONLY liked the rain & snow which, to me, was the only 3D that had depth.So I will NOT recommend this to be seen in theatres. I will NOT go see another Disney Classic on the big screen converted to 3D and I am no longer upset I missed The Lion King's same 3D re-issue last year. I will, however see Finding Nemo's 3D re-release later this year for several reasons: I DO NOT consider that Disney, it's my favorite Pixar film – though I haven't seen it since the original release in 2003 and the less than 2 minute preview before Beauty & the Beast looked far better in 3D than ALL of Beauty & the Beast. (On a side note, it's absolutely easier to convert that – it was 100% digital and computerized.)Stick with this classic on BluRay. I just hope they put that fantastically hilarious Tangled Ever After short (shown before this movie in the theatre.) It was a lot of fun and had us cracking up.For the movie itself: 10/10 Stars. For the 3D conversion: 2/10 Stars.


                
Beauty and the Beast is probably the closest to perfection of any film I've ever seen. It's such a beautiful love story, full of suspense, humour and emotion. The animation, as usual with Disney, is stunning. Every frame of the movie has very detailed, beautiful artwork. Special mention goes to the animation of Ms. Pots, Lumiere, Cogswarth, Chip and all the other objects who manage to move naturally without any limbs. And of course there's the Beast, who starts out very menacing and scary and gradually becomes more and more human by his posture and facial expression. The voice actors also have exceptional talent. The actress who plays Belle has a very nice voice and is a great singer. Gaston has very deep, manly voice that suits his character perfectly. But if there was an Oscar for best voice-over performance, it would go to the Beast. He gibes such a powerful, tortured performance, that I really wish I looked up his name before writing this. And also usual with any Disney movie, the songs are ridiculously catchy. I especially love that fun, energetic song about Gaston, and the very beautiful title song "Beauty and the Beast." The latter song is sung during a very beautiful sequence where Belle and the Beast are dancing in a CGI room. The CGI maybe dated, but it's still a timeless scene. Another thing Disney also does greatly is mixing romance, comedy and suspense. The movie has lots of funny scenes, especially the parts with Cogsworth and Lumiere, but there are also very intense scenes that will keep you in suspense, like the exciting climax. And of course there are a couple scenes that will have you reaching for the tissues.With interesting characters, catchy songs, nail biting suspense, a beautiful love story and stunning animation, I recommend this masterpiece to just about everybody who watches movies.


                
As Mrs Potts rightly sings- "Tale as old as time", the story of 'Beauty and the Beast' lives on forever and ever. Never, ever in my life, in my opinion, have I ever seen a film with such complex themes, with such a message to keep the audience thinking and such depth to its story. Of course and rightly Disney has presented this film beautifully and poetically, so all the audience, who have seen the film from old to young, will understand the message and directed by Gary Trousdale, he shows this amazingly.When a selfish prince is turned into a he is hideous beast by a beautiful enchantress, disguised as a beggar women, he is forced to be confined to his castle, along with his faithful servants, who have been turned into common house-hold objects. The only thing with him is a single rose, which will bloom until his twenty first birthday. Until then, if he doesn't find true love, then he is doomed to remain a beast forever. However, there is little hope, when a lovely young woman comes, looking for her father, who is kept hostage in the castle she seems to be the solution and the one to break the dreaded curse. "For who could ever love a beast?" Disney really delivers the message of never judging anyone, simply in this fairy tale, in which everyone can keep in their hearts. With characters with such depth, 'Beauty and the Beast' never fails to entice the audience, with the theme of love, finding what really matters and looking deep to what really matters.With the best actors, providing the voice for the characters including Paige O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (The Beast), Richard White (Gaston, Jerry Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Potts), Bradley Pierce (Chip), Rex Everhart (Maurice). With Mrs Potts singing the legendary title song, we see the Beast becoming the man that he has hidden all those years.Overall, I cannot stress how much this film touches everyone's hearts. A must see to see... again and again and again!


                
This film is truly a wonder to behold. An excellent film in every aspect. For me, this is the only Disney movie in which the music is comparable to that in "The Little Mermaid". Visually, "Beauty" is a great example of how CGI can complement hand-drawn artwork without taking over it, like in later Disney films (most notably "The Hunchback of Notre-Dame" and "Tarzan"). The ballroom sequence was truly groundbreaking but that's about the only "computerized" part in the film, thankfully. Belle herself is a fantastic heroine, one who dreams of adventure and not about a lover. I don't see why so many people were let down by the prince in his human form. I thought he was done very well. "Beauty and the Beast" is definitely up there with "The Little Mermaid".


                
