I've finally discovered what happened to all the bad boys who were turned into donkeys in Disney's "Pinocchio": they went to live in Belle's town. Disney's anti-male bias is very much in evidence in "Beauty and the Beast": the perfect heroine is surrounded by the most grotesque collection of males ever found in one movie.  Most of them are slobby-looking pigs, the ones who aren't dried-up old scarecrows.  Even the lone good one, her father, is a bumbling, fat old fool incapable of even driving a broken-down farmhorse to the fair without getting lost. The one goodlooking man she knows is Gaston, a selfish, narcissistic brute, which leaves only the Beast, whose table manners leave much to be desired.  But eventually he learns to "behave like a gentleman", which is all that is necessary to win the heroine in this very superficial retelling of the fairy tale.  Watch the Cocteau version if you want a real story with some depth.


                
Who could ever learn to love a beast? Girls into bestiality...Haven't watched this movie since I was a kid, but just in the first 3 minutes I'm already picking it apart.So it starts with a guy with a nice place doesn't want to let a strange old wandering crone into his home after dark on a stormy night. This is a really weird note to start off with for a kids movie. "Hey kids. Always let strange geriatrics into your home after dark, 'cause who know, it could actually be a hot chick." That aside, the story moves on and we find Belle given full run of the castle with the exception of the west wing and is explicitly told not the enter the west wing. So the first thing she does after emerging from her room is go there and start poking around in Beast's possessions.And of course the movie continues with more idiotic behavior and, ugh, songs, which are of course the bane of most if not all Disney animated films.Sadly, this particular Disney flick is of no value to anyone over the age of 10. Which is a shame considering Lion Kind still holds up today despite being an animated musical.
There are a few things that's not so cool about this movie. It gets old after watching it more than three times, some of the songs aren't very good, and the beast yelling is disturbing. I like the characters, and Gaston is one of the coolest and funniest villain in any Disney movie. He want to Mary Belle, and kill the beast. Disney could have done better with this movie! There were a few funny moments, like when Gaston fell in the mud, and Belle's father sneezing on a clocks face. There's a scene near the end where Gaston gets into a big fight with the Beast, and stabs him with a knife. A little bit of violence and heavy for a kids flick right there, eh? It was okay, I wouldn't see it again.


                
Oh yes, Beauty and the Beast
I will now list all the things that I liked about this movie.
The beautiful animation
The colors
The character design (despite the limitation of realism)
The camera rides
3 of the songs
GastonNow we come to the things that I do not like in this movie.
All other songs,
the music
The backgrounds
The next to characters
The romantic
The love story
The absolutely verrschung worthy messageI know even that this movie is based on a storybook, how often Disney changes stories he fits into their canon and it just as with the little mermaid does not make sense to compare it to original story.
It is enough to mention that both stories have my absolute contempt for the same reasons and that I am not satisfied with the story's execution.
There are other things about this movie that you might want to mention, however, is the story, the plot plot the foundation on which this movie turns out to be so despicable in my eyes that I love the beauty and the beast with all the attention to detail and the visual Glamor performance can never count so my positive movie experiences in.


                
WARNING, WARNING!!!  (possible) SPOILER, WILL ROBINSON!!!!Okay, I'm not a Disney person to begin with, but this movie ranks among as the most offensive.  We've just spent eighty-odd minutes telling the kids that "it's not what you look like on the outside that's important; it's inner beauty that counts!"  Then, because the Beast is so nice, and because Belle loves him, they get rewarded by having him turn into a Backstreet Boy.Take message #1.  Add message #2.  Mix well.
When I was told that this was (and is, to this day) the only Disney animated film ever nominated for a Best Picture Oscar, I said to myself- "I have to see it again." By this point, I was obviously a Disney completest. So I bought it (on VHS), and watched it. What can I say? It's a joke! Let's try to take it, scene by scene. First, we are told of the story of the selfish Prince with no love in his heart. A beautiful, magical Enchantress turns him into a Beast (a furry animal, human-sized, with monster teeth and claws) when he dismisses her on the basis of what he perceives as her surface ugliness. Okay, good story. Makes sense. Decent set-up - "for who could ever love a monster?" the story asks at the end.Well, we're going to meet her (the One who could love a monster). Her name is Belle, and she is a misfit in her small provincial French town. She reads books all the time while the townspeople feel beautiful girls should spend all their time waiting for a handsome man to make them wives and mothers. So, next we meet the handsome man who wants to be her husband, Gaston. He's conceited and arrogant - a real jerk, but a fairly accurate product of the time, with less than ideal views on independent, free-thinking women. Which Belle is. This is an okay establishing scene. We're told a lot. The characters are definitely a little flat, but the only real problem is, perhaps, that the woman singing (and speaking) Belle's part has a sort of grating voice. I'm not kidding.So, her father is an inventor who gets lost in the woods on his way to a convention and after being chased by the unsavory creatures in the woods to the Beast's Castle, he is imprisoned by the Beast in his tower. Belle is lead to the castle by the father's runaway horse, and when she finds him, she meets the Beast, who is just the biggest creep in cinema history, once we know it's actually that selfish Prince. Nice to know being this Beast hasn't taught him a thing about humility. Belle begs for the Beast to release her father, but he refuses. So she offers to take her father's place and that... SUDDENLY melts the Beast's heart... A little. He agrees, the father is taken back to his home by a Spider Carriage, and Beast offers to give her a more comfortable room.Now, by this time is where we start to get really worn out by the huge plausibility and character flaws. Belle is the woman, who is given the film's title of being "so Difficult" (important to remember), but it's Beast who is the moody one. Which is understandable, since he was turned into a Beast. But isn't the least bit understandable, given all we've learned about Karma. If you are a bad person, bad things happen to you. Beast got what he deserved, and it's incredibly selfish of him to expect that the work he has to do to become human again will happen on it's own. But the filmmakers have convinced all the people who like this film that it's not a problem. Because they've FLUFFED it up, by just tossing it to the side and saying, "oh, he's just got a bad temper." What does that mean? It means, Beast is still a bad person waiting for Love to make him human. So in effect, he'll still be a bad person when he's human, only he'll be human.Perhaps I'm reading too much into it. Because Beast, over the course of the film, learns to love Belle and becomes a hero. But right from the get-go, we are not supposed to like Beast. Then, under some extremely disturbing circumstances, Belle is thrown into the Castle and through some lame musical numbers (again, I'm not kidding, these musical sequences are not up to the standards of The Little Mermaid and Aladdin), we are manipulated into believing "oh, look, they fell in love so quickly!" Another example of this type of insulting manipulation is the scene where Gaston is convincing the townspeople that the Beast is evil. He sings 1 stupid song and suddenly, everyone in the town is storming the castle, Frankenstein-style (big points for originality there).This film is just one big sappy, unconvincing mess. If anything, it offers some extraordinary colors, 1 funny song ("Gaston" has it's riotously hilarious moments - "and every last inch of me's covered with hair!"), and Jerry Orbach (yep, that crusty detective from Law & Order) is fantastic in his role as a Parisian candelabra, with an impeccable accent. But other than that, this movie just caters to girls and women, assuming that if you dumb it down for them, they'll love it. I hate seeing that happen, but it looks like the ladies (and some gay people) fell for it. Two Thumbs Down.
Beauty and the Beast follows a woman who, after trading her life for her father's, is imprisoned in the castle of a beast. Ultimately, they fall in love. The animation is beautiful. It's all hand drawn, and it opens with a beautiful scene right away, immersing the audience into the movie without so much as a line of dialogue or anything. And this continues. The animation stays beautiful, and unfortunately that beauty doesn't transfer into the rest of the movie. Before we get into it, I'll also say that most all the voice acting was great. Those who voiced these characters were almost all perfect, and gave just enough to make their characters believable and more interesting. Also, as far as music goes, the instrumental is great. Can't say the same for the lyrical aspect, but the instrumental alone is something I can see myself returning to. It's pleasant and it's fun, and that doesn't tend to be a bad thing. In addition, Paige O'Hara has a lovely voice. Unfortunately she sings no more than twice in the entire movie, but when she does it's a real treat. In continuation of the music, the rest of the cast sucks at singing. It was truly horrible to listen to every lyric, and even worse knowing that these wretched voices were distracting from a beautiful score. I hated listening to every single one, and honestly couldn't wait for them to end. Even when Paige O'Hara sang, she was accompanied by trash singers. As such, most every song is practically unbearable. Earlier I said the voice acting is mostly great. Where does it falter? Paige O'Hara. That's right. The only cast member who can sing can't voice act. She's either overdone or underdone, and she never hits the happy medium that everyone seems to have reached with relative ease. And moreover, her voice just doesn't suit Belle's character. So basically her singing is cancelled out by her acting, and everyone else's acting is cancelled out by their singing. So where does that leave us?The pacing makes no sense. Not that it's boring, it moves rather quickly. Too quickly, actually. So much so that none of the characters receive any real development, and as such none of them are that interesting. And the relationships that form are even worse. The ones that matter aren't focused on enough, and those that aren't as much simply aren't important. And moreover, the timeline of the movie makes no sense. We're left to assume at one point (for example) that either Belle lived in Beast's castle for several days and that another character lived in the woods without food or water for those several days, or that Beast and Belle were together for all of one day and formed a relationship through that, meanwhile the other character runs around the woods. Really? There are plenty of these problems throughout the movie, where logic simply ceases to exist because plot convenience. I get that animations like this were hard to make longer because each panel is hand drawn, but at that point maybe Disney should have just avoided a story requiring development and good pacing. Overall I really didn't enjoy Beauty and the Beast. I know I'm the minority here, but regardless, the perks of this film are cancelled out by it's flaws, and ultimately it settles at being less than average in my eyes. In the end I wouldn't recommend this movie. It makes me wonder just how low standards were in 1991 for this to be nominated for Best Picture, or even considered to be a great movie.


                
