The 30th animated Disney "classic" is, without a doubt, one of the most famous Disney classics, which is a good and a bad thing either, because its success tends somewhat to overshadow other very good Disney classics (often better than this). Or maybe what happens is that this movie gets the deserved attention, while others sadly do not have the same luck (such as "The Rescuers", "The Aristocats", "The Fox and the Hound", "The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh", "Robin Hood" and others). That is the worst aspect of this movie's success. So, as one can see, it's not all roses.Nevertheless, "Beauty and the Beast" is one of Disney's most original movies. To a point, it is every bit as creative and imaginative as "Alice in Wonderland", except that it isn't as eccentric as that one.One thing that is very obvious from the beginning is that this is a french tale. It's quite easy to understand that because all the characters have french names. Plus, they often use french words such as "Bonjour" (which means "Good morning" in french). Lumière even uses the word «Sacré bleu» once. However, it's not very clear the exact place of our story. All we know is that it's somewhere in France.As much as I don't like all of the movie's characters, some of them are very charming. For example: Lumière (the candelabra), Cogsworth (a clock), Mrs. Potts (a teapot), Chip (the cute little teacup), Belle, Maurice (Belle's father, who is also an inventor) and Philippe (the horse). It's funny that a horse is named Philippe (Philip in french) - LOL.Belle is one of Disney's most beautiful chicks, together with Jasmine, Ariel and the Blue Fairy. Belle is also classy, charming, carefree, nonconformist, conservative and nice. All of this makes her an interesting character and, above all, different from the rest of her village's population, who see her as a strange girl because she likes to read and also because she can't stand Gaston (unlike the rest of women) neither the idea of being his "little wife". Belle is appropriately named like that (her name means beautiful in french).Gaston (who is considered the villain of the movie) is a character who's got no culture at all, being the epitome of pure strength and no brain (like Biff Tannen from "Back to the Future"). Gaston is a tall, muscled, vain, arrogant, snobbish and chauvinistic guy with a heart of stone.On the other hand, Gaston's follower and helper, Lefou, is more of a goofy guy than anything else, nearly like a comic relief. No wonder he is named Lefou (which means "The Fool" in french).Monsieur D'Arque is a strange man with a sinister appearance that makes him seem to come from a terror film. For some children, he might be a bit of a creepy character.My favorite character is Chip (he is the cutest of all, besides, his natural sweetness and innocence helps). However, Lumière and Belle come incredibly close to Chip when it comes to my favorite characters of this film.The soundtrack isn't entirely spectacular, but the romantic ballad "Beauty and the Beast" is beautiful. It has 2 versions. Angela Lansbury's version is good, but the original one by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson is extraordinary.As for the cast, it is brand new comparing to older Disney films and most of them do well. Paige O'Hara and Angela Lansbury are among the best ones, but those who steal the show are Bradley Pierce as Chip and Jerry Orbach as Lumière. Jerry Orbach gives so much life and energy to Lumière, with such a convincing french accent.The best part of the whole film is the famous ballroom dance sequence, which is wonderful, brilliant and very artistic (the graphics also make it look incredibly close to a live-action ballroom).Generally speaking, this film has the main ingredients of an animated Disney movie: great picture quality (good designs, backgrounds, sceneries and colors), very good animation, creativity, originality, some charming characters, some romance, adventure, darkness, suspense, classic humor and so on...The Prince (that is, the Beast as a human being) almost looks like Jean Michel Jarre with that long hair. That said, his change of heart during the movie is amazing. From a person who is spoiled, selfish, unkind and with an explosive temper, he becomes kind, gentle and even romantic.Although the sequence "Human Again" was originally gonna be included in the movie, it was removed in the final version. It was recovered for the DVD. Yet, the version I consider the true one is the one without the sequence "Human Again", even if that one is not *officially* the movie's true version. But for me the true version is the one I know since 1991. It's the way I always knew it, so it makes perfect sense.


                
I forgot how flimsy the plot of this is. Very little that happens in this adds up or makes sense when you stop to think about it. And the romance between beauty and the beast is thinly drawn and problematic. You are supposed to just accept it when the movie says so.The songs and score are iconic for good reason; there's more soul and feeling in the lyrics and music than there is anywhere else (it is a musical after all). It all works, the animation is stellar, though personally this is a good not great film and its Best Picture nomination in hindsight is more than a little perplexing.


                
Effortlessly enduring the test of time, Beauty and the Beast manages to retain the same flair & charm that made it an instant classic during its time of release, The story covers the relationship between a beast who once was a prince before he was turned into a monster as a punishment for his selfishness & a young, beautiful woman named Belle who is imprisoned in his castle.Elegantly presented with pleasant songs, heartwarming music & superb use of imagination as well as humour, the film even today manages to grip its viewers into its fairy tale right from the opening moments. The animation is dazzling, voice acting is impressive, each frame is finely detailed plus the story is very well narrated & paced too.On an overall scale, Beauty and the Beast isn't the best ever Disney film in my book but it surely is amongst the most memorable ones. Its message i.e. "looks never really matter when you own a f*cking castle :P" is heard loud & clear and makes sense even today. One of Walt Disney's finest offerings that works even better as an enchanting story of love, Beauty and the Beast is a delightful musical that should still appeal equally to people of all ages. Just go for it.


                
A beautiful animated film. I think any child would love this, even all of the family maybe, it is such a good "classic" animated film. Everyone will know the story, i remember watching it as a child and it being one of my all time favourite stories/animated films.A lovely "love" story that is very touching.I would recommend to people mainly with children, i think they are more likely to enjoy this type of animated film (adults may like it too, whatever genre you are into).Worth a 7 out of 10 at least.
Too much comedy and stupidity, too little enigma and darkness is what strongly lets me down about this love story. However, I DO NOT hate it!THE GOOD POINTS OF "BEAUTY AND THE BEAST": 1. The Stunning Animation 2. The use of CGI for the ballroom and the title song that combines with this amazing scene 3. Belle's appealing character 4. The Songs 5. The Enchanted Rose glowing, spitting out sparks of magic 6. That emotional scene when the beast is severely injured and Belle holds him in her arms and dies. She tells him she loves him when it's almost too late after he dies (the last petal of the rose is about to fall). It's sad but, you know what? It cuts down on all that unwanted comedyTHE BAD POINTS OF "BEAUTY AND THE BEAST": 1. The opening scene in Belle's village - the townspeople are incredibly idiotic! 2. Belle's father Maurice seems more of a wacky, fiery person rather than a warm, comforting old man who makes such awful inventions 3. Gaston has got to be the most annoying and thick-in-the-head Disney villain ever (at least, until the last 15-20 minutes of the film when he turns nasty and mentally jealous) 4. LeFou drives me MAD! 5. The pub sequence when a party is held for Gaston - IT'S JUST PLAIN PATHETIC!!!Well, well, well! I think that kinda proves I love it more than hate it! And why should I hate it? It lacks the brainless stupidity of "Hercules" (not a good film AT ALL) and I'm surprised that according to Channel 4's "100 Greatest Family Films" "The Lion King" was more popular than this! This is MUCH better! And furthermore the "Lion King" is just plain depressing and, again, stupid. I still know that this film has already become a treasured classic after just 15 years - it's younger than ME! It's popularity is not surprising, if you ask me! The ballroom scenes with the sweeping camera-motions combining with breathtaking CGI and rich cartoons! Before I go, I will say that, while 6 good points outshines 5 bad points and while there are scenes that'll amaze you, there is no cherry on top of the cake (if you see what I mean) because, like I say, I am not too pleased with the amounts of times sheer dumb comedy comes into this movie - so I won't give "Beauty and the Beast" the highest rating.


                
I'd not seen this Disney film before ( one of the few I'd not seen) and I was really sad I'd not seen it sooner. It was a very good tale and really good to watch


                
I'm not a huge fan of this movie, but there is no denying how amazing the animation is. The voice acting is also pretty good. The plot is very weak, but the musical sequences are a it entertaining. Overall this move is pretty entertaining. As children's movies go, this one is pretty good.


                
As a kid growing up and right up until I watched the film today, I never considered that "Beauty and the Beast" had it's setting in France. Don't know why, it just never occurred to me. However the names of the human and inanimate characters give it away pretty plainly. Nor does one think about the film adaptations to be musicals, but this one is and if you listen to the songs, the word play is pretty cleverly done.With the success of Disney's early animated films, I'm surprised that it took until 1991 to come up with a picture for this story. I've read that Walt Disney tried to adapt "Beauty and the Beast" into a feature film much earlier, but couldn't come up with a suitable treatment. I'd have to say the long wait worked in it's favor, as the movie is definitely entertaining and colorful, with plenty of fanciful and whimsical elements supporting the human characters. I'm surprised a bit at the way Gaston was written, he comes across as a classic chauvinist. But then again, the feminist movement was in full bloom by the time the Nineties rolled around, and what better way to contrast a scholarly, book reading girl like Belle than to have her as an independent, free spirit who deflected his unwanted attention. She might have tried a good right cross to his jaw too, but that would not have retained her femininity.So I'm not much into animated films, but this one was well done and quite entertaining. For a distinctively different visual treat, one must definitely see the 1946 movie directed by Jean Cocteau. It does for classic black and white films what this one did in color, and that's to deliver a wonderful and timeless tale of love and magic. It may be the best interpretation of "Beauty and the Beast" out there.
"Beauty and the Beast" is that rare example of a vaunted Disney movie that really works; on pretty much every level. It says a lot that I - averse to musicals - gravitate toward the songs in this movie. They're all good . . . even the Celine Dion ballad. The requisite puzzle pieces come together just right here. It's got a (genuinely) strong female protagonist, good humor, very nice animation, and even a message about not being a douche. Also, the weirdest-looking prince I've ever seen in a Disney movie.But here's the bottom line: If Disney applied that "Lion King" prestige to this movie, it'd be well-earned, and they'd actually be right on the money. There's not a whole lot (any?) about this that turns me off, and it's a legitimately entertaining movie. Worthy of high praise. And as Disney Renaissance movies go (a phrase that gets thrown around with reckless abandon), this is right up there at the top.7/10


                
I saw this movie in the theater twice in the same day and I loved it. I was much younger (about10), but even now I still like it. Disney's magical movies are never boring and are mostly quality work. And they always make the female characters so attractive. Very nice. Anyway, a nice movie, it's not Disney's finest, but well worth the watch.  7/10


                
Beauty and the Beast is a classic fairytale if ever there was one. It's a film about discovery; about adventure; about venturing off and away from home or a comfort zone to explore and discover. This exploration will be littered with danger and threat but it will evoke an element of magic and the unreal for equal measure although the smart move Disney make in Beauty and the Beast is that they do not clearly define who the 'villain' is and nor do they dumb down this role. In fact Disney bring an air of study and greater extent to the material other than shoddy metaphorical content, something that they very rarely did so before this and thus; Beauty and the Beast earns its place amongst the circles when talking about some of their best films.The film could be read as if told to us aurally, that is to say the immediate beginning is being narrated to us and we have rough sketches that look as if they're straight out of the Medieval era presented to us in story book fashion. These still images confirm to us of a Prince's back-story of how he became so hideous in appearance and how his castle and its inhabitants became so equally physically deformed, some of which are transformed into items that resemble their role in the castle whereas some others are not. Here is an interesting study of character 'bodies' within film, a brief reference to centuries ago during which what you wore would immediately tell others of your 'role' in the world ie; Royalty, jesters and peasants would all clearly be labelled by the clothes they wore <U+0096> this is significant due to the various items the castle's workers are transformed into and the manner in which the 'style' of the early images are presented to us in that mock, Medieval fashion.So if characters like Mrs. Potts (Lansbury) are transformed into a teapot because she's the maid that makes and brings the tea; the Stove (Cummings) is transformed into his namesake since he is the chef and the flirtatious French maid is transformed into a brush to signify her job as a cleaner then it's possible to read into the fact the two individuals we the audience follow more often than not, those being Cogsworth (Ogden Stiers) and Lumiere (Orbach), are of a certain elevated level since it's difficult to place a candelabra and a clock into a realm of profession within the domestic environment. If there's one thing people have had fun in reading into over the years then it's Disney and their particular animation styling they choose; characters with lean or fat builds can signify one thing; characters with very astute or pointed expressions another whereas a rounded character with a big smile and bright blue eyes could easily be associated with heroic tendencies.The Beast (Benson) himself is not necessarily transformed into something as he is turned inside out. The character of the Prince is an unkind 'beast' on the inside and has these psychological characteristics switched so he must physically resemble a 'beast' or a monster, cruel and consuming none-the-less. But Beauty and the Beast is more so a character study of the mind rather than just how fancy Disney can make and force us to identify with each character's animation. As a character, Belle (O'Hara) plays the protagonist and like most female Disney protagonists, she lacks a motherly figure but does her very best to figure out what's right anyway. As a character with a persona she is smart and outgoing, an independent woman who will not conform to stereotypes but will maintain an attitude that has an element of feminism throughout.Her mission through the film changes a few times, on one occasion actually reverting back to a prior one. Initially she sets out to rescue her father, Maurice (Everhart), after he is kept in the very castle the Beast inhabits following a similar exchange comparable to that of the enchanted woman at the beginning when she also requested shelter from outside forces. Things take a turn for the worst and Belle's new goal having achieved the last one is to stay behind with the Beast after which she must get used to. Belle begins the film within the filmic space that is 'the farm'; a simplistic and rural setting which is located within 'the village', a setting in which all inside is 'good' and everything outside is 'evil' or at least unknown and mysterious. Belle doesn't conform to the caricature she should do within these spaces and this is highlighted with a wonderful early musical number in which the villagers call her 'strange' and 'funny' because she's a free thinker and she reads books.Completing a future love triangle is Gaston (White), a physically powerful and space dominating character who possesses so much love for Belle, it leads to obsession <U+0096> you get the feeling in the real world if Belle had developed a relationship with someone else in the village, Gaston may well have challenged them because of it. He dominates his assistant Lefou (Corti) in the same manner Beast dominates his assistants initially within the castle planting a seed in the audience's mind to do with power struggles and what would happen if these two came up against each other. But Beast becomes more human when he seems to treat the assistants with more respect and is presented in compromising situations such as looking daft following a bath, whereas Gaston goes the other way. The film is a great study for certain things and will no doubt remain highly rated in years to come.


                
As a child I didn't quite liked "Beauty and the Beast", because I though it was a too serious and adult cartoon. But I like this movie now as an grown up. From a child's perspective it is a "girl movie", cause I knew many girls instead of boys who liked this film."Beauty and the Beast" is considered like the real Disney classic of all times, who is understandable. Personally I think it's a little bit overrated, but still a beautiful and charming film. No wonder that it got nominated for Best Picture (it's a shame it didn't won).Like I wrote earlier, this movie it's more darker than you usually expect from Disney because of the subject matter of the story and it makes the movie a little more adult, even it's watchable for the kids. But the youngest audience may be frighten.Belle is a wonderful Disney heroine. As a kid, I though the secondary characters were pretty annoying, but now I think they're enjoyable (exept Le Fou, Gaston's sidekick and Maurice, Belle's father).The script is well written. Most of the songs are beautiful and so is the animation. I must admit that I think the climax scene it's a little bit weaker comparing to other Disney climax scenes, so that's why this movie doesn't get a higher vote from me. Besides that, it's a great Disney masterpiece.And for instant: Watch the "Human Again" sequence and make you'r own opinion about it.


                
I first saw Beauty and the Beast when the Diamond edition came out last year, when I was 17 years old. Maybe that's the reason I don't like this movie as much as everyone does, but I doubt it since I also saw Wall-e the same night and absolutely loved that film. Now when I first saw it, I was prepared to give this film a 6/10, but after thinking about it and listening to many peoples reasons why they love it I think it deserves at least a 7.The story is of two opposites that have a bad first impression but eventually fall in love. Simple, but it works. There are a few things that bother me about this film though. For one I feel that when the beast wasn't a jerk, he was really boring and bland, sorta the same thing that happened with Simba in the Lion King. I hate Lumiere alright, he is just a prick. And the songs aren't what they're hyped up to be. Be our guest is the only song that I loved, the rest are good, but I wouldn't sing along, and to be honest I don't see myself singing to Be our Guest either.But there are more good things, the love isn't just love at first sight, the rest of the characters are cool and the animation is stunning. Overall, good film, but not my favorite in the Disney Movie library.


                
Small town in France. A prince who laid a curse by witch lived in forest. The prince changed Beast. Beast must find ''true love'' until 21 years old, otherwise the Beast can't go back originally a figure. Other, in town there is a beautiful women. She is liked by townsman .Her name is Bell. She likes to read and imagination. She is requested marriage by town man. One day, her father is caught by Beast. Her father's name is Mauris. Bell demand a Mauris in exchange for the live Bell in Beast's castle. Then, Bell knows that Beast is gentle man. So, Bell falls in love Beast, but townsman is angry because Bell tray by Beast. Then, townsman try to kill. So, Bell try to help....This is childish movie, but adult also can enjoy. This plot is fiction. It makes you impressed. Perhaps this is chick flick. It maybe prefer to girl. I think that ''true love'' can find. Most of the character seemed strange. Because cup dish and candle are chat,and walk!! It seemed human. This story is heart-warming.


                
The film that officially signaled Disney's animation renaissance (following The Little Mermaid) and the only animated feature to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination, Beauty and the Beast remains the yardstick by which all other animated films should be measured. It relates the story of Belle, a bookworm with a dotty inventor for a father; when he inadvertently offends the Beast (a prince whose heart is too hard to love anyone besides himself), Belle boldly takes her father's place, imprisoned in the Beast's gloomy mansion. Naturally, Belle teaches the Beast to love. What makes this such a dazzler, besides the amazingly accomplished animation and the winning coterie of supporting characters (the Beast's mansion is overrun by quipping, dancing household items) is the array of beautiful and hilarious songs by composer Alan Menken and the late, lamented lyricist Howard Ashman. (The title song won the 1991 Best Song Oscar, and Menken's score scored a trophy as well.) The downright funniest song is "Gaston," a lout's paean to himself (including the immortal line, "I use antlers in all of my De-co-Ra-ting"). "Be Our Guest" is transformed into an inspired Busby Berkeley homage. Since Ashman's passing, animated musicals haven't quite reached the same exhilarating level of wit, sophistication, and pure joy.


                
I normally enjoy Disney films (or most, with some obvious exceptions from almost recent Disney films). I personally enjoy a lot of the songs and score. So, I decided to re-watch the movie. What I found was a pretty good movie, but it seemed like they were rushed to finish the movie. Things just seemed to go to fast and the story did not go to in depth for certain aspects. However, I thought the characters themselves were cool, especially Gaston (why did he die).But I can't complain that this film is good on Disney standards. Great music, but at a very weird story pace. I just wish they took the time to do the best of their ability.
