So in Beauty & The Beast, the Prince is offered a magic rose by a haggard old witch in return for some shelter for the night. The Prince says no and he is turned into a Beast (surprise!) as punishment for his selfish and shallow nature, and the curse will only be lifted if he can get someone to love him before the last rose petal wilts on his 21st birthday.But lets take a closer look at this, shall we?Right at the very end of the film, the last petal falls, and since the film only takes place over a couple of days (thanks to one of the most economical scripts I've ever seen), and the curse has been on the Prince and his servants for 10 years (as Lumiere sings in 'Be Our Guest' – "Ten years we've been rusting"), I think there is only one thing to take from all this:The Prince was only TEN YEARS OLD when the curse was put on him!No wonder he was scared of the "old beggar woman" who came to his castle. He's ten years old, all alone on a dark stormy night, his parents are nowhere to be found, clearly his servants are neglecting him as well as he had to answer the door himself, and he confronted with a hideous old crone. What ten year old wouldn't be scared by that?!And then he has to find love as a beast when he wasn't even old enough to have had a chance to develop any understanding of love as a human! No wonder he's been so angry all these years.Think about that next time you watch.


                
This was a well-done Walt Disney animated movie. Although not a huge fan of the movie, I find no fault at all with this film, and it's especially appealing now that it's out on DVD. It looks and sounds super. The colors are bold, bright and just plain gorgeous. The sound separation is excellent. If you have a nice surround system, you'll be pleasantly surprised with this.The story is nothing extraordinary but decent with a lot of subtle humor mixed in with it, mainly with the talking objects in the castle. Little "teacup" is the cutest of the characters.The songs, with the exception of the title tune and a Busby Berkeley-type number, are nothing to write home about.Still, when you look at the whole picture, this is a solid movie and probably one of the Disney's all-time best animated movies.


                
Beauty and the Beast made <U+200B><U+200B>history in being the first animation to be nominated for best picture, and is not for less , has a good story, a great look, a beautiful soundtrack, engaging characters , great dialogue , the chemistry of the characters main is excellent, not to mention the other characters who appear , some are pretty funny , others unbearable , the songs are good , Beauty and the Beast received adaptation Live Action French version , unfortunately it was not true , even with a beautiful view , the history has some modifications, and characters from the animation that not 's in the film, Beauty and the Beast is a great movie with a beautiful soundtrack, as well as being the first animation to be nominated for an Oscar . Note 8.3


                
If only "The Silence of the Lambs" was not on the way, this movie could be the first animation to win Oscar as best picture. The characters are so alive, the music and songs are very entertaining, and the storyline is great.The most memorable character is actually Lumiere. But other characters are also very well-developed.Robby Benson is great as the Beast. He gets into character perfectly and is able to give the audience the right feeling at the right moment.In terms of entertainment, it still looses out to both "Aladdin" and "The Little Mermaid". In terms of movie as a whole, maybe it's better. However, I still prefer the other two movies.


                
Disney's animated BEAUTY AND THE BEAST has received much praise and high ratings, but I don't know why it is placed above so many of the other fine animated films. For example, for me Disney's animated TARZAN is a much more entertaining film. Maybe because TARZAN's serious message (family, and accepting outsiders) is delivered in a more entertaining manner. In "beast" Belle is a beautiful young woman whose father becomes imprisoned in the castle of the Beast and she volunteers to be imprisoned instead, to free her father. The Beast had gotten that way from a spell, and could only become the handsome prince again if he could get someone to love him. A bitter person, that appears virtually impossible.some SPOILERS follow ...During her stay in the Beast's castle, Belle is rarely treated kindly, but still in the end she falls in love with him. The transition from the two being at odds, to the romance, seems to abrupt, without a plausible buildup to that point. It is well-done, but for me the presentation of the story was not altogther satisfying.
"The Beauty and the Beast" fable has been around for a long time, present in various forms in various different cultures under various different names. For example, in the 1600s there existed a similar Germanic folk-tale, often titled "The Beast" or "The Wolf Prince".Regardless, the fable is similar in each version, and seems to have started out as a tale told to young women in order to prepare them for intercourse and future marriage. At its core, the story says that man is an animal, is bestial, until a young woman's love redeems him. Or rather: man is not a sexual animal at all, once the woman gets to know him properly.So like most folk tales, this is a giant fantasy designed to placate (and probably even has evolutionary value). In the story the Beast loves the woman, lusts for her daily, though she does not love him. To keep the Beast's hormones at bay, the young woman promises to meet him at his castle, but because she is bound to her father and loves the old man dearly, forgets all about the Beast, who slowly dies of grief. The young woman, seeing the Beast dying, then suddenly realises that the Beast loves her and swiftly falls in love.In a very archetypal sense, the fable symbolizes the union between a sexually developed man and a young, innocent female who views the man as beastly at first, but eventually grows to love him. This happens after she cuts all ties with her father, who up until that point had been the only male figure in her life. When she accepts the Beast, he literally becomes beautiful, his clothes and bestial figure vanishing such that he turns into a prince.Jean Cocteau's "Beauty and the beast" (1946), a film which retells this tale, keeps the same structure but treats it in a much more baroque fashion. It's still a tale filled with much primal, repressed sexuality, but Cocteau is such a master stylist that he imbues virtually every scene with wonderful visual flourishes. With its dancing candle holders, animated household objects and statues, the film is a triumph of art design.Unsurprisingly, the Disney version of "Beauty and the Beast" waters things down further. In the Disney version, the young woman is an introvert and outcast (but gorgeous of course) who views the world differently to all the other young women around her.Being different allows the young woman to see and empathise with the "goodness" at the heart of the Beast, and so the two outcasts join together, teaching us that it's ultimately "what's inside that counts". (if this is so, why does the Beast transform into a prince and why is the "beauty" always outwardly beautiful as well? Where are all the fairy tales about an ugly woman struggling to inseminate a Doberman?)This kind of "march at the beat of your own drum" and "be different because you are better than everyone else" morality tale is common in Disney flicks, but there is also a slightly dark underside to this updated version of the tale.Both the Disney and Cocteau version of the myth feature a "Gaston" character who is not found in the original, ancient folk tales. This character represents the "common mentality" or "the standard values". He's the "practical male figure" who the young woman should marry, and whom she is encouraged to marry by her friends and family, but whom she possesses no love for. This little addition updates the tale for a more enlightened society, by portraying "woman" as having a certain freedom: the ability to choose the "bad boy", the "beast", and indulging in her own carnal fantasies, regardless of what her parents say. Of course to make this fantasy palatable, the story has to romanticise the beast and ruthlessly villainize the "practical man".In any case, all these re-tellings of "Beauty and the Beast" highlight how petty humans are. Incidentally, early art work from the 17th century featured the beast as a literal wolf or dog creature, often with an erect penis, the young woman on her ankles submissively before him. One recalls a line ironically spoken by Jack Nicholson in "The Shining": "Perfect for a child." 8/10 – Cocteau's "Beauty and the Beast" 7.5/10 – Disney's "Beauty and the Beast" I suspect modern audiences are so familiar with this fairy tale that both Cocteau and Disney's "retelling" seem like old news. Still, Cocteau's film features wonderful art design (Cocteau mingled with many French surrealists), inventive camera work and is pleasantly fast paced. It's probably the best version of this story, though I wonder what use modern man has for these centuries old fables.Worth one viewing.
"Beauty and the Beast" slipped around all my roadblocks and penetrated directly into my strongest childhood memories, in which animation looked more real than live-action features. Watching the movie, I found myself caught up in a direct and joyous way. I wasn't reviewing an "animated film." I was being told a story, I was hearing terrific music, and I was having fun.The film is as good as any Disney animated feature ever made - as magical as "Pinocchio," "Snow White," "The Little Mermaid." And it's a reminder that animation is the ideal medium for fantasy, because all of its fears and dreams can be made literal. No Gothic castle in the history of horror films, for example, has ever approached the awesome, frightening towers of the castle where the Beast lives. And no real wolves could have fangs as sharp or eyes as glowing as the wolves that prowl in the castle woods.Roger Ebert
November 22, 1991


                
I think this is one of if not the first film to be nominated for best picture at the Oscars. With that in mind it shows what a true classic Disney produced with Beauty and the Best.Beautiful Story, Lovable Characters, amazing animation, in every way this film is wonderful. Perfect.Simple girl from a small town in France daughter of an inventor, the local village hunk wants to date her, but she doesn't want him. Her father is taken hostage, she trades places and then falls in love with the man who was holding him prisoner.Make sure you have a box of tissues when you watch this film I guarantee there will not be a dry eye in the house!


                
Amazingly, up until now, I had never seen this movie. I'd seen The Little Mermaid and Aladdin, but not Beauty and the Beast. I'm really disappointed I never saw this movie till now because it's pretty great. I can certainly see why it is one of the 3 animated films that was nominated for Best Picture. The whole film feels extremely grandeur and epic in scale, especially the scene where Belle and the Beast dance. All the side characters are entertaining, and I'm really glad none of them were obnoxious and overbearing. One of the best things about this film is the fact that Belle and the Beast actually spent time with one another and developed a connection. At least more than other Disney films anyway. They felt more real than say Aladdin and Jasmine or Ariel and whatever that guy's name was. I'm really jealous of anyone who got to see this in the theater. It's a film that deserves to be seen on the big screen, but until they hopefully re-release it, I'll keep watching it at home.


                
While The Little Mermaid takes my number one spot on favourite Disney animated films, Beauty and the Beast is a close second. Jodi Benson has a beautiful voice as Ariel and Page O'Hara is just as incredible as Belle.What makes me love Beauty and the Beast so much is not the musical aspect, although Howard Ashman's lyrics are genuine and Alan Menken's scores are some of my favourite, beside Danny Elfman, it's the plot of Beauty and the Beast that wins my heart.Beauty and the Beast is a typical story of the ugly duckling (Beast) winning the affections of the beauty (Belle). While in most cases back in the day, the roles were reversed and it would be Belle who was unattractive winning the heart of a handsome prince. In these modern times, it's so rare to see a beautiful girl with an average looking or under-average looking guy.Disney goes beyond the normal lengths of this basic premise and really touches our hearts. Belle comes to love the Beast's inner beauty. Sure, it's not realistic as a beast like a bear cannot speak, nor could a human fall in love with an animal. I put aside the realism need I have, and just enjoy the film for it's entertainment purposes.Musically, this is my top film from Disney. It's not Page O'Hara alone that wins me over, but it's the entire cast. Alan Menken is my second favourite composer and each one of his film scores are different. Aladdin and Mermaid aren't anything alike, but it's by him. Howard's lyrics are unforgettable. I think the great part of Beauty and the Beast, musically, is that out of ninety minutes of film, eighty-five minutes have some form of music in it.Aside from plot and music, Beauty and the Beast is well-crafted animation-wise. It's so perfect and gives me chills at certain moments. I love to listen to the soundtrack, but when I watch the film, I get all tingly. Angela Landsbury's performance is outstanding, my favourite scene has got to be the transformation. It's depressing and lovely. It's a hauntingly beautiful and tragic scene that lifts your spirits when the fireworks kick in.It's a great film for the family, especially the kids. It's not just for kids, though, because at the age of 21, I'm giving it an eight out of ten and I still love it to this day and I still listen to the soundtrack all the time. Disney is meant for everyone. Beauty and the Beast is a classic and will never be forgotten.


                
Film-Beauty and the Beast Rating-G Creator-Walt Disney Feature Animation Release Year-1991With it's classic story, memorable characters, dramatic songs, and under toned villain, this film is one that absolutely deserves it's place in Disney's coveted "Platinum" line of DVDs. Now come along with me as I explore these three sections of the film-the Villain, the DVD, and instead of comic relief, the Music.Gaston is the rude and conceited man who tries to get Belle to marry him through his achievements and looks, and as a child you wouldn't see that this man is the dramatic villain, until the final sequences. His song, "Let's Kill the Beast," truly captures his intentions, and to me, is what truly made this film nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture.The 2002 Platinum release of this title was dazzling. The disc offered three versions of the film, a beautiful making of feature, wonderful packaging, and of course, silly games for the kids. It's a DVD worth buying, yet maybe not buying to wait for it's upcoming new Platium release in the years to come.And now for probably the best part of this film, the Broadway style music. Composing the film is Alan Menken, the genius behind "The Little Mermaid (1989)" who brings this film to stunning style musically, with it's basis of theatrical dramatic songs, and having the range to do the silly songs as well. And then of course, there is the glue between film and music, the lyricist for the film, the late Howard Ashman. His witty style doesn't dumb down for any age. It's glamor when needed, and fun when wanted, is witty and catchy-these songs will forever stay in your mind. Howard Ashman test HIV positive in production of this film, and died a few months before it's release. Fans of his work know this as his last true film, although he contributed some work to "Aladdin (1992)" though the lyricist for that is mainly Tim Rice. All in all, Beauty and the Beast is a golden triumph among the Golden ages, and should not lose it's place in any home. With it's fabulous villain, magnificent DVD, and genius music, it's no wonder that so many fans find this their favorite Disney film.Walt Disney Pictures Beautiful Classic, Beauty and the Beast


                
Beautiful pictures and story. One of the best Disney that I've ever seen I must see. And the music of Mr Menken and Schwarz is perfect also.


                
The nineties were a splendid time for Disney. They made some of their best movies in that decade: "The Lion King", "Aladdin", "Toy Story", "A Bug's Life".And "Beauty and the Beast".This is one of the better ones, but I don't think it's as good as the above.The songs aren't as good as "The Lion King"'s, and the story isn't as good either.But it's still a good story, well told.


                
This is a classic disney movie. A great way to teach kids a life lesson. Which is to be kind to others not matter who they are or what they look like, or there age . This was shown twice in the movie. Once at the beginning and once in the middle of the story.


                
Title - 'Beauty and The Beast' Date Released (UK) - 9 October 1992Average Rating at Time of Review - 8.0Position in IMDB's Top 250 at Time of Review - #250Directed By - Gary Trousdale & Kirk WiseStarring - Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson & Jesse CortiPlot - A young woman whose father has been imprisoned by a terrifying beast offers herself in his place - unaware that her captor is actually a prince, physically altered by a magic spell.As a child, I never got around to watching classic animated Disney movies such as 'Snow White', 'The Little Mermaid' and the rest. Over time, I have even trying to rectify this.
 However 'Beauty and The Beast' was one I'd never intended on watching. I saw the 2017 version of the film and by all accounts that was essentially a shot-for-shot remake. When speaking to people about that film, there were a few opinions that it was made as a money-grab and people should just watch the original. I, on the other hand, was all for the remake as it allows a new generation to enjoy this story.Upon watching this version, it would appear that the naysayers of the 'Beauty and The Beast' remake were correct. Despite being a shot-for-shot retelling of the tale, the new version is missing a lot of the magic that this film retains - and that's exactly how it should be in a film where enchantresses and magical roses are integral to the plot. PROS: 
The Animation - The animation in this film is incredible, especially for its time. There were a few background animations that's weren't entirely smooth when there was a lot happening at once, but when two characters are on screen together it looks great. Those scenes, in animated form, really add to that magic I was just talking about. The Cinematography - The colour scheme in this film is used to great effect and is capable of telling a story by itself. Someone with no clue pertaining to the plot could watch this movie on mute and still understand the characters intentions and development. The Music - I strongly advise against watching it on mute, however. When watching musicals, I usually find there's one song that doesn't work or one song that I'd skip over if I was listening to the soundtrack. That is not the case here and, given that the soundtrack takes up 25 minutes of the film, that is quite an achievement. Every song feels like it has a purpose in the film be it: telling a part of the story (via outside characters watching the two protagonists), shedding light on a characters intentions or simply adding to the magic feel of the film. Every song is excellently performed and the animation allows for all kinds of possibilities when putting them on screen.CONS:
The Beast - Not The Beast himself, but rather his character development. It very much exists but it feels very rushed. One moment The Beast is taking Belle prisoner and the next he is in love with her, with not much time allowed to show that love grow besides one song covering the course of a day. This is a Disney film however and despite the agelessness of the story, it is targeted at children, so it is understandable why they did this. That does not make up for the lack of emotional investment in their relationship though.The Ending - Here is a great story about loving what's inside and not judging a book by its cover and that's a message that people young and old can take away from this film. That message is kind of dampened at the end however, when The Beast turns into a handsome prince. Again, I understand why this was done and I enjoyed seeing characters like Mrs. Potts, Chip and the other enchanted items return to their human forms - I just feel that 'Shrek' delivered this message in a more memorable wayWatching this film has been an important experience that I'm glad to have had. It has shown me the difference that animation can have on a story, so much so that it made me realise what the newer version could have and should have been. This 'Beauty and The Beast' feels a lot more magical, is definitely more fun and I am far more likely to watch it again thanks to its beautiful soundtrack and engaging animation. 
 I believe that if any generation wants to experience this tale, this is the telling they should choose. "If it's not Baroque, don't fix it!" - Cogsworth
It was a wonderful movie to watch , i really recomend watching it.


                
Movie Review: "Beauty And The Beast" (1991)The original tale by Gabrielle -Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve (1685-1755), rewritten by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont (1711-1780) believed to be in 1748 becomes reinvented under the pen of Linda Woolverton, who uses several Disney-brainpool-conceived story ideas as speaken, singing and dancing porcelain dishes in the desolated fairy tale castle of an enchanted prince to live as the title-given beast alone in darkness and a library of endless knowledge to keep him company before the beautiful brown-eyed daughter of a simple carpenter from the village arrives to switch places with her lost in the woods, then imprisoned father, making Beast see Beauty again.The relatively short-paced 80 Minutes animated motion picture directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, who are also responsible for the less accomplished adaptation of "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" (1996) for Disney Animation Studios due to misconceived main character gestures and mimics, nevertheless deliver superiorly with "Beauty And The Beast" (1991) over its live-action successor of the same title, directed by Bill Condon and released on March 17th 2017 to overwhelming success at the U.S. domestic box office, in terms of character design, higher-rated thrilling moments of suspense as the door-pounding characer of Beast, shaking the fundament of his castle with stellar sound design and further scary shockers of fast-beat-animation paired with classic coverage of Holywoood story-telling, charming vocalization with up to five original songs to be shared heart-pounding under a musical score composed by Alan Menken, righteously winning the Academy-Awards for Best Original Song as Best Music for A Motion Picture at the L.A.-ceremony held in its 64th edition on March 30th 1992.All-in-all the animated "Beauty And The Beast" stays to be emotionally more engaging, especially in its showdown with the Beast-Nemesis-Character of Gaston, threatening the character of Belle to death, bringing Beast to the grounds in heavy rain on dazzling-angled castle roof-tops, breaking concrete stone off gargoyles to be used as body-beating weapon, when Beast finally takes on the fight to knife-slashing Gaston, which runs far superior in terms of entangling the audience's guts over unimaginative back-shootings of the 2017 live-action version with wooden 18th century pistols in a fair confrontations of ideals, when beauty and excellence of analog animation works takes another victory home at Disney's. © 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
This was another film my aunt possessed in her expansive and diverse VHS collection. At the request of my cousin Mikaly, we decided to view it following a good but brief and informal dinner. I came in expecting the music to be great and a lot of the other stuff to be top notch for Disney. So why don't I like this film as much as it seems it should be?While the story was overall well written with a magically acted script, I feel like it didn't do that much to stand out from other fairy tales in the way that Disney adapts them. Sure, it is hilarious and supremely majestic at times, but even though I did overall enjoy the story, I really didn't think it was anything highly special. The characters are ones I am slightly surprised to be so iconic (specifically the servants), but I feel that they would deserve it anyway since they're actually pretty complex for characters of moderate importance to the plot. I personally don't believe in the Belle Stockholm Syndrome theory, because both times when Beast gives Belle the opportunity to depart the castle, she does leave, and she has other reasons to head back to the castle than ones typically symptomatic of Stockholm Syndrome. I found Belle's ability to reform Beast so spontaneously really impressive, and I also appreciated Belle's secondary motives, namely improving her family's reputation. The animation is absolutely among the best of any animated film from 1991, with believable yet fantastically detailed settings. One thing that I took note of was that while most Disney Princesses have a more balanced spread when it comes to their beauty, Belle is more reliant on her clothing than the usual princess. I thought that the combination of her eyebrows and the shading on her eyes might raise a few doubts, especially to those not as desperate as Beast or vain as Gaston. Anyway, while I highly do commend the animators for their work (Be Our Guest is probably my favorite scene), Belle's final dance with Adam (aka human Beast) was copied from Aurora and Philip's dance at the dénouement of Sleeping Beauty. I don't need to explain the music; it's Disney's composers at their best. I will never forget Alan Menken for contributing to movies like this.Overall, I'm highly confident (not conceited, though) that this will turn out to be a movie you would enjoy if you view it. Sure, I don't think it's in the realm of films like Aladdin, but this is only my opinion; that's what the point of one's review is for, right? So, it's not highly likely to be one's favorite Disney movie, but they should still consider viewing it or listening to its stellar soundtrack (including the cut Human Again).
This movie is an adaptation of the story from mid 18th century written by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont. The original story is completely different and I prefer it to Disney's version, but I understand why did they have to take a totally different approach and I admit that the result is amazing. Still, I recommend you to read the original text because it will shine a new light on the story and give you insight in its depth and true meaning. Disney's movie is meaningful, but it's mostly just a fairy- tale, while the original has a much heavier background. This is the very first animated movie nominated for an Academy Award for the best picture. It didn't win it, but it won two other Oscars, for the original score and the title song.8,5/10


                
Disney's Academy Award nominated film, Beauty in the Beast tells the tale of a selfish prince and bookworm who form a relationship after the beastly prince (Robby Benson) captures Belle (Paige O'Hara). After a quick prologue on the background on how the prince was cursed to look like a beast, we are introduced to Belle who proclaims her love of books and her boredom with the provincial town she lives in. Bell is courted by a rude hunter Gaston (Richard White) who depends on his companion Lefou (Jesse Corti) for periodic confidence boosts. Belle's father Maurice (Rex Everhart) is an inventor who is excited to premiere his new woodchopping device at the festival but on his way, he becomes lost and stumbles into a dark wood where wolves attack him. Fleeing the wolves, he pushes into an enchanted caster where at first, he is a welcome guest by the enchanted objects until the Beast shows up angry and imprisons him.Meanwhile, Belle fends off a marriage proposal from Gaston and worries for her father when his horse Phillipe returns without him. Concerned, Belle sets out on Phillipe's back to find her father leading her back to the castle. She comes inside and is spotted by Lumiere (Jerry Orbach) and Cogsworth (David Ogden Stiers), a candlestick and a clock. The two items follow her as she discovers her father locked up and is accosted by the Beast. Seeing that her father is sick, she trades places with him and is imprisoned herself. Maurice flees the enchanted castle and rushes back to the pub where he tries to explain the situation to an incredulous Gaston and skeptical townspeople who throw him out. Check out more of this film and others at swilliky.com
cool movie that tells the story of a father's family comes forestry alone with he accidentally saw a huge palace and then into the palace and saw a lot of possessions later he took all the treasures such as gold, diamonds and other shiny objects once finished he sees a rose and then he took it indirectly bad prince came and said if you are not satisfied with the treasures that why you took the roses, roses that you can not take the punishment you have to stay here forever after that a father begging to return briefly to say goodbye Arriving home to her father then told him everything and belle daughter decides to go to the palace he was but his father forbade but belle insisted to go so he locked the family at home and on the go then she reached the palace he was treated to a good but a little afraid to see her father later located in a small town residents to ask something about the jungle palace and HOW he got many possessions and whether there was a father belle palace guard against citizens that it does not exist but residents will still go forestry while belle fled to the village of prince was furious battle going on and belle belle father told about everything and belle back into the king helped the prince that the prince was a good person then some residents lost time and feeling belle to the prince over time he considered poor prince cursed into good and have started to fall in love with the prince and they shared each other fall in love that makes a prince turned into a man with a handsome face and they live happily for ever


                
Whilst its cheerful to a point, Beauty and the Beast is assuredly the Wuthering Heights of the Disney classics canon, featuring kind-hearted monsters, provincial french colonies, Gothic castles and romantic curses, The musical numbers are the highlight of the film as is the trend with many of Disney's classic numbers such as Cinderella and Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs. Beauty and the Beast introduced a bookish and relatively plain girl who fell in love with a terrifying beast, kidnapper and of course, Prince under an unfriendly curse. The animation is astounding, with Beauty and The Beast displaying Disney's first use of CGI in an animated picture.
Belle, whose father is imprisoned by the Beast, offers herself instead and discovers her captor to be an enchanted prince.This film was right in the middle of Disney's golden age, sandwiched between "Aladdin" and "Little Mermaid", pushing the boundaries of digital animation (just a few years before Pixar blew Disney out of the water). And the songs... definitely quite memorable.For me, Belle is the best princess Disney has had to date. While not an outright feminist role model like "Brave" was intended to be, she is a woman whose strengths are not in physical beauty, but in her intelligence. I think that was a great decision. Sure, she is not ugly, but the focus was on her being more than just "a prize to be won".


                
Despite the serious tone of this tale Disney manages to make this one really kids friendly. Yes Beast is really scary at first and the dark scenes in the woods and castle are really creepy. I was actually really impressed how the movie makers came up with the idea of turning the other people in the castle into pieces of furniture because of the spell. It was genius how each person had become an object close to the task they were fulfilling in the castle. This makes of course for some really funny scenes. The constant squabbling between Pendule and Lumiere is priceless. Belle is pretty different from other Disney female heroes that she is not interested in romance at all (at least not until she discovers she soft side of Beast). Yes it is heartwarming how Beast changes from a coldhearted monster into a loving and tender man. Let's not forget the catchy songs which are pretty much the best parts of the movie wanting you to sing and dance along.


                
'Beauty and the Beast' is a classic love story that anyone will enjoy, whether you're a small child, a teenager, an adult, or an elderly person. It's a film that's charming, elegant, and sweet, not to mention funny. The songs are fantastic, and share the honor with 'Aladdin' and 'The Lion King' of having the best lineup of songs. I guarantee you'll remember at least three of them for years to come, including 'Be Our Guest', and the classic 'Beauty and the Beast'. The story follows Belle, a beautiful girl living in an rural area. She has always lived to assist her father, a desperate inventor who seems to be losing his marbles. When he goes off to an inventor's show and gets lost, Maurice's horse returns to Belle, and they set off to find him. Maurice is discovered in a colossal castle, filled with mysterious inhabitants, including the master, a fierce and horrifying beast. Belle persuades the Beast to take her instead of her father, and thus the story begins. Belle soon discovers there could be so much more to this beast than rage and hair (laughs). Filled with excellent actors including the late Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury, B&B is simply excellent, a beautiful romance that will attract any viewer to its unavoidable charm. As quoted in the song, it's a tale as old time, song as old as rhyme, Beauty and the Beast.8/10 --spy


                
