Beauty and the Beast is an engaging movie with so much care and beauty fused into its core. Beauty is much more than just an influential animated classic. It is a grand and powerful fable, sugar coated with the best animation effort in a time where CGI was becoming a movie mainstay. In its finest moments, Beauty is a rousing musical, making your head move and getting caught up right in the mix. The score is unforgettable and the characters are so easy to get into. A movie that children and adults alike will love, Disney deserved its Academy Award nominations for creating such a joy.Small town Belle longs for more than a local life, maintaining her imagination through books and taking care of her kind, yet eccentric father. But when their horse returns without papa, Belle sets out to find the awful truth in an enchanted castle.You can see that so much time and care was spent in drawing this masterpiece. I cannot think of many other movies that show such meticulous background and animation. That such effort is woven effortlessly into its songs that make Beauty and the Beast the timeless classic Disney rightfully lauds itself over. 'Be Our Guest,' 'Beauty and the Beast,' 'Gaston,' you will be humming these songs at one point in your your life! Kudos to Disney for creating a charismatic, attractive villain in Gaston. He would not be a villain if he was not such a jerk. You must watch this movie at least once in your life, in a comfortable sofa and with the sound turned right up for the Broadway scores. You will enjoy it!


                
Indeed, it's a tale as old as time, with a complex message that is as ageless as it is universal; but beneath all the layers it can be summed up very simply:  love one another, and refrain from judging others who `seem' to be `different.'  And leave it to Disney to present it in such a way that it can be embraced and understood by young and old alike as they have here, in one of their best animated features ever, `Beauty and the Beast,' directed by Gary Trousdale.  When a young Prince fails the test of an enchantress disguised as an old hag, she transforms him into a hideous beast, as he is destined to remain until he opens his heart and learns how to love and be loved in return.  And so that he'll know where he stands as time goes by, she gives him an enchanted rose, which will bloom until his twenty-first birthday, and he has only until the last petal falls from the flower to effect the change within himself that will be his salvation. 
	The beast, however, seems doomed, as he shuts himself away, alone in his castle, taking up a reclusive existence far from everyone and everything. Until, one day, a beautiful young woman named Belle shows up at his doorstep.  Belle is searching for her inventor father, Maurice, who disappeared while taking one of his latest inventions to the fair; and his trail leads Belle to the castle of the Beast, where she discovers he is being held prisoner, having run afoul of the Beast by trespassing while lost during the night of his journey.  Repulsed by the appearance of the Beast, Belle nevertheless strikes a bargain with him:  If he will release her father, she will stay in his place.  The Beast agrees, with the stipulation that she must remain with him forever.  And as the Beast casts Belle's father from the castle and sends him on his way, Belle's fate seems sealed. The only hope now for either Belle or the Beast lies in the remote possibility that true love may somehow prevail before the last petal of the enchanted rose falls.	With the help of a richly textured screenplay (by Linda Woolverton) that invests the characters with a depth of humanity that is often lacking even in `non' animated films, and an Oscar winning score by Alan Menken, director Trousdale provides some real insights into human nature in this retelling of the familiar story of how true love can change even the darkest and coldest of hearts.  There's magic in this film, which holds an enchantment of it's own, and the message is presented ever so subtly and with a sensitivity that draws you in gradually until you are so caught up in the story that you become immersed and totally involved without being consciously aware of it. It's a film that enfolds you and takes you where it will, and you go willingly.  A beautifully rendered and realized film that successfully transcends it's genre, it is the first animated feature ever to be recognized and rewarded with an Oscar nomination for Best Movie (quite a feat in itself, as it received the nod over such films as `The Fisher King,' `Fried Green Tomatoes,' `Thelma and Louise' and John Singleton's `Boyz N the Hood' that year).  	The talented cast supplying the voices of the characters includes Paige O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (The Beast), Richard White (Gaston), Jerry Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Potts), Bradley Pierce (Chip), Rex Everhart (Maurice), Jesse Corti (LeFou), Hal Smith (Phillipe), Jo Ann Worley (Wardrobe), Brian Cummings (Stove), Alvin Epstein (Bookseller) and Kimmy Robertson (Featherduster).  There's a scene in this film that is so entrancing and so emotionally involving that it stands up against the best from any drama ever made:  As Angela Lansbury (as Mrs. Potts) sings the Oscar winning title song, Belle begins to perceive the true nature of the man within the Beast; and it's no longer the cold-hearted Prince upon whom the enchantress cast her spell, because he has changed.  And as they come together and the Beast takes Belle in his arms, sweeping her in dance across the elegant ballroom floor, it becomes one of those rare cinematic `moments' that are entirely transporting, and it does, indeed, take you away.  It's a memorable scene that exemplifies the quality and craftsmanship of this film, as does the scene in which the Beast is at last transformed; that such emotion can be captured and expressed in an animated film is an exemplary accomplishment, and it's all a part of why `Beauty and the Beast' is one of Disney's all time greatest films. 
	One final note:  Stay for the credits to hear Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's title song once again, this time performed by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson.  Hypnotically beautiful, this version has a magic all it's own and makes the perfect ending to an enchanting experience.  It's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.


                
This is a classic movie. We have breakthrough films like Snow White and Fantasia, and we have other greats like Aladdin and The Lion King, but this definitely tops them all. There is so much here that is missing in other Disney classics. This film has emotion, incredible music and animation, characters that you admire, laugh at, and despise. This movie is a fun ride from beginning to end. We can all relate with the suffering of the Beast (being an outsider), and we all know a Gaston in our lives. The way we can identify with the characters sucks us into the story. Don't miss this classic...the only animated film to be nominated for a Best Picture Oscar.


                
'' The Beauty and The Beast'' is one of the greatest stories ever told and one of the best movies from Disney that I watched in my life. I always identified myself with Belle, the girl who does not belong the place where she is lives and also with a big taste of reading lots of books. Our story takes part in France in 18 century, and our main character Belle is the prettiest girl in the city she lives, being the object of the affection and interest of Gaston, an arrogant man that has the sympathy of the people of the region.(And also considered a big catch for the girls of the city)But Belle is not interested in him and always imagined her life different from the domestic life people always imagine for her.One day, Belle's father, an inventor, was going to sell one of his inventions and lost his ways, being attacked by wild animals and entering in a big dark mansion apparently without a owner. He stays there for a time, but soon the Beast comes up and attacks him,making him a prisoner in his castle.Belle stays worried and goes after her father in the mansion and there she sees the violent and awful beast who locked her father. She then makes a deal: Belle agrees to stay in the dark castle with the horrible beast in return to her father's freedom. But with the time, Belle is going to discover all the magic that is beyond the castle, including the talking objects and even a nice side that the Beast has.This story is very inspiring and very beautiful! =)
The only animated film to be nominated for the Best Picture Oscar!!And, it should have won that award!!Too bad the Best Animated category had not been started yet.What a classic film.Beautiful film to look at. Wonderful music. Great characters.Most likely my favorite Disney animated film of the "current" cycle of their films.I have NEVER seen the winner of the Best Picture for 1991 Oscar. I tried. Watched a few minutes of it once. That tells me something.I can watch this film, however, over and over and not tire of it.How many films can you say that about?
This is possibly the greatest animated film ever made. That's right, the greatest. Although, more artistically adept Anime fans may detest and although 'The Lion King' is traditionally realized as the quintessential animated film, 'Beauty and the Beast', in the indiscriminate animated realm, may very possibly be one of the most important animated films, Disney, Animated, or otherwise, ranking alongside the likes of 'Snow White', 'Toy Story', and 'Fantasia'. First of all, let's talk about the cinematography. I declare there is not a single shot in this film that does not impress me. Prior to this film's completion, Rescuers Down Under had enjoyed the distinction of being the first full length animated feature in CGI. But, Beauty is the film that perfected it. Even with all of the animated films that have come since the release of Beauty, I am struck by the polished clarity of the animation in that the background and its objects remain completely in focus in proportion to the objects in the forefront, as critics are still astounded today that young Charles Foster Kane playing in the snow is able to remain in focus through a window in proportion to Agnes Moorhead in 'Citizen Kane.' Likewise, look at Belle and the Beast's snowball fight in 'Something There' while the objects converse. Belle and the Beast, from a distance, can be clearly viewed as easily as can the objects. When Maurice runs down the staircase of the cottage before the angry mob, the camera flies down following him, and yet Belle and Monsieur D'Arque remain completely visible. Remarkable shots like these can be found throughout the film, such as the Swooping Ballroom Ceiling Scene, the wolf chase, and the Beast's transformation sequence. It is understandable that Walt Disney gave up on his treatment of 'Beauty,' just as it is understandable that the makers of this film almost gave up on its completion. The story does not scream success (a beautiful girl passively sacrificing her life for her father and falling in love with a cursed beast). And, yet it is a testament to the power of storytelling that this film is as entertaining as it is, for a film without a straightout villain or hero. From the start, we are taken from a haunted castle, paranormal in its scope, to a simple French village bustling with activity, and the film never loses its power. The film's only legitimate weakness is its instrumental score. Following the fantastic score of 'Mermaid' and preceding the wonderful score to 'Aladdin' and the riveting score to 'The Lion King,' the score to 'Beauty' holds few surprises, for the most part. Otherwise, this is a film devoid of weakness and, more importantly, scandal (like most of the other "Renaissance" films). And whatever I could say about the film's wonderful and groundbreaking songs, characters, scenery, and detail has likely already been said. All I can do is recommend this as highly as any great film I have ever seen.
Because she was unfairly judged by her horrid looks, an old witch casts a spell on an arrogant prince, turning him into a horrendous beast, and the spell extends to every person working in the castle, turned to the furniture they usually handle in their respective job. The ways of magic are impenetrable in Disney's world. But like any Disney spell, it can be broken if the Prince finds true love: if he's capable to love someone and in return, inspires similar feelings. This is a doomed-to-fail mission as no possible girl could ever love a beast.But Belle isn't any girl; she's a French village's local oddity, a free-spirited, fresh and charming girl who keeps her nose stuck on books while wandering on the streets, attracting all the astonished reactions. Belle doesn't care for material stuff, she's a dreamer, in reading, she seeks escapism in its most extraordinary forms, and that she's the daughter of a goofy inventor accentuates her peculiarity, and her charm. And one man fixed his choice on Belle, his name is Gaston and he's the village macho icon, a colossal brute whose strength equals his stupidity, and who can't stand seeing Belle playing "hard to get". Gaston slowly turns from a comical buffoon to a more sinister villain. And this is what "Beauty and the Beast" is all about: transformations, evolution, but never at the expenses of disbelief. This is the magic of Disney, we can accept a teapot with the voice of Angela Lansbury, a candlestick with the facial features and unmistakable accent of Maurice Chevalier or the failed jokes of a clock-shaped butler. We can accept the extraordinarily horrific face of the Beast who's an improbable combination of a lion's mane, wolf's legs, buffalo's face and boar's mug. But there's one thing that all the 'Fantasy' can't buy and it is the growing chemistry between Belle and the Beast. We know when she becomes the hostage in the castle, it's a matter of time before the romance blooms but it's all in the way this is handled. There's indeed more than 'Stockholm Syndrome'."Beauty and the Beast" takes an old classic theme but turns into a serious and legitimate drama: to earn the princess' love, the Beast will have to risk his furry neck, to learn to accept his mistakes, and even to let 'her' leave the castle<U+0085> as sometimes, this is the greatest proof of love. On her side, Belle will also discover the strange attraction and its final blossoming at the film's climax. The romance is handled in such a way that it never feels like a rehash of the older Disney. But if I had to mention the previous movies, I would say that "Beauty and the Beast" is to "The Little Mermaid" what "Pinocchio" was to "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs", the proof that the former film's success wasn't just a strike of luck and that the animators still got it and could surprise you when you thought it was impossible to match the delights and thrills of the previous one. With "Mermaid", Disney inaugurated the Renaissance period and established new grounds, that only Disney could ever break or surpass. And with "Beauty and the Beast", they created a formidable precedent by making the first ever animated feature to be nominated to a Best Picture Oscar, along with such other prestigious titles as "Silence and the Lambs" and "JFK". Many Pixar movies achieved the same stunt ("Up" and "Toy Story 3"), but it's easier to sneak in when you have eight to ten available spots. "Beauty and the Beast" was certainly no filler.I insist on these Oscar considerations because "Beauty and the Beast" is really one of a kind, it is such a big-scaled prestigious visual feast that it might leave smaller audiences craving a bit underwhelmed. Speaking for myself, as I had the chance to be the target core of the Disney Renaissance, "Beauty and the Beast" has never been one of my favorites, not in the sense that I disliked it but because I would always find better reasons to enjoy "Aladdin", "The Lion King" or "The Jungle Book". Revisiting this classic 25 years after its release (time flies), I understand why: this is a great film on its own right, and not just as a Disney animated feature.And it wasn't just nominated for Best Picture, but it was also included in major lists from the American Film Institute: Songs, Romances but is the only animated feature to have made it in the "Musical" category, which says a lot because all the previous Disney movies have been musicals. But in the case of "Beauty and the Beast", the musical moments are staged like in Broadway comedies, the opening song even borrows from "West Side Story" and Belle has something of Maria from "Sound of Music". But "Beauty" didn't just reused common staples of musical, it became a staple itself as the film would be parodied countless times, from the unforgettable "See my Vest" where Mr. Burns reveals his devilish puppy scheme to the "Mountain Song" in "South Park", and one can even see similar plot lines between the film and the movie "Shrek"."Beauty and the Beast" is an instant classic and the living incarnation of Disney's magic, it doesn't have the zaniness or little spice that can create an extra appeal, but that's because the film had more serious ambitious and doesn't even deny it in its titular song, as the tale is 'as old as time', stories or 'seemingly impossible loves'. And maybe like Belle, now, I can see the beauty of "Beauty in the Beast", if only because it's so magnificently hand-drawn and Belle looks more expressive than any 3D princess. (And don't get me started on that moment where we get to see the real 'Featherduster', perhaps the Disney moment that most turned me on)


                
I reluctantly attended the showing of this film with my grandchildren, and sat through the entire movie absolutely mesmerized. Not only does this film retain its charm and appeal throughout every frame, it faithfully expresses the human condition as all great fairy tales were meant to do. While the songs are top notch and energetic, Paige O'Hara's voice is picture perfect as Belle, the girl who doesn't seem to fit in with her surroundings. I was blown away when I discovered it was Robby Benson doing the voice of the Beast, and he is perfectly cast. However, it is the story which kept me in rapt attention. Fully encapsulating Carl Jung's theory of depth psychology, the theme of the movie is psychological wholeness, that every man has an inner female (the anima) and every woman has an inner male (the animus), and that wholeness can never come into fruition until both male and female compliment one another. This isn't the story of two separate individuals, it is the story of one person -- the viewer -- being given the chance to explore their feminine/masculine inner self, and becoming complete. Nominated for Best Picture, it should have won, if not for the dreary nastiness of Silence of the Lambs. Hollywood will never be ready to admit the cartoon is as valid a movie art form as live acting, and that's a shame. Don't miss this one.


                
Directed by Gary Trousdale and Kirk WiseStarring Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson and Richard WhiteBeauty and the Beast is both Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise's feature length directorial debut which stars Paige O'Hara in her acting debut as well as seasoned actor Robby Benson. We follow Belle(Paige O'Hara) who substitutes in for her father in a castle prison after he was taken by a mysterious beast. As time goes on, and events unfold, Belle realises the Beast may be more than what he appears to be.Beauty and the Beast is easily one of Disney's most recognisable and treasured classics, and for good reason. It's a visually stunning movie that includes one of the Best Disney songs in existence AND one of the Best Disney Sidekicks. For those reasons alone you must watch this movie and witness a 'tale as old as time' in its full animated glory. The story is exactly what the song suggests('A Tale as Old as Time') but that doesn't make it any less special and any less magical. This movie was released during the Disney Renaissance and is easily one of the Best movies released during that period. Both Paige O'Hara and Robby Benson do fine jobs as Belle and The Beast respectively but its the pure, unfiltered chemistry they share on screen that elevates the characters and makes them so much better. Richard White was great as Gaston and made him a truly iconic, memorable and dastardly Disney villain that ranks among the best. Both Jerry Orbach and David Odgen were great as Lummiere and Cogsworth respectively, and made the characters rival the greatest Disney sidekicks as all time. That is definitely an achievement, especially compared to other movies released during the Disney renaissance. Jesse Corbiti was great as LeFoue. LeFoue is so likable and you just can't help but like him, despite being a villain. From a technical standpoint, the movie is absolutely gorgeous with a very distinct and artistic style. My one flaw with the animation is the background of the Ballroom scene which, in my opinion, doesn't hold up at all. The basic requirements for Disney movies are to deliver good songs, good humour and good characters. The songs and characters are all great but I will say the humour was more directed at children and I laughed once during the movie. That's not to say it removes all enjoyment from the movie(I still love the movie) but having a greater variety of humour would have probably helped. In conclusion, this movie is very enjoyable(and definitely stands as one of the best Disney movies of all time) but I feel it does lack some Disney standards, such as humour which doesn't necessarily ruin the movie but inclusion of would have definitely improved it.9/10Would Recommend


                
Belle is such a creative, smart, and unique character! she is an inspiration and a role model. I have loved her when I was younger and I still love her now. This movie will always be a favorite!!! It is so entertaining, kind, sweet, thrilling, and romantic. The message in this movie is so timeless and whenever kids see it they will be reminded to show kindness to others and to look pass looks. I am so excited for the live action adaptation. Omg!! I am so excited!!! The songs are so great. My favorites are Belle, Something There, and Beauty and The Beast. I love the other characters in the movie too like Lumiere and Cogsworth! Aah loove this movie!


                
This is a beautiful movie. It is certainly timeless and appeals to any age group. The music is absolutely wonderful and catchy. It is hard not to sing along to the music. The lyrics go quite nicely with the storyline, which was great and intriguing. There is not a dull moment throughout the entire movie. This movie is also great to watch at any time in your life. I watched it when I was younger and then watched it again in high school. Each time you watch this movie in a different phase of your life, you learn something new or take something different away from it. This movie brings back great memories and definitely has made some new ones each time I watched it. I cannot wait to show this wonderful movie to my children someday. I cannot wait to share this experience with them and watch them fall in love with the movie. I think I am most excited to see what they will take away from this movie. If you have not watched it already, do it. You won't regret it.


                
Beauty And The Beast is one of those films I saw in the 90s and often times during school back when we were allow to watch movies in school if we did well. Anyhow the 1990s were a good decade for animation films and from Disney it was nearly always going to be a promising motion picture. Beauty and the Beast is the third film in the Disney Renaissance series and it is praise for a lot of reasons. For one thing the movie feels like you're watching a play the animators and cast gave us the impression that they set it up like you would be watching a Broadway show and looking at it now I say it is very clever. The animation in this film remains one of my favorites in any animation films because they really did a wonderful job with the backgrounds and the attention to detail goes to show how much they wanted to take the time to make the film magical also the characters are very well design.The voice acting is very powerful each of the cast help bring the story to life and you could tell in their voice work that they were all in for giving their best. Again it feels like you were seeing a play unfold in front of you the cast really did a strong job. Songs written for the film help bring the characters out and the story because you could tell the songs would be hits when the movie came out. Each song does something special to make it well know for Disney fans.Music score in the film is nearly perfect and really helps brings the film to the fold because each piece of music written just does in it own way bring the movie to where it is I just really respect the music and it is one of my favorite movie scores.Overall Beauty and the Beast does a very well done job with making it one of Disney's best motion pictures. With super animation, great voice acting, superb music and a great story you can't not go wrongI give Beauty and the Beast an 9 out of 10


                
No other adaptation of the classic French fairytale has come close to capturing the magic of Disney's effort. It's a gorgeous film that fully relishes in its medium; the majestic Gothic architecture of the castle, the hulking form of the beast, the charming anthropomorphic household servants etc. These all would look not half as fantastic in live action, but in one of the earliest uses of the CAPS system, are beautifully fluid, lively and detailed. It sets the tone for some very strong and complex characterisation, particularly in the case of the Beast and his servants. The Beast himself is daunting and imposing in his character design, but the animation captures a more human side of the cursed prince in actions like slumps and walks and sighs. His piercing blue eyes add depth to his wide range of facial expressions that appear in both humorous and heavy scenes. The assortment of household items also benefit from the enchanting animation. A variety of unique characters from teapots to candlesticks are designed with great care and love in order to represent real humans as closely as possible. They bounce around, they wave and cross their arms, they emote via their eyebrows. When the magic turns back the Beast and his servants into humans at the end of the film, they feel strangely alien. That's because of the ability of Disney to assign the audience's devotion and care onto inanimate objects and ugly beasts. It couldn't be more natural to fall in love with this world. Alan Menken and Howard Ashman combine again after the success of The Little Mermaid for a memorable soundtrack. Be Our Guest is a lively tune which showcases the wide cast and crazy choreography of the household servants. Gaston is appropriately set in a tavern and features hilarious antics and boasting that could only come from the main villain. As despicable as he is the lyrics are rousing and catchy, depicting a true paragon of manliness that is as irresistible as the handsome face and rippling muscles of the addressee. The show stealer however is the title theme, lovingly sung by English actress Angela Lansbury in film as a poignant moment where Belle and the Beast have their first dance. Her rendition is not as lavish or as sweet as the Dion Bryson duet, but it's earnest and simplistic. It's one of the few instances in the film where the camera is allowed to move, via a complex production sequence where the entire ballroom was created using CGI. The end result is magnificent; the camera sweeping down from the ceiling chandelier and tracking around the couple, combined with Lansbury's richly tender and warm singing voice makes for one of the most beautiful scenes of Disney history. Beauty and the Beast's story is simple but remarkably effective. The even pacing of the characterisation and narrative creates a very accessible and engaging relationship between Belle and the Beast. There are clear moments of growth and change which earmark the path to the love they share at the end. Linda Woolverton's Disney debut demonstrates great emotion and sincerity for what would be recurring features in hits such as the Aladdin, The Lion King and Mulan. The voice-work is never once out of place and lends itself to the grand illusion. The film will captivate audiences of any age and displays Disney's mastery for creating a story that revels in its beauty, simplicity and magic.
A rich and powerful prince dismissed a beggar who turned out to be an enchantress. She turns him into a Beast unless he can learn to love another and earn her love in return before his 21st year. Or else he shall live as the Beast for all times. Belle lives a quiet life in a small provincial town. She's a bookworm fighting off the advances of the conceited arrogant Gaston. Her father is a struggling inventor. He gets lost taking a shortcut to the fair. He seeks shelter from the wolves in the Beast's castle but he's taken prisoner. Belle comes looking for her father and offers to take his place.The songs are catchy and the story has been simplified. There are great animated characters. The film makes some great choices. It starts with the great song from Belle. There are at least 3 great songs when most of the time, two would be amazing for any movie. The simplification of Belle's home life is probably for the best. It leaves more room for the romance between Belle and the Beast. It also gives a great opportunity for these terrific fun characters in the castle. The animation is terrific with a good use of early CGI. It is one of the icons of Disney animation.


                
I saw this film once or twice as a child upon owning the VHS and started watching again when I was 18 upon borrowing it from a volunteer/social worker but sadly fell asleep halfway through due to having had the tendency to tiring very easily. Today, which is Boxing Day 2013 as I type, my mum suggested we watch a Disney film and I insisted we watch this one due to its inclusion of a couple of memorable musical numbers ('Be Our Guest' and the titular song) that had equally memorable animation sequences and were also on my 'Sing Along Songs: Be Our Guest' VHS I had when I was five and retrieved from eBay a year or two ago. I also insisted on watching this because I mistakenly thought this was my mum's favourite Disney film but it is in fact 'The Little Mermaid (and one of mine)' although she found this one very good as did I.The 2D animation is fluid and smooth with beautiful interior and exterior backgrounds but there were one or two that looked a tad CGI-ish for the film, especially the ballroom during 'Beauty and the Beast' but it looked magnificent nonetheless. In addition to the musical numbers I've already mentioned, I also liked the opening song ('Belle/Little Town?'), 'Gaston,' and 'Something There' although I found 'The Mob Song' and 'Human Again' pretty forgettable as well as some of the incidental music, which was also pleasant if dramatic in parts. The script has its fair share of humorous and poignant moments, the former including the antics of Gaston's bumbling sidekick Lefou, Cogsworth's line, "It it ain't baroque, don't fix it (my mum was in stitches with that one)" and some of the townspeople's goings on during the opening musical number; and the latter including the falling rose petals and the Beast apparently dying. While Belle remains headstrong yet sensitive throughout, I liked the Beast's change of character after their argument while Belle tries to treat his wound/scratches from the wolves. Lumiere and Cogsworth are comical side characters while Chip is very sweet and Gaston became what some may perceive as a good man gone evil. I also liked the stained glass windows that accompanied the back-story of the Beast at the beginning as well as the final one depicting him as a handsome human being with Belle.Overall this is a stunning Disney Classic that I regret not seeing as much as 'Peter Pan,' 'The Little Mermaid' (both of which are as good as this one) and 'Cinderella (which is nearly as good but still a favourite of mine)' due to the majority of musical numbers being memorable and the animation being Oscar-worthy. 9/10.
Beauty And The Beast is a brilliant movie with a very well developed storyline and an outstanding voice cast. It's an absolute classic, and it became one almost immediately, it's one of Walt Disney Animations greatest films and it still holds up today as a movie that is both beautifully animated and has an inspired story. I felt like the film could have shown us more of Beast's origins, it describes it at the beginning very quickly, it should have jumped in to this back story more seriously and shown us how Prince Adam turned in to this beast, I would have also liked to see how this effected characters such as Lumiere and Cogsworth. The characters is in this film are terrific and are some of Disney's most memorable, Belle and Beast are great of course, but the stars of this movie for me are the talking cutlery, I love the movement and voice-over work of Lumiere, Cogsworth, Chip and Mrs Pott, and whenever I watch this they are always what I look forward to the most. Outstanding animation and voice cast, beautiful music numbers and a breathtaking story, Beauty and the Beast is fun for all ages and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good family film. A woman is trapped away in a castle with a prince who has turned into a beast, after a relationship begins to develop between the two, it looks as if the curse could finally be lifted.


                
I, like several others, grew up with films like this as a child, and this was one of those that always stood out. When I first saw it I was about five and I think you can tell that a few of the scenes scared me quite a bit, given the Beast's anger-filled scenes with the darker parts of the film. But seeing the film again for the first time in over ten years it was both refreshing and easy to still remember.The story, style and execution all feel like something out of a Shakespearean play, and while I've never been much of a fan of old William I do tend to like other stories that have similar styles to him, which I will admit to being both a testament to this film and Shakespeare. One of the film's strongest points is that it easily manages to make several emotions arise out of the viewer, ranging from laughter to sorrow and several others (with a fair number of these instances coming out of the most briefest of scenes, a very rare case for any film). There are several scenes in the film that are both serious and dark with others that are light and funny; it seems that for every serious moment there's a scene of clever comic relief to balance the mood out.While I was certainly curious and excited to see this film once again now that I would understand it much easier, one part that I wasn't looking forward to were the singing sections, with me not being a fan of musicals. There actually wasn't as much singing in the film as I remember, I'd say about 40% to 50% of the movie is singing with the rest being dialogue. Even though I can't say that the songs were exactly necessary to the film they do compliment the given scenes very well and while this may be the case with any musical film, the singing sections of this film give it a personality in a positive way, unlike several others.If there was any word I could really use to describe this film it would likely be ironic, not due to anything in the movie itself but more how it compares to others. What's ironic is that this film has a heart and the characters, despite being computer animations and creations with little visual detail (compared to the CGI-heavy films by companies like Pixar) and half the characters being enchanted utensils they still come off as far more human than countless actors in several live action films. Heck, even the Beast comes off as one of the more human characters once his inner feelings and emotions start to come out. If it's not clear by now, the voice-acting in this film is simply superb and, along with the film's beautiful and magical art style is probably its strongest point.Of course that's not to say every other aspect is any less worthy of praise, because this film is one that almost feels like no number of compliments would be enough to justify it. The story, style, acting, score, music, pacing and really every other aspect you could pinpoint in this film are nothing short of superb. If there really is anything that I could say holds the film from perfection it would be that the ending feels rather rushed. While there really isn't much more they probably could've done with the last five minutes beyond what there was it still felt like it went by rather quickly compared to the rest of the film.But this is really the smallest of complaints and something that really does little to detract from the film. When you hear someone say that this is a film for all ages, they're not lying, anyone of any age can love and appreciate this film with ease. This film, along with a number of others, show that Disney were truly at their best before 21st century. With the exception of maybe Pinocchio and The Lion King I can't think of any other film with the same style and genre that is as magical and marvelous as this. If you haven't seen this film in a while or at all and are struggling to find a good film for the whole family, be sure you keep your eye out for this one.


                
And i mean that: this is a romance that you can't find any where, just in fairy tales and myths.I think the dancing scene is one of the most beautiful scenes in the history of cinema, combined with a dazzling music what else could we ask for.the animation adaptation is fantastic and Disney has always been great when it comes to animation.i really think that this movie deserved an Oscar nomination for best picture, for it will be doomed as i said one of the most romantic films ever.


                
As is Disney's way, this timeless classic has been adapted to animation complete with talking furniture, dancing dinner wear, and the most villainous villains. All wrapped up with a musical score worthy of the most highly funded Broadway show.This is one of the most endearing works Disney's animation crew has put out in years. As a romantic adventure, it's far above par, even for Disney, and rivals even Snow White in enchanting sweetness.While it's not my personal favorite, it is easily Disney's best animated romantic musical, and as such, it rates a 9.4/10 from...the Fiend :.


                
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Aspect ratio: 1.85:1Sound format: 6-track Dolby Stereo(35mm and 70mm release prints)An unfulfilled country girl (voiced by Broadway star Paige O'Hara) falls in love with the owner of an enchanted castle (Robby Benson), a handsome prince transformed by witchcraft into a monstrous Beast...Produced in the wake of Disney's smash-hit THE LITTLE MERMAID (1989) and helmed by debut animation directors Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST combines animated spectacle with vivid characterizations and exuberant musical numbers in a confection which ranks alongside the very finest 'golden age' Disney classics. Returning to the European folk tales which inspired many of their earlier animated features (SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS, PINOCCHIO, etc.), scenarist Linda Woolverton leavens the essential romantic core of the film with exciting set-pieces and well-judged comic relief, and there are several stand-out sequences, designed and executed with breathtaking flair: A terrifying battle between the Beast and a pack of wolves; the spectacular and life-affirming 'Be Our Guest' number (voiced with remarkable dexterity by Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury); and the climactic assault on the castle, all of which are guaranteed to impress audiences young and old. The film - which is dedicated to the memory of co-songwriter Howard Ashman, who died before the film premiered in 1991 - was subsequently adapted to great acclaim for the Broadway stage, only to be sullied by an unnecessary TV series and a number of direct-to-video sequels. Stick with the original.NB. A re-edited version was released to Imax theaters in 2001, restoring a musical number dropped from the original assembly.


                
Beauty and the Beast is a heartwarming classic for all the family to enjoy. I love the character of Belle, who is no damsel in distress, but headstrong and determined, as well as beautiful. Paige O' Hara does a great job. The music in this film is fantastic, my favorite song though has to be 'Belle' performed by Paige O' Hara, Richard White, Jesse Corti and Chorus, or 'Belle (Reprise)' performed by Paige O' Hara. This is the second best film ever, for sure!


                
"Beauty and the Beast" is a breathtaking movie, not just as an animated feature but as a movie. Along with "The Lion King" this is the pinnacle of Disney animation. This film does however have a better story than "The Lion King". The single most breathtaking scene in this movie is the scene where Belle and the beast dance in the ballroom, your jaw will hit the floor. This is the only animated movie to get a Best Picture nomination and rightfully so.


                
For me this is undoubtly the most beautiful story ever and this film was just brilliant. It's the finest piece of art that Disney has ever animated.


                
I really cannot see why so many high-profile critics have such deep veneration for this film; so much that they include it in their "All-Time" lists. Surely they have seen many art films that are more profoundly affecting than this gorgeous, but (in the big scheme of the motion picture universe) somewhat slight animated flick. I am able to identify flaws in this diamond, this relic of my childhood, that I was blinded to by its light, but those will be elaborated upon later. I still love this film nevertheless, now that I am able to appreciate and articulate exactly why. The opening sequence is still hauntingly beautiful, with the tracking shot from idyllic Disney forest to the gloomy castle's stained glass windows as the Alan Menken score smoothly segues in accordance with the changing visuals. The series of stained glass windows that tell of the selfish prince's punishment would make one heck of a picture book on their own, and David Ogden Stiers narrates with class and warmth. In fact, all the music in the film fits well with the visuals, and the songs are still quite catch. "Belle" works in enlivening, Broadway style, the morning gossip of the little town and the respective yearnings of Belle and Gaston,"Gaston" has a suitably chummy beer-hall mentality, and of course "Be Our Guest" and the ballroom-scene rendition of the title song are both grand by their own standards. The characters are not particularly complex (hence the "slight"-ness of the film), but are still pretty well-drawn. Belle sees through the good looks of the chauvinist Gaston but is terrified at the Beast's appearance (of course, the fact that he locked up her father may be a factor in her fear), and is '90s empowered while being a romantic and a loving daughter. Odd-couple Lumiere and Cogsworth make good comic relief, as their rapport is rarely too immature; matronly Mrs. Potts and son Chip are also decently crafted objects (once human, of course). The Beast, menacing and then tender, has the two most touching moments in the film with his (SPOILER) sacrifice of possession of Belle and his merciful sparing of Gaston in the final battle, but his transformation into that unselfish being should have been more developed-here we come to the movie's flaws. (SPOILER END)Gaston is effective as a shallow, egotistical fool and an obsessively persistent suitor, but attempts to make him a villain are rather contrived.(SPOILER)Let's face it, blackmailing Belle with the threat of her father's institutionalization is not really enough justification for Belle to call him call him a monster, and there is no reason why he could not be redeemed just like the equally selfish Beast was instead falling to his death like many Disney villains.(SPOILER END) Also, the themes of the film are not incredibly subtle, and there are those conflicting morals of the Beast's physical transformation. Despite these flaws, I continue to prize the film while expanding my cinematic understanding by watching many others- I'll one day see the original French version of the story-, and I expect its Disney-style romanticism to keep my burgeoning cynical side in check with each future viewing. 9/10
A true Disney classic in every sense of the term. Animation, story, characters, songs, a classic story told simply and something that I don't think Disney will ever be able to replicate.


                
