This movie is the very epitome of what I hate about movies.  The Hollywood-ization/bastardization of what could have been a great movie. The FX and action were great, the characterization was adequate, the plot was dumb, and the ending was abysmal.  Why doesn't anyone in Hollywood have the courage to take a movie where it ought to go instead of where the test audiences say it should go?This is a gladiator movie.  You know what that means?  It was set during the Roman Empire.  During the reigns of Marcus Aurelius and his son Commodus. It was NOT a fantasy.  When you set a movie during a historical time frame, there are certain rules you have to abide by.  One of those is, you do not rewrite history on a grand scale.  The main reason to set a movie within a historical context is to give it plausibility.  You do not then crap on that plausibility by having the characters do things that would have caused all of history to lumber down a different path.In Braveheart, William Wallace did not rally the Scots, defeat the English, march into London, kill the king of England in a duel, and establish a democracy.  Why?  Because that isn't what happened; and it would have turned a great movie into a crappy movie.  In Dances With Wolves, John Dunbar does not rally the Sioux nation in a war to conquer the United States, kill Ulysses S. Grant in a duel, and establish a new form of government in Washington based on Sioux practices.  Why?  Because that isn't what happened; and it would have turned a great movie into a crappy movie.  In Gangs of New York, Leo DiCaprio's character did not face Abe Lincoln in an arena, kill him, and establish a new form of government in Washington where the Irish were the ruling class.  Why?  Because that isn't what happened; and it would have turned a mediocre movie into a crappy movie.
***SPOILER ALERT!!!***
So in Gladiator, an exiled Roman general kills the Emperor in the arena and in so doing allows the reestablishment of the Roman Republic in 182 A.D. You know what?  It didn't happen that way, and it turned a great movie into a crappy movie.  The makers of this movie took all the plausibility of setting and trashed it.  They took a pretty good historical action movie and turned it into a suck-ass fantasy.  And the better the movie is before the movie-makers pull their pants down and squat over it, the more I resent the dump being taken on it.  And that's the case here.
The denizens of the Roman Empire were a particularly bloodthirsty lot, and apparently not that far off in mentality from our own culture. The vox populi, bored to the heavens with the multitudinous burdens inflicted on them by their government, seek escape in the mind-numbingly bland entertainment provided within the Colosseum. Gladiators fend for their lives against a series of uniquely dressed foes and beasts, all in the hope of winning their freedom. Everything about this testosterone-toned epic is meant to cater to a population who likes their filmed landscapes served to them WWF-style.Maximus (Russell Crowe) is a top army general in the army of Marcus Auerlius (Richard Harris), a dying patriarch who (in predictable fashion) unwittingly causes trouble within the family ranks by offering his throne to Maximus instead of to his son Commodus (Joaquin Pheonix). Auerlius' son is the kind of whinny, pussy-whipped boy that your audience likes to hate because the character's moral fiber makes the character so easily expendable. Commodus' temper tantrums lead to patricide and the film turns into an interminably messy three-hour affair simply centering on the standard theme of revenge.Maximus is sent to die in the woods but manages to get the upper hand and kill Commodus' henchmen. He returns to his homestead only to find his wife and son lynched from trees. Poor Maximus is denied the throne of Rome and is now being fueled to wage a one-man war against the sissy who wiped away his entire family. As Maximus works his way back to Rome, unbeknownst to the new king Commodus, our foppish king swishes around the kingdom ridiculously hitting on his sister Lucilla (Connie Nielson) and hovering inappropriately over his nephew Lucius (Spencer Treat Clark).In the first hour Ridley Scott has expertly painted his archetypal figures, forcing us to love the brave Maximus, wifeless and sonless, and hate the creepy teenager with the thirst for forbidden fruit. Maximus, once back in Rome, manages to enter a gladiator troop manned by one Proximo, the late Oliver Reed. This little group of circus freaks will provide Maximus with the proper cover through which he can maneuver himself into the hearts of Rome's people. Not only is the man driven by revenge but he is also cocky enough to believe that he has what it takes to accomplish the sort of feats no other gladiator has been able to accomplish. By his side is Juba (Djimon Hounsou), the proverbial Black voice of wisdom. If not for Will Smith's more unfortunately stereotypical role in Legend of Bagger Vance, this would have been the kind of role that would have garnered the deserved scorn of people like Spike Lee.For two hours, Scott inundates us with endless arena fireworks that would serve the acrobatics of the Rock and Hulk Hogan to a much better effect. The characterization of Crowe's character amounts to nothing more than a cocksure man, full of false bravado, whose only apparent skill is to raise his arm into the air and scream for his men to surge into battle. He is the kind of screen character who wages war against hundreds of foes within the course of a movie and manages to dispose of all of them with relative ease. He is also the kind of superhero archetype that garners the admiration of young boys like Lucius, something which causes our dear Commodus to go even further over the edge.Scott is to be admired in the end for at least not being a hypocrite, as he practices what he preaches. Since the citizens of Rome seem only to live for bloodlust, Scott manages to paint Gladiator as nothing else than that: entertainment geared for audiences whose sole interest is seeing men and tigers beat the s**t out of each other for three hours. But if this is all there was to the film then one would see little complaints from my person but Scott makes the mistake of filling his film with arty flourishes.The film opens with Maximus walking across a field, his hands slowly caressing tall blades of grass. These flashbacks, along with various cutaways to fast-moving skyscapes, amount to nothing more than pretentious attempts to add artistic credibility to an otherwise sophomoric film. Its as if he is aware of the fact that his film is devoid of any three-dimensional resonance that he tries to quickly interject soft touches of humanity into the proceedings. The end result is nothing less than visual illiteracy, ringing completely false and cowardly.When it comes to epics none come better than Tarkovsky's Andrei Rublev or Eisenstein's Alexander Nevsky, two masterworks from Russia's greatest directors that fully captured the three-dimensional scope of war. The bad guys in these films, unlike the one played by Phoenix in Gladiator, are the kinds of foes whose selfishly malicious journeys are never cartoonishly drawn. The landscapes created by the Russian masters were poetic and grand, full of visual and emotional urgency. Scott's film is amounts to nothing more than being beat over the head by a club for three hours.


                
This movie is one of the worst I've ever been forced to watch. I mean, I came out of the cinema and wondered why the sun wasn't already up. I thought it must have been at least 8 hours long. It's just so BORING! When you think about it, what happens in this movie? Tough guy kills some dudes. Tough guy talks about honour with old guy. Mean guy kills old guy. Tough guy kills some other dudes. Mean guy talks about honor with girl. Tough guy weeps for his family. Tough guy talks about honor with black guy, then kills some dudes. (Repeat last three lines until bored, and then some more). If they would have just stuck to the killing part, then it would have been a mediocre action film. But no, they had to add "depth" (=lots of "philosophical" (=clicheed) truisms, with about 30 seconds of pauses/reaction shots between sentences). Actually, the screenwriter packed the script with so many clichees he actually only missed one: Flavius (the nephew of the mean guy) is not Maximus's son. Bummer. I thought I knew everything that would happen after the first quarter of an hour.O.K. The good points: The first three fights or so ARE compelling (the other 20 or so cease to be). Ancient Rome never looked so real (Shame about the rest of the movie). The actors can act (their roles are just so clicheed the creators could have done with Muppets).One final question : Does Crowe really go from Germania to Spain in one day (Some horse that must be...), and from Spain to North Africa in another two? In a CART? I Refuse to have seen that. I must have fallen asleep for a few hours. It's possible with this movie. Zero stars.
There is not an ounce of verisimilitude in this entire film. Instead of dialogue between characters, everybody pontificates. Secondary characters don't act, they just stand around staring blankly in the background. Cardboard cutout blatantly CGI Rome. Disembodied fake cheering crowds in the arena. Bombastic music masking dramatic vacuum. Ridley editing like his tourette-suffering brother Tony Scott. Everything is fake, the story has no message. Killer kills as soldier. Killer kills as gladiator. Killer kills Emperor. That's it ! Art direction triumphs over realism.Spartacus is not just twice as good a film, or even ten times better. It's simply a different class of movie in every single aspect of film making.
As a Roman History Buff, the ending destroyed it. You have the ending where the fictional Maximus kills Commodus (a real Roman Emperor) in gladiatorial combat. (Commodus was actually strangled in his bath when poison wasn't killing him fast enough.) The sister of Commedus, Lucilla (who had actually been executed at the beginning of Commedus' reign) announces that we are all going to honor Maximus and restore the Republic.For a Roman history buff, this is like saying World War II was Hitler giving us all Ice Cream.What actually happened was that after Commedus (who wasn't that bad of a guy, really) Rome went into an embarrassing period known as the "Year of the Five Emperors, where a decent man was assassinated, the office of emperor was auctioned off, and three rival generals launched a civil war.This is universally agreed to be the tipping point of Rome's inevitable decline.


                
I went to see Gladiator with low expectations, going only because I have a 1-2 movie a week habit, and there have been few good movies opening in American theaters in recent weeks.  What follows, therefore, is an opinion about one hollywood summer blockbuster movie from someone who admittedly doesn't like such movies in the first place.First of all, Gladiator has the generic faults of most such movies: 1) sophisticated and expensive production design, editing and special effects contrasted with a simple-minded story, stilted dialogue and characters with incomprehensible or unbelievable motivation; and 2) excessive length.  (To be fair, it does not have the very common third flaw, excessive noise.) There are many decent low-budget movies that get by with thin plots and bad dialogue, when directed quickly with some flair; but adding money, big-name (and talented) actors and length makes things worse, not better.I find the violence in Gladiator's battle and fighting sequences very distasteful.  I had the same feeling about Braveheart, although that movie at least balanced its violence with scenes of levity.  I do not object to cartoon violence in movies, and I have never been bothered by anything I saw in John Woo's or other Hong Kong movies.  Graphic scenes of realistic violence do upset me, even more so when (as in this movie or in Braveheart) it is "righteous" violence meted out by the hero.Finally, I was disgusted by the movie's misinterpretations of history.  The Roman Senate was an instrument of aristocracy, not democracy.  Commodus was killed by disgruntled servants, and no one thought of replacing him with anything but another emperor.  Having him decide to fight a skilled gladiator is the supreme example of lame screenwriting in this movie.


                
I am an off and on student of Roman history. While viewing this movie again recently it struck me that almost every "fact" about the Roman Empire that this film introduces is wrong. I counted no fewer than 17 huge inaccuracies in the opening fight scene. These are important inaccuracies too, such as the cavalry charge through the woods. Try that yourself sometime and see how long it takes for you to end up with a branch in your teeth. Also, the general leaving the army to go lead a minor cavalry charge and the catapults and ballistae being used were glaringly inaccurate as well. I could go on and on just about the opening scene but the theme continues throughout the movie with inaccuracies piled on top of each other.The bottom line is, this movie only has the vaguest resemblance to the historical Rome. Once you remove the historical distortions you are left with nothing but a cheesy movie with bad dialogue. Whoever wrote this should have spent some time reading a book or two about Rome.
This movie is a simpleton's epic.  The storyline doesn't pass the laugh test.  Here's the outline (I would warn of SPOILERS, but this thing is already ROTTEN):1) After a great victory in GERMANY, a Heroic Roman general (Russell Crowe) and 100-year-old Roman Emperor with BOTH FEET in the grave (a pathetic-looking Richard Harris) plot to bring back the REPUBLIC to Rome.2) The Emperor's EVIL -- that's E-V-I-L -- and effeminate son (a WAY-OVER-THE-TOP Joaquin Phoenix) gets p***ed when daddy doesn't want to give him supreme power,finishes pushing pops into the grave, attempts the kill the good general, but just wipes out his family a thousand miles in SPAIN instead.3) Just after he discovers his wife and kid are TOAST, the grief-stricken good general is conveniently abducted by slavers to AFRICA, where he becomes THE GREATEST GLADIATOR EVER!, killing off dozens of opponents with each rippled bicep and impressing his teacher, played by Oliver Reed (who played with similar scene-chewing bravado in his prime).4) The good general goes back to ROME, where he wipes out legions in the Colisseum simply by ripping off his shirt to show his MIGHTY PECTORALS! Heads and arms and legs and lots of bloody parts fly all over in the MOST RIDICULOUS GLADITORIAL FIGHTS EVER!  The EVIL SON, who is now the E-V-I-L EMPEROR quakes in effeminate fear of this MIGHTY GLADIATOR, who is now the MOST POPULAR MAN IN ROME!  He suggests incest to his comely sister (Connie Nielsen), but -- strangely -- she prefers the SHIRTLESS GLADIATOR GENERAL, who promises to bring REPUBLICAN freedom to all ROME.5) The E-V-I-L EMPEROR lops off the heads of all the free-thinking Republican Senators and fatally backstabs the CHESTY GLADIATOR.  He jumps into the ARENA himself to finish him off, but our HAIRY HERO manages to end the E-V-I-L ONE's misery, and our own.Russell Crowe has a primordial presence which obviously strongly appeals to both male and female audiences, but this movie is a joke.  It says a lot when the best performance turned in was by the Oliver Reed, who died during the shooting and had a few of his scenes filled with Oliver's face superimposed by computer over an anonymous actor.The movie also looks terrible with a computer-generated Colisseum which looks totally plastic and a darkness in most of the scenes that is near impenetrable, except, of course, in the ludicrous gladitorial scenes in which every eviscerating moment is in bright sunshine.This movie is Spartacus and Ben Hur for the plot-challenged, character-challenged, nano-second-attention-spanned modern audiences.  An Eviscerated Epic.
I thought this film shows all that is wrong with film making at the moment, the story was really terrible, poor guy, doesn't want to fight anymore, oops, they kill his family, now I don't care about anything and I'm going to kill lots of people.This film would have been great if it was released as a comedy, as I laughed quite a lot at the predictable, boring story. The relationship between the Caesar and his sister was just ludicrous, and the effects, although no doubt very expansive, were not really very good.When I came out I didn't know whether to laugh or cry!


                
The biggest single indictment of this disatrous excuse for an epic is that the one truly great actor in the movie, Derek Jacobi, is (like Richard Harris and Oliver Reed) brought in to bring a whiff of authentic class (to hide the other whiffs), and, like the others, is quickly snuffed.  Jacobi, of course, was the absolutely brilliant star of the probably the greatest Roman epic ever, I, CLAUDIUS.  That scintillating 13-hour classic doesn't have a single boring or predictable moment (unlike this mess) and is all characterization and plotting, not spectacle, the exact opposite of this movie, which uses character stereotypes and a ludicrous storyline that wouldn't pass the cartoon test.  Half the acting is Russell Crowe swearing revenge and grimacing as he flexes his pectorals.  Even the spectacle here is MUDDY and BLOODY.  If you want to be like the Romans and enjoy the sight of people being disemboweled and torn limb from limb, then by all means check this out.  But, please, watch one of the classics instead and you'll quickly dump this pretender.


                
Let me preface this by saying I'm a fan of most of Ridley Scott's work. Bladerunner is a terrific flick and Alien ain't too shabby, either.  Then I saw the trailers for Gladiator and some early reviews(almost exclusively raves) and got excited for a good, well-made film.  What I got was the most boring movie I've seen in a theater in quite some time.  Initially, I gave the film the benefit of the doubt...a lot of people liked this so it must get interesting sooner or later.  About 45 minutes into the film, however, I realized it wasn't going to get any better.  I first looked at my watch at that point and proceeded to do so at least every ten minutes thereafter.  I hoped the reel would catch fire and save me from watching the last hour but, alas, I had to watch until the end.  I probably would've left but I attended the film with my father and we hadn't been to a movie together since T2...what're ya gonna do?.Gladiator was lifeless and unoriginal.  The plot was shabby and often laughable, and I honestly believe the folks at MST3K could've had a pretty good time with it.  Much of the dialogue was cheesy, the camera work was largely uninspired and every time a computer generated 'roman' backdrop was on screen the characters amidst them were fuzzy and shadowy.  At other times Scott included footage to purposely sicken the audience, i.e. the "snot" scene.  Did anyone else find that as nasty as I?Another problem with this film as that, despite its epic running time, the plot progression is hasty and incomplete.  Maximus goes from general to slave in about 3 scenes(why is he a slave again?) and kills around 7 people as a gladiator before becoming the most popular man in Rome.  There's plenty of room for good development within two and a half hours.  Instead, Scott pushes Gladiator's sub-par progression only within the brief action scenes(the only interesting scenes in the entire movie...honestly) and offsets them with minutes upon minutes(hours?) of crap that doesn't go anywhere.  The raves this movie has received confuse me.    Gladiator is the most overrated movie in years.If you're looking for a good movie along the same lines, watch Conan the Barbarian.  Gladiator uses roughly the same story line, but Conan is about 3000 times more entertaining.  And don't get popcorn before you enter the theater.  Believe me, you'll welcome any excuse to get up and stretch your legs before the movie actually concludes.


                
Well, that was a big old damp squib.  The budget and the decent castensure that Gladiator is a competent film, but its by no means a goodone.Sure, there are some genuinely engaging fight sequences, but that's_all_ Gladiator has going for it.  And to be brutally frank, they'renot all that great technically.  Crowe gives it his best shot, but hisopponents have to do a lot of incompetent poses to allow him to chopthem up, and for me that ruins any actual dramatic effect that theaction sequences might have had. The extended conversations are just boring.  The characters are wellacted, but are sketchy and uninvolving, and I just can't bring myselfto care about any of them.  And sure, Maximus has a sad story, but sowould all of his fellow gladiators, yet we don't get to hear themwhining.  Rank apparently does have its priveleges even in the slavepits.Oliver Reed stands out by actually making his character vaguelyintersting, but that's the balanced by the insipid Connie Neilsonwho's utterly mundane and can't decide what accept she's trying toaffect.Gladiator is a waste of budget, time and talent.  It's a greatshame that it was such a success, because it will just encourage morestudios to throw money at similar follies on the basis that no filmwith a budget in excess of 100 million dollars US has ever lost money.


                
Watching this movie has caused me to once again wonder, how a director can manage to create images of perfect beauty, while producing such a horrible plot and dialogues that almost make me blush for just hearing them at the same time. I thought the 90s had finally brought movies with such appalling heroic pathos to an end. Unfortunately, I was wrong. Not only does Ridley Scott make usually excellent actors bring forth lines that let "The Phantom Menace" ring like Shakespeare in my ears. He also shows no scruples whatsoever twisting history around entirely and making the Roman Empire look like a benevolent pacifier. All in all, if it weren't for a few corrupt Senators and a megalomaniac young emperor, Rome seems to have had no flaws for Scott whatsoever. Ah, a little genocide here, some imperialism there...the others were all "barbarians" anyway. The only thing that really surprised me was that Russell Crowe was not draped by a flag at the end...oh, wait, that movie was about Rome, not about America, wasn't it? My mistake!


                
Was really just a disappointment overall.  What was even more of a disappointment was the fact that it won the academy award for best picture! Was the academy high on crack that year?  Aside from two spectacular battle scenes, everything else was reminiscent of braveheart, which was significantly better then this.  This film's plot was mediocre at best and was a true disappointment.


                
What a piece of cynical garbage from a once good film director.  I found this film appalling on so many levels and it represents where the Hollywood blockbuster is going these days - mindless plots, one dimensional characters, bloated poorly executed special effects.  I really don't know where to begin except if you really liked this movie, please see some more and maybe someday you'll know better.What a waste of talent and my time.


                
I cannot believe that so many people don't understand anything about actors, plots, timelines, actually everything important to have a good movie. Gladiator is NO good movie! A suggestion: Have a look at the Goof section and find out why. Most people don't want to use their brains while watching witted action films. Now, they've got what they want: a cool main actor, a cool story in a very cool time, but they don't consider that mostly everything in this I-don't-know-how-to-name-it-film is wrong. And then these people who don't understand to read, or even to WATCH a movie come here and rate this "masterpiece" of human creation on rank #95. Well, I know why they do it but it's hard to accept their stupidity... What a cramp!


                
Well I hated this film; I've hated nearly all Ridley Scott's films. Loved Alien; Loved Blade Runner. Then I hated everything up to American Gangster, which I thought was alright but not fantastic. Robin Hood was the next one I hated. Then came Prometheus, which I didn't hate, but after three viewings I'm still wondering if it was just a really expensive commercial for Christianity. Still, at least Russell Crowe wasn't in it.Russell Crowe! Does he know something about all the big Hollywood directors that they don't want made public? Did he find their sex dungeon? Seriously, how is he getting all these roles? It certainly isn't on ability. I think he might actually be a worse actor than Sean Connery.That's the main problem with Gladiator, and with many of Ridley Scott's films. Russell Crowe is in them, and I think it's a sign of Scott's increasingly poor judgement. Yes, I grant you, Russell Crowe may have appeared to be good in Romper Stomper, but we now know that he actually is a mentally challenged thug with delusions of grandeur so it doesn't count.Anyway, there are other issues, like the mind numbing tedium of watching an unimaginative director play with his enormous budget for hours, or the excruciatingly familiar plot lurking beneath the costumes, or the pantomime bad guy hammed into the middle of next week by Joaquin Phoenix.That brings me back to the acting, and the Crowe. Crowe time! That's what my inside voice shouts when he appears; it helps me get through films that he's in. The worst instance of Crowe time! in Gladiator is the bizarrely comical moment where he finds his character's family dead and tries to act accordingly; it's like an acting version of karaoke. I started to think that the original role was played by Harvey Keitel and he was probably this Australian bloke's favourite actor.Story wise, it's like a badly remembered history lesson retold in the style of Dallas, or Prisoner Cell Block H, at least that's the way the "Dramatic" scenes come across; the action is much more in the direction of a period Arnold Schwarzenegger film where the bad guys appear to have run straight out of a computer game just in time to be slain due to their low skill level and intelligence. Don't get me wrong, I like Arnie; you know where you stand with Arnie. Ditto computer games. The problem here is that it seems really out of context.Some people have complained about the historical accuracy; I don't care about that. I'm not overly interested in the Roman Empire and as a result the level of historical detail/accuracy would be lost on me anyway. I mean, if Attenborough started telling me that Gorillas are actually cleverly disguised Ninjas I'd be a bit annoyed – assuming peer review established such a claim to be untrue – but I went into Gladiator expecting a film not a documentary.I'm not saying that accuracy is never an issue; I'm from Belfast and I know that a great many people were upset at the awful way the Titanic disaster was treated by Hollywood. You can't help but wonder if, somewhere in Hollywood, there's a script for a whimsical look at the Hindenburg sitting on someone's desk.I think it's long past time we all stopped expecting the next great Ridley Scott film; it isn't going to happen. Ridley Scott is not a great director. David Lynch is a great director. David Cronenberg is a great director. David Lean is a great director. Why are they all called David? I don't know. In Britain high profile political journalists are called John. No one knows why<U+0085>
After reading many praising comments on Gladiator, I see that I am one of the few who announce how poor this movie was actually. I am not going to write a long comment to explain the shortcomings of this movie because they are so obvious. First of all, the movie was full of clichés and exaggerations. The plot really lacked originality. This was actually the ROMAN VERSION of BRAVE HEART or the latest version of BEN HUR rather than gladiator. I cannot understand why such a stale plot was used...Secondly,, the visual effects were fairly poor, apart from being realistic. For instance the tiger was like a character of one of Disney's animations. It was obviously non-realistic.. And it was also too obvious that the upper part of the coliseum was computer-generated..In the next place, the movie was unreasonably long; long enough to bore the audience. So, all Gladiator fans; please stop giving this poor movie more than it deserves. Since the production cost of this movie was high, some thought this was a great movie, who are fascinated by the fake beauty of gladiator!!! This is the unfortunate fact about gladiator.


                
Aside from Russell Crowe's strong performance, GLADIATOR is a chaotic mess. The editing is jumbled and confused, especially in the Arena scenes. To say this confusion is "realistic" is absurd, since when facing an opponent in the Arena, the most important thing is to remain clearheaded and outmaneuver him if you are to win. The celebrated battle in the forest in the beginning is just a silly attempt to ape the D-Day segment in the similarly overrated SAVING PRIVATE RYAN. As for the supporting performances, the best that can be said is that Richard Harris is dour and Oliver Reed is enjoyably hammy. Joaquin Phoenix is never convincing for a moment as the emperor. His performance would be more at home in a modern high school pageant. The photography resembles a European perfume commercial more than an evocation of ancient times. I wasn't aware the only color available in Rome was gold. For a truly excellent version of the same story, check out Anthony Mann's superb 1964 FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. While both films are based on the same historical characters, GLADIATOR shamelessly "borrows" many plot points from the earlier film, to less effect. Russell Crowe's supporting cast cannot hope to compete with such classic actors as Alec Guiness, Christopher Plummer, James Mason and Sophia Loren in FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. It would also be pointless to compare the directorial style of Anthony Mann, who is without a doubt one of the great American filmmakers of the 50s and 60s, with that of Ridley Scott, who directs like he's making a commercial for GLADIATOR perfume or a music video for a band dressed as ancient Romans. Just compare the finale man to man combat in the Arena in Scott's film with the same scene in Mann's. No comparison.


                
There is a lovely film in here about a spoilt brat teenager who unfortunately has tyrannical rule over the Roman Empire.  So whereas most sulky boys kick tables and storm off to their room, Commodus Caesar gets to throw those who annoy and humiliate him to digitally enhanced cats. Joaquin Phoenix gives a magnificent performance, camp in the best swords and sandals tradition, throwing childish fits when he doesn't get his way, sporting marvellously gothic eyeliner (Romans vs Goths, you see), scheming elaborate punishments for his big sister, which, for him, unlike the rest of us, who get our hair pulled, can actually, horribly, be realised.It's also nice to see that the hackneyed tide of postmodernism has been stemmed Canute-like, and a complex period in Roman history, with its plagues, revolts, tyrannies and back-room intrigues and murders can be 'crystallised' in a young boy's feeling unloved by his father.  Haven't we all felt this melancholy burden at one time or another, the failure to do what is right, honourable and Stoic, when ambition and privilege seem much more immediately rewarding?Add to this the accursed, tragic flaws of incest and worse (the difference between mad tyrant and noble hero must always be expressed in terms of neurotic sexuality and fertility-turned-ascetic renunciation), and you have a truly harassed, 'modern' hero, well supported by a ripe mixture of theatrical greats (Derek Jacobi) and former 60s icons (Oliver Reed, David Hemmings - is this Scott's THE LIMEY?).  He gets to watch some champion gladiating too.Of course, a film of this stature, size and scope must inevitably have its longueurs, here an elaborate sub-plot involving Russell Crowe, an inexorable melange of MAD MAX/BRAVEHEART (noble hero turned insane revenger after wife and family slaughtered; the bleak landscapes witnessing vastly scaled pub brawls; the lengthy, dimly lit, self-agonising indoor scenes, as a 'man' debates within himself his 'man'liness and duty; the loaded dichotomy between caricatured, vicious Imperials and unswervingly decent warrior; buddy-buddy development; Godardian, alienating, swelling score) and SPARTACUS (the violent gladiator scenes; the chinned sincerity; the captive peasant taking on the might of the Roman Empire; the structural homophobia).Crowe is a revelation - and reveals a hitherto unmined talent for comedy and parody.  Of course, this works because, like Leslie Nielsen, he marshalls a tautly disciplined straight face, but his clenched surliness, his Heston-like intergrity, his attempt to absorb the Stoic precepts of Marcus Aurelius (his scenes with Richard Harris are worthy of that masterpiece oof classical epics, CARRY ON CLEO), his reciting dialogue Abrahams-Zucker-Abrahams would have been proud to have written, are so funny (the scene where he rises off the ground of the auditorium to 'meet' his family is pure comic genius), so expertly pomposity-bursting, so winding up the pretensions of an entire genre, I emerged from the film with great respect for this stunningly versatile, deceptive actor.He couldn't have done it, though, without the help of Ridley Scott, essaying another mass culture in decline, who has bravely exorcised the complexities, ambiguities and enigmas of BLADE RUNNER to create an admirably simplistic epic, to abandon the weight of historical validity in favour of Boys' Own fantasy.  It would have been easy with this budget to create a teeming, living, authentic Rome, but Scott the postmodernist recognises the impossibility of this project, and, in an act of avant-garde innovation, hangs his drama on a handful of geometric signifiers, with little relation to any reality beyond the drawing board.There has been an extraordinary , and for me higly promising, strain in modern Hollywood filmmaking (eg TITANIC, THE PHANTOM MENACE), in which the new digital technology is not used to create novel, vast, convincing, strange worlds, but to elucidate the principles of Brechtian epic theatre, to foreground artificiality, implausibility, soullessness, encouraging the audience out of the narrative, to stand back and reflect on issues such as the construction of history, mass spectacle etc.  The dreams of the New Wave may finally have come to fruition.Like most films of this type, GLADIATOR is about a hero who is too good for his society, who cannot live in it.  But is he?  The absence of historical verity in the story set me thinking to about what Scott was trying to say. Because the film is a story about a man who lets his family die, who isn't there for them.  This is a curious hero to celebrate, though appropriate in an age where fathers often abandon their families, even to the extent of not paying alimony.  After Maximus (Scott must have been a Monty Python fan) sees the charred crucified bodies, the film goes momentarily into dream mode.  But does it ever come out of it?  This is a story that is full of doubles, strange correspondances, mirror scenes; it thoroughly interrogates the nature of family, and finally reaches a ritual climax in which both sides of the same coin (sons) wipe each other out, like Gothic doppelgangers.  Is the whole film Maximus's guilty dream, about guilt, emasculation, eternal torture over failure, the descent into bestiality? Is it a theme of America's guilt over slavery and subsequent race traumas, or a renunciation of them (both whites and blacks are slaves here).  Whatever. This is the first great comedy of the millennium.
It wasn't surprising really. I should have known better, after all this had happened with the narratives in Legend, 1492.., Black Rain and even in his superior works Alien and Blade Runner(and will happen again, like Peter Pan?). Hope however springs eternal, and with the casting of Derick Jacobi some comparisons with the sublime I, Claudius were inevitably and subconsciously drawn. How desperately in need of those comparisons was this dire cocktail of flashy, confusing gore and risible 'intrigue' performed by a collection of actors who, with a few exceptions, appeared to have recourse to one facial expression to express the gamut of emotions required of them by an infantile, ludicrous and totally implausible script which took 2 1/2 hours to deliver a plot which could have been written on the back of a postage stamp.Are we so easily satisfied with mediocrity that we can praise this ramshackle, gloomy hi-tech affair as being the first 'epic' of the year 2000? Surely not. Even the highpoints of the film; the opening battle scenes and the chariots vs gladiators coliseum fight come nowhere near to matching the virtuoso displays in Saving Private Ryan and Spartacus.For the rest, give me a script instead of computer-generated images which if I want to watch I can do so on one of my son's computer games.Now if Mr Jacobi had been a screenwriter ...


                
Gladiator is filled with so many tired old cliches that I can only sum it up with a tired old reviewer cliché.  Leave you brain at the door.This movie starts off with a large battle scene where Roman army Sargent, Russell Crowe, displays a unique ability to fight with courage and honor. Yeah!  Unfortunately for him he is more concern with getting home to his family where he can raise his children and grow his crops.  The only thing that is keeping him in the army is a strong devotion to his Caesar.After winning the opening scene (Believe me, I am not spoiling anything imdb.) Crowe's Caesar comes down from the mountain where he has overlooked the battle to congratulate him.  As soon as I saw the old and feeble Caesar get off his horse I literally counted the seconds before the Caesar's `jealous of Crowe' younger brother or son came walking onto the scene.  28 seconds later the Caesar's son who it conveniently late for the battle, enters the scene. Things really heat up when the Caesar names Crowe as his successor instead of his son.  What follows is one movie cliché after another until a final battle scene between Crowe and Caesar Jr.I have enjoyed movies that followed this kind of formula in the past. Spartacus and Braveheart are my two favorite examples.  But what those movies have that Gladiator lacks is simple.  Character.  Ridley Scott's direction should have been more focus on giving his lead roles a third dimension instead of dragging out action.  The bland story and flatness of the characters made me wish that everyone would die so I could arrive home sooner.Although Gladiator did have well choreographed fight scenes and some good computer generated special effects; as most movies today, they left the script as a last priority which this reviewer still believes should be the whole point of movie making.


                
This movie is bad.  Not extremely bad, but bad nonetheless.  It was extremely long and boring, seeing as the plot was paper-thin.  The characters were dull.  I couldn't care less, if Russell Crowe won in the end.  I didn't feel sorry for his character at any point in the movie.  In fact, by the second hour, I found myself wishing for his immediate death so they'd end the movie.  I blame most of the movie's problems on director Ridley Scott.  He's a hideous director, and I don't know why everyone keeps confusing him with a good director.  During half of the fight scenes and during the battle scene at the beginning, it took the entire scene just to figure out what was happening.  You could never tell what was going on. Thus, this movie isn't even good for a few cheap thrills.  It isn't good: C-


                
My girlfriend had heard several great reviews from her friends so i had to be dragged to see 'gladiator', even though i had a very bad feeling about it.. Well, all my expectations were met, every cliche in the book was there and the worst part was that they were not even performed well. The whole movie tries very hard to radiate grandeur and epic heroism but it just totally fails. Acting was crap, most actors were statues talking without intonation while Crowe walked around the whole movie looking worried and silly and not like the heroic general he was supposed to be.. Music was junk (didn't expect it at all from Hans Zimmer, normally excellent..). The whole movie just didn't have the atmosphere it could have had. If you wanna see a good movie with Crowe watch The Insider (far better music too, incidentally also by Lisa Gerrard who did Gladiator together with Zimmer).


                
Well first off, I thought this movie was a rip off of Braveheart. It was very predictable. I knew every thing that would happen after the first 10 mins of the movie. The characters were interesting, but I did not have any feelings for them. This movie is highly over rated. There is nothing new at all in it. The story has been done may times before. The characters were forgettable. The movie seemed to be an excuse to show fighting with some sort of story built around it.


                
