Anyone who likes the old epics of Hollywood's golden age must cringe at this ugly and unenjoyable production.Russel Crowe must be the most overrated actor of this century. He is gruff and rough but he is just too fat and ugly for the hero. Just compare him to the heroes of the period epics like Charlton Heston. Why do they choose the opposite of handsome. He didn't have to be pretty. In the end who cares if he lives or dies.Joaquin is a bit modern looking and out of place for a Roman Emperor. Although he does have a depraved air - he doesn't combine a regal like presence with it. He's more run of the mill pervert. Connie Nielsen is a bit un Roman - too Northern European but at least she has a certain dignity.The awards this movie and its cast got are mostly undeserved.
What we have here is a mixture of Ben Hur and Braveheart, and unsurprisingly it sucks.The main objective of the film seems to be to cram as much gore as possible in the space of a single movie, without bothering about trivialities like story, character or meaning. If it purports to show the beastliness of staged human fights to the death it utterly fails because it only lowers the viewers to the same voyeuristic level as the Romans themselves.Who cares about Maximus, a cardboard character with revenge as his only motivation? What to make of the crazy editing in the fight scenes that makes it impossible to understand what is going on? What with the bizarre geography and time lines? How to make sense of the opening battle which is claimed to be about a German settlement, yet takes place in the open and shows cavalry charging through a dense forest? Why the fake poetry of the hand in the wheat field? Who cares? Gore, gore and more gore, that is what sells tickets and, incredibly, delivers Oscars.The only thing I could appreciate, contrary to many others here, is Joaquin Phoenix' portrayal of Commodus as he descends from mere creepiness into downright raving lunacy. Nice bit of acting. All the rest is a waste of perfectly good celluloid.


                
Gladiator has little to teach us about the past. In fact, it has little to teach us about anything save what not to do if you're trying to make a thoughtful film of artistic merit. The beginning has some promise. We are presented with the main character, a general named Maximus, who has seen battle for untold years and desires to resume his humble life as a farmer with his wife and daughter. If it weren't for his unshakable sense of blind civic duty he would have done this long ago. We see Marcus Aurelius, the old, passive emperor known for his stoicism. The movie does not paint him as the relatively aggressive imperialist he actually was, and perhaps we wonder why it doesn't, until we realize that the movie is following a simple rule: all characters must be one-dimensional. Our first impression is the correct one. There is no more than meets the eye; these people are either good or bad. For example: Maximus is good. Anyone trying to kill him, e.g. other gladiators, a.k.a. people who have probably been forced into exactly the same uncomfortable position as him, is bad. It's that simple. Gladiator does have an attention to certain historical details. The costumes, including the armor, for example, that the soldiers (Maximus included) at the beginning of the film are wearing is likely what Romans of the time would have been wearing. This is a departure from previous Roman epics, which tend to use the brass breast plate with the muscles etched into it for Roman soldiers regardless of the time period. So, score one for Gladiator, right? Maybe. But who cares, when we consider the absurd battle that follows? It quickly breaks down to a chaotic melee, with a lot of slashing, that looks completely uncalculated and un-Roman. The Romans win it easily anyway, but if they had actually fought like this they would never have been the consistent victors that they were. They had a method, and they used it, and it definitely wasn't 'every man for himself!' Another perfect example of the film simplifying history comes when Marcus Aurelius says that he wants Maximus to succeed him, so Commodus, Aurelius' son, murders him before he can tell anyone else. In actuality, the succession of the throne to Commodus was not in doubt. The film wanted to make it clear, however, that Aurelius is good, Maximus is good, and Commodus is bad.To examine the character Maximus in detail, we ought to look at his deeds. In the eyes of the filmmakers, he is without flaw. But look how he behaves!He spends the film ruthlessly seeking revenge on Commodus for the murders of his wife and daughter, and eventually his revenge is satisfied. There are no negative consequences for his brutal, murderous revenge. In fact, he gets exactly what he wants: on one hand Rome is handed back to the senate and thus becomes a republic again as Aurelius wished (and what Aurelius wants, Maximus wants because of his sense of duty). On the other hand, he is reunited with his family in death. The movie never tires of telling us that this is his ultimate goal, and then has the nerve to show it literally instead of knowing that it is understood! Remember the moment when Maximus is first handed a sword at the gladiator training camp. He throws it down in protest, either because he refuses to obey his captors or because he is opposed to gladiatorial combat (or both). Roughly two minutes later, though, he is in the arena fighting, though his life never appears to be in immediate danger, because he is so much stronger than his opponents, and such a superior strategist and swordsman; it seems more likely that he enjoys the killing. The movie refuses to acknowledge this completely, because Maximus is the hero, and a necessary condition of being the hero in this movie is flawlessness. Consider also the people he is killing. They are just like him, probably abducted or born into slavery against their will, and forced to fight, yet somehow the movie pretends that they are evil or inhuman. It masks them and makes them out to be the aggressor. At one point Maximus spares a man's life against Commodus' thumbs-down (which should have been a thumbs-up, but that's merely a historical point), but he isn't being merciful out of compassion. As a matter of fact, he is not being merciful at all! All he is doing is showing that he and he alone has complete control over whether a man lives or dies. It is sadistic.The contemporary relevance of Gladiator that I was able to uncover is its warped political perspective. Its sentiments are republican, in the Roman sense of the word, and in the sense of the Republican Party in America today. It values things like civic duty, being a manly man, a family man, a strong man, someone who isn't afraid to kill to defend<U+0085>whatever. It views liberalism as controlling, preventing Maximus from living the humble farm life that he might enjoy in the state of Montana or thereabouts. It opposes sexual irregularity, and seemingly with it homosexuality. If it were aware of stem-cell research, we could guess that it would oppose it. Essentially, its year 2000 release was the perfect kickoff to eight years of hilarity with the Bush gang. A better way to be contemporarily relevant is to make a thoughtful film that asks deep questions about human nature, or the best way to govern people, or something like that, instead of flaunting some obviously hypocritical moral code.
It is a pity that the type of person who thinks that this movie is "great" is the same type of person who thinks that a Clint Eastwood movie is better than a John Wayne movie, and who is interested in shallowness and simplicity, shallow entertainment with no depth. Such viewers would be perfect public at the Colisseum where the final struggle takes place. The movie is a rather poor remake of "Fall of the Roman Empire", a movie which was not memorable but which had some point to it, for it showed the way in which the Northern blonde people were shamelessly butchered which provoked the reaction which was to seal the fate of Rome. That movie had a more elaborate story and showed how a system can go wrong. There is a worrying trend in these epic remakes such as Gladiator, The Passion of the Christ and to a much lesser extent Troy (Troy is actually quite a good movie) for gratuitous violence and no real message, no real humanity or depth. It seems we have regressed to Roman times. It is almost like we have become blood thirsty and unchristian.


                
Gladiator (2000) is an overrated nightmare. Whoever wrote this did not research their history very well. The acting was mediocre and it was filled with numerous flaws and wholesale gaps of logic. I hate when film makers do this. Why not make it a farce. People would have accepted it as such if they did. If you're going to do a report or a research paper on the Roman Empire, you will fail if you copy from this movie. But, I was impressed with the games in the Roman Colosseum.Russell Crowe stars as Maximus, a roman centurion who's cushy life one day is changed forever. He discovers that he has to live a new life and tries to adjust to it the best way possible Joaquin Phoenix co-stars as Commodus along with Connie Nielsen, Djimon Hounsou and the late greats Richard Harris and Oliver Reed. Directed by Ridley Scott.Not recommended, unless you're a Russell Crowe fan.


                
This movie one more time shows that Americans doesn't know and even doesn't want to know the history besieds their own. Does anyone really thinks that soldiers in Rome army applied as 'sir' to their chief. Or it was made just for Americans to understand it easier? And why Maximus is General. What's the rank of Rome army? Second, the story is a fake. There really was such emperor as Commodius, but he wasn't killed on the stadium. Third, does anyone thinks that the emperor, wishing to kill somebody will stop if the folk love that person? The screenplay is written very bad. All the dialogues are separated from each other and sometimes I couldn't understand what was the purpose of one or another dialogue.


                
This bodes not well for the future of the film industry.  I don't care if the film is historically inaccurate, but a best-picture nominated film should at least exhibit coherent writing and competent art direction.  I guess as long as your decapitating people with swords, you don't have to make a good film to win an oscar.  Ken Lonergan must be gnashing his teeth. Oh well, at least Erin Brokovich got nominated.  Sigh...


                
I happen to love films about the ancient world. This one isnt about Ancient Rome. Its about costumes from a road company production of AIDA and sets using Biedermier furniture instead of researching the period. Its about blurry filters over the lenses. Its about a pathetically boring music score and the use of huge suffocating close ups for emotional intensity. Its about blurry computer generated reconstructions and a cloddish leading performance.  The Release Print that I saw was bluish and soft focus. After seeing films like BEN HUR in Ultra Panavision 70 and six channel sound in the sixties, you have no idea how outrageously disappointed I was with this overrated "Ridley Scott" garbage.


                
Am I the only one who doesn't think that scenes of people relentlessly hacking away at each other and severing limbs, heads, etc, blood spouting everywhere is "beautiful" and "stunning cinematography"?  I'm absolutely astonished at the other comments about this movie! I found the fight scenes to be uncomfortably gory and grim; and there were so many of them, and they went on and on and on! I had been told that it was thought provoking, a love story (??) and not very violent or gory.  What movie was that?  Certainly not this one!  I was also annoyed at the gratuitousness of his wife and son being killed, just so he could be pissed off enough to justify his desire for revenge. (just like most of the old Charles Bronson movies)  Wouldn't he have been pissed off enough by the murder of his beloved emperor, the betrayal of the 'ideals of the Roman Empire' and the fact that he was captured and made a slave?  Guess not.I went to the 9:00 pm show, and in between the battle scenes, I kept almost dozing off. I just didn't find the movie or the characters particularly interesting, engaging or compelling.  "Gripping" is a word I have seen in other's comments--I don't see it.  I was anything but gripped. In comparison to Braveheart, it was about as violent, but you didn't really care about any of these people or what they were doing.  Braveheart made me want to find out more about William Wallace and that period of history; Gladiator made me want to go see Thomas the Tank Engine in the next theater to wash those gory images out of my brain and put something light in there instead!I'm not trying to belittle anyone's opinions who loved this movie; I am just nonplussed by them.  Basically, I just wanted it to be over, so I wouldn't have to watch it anymore.


                
I just want to say that this movie did not deserve the oscar for best actor or for best picture.  I just don't understand it.  It seems like the Academy Awards aren't the best at picking who and what deserves it, just like Julia Roberts winning over Ellen Burstyn.  All she did was act pissed off and wear revealing clothes.  Many actresses could've done that.Anyway, this movie is just a bigger budget for a Jean Claude Van Damme movie.  A tough guy's family gets hurt, and he goes out for revenge, but along the way he gets tortured and hurt yet kicks all their butts.  That pretty much sums it up...


                
I have to admit this movie looks great. Ridley Scott did a great job as the director and production designer. Moreover, the actors are superb. And Hans Zimmer's work as composer is awesome.However, there is one MAJOR complaint: THE SCRIPT!Ok, from a commercial point of view I can understand that it looked appealing to the producers. But what about Mr. Scott?The plot is a recycled Early-Eighties-Chuck-Norris-Movie put into the Roman setting.No twists. No suspense. Just action and some romance. No good movie!Gladiator is a B-Movie script made into a multi-million dollar piece of post-modern recycled junk.If you really want to see it, here is my recommendation:Rent the DVD or video and put it on fast forward. You will still get the simple story, some action and you won't have to waste two hours and thirty minutes just to be disappointed.My verdict: 2 out of 10 (for the looks, acting, and score)PS: Unfortunately, the producers felt obligated to insert a Saving-Private-Ryan-This-Feels-So-Real war sequence at the beginning. It pales in comparison to the original.


                
The only Oscar it should have won is for art direction and effects. The script is very simple and predictable. Actor's performance is very weak. Russell Crowe acts like Stallone in Rocky (poor performance)and Joaquin Phoenix is not convincing as Roman emperor.


                
Well, there go two and a half hours of my life I can never retrieve.Perhaps a better name would have been "The Comedy of Commodus", as I laughed through most of this travesty -- that is, when I wasn't groaning. This is the kind of "historic epic" that is neither historically correct in the details nor the epic it considers itself to be. The endless historical errors are mentioned in other comments and in the "goofs" section of the IMDB page for this movie, so there's no need to get into them here. As for the epic part ... well, I spent much of the time trying to decide which real epic was being ripped off ("Braveheart" a lot of the time; "Private Ryan" definitely in the opening battle scenes, via the hectic camera work and the leached-out colors).Let me put it this way: If you thought "Legends of the Fall" was a good movie, you'll probably fall for it again here.


                
There are probably some spoilers in this review.  On the other hand, if you have already seen this movie, spoilers don't make any difference and if you have not seen it, spoilers may not make any difference either because I very much recommend that you don't bother wasting your time to see it anyway.Considering the hype that Gladiator had before, during, and after its release to the theaters, this had to be one of my worst disappointments. The good guy-bad guy situation was so obvious that I think all the people involved with making this movie must have been too close to it to see what they were doing.  Either that, or they thought viewers were all stupid.  A little character development might have helped here.This movie is basically about two guys.  One is General Maximus something that ends with an s, something else that ends with an s, and he is a really, really good guy.  Then there is the son of the emperor, something that begins with a C and ends with an s, who is a really, really bad guy.  How do we know this?  The movie's first major scene is the general bravely leading his troops into battle (and fighting hand-to-hand himself, which seems dumb for the commanding general), and wins a great victory.  He then shows his fine personal side by having a heart-to-heart with the emperor.  General Maximus says he now wants to go home to his wife and kid and there is a gooey filmover that shows the audience what a nice family life he has.  His boss tells him that he wants the general to take over leadership of Rome since the emperor is about to die.  The good general goes away to think about it.  Then the emperor's son comes in and finds out this distressing information when he talks to his dad.  Naturally, he then murders his father so he can lead Rome himself.  What a bad guy he is!The general is awakened to find this out and examines the body so as to determine that he had indeed been murdered.  Things get worse for the general when the naughty son orders him executed.  A bunch of the son's soldiers then take the luckless general away.  They promptly botch the execution, however, when the general with his hands tied and unarmed somehow kills everyone.  The general then rushes home, but gets there too late and discovers that his family have been horribly tortured and killed and the farm burned.  Can the son get even worse and the general even better?  In this movie, the answer is yes, of course.The general is then captured and placed into slavery and made a gladiator in order to please the blood-thirsty people.  He then makes an amazing recovery to kill about a zillion other gladiators who have no redeeming characteristics.  The son implements his plan to lead the people by hitting on his own sister, making advances to his nephew, and planning 150 days of killing to cement his loving bond with his countrymen.  This guy is definetly no George Washington.While this is all going on, we movie viewers are treated to some of the silliest special effects ever.  In one scene, an ordinary chariot explodes when crashing into the side of the stadium.  In another, tigers pop out of the middle of the stadium to try to kill the already hopelessly overmatched gladiators.  Nothing works and the slave-gladiator continues to mess up the son's plans by killing everybody he faces.  Even "the only undefeated gladiator in Roman history" (remember when defeated, a gladiator is dead) is coaxed out of five-year retirement to come back and be easily killed by the indestructible general.The movie's ending is still more rediculous.  For historical accuracy, all the people in the movie, including the slaves, have perfect teeth, look clean despite impossible conditions of sanitation, and are so well fed that a few look overweight.  I just don't understand what everybody sees in this film.
A phony "superman" movie. Big budget,impressive effects and re-creations only serve to create some entertainment value.  But the simple characters, predictable plot, and totally implausible action scenes put it in the comic book category (apologies to the modern, literate comic books).See Titus instead; a real movie with a real story and real characters, realized with the unreal magic of which films are capable.


                
This was one of the worst scripts I've seen in a movie in the last couple of years. Ridley Scott could have done much better than this historically inaccurate, pseudo-action, very bad mini-love story. He didn't do his research on Antic Rome and the Coliseum (except for the floor traps that existed then). Very disappointing movie


                
What a disappointment! Total unrealism, in every respect! Could have been great, with that budget, even with that idea, but, no, the director went for sentiment (but missed), went for gory realistic fighting (but missed), just plain missed.  The story makes no sense.  There are big holes in it that bothered me so much I couldn't get involved.  The writer tries to impose mawkish modern sentiment on the Romans.  A Caesar, and Roman population, that want peace.  A Caesar who wants to restore power to the Senate.  A conquering general (from somewhere in the stix, who has never even been to Rome) who just wants to go home. Sensitive gladiators. Come on! Once you start seeing the failures of this film, the lack of artistry, the lack of creativity, even the lack of originality of the story (see "Spartacus," for a start), you'll find little to like, nothing to admire.  Crowe is nice-looking fellow, very poorly cast for the role, and cast is the right word; he has only one facial expression, sort of a sad-dog face. The producers spent a lot of money, obviously, but none of it was on research. This might as well be set on a distant planet as in Rome. There should have been ewoks. I was laughing at details at the most inappropriate times.  I never felt an emotion.  Trite.  Tripe.  Don't the people who give this film high ratings have any critical faculties at all?


                
Stultifyingly, stupefyingly, incredibly, repetitively boring.  Russell Crowe does what he can, but is eaten alive by the film's own scope and special effects.  Bigger than life and 100 times more boring.  Some clever lines and interesting supporting characters are laid to waste by a singular effort to win a Best Special Effects Oscar. In a word -- boring.


                
After having enjoyed all these perfectly made movies like Alien, Blade Runner, etc. we should accept a weak period of a good director. Obviously dear Ridley was corrupted by nowadays techniques of film-making. I have rarely seen such a poor content wrapped into high-tec sceneries and excellent photographing. Dear Ridley simply didn´t reflect about the message of this work of blood, mud and tears: cheap heroes and a nearly fascistoid philosophy. Do we really need such matter or isn´t it better to look forward and forget about those primitive revenge stories. And by the way:  I cannot accept this way of falsifying historic facts.


                
Okay maybe a 2 out of 10 is a bit harsh but it can make up for the ridiculous ratings of 10 out of 10. This movie was nothing new. It wasn't gripping, or interesting, or factual, it was just boring, I was waiting for it to get kicking all the time. I decided to watch it because of the high ratings and I remember quite enjoying Ben Herr and Spartacus but all this filmed seemed to be was lots of long beautifully filmed shots of the scenery. The fight scenes were good but didn't help make the film any more interesting. The acting was good, but didn't help make the plot any better. And overall I was just board and disappointed that i had wasted an evening watching that film.


                
That this movie beat out "Traffic" for the best picture Oscar is the definition of idiocy. I admire Ridley Scott, and liked Russell Crowe in "The Insider" and "L.A. Confidential," but they're both responsible for the debacle that is "Gladiator."The rest of the world must have seen a different movie. I saw a bloated, overlong, tedious, humorless, joyless, tired, boring, ugly-looking, cliched film with terrible digital effects and lead characters with zero personality. Scott has directed two of my favorite movies, "Alien" and "Blade Runner," but "Gladiator" is a dead zone. Anybody could have directed it. Alan Smithee may as well have done it.Two movies show up "Gladiator," even as it strives to be like both of them. They are "Braveheart" and "Spartacus." Both Mel Gibson and Kirk Douglas showed more zest for life (and violent death) than Russell Crowe, who appears to be either A) sleep walking or B) angry with Ridley Scott for putting him in the movie. What a boring performance! To see this kind of savage, revenge-driven character done right, there's still no topping Mel Gibson's portrayal of William Wallace. It was over the top, but by golly, you felt the man's passion."Gladiator" is a mess. I don't know any other way to describe it. Oscars and money don't always equal quality, apparently.


                
1.  Derek Jacobi: I love Derek Jacobi and he is one of the world's most brilliant actors. However, seeing him perform in such a lowbrow, low-class, low-quality movie is disturbing.  It's a bit like seeing John Cleese in James Bond films or Kenneth Branagh in "Wild Wild West."  It's sad, really.2.  Sets and costuming: This film is visually stunning. I suppose Ridley Scott has to be given credit for his work here instead of being blamed for a bad script.3.  It ends (and this one takes far too long to happen)   "Gladiator" is almost as over-hyped as "The Sixth Sense" and "Titanic" in the pantheon of bad movies that somehow convinced idiots that they were good. Russell Crowe's performance is decent, but how in the world can you win a best actor Oscar for playing a completely flat, empty character like Maximus?  Kevin Costner or Keanu Reeves can play a role this simple and do a decent job!  It is possible to add some depth to this character in performance, but Crowe seems incapable, unwilling, or unallowed to do this and thus instead plays this one-dimensional piece-of-paper role and somehow gets accolades for it.     However, the part of this film that kills it is the thing that truly makes or breaks a film:  the script.  A good script can make up for bad acting (as evidenced in "JFK" and "The Matrix"), but good acting cannot make up for a truly bad script (as evidenced in "Best in Show" and "Titanic"). "Gladiator" is a case of the latter.  Crowe doesn't give an amazing performance, but he is given little to work with.  In fact, the only actor who really does have a full character to work with is Joaquin Phoenix, and he performs it quite well.  The other characters hardly need acting, even though one is filled by the ever-brilliant Derek Jacobi.  The truth of the matter, though, is that the script is trite and stupid.  As a matter of fact, it's like a very ineloquent version of "The Tragedy of King Richard III" without the fascinating central character.  There is also far too much battling in this film.  I got bored with Kenneth Branagh's "Henry V" because of ONE long battle scene, but this film seems to have about five of that same length.  "Gladiator" is like all of these "crime dramas" that are really just action films with just enough plot for stupid people to think they are intelligent.     In sum, if you want to watch a typical, run-of-the-mill action film set in ancient Rome, watch this.  If you want to see nothing other than stunning visuals, watch this (though I would more suggest that you watch anything directed by Peter Weir if you want visuals).  However, if you want to see a movie worth watching, don't bother.


                
I was really looking forward to seeing this film, but it was so badly made!The plot was minimal, the computer effects were very unconvincing, and some of the acting was sub-Eastenders standard (Joaquin "my little busy bee" Phoenix).Saying that, Russell Crowe & the late Oliver Reed were both very good - shame they didn't have one of Shakespeare's Roman plays to get their teeth into - if you want violence with a good plot, try Titus Andronicus.The cinematographic equivalent of a Chelsea match - just a boys film, and not a very good one at that.


                
So Hollywood revived the long forgotten sword and sandal epic, absent from the screen in the last decade(s). In the case of Gladiator, it would have better still not be revived.Gladiator comes along as a multi-million, box-office super-seller with actually nothing behind it. We get the mass battle scenes, some sword-dancing fights between gladiators and a lot of togas. The plot: not outstanding, the characters: cliché-like. No character gets really developed, everything is aimed at a sensual overflow (sometimes intersparsed with un-motivated sun-set shots). In addition to that, the shooting is quite poor: murky, unfocused and plain. The body count is high, but triggers no emotions (kind like a splatter movie in sandals..)To put it simple: I had to fight to stay awake, save your (over-time) money for some better films.


                
First off let me say this film was merely OK, nothing more, nothing less. We've seen this story dozens of times before, in a dozen different genres, from gladiator movies to football films. The antagonist attempts to, and sometimes does, force out the film's opening hero only to have the hero come back, after a period of rebuilding and soul searching, and defeat the antagonist in the end. James Caan and John Houseman did it much better in "Rollerball" The characters were all your standard Roman cliches with the exception of the wonderful final performance by Oliver Reed. This was the film's one saving grace.The film style in the battle and fight scenes was rocky enough to give the most stalwart rollercoaster fan motion sickness, while the more cerebral portions of the film were so deadly dull that these sections could cure even the worst insomniac. I saw the film at the Cinerama in Seattle and that magnifies everything about the film, especially its flaws. Maybe it will be easier to watch when it hits the small (TV) screen.


                
