OK, i might be a bit of a film cynic, but that's because the  overwhelming majority of wide release films are really bad. finding  nemo is a perfect example of a terrible film, that for some reason  everyone loves. what's wrong with me? OK, i'll give it the nice bright  colours and beautiful, smooth animations, but what else is there?  "memorable characters," "humour?" certainly not! i have the distinct  feeling that dreamworks puts subliminal messages into their films to  make people like them, because its the only explanation! all my  friends, cynics, hippies, metal heads, nerds - they all loved it! WHY?  when i ask them, they'll say, "oh it was funny...", or "it was  colourful..." are they playing games with me? Please, some one explain  how this film is good? It's 2 hours long, for a cartoon, 2 hours is far  too long. It has the lamest, schmultziest story and character  development. all the "crazy" characters are really simple stereotypes  that have been done to death a million times before. Hey, i don't mind  if your kid liked it, my question is to the parents who claim, fun for  kids AND adults. I don't understand. the same thing happened with toy  story and shrek. Where were these so called, "adult" jokes? why does  everyone insist that dreamworks is so great? Argh! someone help me. or  at least someone admit they also hated this film to save me from  thinking i'm a lunatic. although, i do have an unhealthy fascination  for the moon.


                
Judging from the reviews I just read of Finding Nemo, it looks like there are two kinds of reviewers: those who want a film that mirrors and idealizes their lives, no questions asked, and those who want a film that raises interesting questions. I'm in the latter category and as such, I have to say that this was perhaps the most boring and vapid film I have ever watched. For me, watching replicas of family, school life, dentists' offices, etc. without some sort of commentary just isn't interesting. And no, beautiful animation is not enough. So maybe we need to revisit the eighteenth century, when people -- Americans included -- were proud to think, question, and use reason in their everyday existence. Maybe that would produce an animated film that would allow Nemo and his dad to move beyond platitudes, tell the audience something new, and actually be funny (jokes in the Eisenhower era were funnier than this film). "Sapere Aude!" Thank you, Immanuel Kant.


                
When I saw a rating of 8.2 I did a double take. How on earth did this farce manage a rating of that? The lot is trash, even if your a kid! I mean i'm not that into animation films but I found Shrek quite enjoyable and other children's films like the lion king and the Jungle Book were vastly superior.For a start Nemo himself is incredibly annoying and I was hoping throughout the movie that a shark would come along and snap him up (knowing full well this would never actually happen). Secondly the story line reaches new heights of insanity. All movies aimed at young audiences are silly but this one is so much worse and stupider than any of the other ones. It's boring it's sad and it makes me feel embarrassed than something so horrible and ugly in film could be enjoyed by so many people.Nemo actually means nobody, suggesting that even the guy who came up with the title is laughing at this movie. I can barely understand how children like it but adults as well? What is the world coming to? Please don't watch this movie if you haven't seen it. It's simply disgusting.


                
When the credits for Finding Nemo started to roll I asked myself, did I see a different movie then everybody else? I do not know how people are saying this is the best movie of 2003 and one of the greatest of all-time. Sure, the animation is outstanding (great job Pixar), but the story is awful (shame on you Disney). After movies like Toy Story, Toy Story 2 and Monsters Inc I expected a better film. This movie is for people under 10 or for people who act and think like they are under 10. This is NOT a good film at all. Save your money and 100 minutes of your life, don't see Finding Nemo.0 out of 10


                
This movie is simply awful. The little clownfish Nemo is separated from his father when he disobeys him buy swimming out to touch a boat. (Peer pressure, I think ?) A dentist diver picks him up to add to his dental office aquarium of tropical fish. His father , whose name is Marlin, try's to find him. Hence the name , Finding Nemo. He meets a very forgetful (sometimes just downright stupid) Dory. They spend the rest of the movie doing stupid things. They find the diver's mask that took Nemo. Dory ,in a memorizing spree, memorizes the address written on it. They eventually find him ,of course, and the movie thankfully ends. I would have written more, but it pains me to write even this. Nemo's voice is very whiny and annoying. Ellen is an okay Dory ; I don't think the greatest actors or actresses in the world could have saved this one. Little kids probably enjoy this one , and adults probably do to. But for me, this is a Disney/Pixar mistake.
When given a poll between watching Shrek 2 or Finding Nemo, I decided to choose Finding Nemo after being told of its high-quality laughs and worthy entertainment value. I'm not a big fan of Shrek 2 but *sigh* this was a bad choice.What many people consider to be witty and original is what I see as imports from early Chaplin films and episodes of the Simpsons. Finding Nemo is the story of the eponymous fish, Nemo. Nemo is the only survivor of his batch after his brothers and sisters (along with his Mother) were eaten by sharks in the egg stage. However Nemo survived (albeit deformed) along with a paranoid Father.The jokes seem tired and lack any moments of stomach-rumbling chuckling but rather a series of humoured snorts. Although the main character of Nemo is likable, the other two major characters are not. Ellen Degeneres' role as Dory is so irritating that you start hoping the diver comes back and batters Dory then at least somebody will get some use out of the poorly-designed character.Although there are smart ideas it becomes jumbled up in overly-immature jokes that decrease the entertainment value. For example the sharks that are dedicated to soothing their blood lust is worth some giggles but it gets lost in the sea(pardon the pun) of poor remarks. I should have known that the immaturity and basicness of the jokes would never stop coming. I assumed there would be a 15 minute farting sequence later on.When Nemo goes to school he breaks away from the pack and is captured by divers causing his Father and an oddball fish to venture after him. Now this seems to be an original plot filled with many creative avenues on which to expand but what turns out to potential ends up as excrement.


                
This was by far the most boring, lame, and utterly nauseating of all the cartoons I have ever seen. More proof that Pixar has nothing on Dreamworks (With the exception of "The Incredibles, that was a great cartoon). I only saw this because I missed the showing for Underworld. What a big mistake, I should have saved my money. I was bored stiff as I watched a bunch of unfunny fish swim around mindlessly. What made this pitiful excuse for a movie worse was the multitudes of toddlers and sad girls who paraded around praising this movie. If you want to honestly want to watch a film intended for people under the age of fetus, then this is the movie for you.


                
If your idea of family entertainment is a nonstop series of intense action sequences--almost getting eaten by a shark, almost getting eaten by another fish, almost being eaten by jellyfish, being eaten by a whale--then go ahead and sit through this headache of quick cuts, loud sound effects, and screaming characters.  You know, you could cut out half of these cliffhanger sequences and give us some characterization or some sweet memorable moments. Now THAT would be a good family film.  This is the most visually striking of all Pixar movies, and the most disappointing as a family entertainment. Pass this one up if you have younger children, please!


                
You know in the real events that the real life story that "Finding Nemo" was based upon, Nemo was put in the garbage disposal in the sink at the dentists office (after some of the other fish in the aquarium contracted fin rot from him and died) and his father was eaten by the pelican.Disney always has to give perfectly acceptable stories with a moral to them these ridiculous happy endings which are not healthy for children to watch because they give them false expectations of life.Let kids get to know the truth for once, Disney!!! Another complaint is that I did not see a Pink Snapper in this hole movie. What a disappointment. Its my favorite dish.


                
This is probably the worst movie I have ever seen. I do not think it's "cute" or "funny". I think the humor is so incredibly lame it would be better if it was non-existant, the sidelines were unnecessary and completely dumb, and I am quite sure that this is the worst movie Disney has ever created (Pirates of the Caribbean being the best!!! I & 3 POTC!!!). Vegetarian sharks?!?!??? I'm a vegetarian, and I didn't even find that funny. Some ppl would get all offended, I don't care, I just think it's stupid & not funny. You are supposed to feel empathy for story characters, but I was kind of hoping to see Nemo become somebody's lunch. OK, joking about that, but there was only like one point in this movie that I actually found funny. I just highly recommend NEVER seeing this awful movie.


                
I hated this movie!! It was awful!! I wish I woulda saved my money so now Iwould probably have money now to go see a cool movie, like Spider-Man 2..even though I saw Spidey 2 times :-D but anyway I think that Finding Nemo is the kind of movie you can only watch once or twice then you get sick of it. Thats my opinion anyway. It was so dumb and childish.... even though I'm sorta a kid my self, I'm 13 and I still thought it was really dumb. Just keep swimming, just keep swimming... that stupid song was stuck in my head all night after I saw that movie! And the whole "We are friendly sharks, we don't eat fish" thing was really really stupid.


                
when compared to the great Disney movies this film is really pathetic. i couldn't wait for it to be over.the script is a long set of clichés. the comedy is so juvenile and stale that if i had seen this at age 10, it's safe to say i wouldn't have laughed at a single part.the animation is ugly. there is something very commercial and impersonal about computer animation. if you want to see beautiful animation, look at the hand-made watercolor backgrounds in the "Jungle Book".if you want to watch a movie with a kid, pick one from when Walt Disney was still alive. they are funny even to adults, if sometimes politically incorrect.


                
This review contains spoilers!For everything that is visually brilliant and realistic in "Finding Nemo", there is so much wrong with this Pixar effort. So, where do I start? Okay, I'll start where the movie starts: with the violent death of "Coral" and 399 baby fish (no joke--a very scary-looking barracuda attacks the family less than four minutes into the film!). I'm not sure if the title should have been "Did Coral Really Die?", because I spent the whole movie waiting for the happy reunion. Sadly, there was none. Poignant and original, but way too intense for kids.(The anemone they chose to raise their expected family of 400 was too small, anyway!)This movie starts off cute (after the opening pathos, of course), with lovable characters (the young sea creatures at the reef), and the tone-deaf stingray teacher is somewhat original and funny. After this, however, the whole thing goes off into one nonsense scene after another. Granted: Fish don't talk, but better movies than this have talking fish.To start, this movie has its own version of "Jar-Jar Binks" (an annoying character from Lucasfilm's "Star Wars" who is credited with utterly destroying the verisimilitude of that franchise), and her name is "Dory". Annoying, because her one, well-overextended joke is that she has "short-term memory loss". This can be taken as either cute or disturbing, depending on how you choose to enjoy the film. I chose disturbing, because I kept anticipating that she would just snap, forget everything, and abandon poor "Marlin" forever. Every time her memory lapses, its as if she's met Marlin for the first time. That distracts from the thread of the story and makes her a very tenuous ally at best. (Not to mention, this borders on making fun of serious memory-loss diseases in the name of entertainment. That in itself is an uncomfortable distraction.)Next, for those who dislike Pauly Shore-speak, there's "Crush" (voiced by the movie's director), a sea turtle, who couldn't be a more stereotypical ripoff of Sean Penn's "Spicoli" character in "Fast Times at Ridgemont High". His hybrid, Muscle Beach-meets-Valley Girl on Valium lingo is so passé as to make him look like more of a dork than the "cool dude" that the filmmakers seem to be trying to pull off. He'd be a little more likable if they hadn't tried so hard to make him "hip". He's friendly, but over-the-top.Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water, there's a dubious, wildly inappropriate scene built around the very unfunny topic of alcoholics anonymous in this "family" effort, and it involves vegetarian(!) sharks, who sputter support-group catch phrases such as "Remember the steps!", "Intervention!", that kids just won't understand (or care about). If this was meant to be humor for the adults in the audience, it fails miserably, because the subject is based on an issue of human suffering and misery! This is Rush Limbaugh humor, and is out of place in a Disney picture. The premise is unbelievable as well as unnecessary for the flow of the story (which gets more and more inane throughout). All of this leads up to the most desperate, if not clichéd, "oldest trick in the book": A fart gag involving anti-ship mines!!!Midway through, there is a bunch of confusing jibber-jabber that only people who work in dentist's offices will appreciate. This makes for some chuckles.A major flaw is the inclusion of the bizarre, out-of-place nighttime initiation ceremony for "Nemo" in the fish tank. It seems to be another attempt at a more mature level of humor, but there's no suspense at all, and I found myself joining the lot of whispers of "this is stupid" when Nemo swims through the "Ring of Fire", (which is nothing more than a Fountain of Bubbles). Moreover, if this was the initiation for all of the other tank-mates, how did "Peach", the sea star, make it into the club? (I digress). This scene looks like something out of a "deleted Scenes" menu on a DVD.Finally, "Darla". Every movie has to have a "countdown" to some anticipated confrontation with an adversary. This one is an apparently disturbed 7-year-old who looks all too deliberately twisted and grotesque. Okay, we get it. She might kill Nemo! (You see, because the owner of the fish tank puts a picture of the little girl HOLDING A DEAD FISH in plain, direct view of the tank-mates.)Despite looking spectacular, this movie does not have the sense of adventure of other Disney/Pixar films. Much of what is supposed to be funny isn't; much of what is supposed to be climactic isn't as well. Some content might be questionable. Still, it's a work of art, into which much effort was put. It's not the greatest film, but there are, after all, other fish in the sea.
When my family rented this movie, it's an excellent thing I was working on a school project while this movie was made - they didn't like this movie! The first time I've actually seen this movie for myself was in Spanish sound with English subtitles in my Spanish II class back in early 2004. While I was awake to fully comprehend the Spanish and the English words very well, the movie itself seemed mostly boring and not-up-to-it to me. I've finished watching this in English when my family was in a limo in Florida. I was glad when the movie was finally over! But the real saving grace of this movie, however, is the aquarium screen saver on the DVDs; I put the tiki one up on the limo screens! But still, pass.


                
This is the boringest movie you will ever see. Its about this fish.A kid fish.His dad is overprotective of his son on account of his wife got killed by a barracuda along with over 400 eggs.Only one egg survived.He names it nemo which is the name his wife wanted. Anyway nemo finally has to go to school.....but his father would rather have him wait for a few more years.But nemo wanted to go so he went.And while he was there he and a few friends sneak away from the group to the drop off. Just as nemo is about to swim into open water his father-who had been there the whole time-Stops him.He is convinced that nemo should wait to go to school and nemo hates him for it.So while his dad is not looking he swims out to a boat. He gets captured by a diver and his dad goes across the ocean to find him and goes though a lot to get there.I wont revile any more than that.
The average viewing public must be extraordinarily callous these days not to at least be a little shocked by the movie's content. This film has the emotional elements of a holocaust film with overtones of horror film. They should have named it "instant nightmare in a film can". This is, by far, the most emotionally brutal cartoon I have ever seen and the fact that it was marketed as a kids movie is unbelievable! The movie begins when an entire family of fish (with the exception of the father and one of his sons) is slaughtered by what looks like a barracuda. When the son (Nemo) goes on a school field trip, he almost does something stupid because of peer pressure. His father then threatens to take him out of school, to which Nemo replies by doing the something markedly stupider out of spite, resulting in his being captured by a diver and taken away in a boat. The father spends the rest of the movie following the direction the boat went when it disappeared. During his journey the father finds another fish with which he can have emotional issues and repeatedly encounters creatures that are introduced in a horrific enough fashion so that it probably kept hundreds of children's beds wet for weeks after the film's premier. The combination of the odious, depressing characters and the slasher-film style directing/music that most of the film seems to possess culminates in producing wastebasket fodder even more potently un-watchable than The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (2005).
I'll give credit where it is due, like Monsters Inc. or Shrek (I) This is pure overrated cruft. This is the kind of movie you could see on an airplane to pass time, but beyond that, guff.I've seen on DVD and I didn't buy it nor did I rent it. Thank goodness. Simplistic and doesn't stretch the limits of the super-animated genre.This thing starts out with the typical "death of parent(s)" routine, followed by a long search for nothing. Enter the wholly unfunny Ellen Degenerate{sic on purpose}. If I was footing the bill for this animated tripe, why pay her, she embodies total overrating.After a long search for nothing, we end up with some non-descript family reunion.Anyone who sees this more than once needs to be banned from reviewing movies critically.
I could not stand this film it is so stupid and the computer graphics look so cheesy and cheap. Pixar you can do better than this crap the film is completely unwatchable. The voices do not move with the fishes mouths right and the so called story to this film is hard to follow. I really think everybody should take another look and see how wretchedly bad this film is. Although I've seen worse films in my time but this is still pretty bad stuff here. It's popular (for what reason I have no clue) but none the less it is popular. I guess it's just me but the film sucked to my judgment. I recommend this film to Disney fans only. I was stupid to watch but who wouldn't watch it with all the hype.


                
When I first saw this film with my then 5 year old son, I thought it was pretty good. Subsequent viewings have revealed major flaws. Perhaps this is a little heavy considering it's a children's movie but I have seen many children films and there a lots that I can watch over and over again. Alice in Wonderland, the Jungle Book, etc. The biggest flaw,someone else mentioned it earlier,is the non-stop intense action sequences. The film begins with Nemo's mother being eaten by a barracuda, for any kid who understands the context this must be terrifying, it's followed by another excruciating scene when Nemo is scooped up by divers. Anyone with separation anxiety will have trouble with this scene. Accompanying this are an assortment of loud banging noises, intense thuds, and Psycho inspired music. Then there are the characters Nemo's okay, but his Dad is a whining, irritating jerk, Dory is funny for a while but then her stupidity becomes annoying. And the surfer dude turtle Ozzie accent- all wrong. Overall if you are a parent deciding to rent this for the kids reach for the Aristocats instead.


                
Ellen DeGeneres/Dory: What to say about this? Apparently, if youre famous you can't do anything wrong? She's beyond annoying, but she's never funny. Her voice is disgusting to listen too, so if the intent was to capture how annoying that type of character with a memory problem could be, that was a good job, but totally unnecessary and harmed the movie. That character didn't need a recognizable voice but a sweet one. The situation was annoying (and could've been funny) without an annoying voice.Barry Humphries/Shark Bruce: And then this. My GOD. How can you screw up a shark? The thing of not wanting to eat fish was clever (playing with Sharks sense of smell). But again, the voice was obnoxious (when he was on eating mode) and dumb (otherwise) rather than terrifying and dumb, which is the way it should've been.You had WILLEM DAFOE and GEOFFREY RUSH BUT YOU GAVE THIS PART TO BARRY WHO? ARE YOU STUPID?This movie has an 8. That's disgusting and shows you that you can throw dirt to people's faces, but with the name Pixar/Disney they would love it.


                
First of all, let me tell you that I am not someone who just  hates all animated movies. Infact I love The Lion King, and recently the only good Disney animated movies are the one's Pixar has made, so I have nothing against Pixar. Both Toy Story and Toy Story 2 are great movies,(especially the first one), and A Bug's Life and Monsters Inc. are definitly a cut above the modern animated movie, but I have to say with disappointment that Finding Nemo is not anywhere near those good movies. Let me start with my biggest complaint, TOO MUCH ACTION! This movie had way too much action for an animated movie. Animated movies aren't about action, but I guess the filmmakers of this movie didn't know that. While I don't mind some action sequences in an animated movie,( like the antalope stampede in Lion King), the action sequences in this movie get a little redundent. I guess the animators are tring to "wow" you with the animation, and maybe that would of worked if this was the first movie of it's kind, but now that a lot of these type of movies have come out it's just boring. So then you may ask, what are animated movies about? Two things, laughter and fun, which this film is lacking in. While the other Pixar movies have fun jokes for kids and intelligent jokes for adults this film has none. Sure there maybe a few smart jokes about aquatic creatures in the beginning, but most of the time there is an oppertunity for a joke, they start an action sequence. In my opion, Finding Nemo is probably the most over rated animated movie of all-time.


                
*** 1/2 out of ****Sure, the message of this flick (parents should have as much respect for their children as said children should have for them) is pure bland Disney all the way, but there's no denying that Finding Nemo is the funniest and most visually complex Pixar effort to date. And consistent laughs and great animation is all that I ask from such a picture.The laughs are mostly the result of the film's many entertaining and unique characters, from Dory (voiced perfectly by Ellen Degeneres), the fish with short-term memory, to Australian-accented sharks and sea turtles that sound stoned. Ironically enough, it's arguable that the film's two least interesting characters are the clownfish themselves, Nemo and his dad Marlin (voiced by Albert Brooks, who's generally funny but whose constant shouting can be a tad ear drum-piercing).The story concerns these two clownfish, the only survivors from an attack by a barracuda. With his mate and the rest of his children dead, Marlin promises to always look over his remaining spawn, whom he dubs Nemo. But as time passes and Nemo has grown into a curious young fish, Marlin is still the most overprotective parent in the sea. In an act of defiance, Nemo swims too far from safe territory and is caught by a scuba diver and placed into the aquarium of his office. Desperate to find his son, Marlin enlists the help of the forgetful Dory, and it's their long journey proves to be the highlight of this movie.One of the film's smartest touches is dividing the screen time between Marlin's journey and Nemo's interaction with the other sea life in his aquarium. In fact, the aquarium bunch boasts the film's most hilarious mixture of eccentric characters, led by the always memorable Willem Dafoe. Also very funny are Brad Garrett as a puffer fish and Allison Janney as a sea star ("Scum angel!").Adventure fans will probably also want to give the film a look. The search for Nemo consists of an abundance of obstacles that range from dangerous to amusing. The eye-popping visuals ensure that this is a movie that's always visually entrancing in one way or another, and there's so much attention to creating a detailed underwater environment that it's practically begging for repeat viewings (this isn't as rewatchable as, say, traditionally animated efforts like Lilo and Stitch or Treasure Planet, but it'll definitely hold up in the coming years). Virtually every other Pixar picture I've seen either simply didn't provide much in the way of laughs (Toy Story 1 and 2) or just couldn't keep the momentum all the way through (Monster's Inc.). I consider Finding Nemo a lesson learned; even though it's actually the longest of Pixar's work to date (running at 100 minutes), the filmmakers realize we want to see adventure and laughs, not earnest attempts at sentimentality (though, as if it's requisite, we still have some sentimental moments).Finding Nemo's pacing is probably the biggest concern, the middle segment is a tad slow and runs short on laughs compared to the much more enjoyable opening and closing half-hours. But that's only a minor complaint; be sure to stick for the final scenes, the funniest since, unbelievably enough, Stephen Sommers' horror/comedy Deep Rising; both actually boast an identical line of dialogue to wrap up the film.


                
