This film uses stereotype, boring personalities to tell the story of a lost fish and his scared dad who goes to find him.  Some of the personalities (like the one played by Ellen DeGeneres) are funny at first, but quickly become over-used.  It gets tedious after a while.  Pixar makes it look like a kid's film, but the shark scenes are scarier than Jaws.  It is probably OK for teens, but not for young children.


                
I didn't like this moive because it was like a big moral pancake from the Disney-corporation. And frankly they can take their "Culture Of Excellence" to where the pepper grows. If you want to see a good movie check out the Animatrix. There's no annoying father saying "Nemo" more times than Frodo says "My dear Sam" in Lord Of The Rings. Suck on that, Walt.


                
The character "Dory" was depicted with symptoms of early-stage Alzheimer Disease. That is heartbreaking, not amusing or entertaining. Yet another sign of some deep, sinister perversity in the Disney organisation. Every time I go to a Disney movie, I do so in a state of innocent anticipation, and every time I'm bitten by their warped morality. The Lion King was another case in point. The fact that these things are aimed at children and vetted approvingly by parents who seem oblivious to the underlying theme forces one really to consider to what extent movies like this are a reflection of the values of modern Western society, - or whether they work to bring about those values. Either way, I would be less frightened of the future if they where more frequently subjected to the accusatory criticism they deserve.


                
I mean, HONESTLY! This is supposed to be a kiddie flick, right? So, in classic Disney fashion...five minutes in, two days short of hatching, Mum is devoured by a barracuda -- along with 499 of our title character's siblings. WHY??? This movie made me squirm (pun only gently intended). I can't remember a time I've been more uncomfortable watching a film so blatantly marketed at children.I'm a playwright, folks, an award-winning one at that. I GET the concept of conflict as a dramatic device...but must we keep our cutesy-poo lead in constant peril (sharks, nets, aquarium filtration systems, etc.) I'm really disappointed in how gratuitously MANIPULATIVE this feature is, and saddened that the filmmakers think so very little of the audience to foist such drivel on us, disguised as a family film. Sure, it was lovely to look at...but I can't say much more in its favor. I would NEVER recommend this unnecessarily violent, surprisingly distressing, unintentionally maudlin, unbearably sentimental movie for a child -- or an adult.
WHY this film continues to rake it in at the box office, and why critics predict this as an Oscar favorite is beyond my abliity to understand. I'm no crochety grump, either (well, at least I wasn't BEFORE I watched this dreadful film). This is just another classic example of Disney lackeys putting FORMULA ahead to STORY and SENSE, all in pursuit of the bucks. Walt must be spinning in his cryogenic chamber at the thought of his name being sullied by association with this horrible film.Parents: do your kids a favor: If they love the little fishies...take them to a real aquarium instead of subjecting them to even one minute of this bizarre and misguided cash cow with mouse ears.I want the last two hours of my life back.


                
OK, I went to Best Buy the day this movie was released. I just wanted to look around for some movie to watch later in the night. As I was checking out, I noticed everyone had a copy of "Finding Nemo". Some even had 3 copies! I couldn't believe it. So, I figured that it has to be some movie. But I knew my aunt bought the movie already, so I'll watch it with my cousins at home.Boy! Do I regret that. Now, it was cute at times. But not as funny or amusing as "The Lion King". And computer effects? I'm getting sick of it. But it's for the kids, I'll let it go. But I'm looking over the top 250 films of all time, and this was on it?! Over other classic movies?! Why? All I want to know is why?! "The Lion King" isn't on there, but it was the most successful Disney movie. And "Sleeping Beauty", "Peter Pan", and "Beauty and the Beast" were not on there. What the heck?! 2/10


                
In IMDb I really like the option where one can read the reviews in like-hate order. One like, one hate; I think that's one of the best ways to get a real picture of a picture :). But let's not forget, that it is essential to also see what one has written elsewhere, what that person likes or dislikes. If I don't know about a movie I try to find a person who shares my views and choose a movie she/he liked. And do not believe a person, that rates everything down.Nemo is dull and confusing. Not in the manner, that one can't understand things going on, but I saw this film once and do not want to see it again, ever. I don't like it when cartoons are about shouting and screaming all the way. Something good happens: scream, something bad: scream, if you don't scream, than shout. It's just stupid. One could just ignore the biological and geographical - and all the other illogical - "mistakes" this movie has to offer, it was catching in any other sense, but no. This movie is just cheap entertainment for people who don't care what they are looking as far it's drawn well. If you are thinking what to rent for the evening or for a trip I advise you to choose Happy Feet or Anastasia instead... that is, if you don't like cheap thrills. Points go for the fact, that I really saw this movie from the start till the end. 2s and 1s go for movies I couldn't even bare to watch all the way.


                
Took my nine-year-old son to this.  I nearly fell asleep during it, so I was curious as to his opinion.  Grudgingly, he said it was "OK".The animation was, as ever, fantastic - more so the backgrounds than the main characters (fish are not that expressive) - but the story lacked the lightness of touch and invention of other Pixar titles; some of the jokes were, I felt, a bit laboured (vegetarian sharks?)Quite tense and exciting in places but I only laughed once and my son not at all.


                
There's no way this movie is better than "The Deer Hunter," "Notorious," or any of the other movies that have recently been edged out of the top 100 list. It was a nice movie, the animation was very fluid, and I wasn't bored, and that's about all I can say in favor of it. If you want even the slightest intellectual stimulation, search elsewhere, but if you're interested in having a basic message pounded into your head throughout the course of the an hour and a half, then by all means give it a try.


                
Brutally killing and eating an expectant mom and her unborn children would make a great scene in any horror flick. I'll bet Rob Zombie wishes he had done that in The Devil's Rejects.Disney starts the movie with this bloodbath.Later, there is the psycho who alternates from nice guy to berserk killer. Zombie had that guy too, but you always knew that Zombie wanted you to see him as psycho. In this Disney movie, the guy who wants to eat you isn't psycho. He's just a silly silly guy.The final scene shows a half-dozen fish trapped and slowly dying of suffocation. That's a good alternate to the standard wiggling on spikes.Like all actors in horror movies, the fish don't even know that they are going to die.If they do more movies like this, the phrase "don't go in the plastic bag" could become as common as "don't take a shower" or "don't go in the basement." I give it three stars for the body count. But this is supposed to be a comedy. It doesn't have Leatherface's sight gags, Chuckie's one-liners, or even Pinhead's biting sarcasm. It just has a lot of death.You want funny? Try Jason X. Almost everybody dies, and a couple of them die more than one time.
Okay, I admit, this wasn't really a god-awful film - on the contrary - it's passable and somewhat good entertainment - for _young_ children that is. To a person who really loves animation, such as me, this was a huge disappointment.I can't understand what happened at Pixar. Films like "Toy Story" and "A Bug's Life" were truly original and delightful movies to enjoy. But Finding Nemo?! Let's see. "How about we make a adventurous comedy about sea-creatures - I bet nobody has done that previously!" Yeah, riiight. And the so called "comedy".. It suffocated to death like a fish on dry land (ehhheheheheheh) when they desperately tried to force laughs out of the audience with idiotic and worn-out jokes we've heard countless of times before. I think that I managed to smile during the film - or the 100 minutes ordeal - not even once. I guess they saved all their fireworks for "The Incredibles" which really WAS an incredible movie (I apologize for my poor pun).Finding Nemo is not the worst animation movie at all, but for a Pixar movie, it's an embarrassment. But it is, if nothing else, joy for the eyes, although not to be recommended to anyone over the age of six.


                
The critics are gaga over this, but neither myself nor my 6 year old were. I was disturbed by how Marlin was ridiculed for being (understandably) over-protective. While the "can do" attitude toward his handicap is heartening, Nemo remains the same brat he was when he put the story into motion. "Nemo" struck me as anti-family (strange to say about a "family picture") in how the parent was the one was expected to grow up, not the child.It had some scary moments. The "whale talking" got old real fast. But, the anti-American jab (which got the biggest laugh) was outrageous. Hollywood hates Bush so much, it has to shoehorn its politics into the one place where it doesn't belong! Here's a weird idea: how about letting children have a childhood, and save the Bush-is-Hitler stuff for the grown ups?
THAT movie HAS more FILLING it's Not OF my Disney's MOVIE, IT' good FOR the FAMILY and FRIENDS. it HAS the FRIENDSHIP, i WANT to WATCH finding Dory, IS way BETTER as I hear. ZSLEAP in HEAVENLY peace NEMO. and A Christmas episode OR a Christmas it'll BE perfect FOR a GIFT, I know THEY got TO finish WITH ANOTHER movie BUT okay
