This movie is surely an achievement in a technical point if view. No need to argue about that. But there is a great problem : it tries to please adults as well as children in an over-speeded plot full of clichés. Do really children need so much complexity and action scenes ? I am not sure about that. Maybe children need more time to understand what is happening on the screen. Too much speed creates a stressed up and confusing atmosphere.There is too much violence and the characters are shallow and stereotypical (I found the turtles to be extremely boring). The anthropomorphic approach of animal characters is becoming more and more out of date. Disney did it a thousand times and I still don't know if it is really a pertinent way of exlplaining things to children. Paradoxal ? A shallow movie set in the dephts of the ocean... Far too much hype for another sterotypical plot.


                
Pixar  has created a  visually stunning animated movie. I could spend all day staring at this great animated aquarium that "Nemo" has delivered. Nemo with its great animation is worth seeing!  but only seeing.  the fact than many people are calling this a classic  makes me wonder what movie they saw.  What makes a classic animated movie  is  a good story  and strong characters.  I believe Nemo fails on both counts.  The story line is a basic one.  We follow the path of two fish, nemo and his father marlin  as they get seperated and their attempt to reunite.   The scenes depicted are nicely done  but you feel like you are being swept from one scene to another, the segways are missing. The story line is not deep enough so you can walk away feeling that you missed something in the storyline,  which in fact you haven't, there just isn't anything else there.   The film is also missing out on strong characters. The main characters would all be considered good supporting charcters,  but unfortunately  are asked to carry the  movie. But in their defense how much character can a fish have?  The point being is that finding nemo is a  beautifully animated film about fish  delivering a bunch of comedic lines  telling a simple story  that makes you want more than it delivers.   To me a classic delivers more than you want.


                
Notice I didn't say, "Why this movie sucks." I am merely stating my opinion, people. And for those of you who say the Finding Nemo message boards are for people who LIKE the movie--you are wrong. The message boards are supposed to be ABOUT the movie, and that's all. The following message DOES belong in this message board, even though it is a negative message.Why I don't like this movie (and many other CGI's): 1) Pixar: "Well we've done a movie about this, we've done a movie about that, now all we need is a movie about fish! But it won't be hard, we'll just take the themes from our other movies and put it underwater." 2) Pixar movies all have the same unoriginal puns in them, and those puns are the only reason the movies are considered funny. A fish in a Pixar movie would say, "Give me high fin!" instead of "high five." It's really unoriginal and as un-clever as "un-clever" can be. A place in a Pixar movie will say, "Give me high wing!" A Bug's Life had another awfully uncreative pun: "Shoo, fly, don't bother me." And the funny part? He said it to a fly! HAHAHAHAHAHA, get it?! Jeez, Pixar is ridiculous. Toy story and Ice Age are really the only clever ones out there that don't rely on puns for humor. Superhero Pixar movie: "Eat your vegetables so you get stronger." HAHAHAHAHAHA! He's ALREADY strong! HAHA! 3) Dory: more annoying than Chris Rock's voice, more annoying than Chris Tucker screaming at Ice Cube. More annoying than the fact that almost all of the children's movies out there today are CGI. 4) Even in the movies where the characters are HUMANS, they STILL are trying to replace regular animation. CGI art is easier than pencil; computers automate a lot of the movements of things. The artist sets a track for the fish fins to follow, for the tail to follow, for the body to follow, hits okay, and boom, you got a fish swimming.5) And again, for emphasis: same jokes as every other Pixar movie out there.


                
It was cute and good for kids, but it definitely wasn't a favorite of mine. I enjoyed Monsters Inc. and Toy Story 2 a lot more than this movie.  It's a good family movie and definitely something any kid would like, but it still didn't appeal to me.


                
'Finding Nemo' is a touching little story about a cute little clownfish who gets separated from his father. The father sets out on a journey to find Nemo, the lost little clownfish, and he meets several new friends along the way, including a blue fish with memory problems named Dori and a group of Australian turtles.The story is a cute one with a wide range of characters that will appeal to children and events that are frightening and challenging that the father must go through in order to find his son. It's a typical children's cartoon, really, using the ideas of other stories before it.The animation is done well - particularly under the water, which is difficult to animate. However, the pacing of the film gets a little bit slow in some places. While the father is searching for Nemo, the events seem to go on and on. Also, I found Dori to be very trying and annoying. The jokes about her and memory loss went on far too long, and I just found this to be too annoying. Children may like that, but it made the film less enjoyable for me.Overall, I would rate this as an average film - particularly over other children's films. I cannot fault the animation, though.


                
Finding Nemo is a computer generated, animated film about a clown fish Nemo who is stolen from his home reef, his father is then forced to search the ocean for him. Voices done by Albert Brooks, Ellen Degeneres, Alexander Gould and Willem Dafoe.Everybody had raved on about this animated film to me and I have never been a fan of them, I still haven't seen Shrek ha ha! I don't regret watching Finding Nemo but it just didn't tickle my fancy I have seen better animated films over the last couple of years, the graphics were really clear and well done it had humor in the right places, but something I didn't like. I don't think there were enough troubling events happening to Nemo throughout the film, Watch for yourself and find out but I thought it was lacking, sorry all you fans!
First of all, I'm 49. Need I say more?Number of ROTFLMAO = ZERO Number of laughs = ZERO Number of chuckles = ZERO Number of smiles = THREE (and one of them was when I saw "the end"! Number of excruciatingly boring seconds = 8458 (two seconds subtracted for the two smiles). And, believe me it seemed like 20,000!All I can say is that my kids drug me to this movie after they had already seen it once. What a fool I was. Look, cartoons are for kids. How complicated is that? There is no reason I should like this movie anymore than there is for them to like The Matrix.


                
Unfortunately, I went into Finding Nemo with high expectations.  By the end, I left wishing I had just taken a good nap at the theater rather than waste my time (it felt like roughly 12 hours) watching this insipid flick.The movie made me smile a couple of times (mostly at the forgetful fish), and, if it had been written as a fifth grade class project, would have had an impressive plot.  The surfer turtles - lame.  Overprotective dad - boring.  The bad fin on Nemo - come on!  Any potential actual laughing the movie might have engendered was wasted by the fact that I had seen all of the funny scenes approximately 1,721 times in commercials and previews.As positive a review as I can give: "Cute film your kids might like.  Good animation"Real Review:  "Waste of time and money.  The whole family would have a much better time at the zoo watching monkeys fling poop at each other."


                
