I'll be totally honest and confirm to you that everything what they say about this movie is true. It's a brilliantly animated masterpiece with lots of humor that actually works and a plot that really brings tears to your eyes from time to time. The modern artists of Pixar never cease to amaze the audience in expanding their horizons. Finding Nemo is visually stunning and you can have nothing but respect for the people who created it.
I was more or less skeptic about watching it, because it was so overhyped ! Two days before it got released in my country, the TV and press loudly announced that the DVD broke all records in the USA during its first release-day. That's usually a sign of being typically mainstream and fake...but Finding Nemo is not. I'm allergic to fake sentiment and pathetic feel-good movies but I was really touched by this one. The moral and valuable life lessons are always present, but they're not shoved down your throat or thrown in your face all the time. This movie really relativates itself and that's important for a good comedy. And it's hilarious !!! Every side character in Finding Nemo (and there are a LOT of them) is exceptional and worth a mention. And the voices are cast perfectly as well...like the voice of Willem Dafoe for Gill, for example...a perfect choice. The character of Dory ( speaks through the voice of Ellen DeGeneres ) steals the show. She's an adorable blue fish who suffers from amnesia. She forgets what she's doing or going to every five minutes and that really leads to hilarious situations. Movies like this aren't just being made for children exclusive... They're good for everyone to realize you have to entertain yourself from time to time and just to enjoy the little things in life. I recommend this to everyone in the world. No matter if you're 9 or 99 years old, Finding Nemo will bring a smile on your face and leave behind a warm feeling in your heart.


                
Those guys and girls at Disney/Pixar have done it again, they've created the perfect underwater world, full of fascinating Disney characters.A truly enchanting story of a father (Marlon) who loses his son (Nemo), and with help of his new found friend (Dory) ventures out into the ocean to try to find him. On this epic voyage he gets to battle sharks, surf with some turtle dudes, dice with some jellyfish and survive an encounter in a whales stomach.All the characters are vibrant with Disney charm, but my favourite is Dory, the comic relief, probably one of the funniest Disney characters ever written and superbly voiced by Ellen DeGeneres, pure genius.All in all this is another success for Disney and Pixar, It brings out the child in all of us.Solid family fun 8/10


                
Pixar Animation Studios has a very good knack for making thoughtful, intelligent and humorous family films (note that I didn't say kid films). "Toy Story" 1 & 2 and "Monsters, Inc." are some of my favorite family films; "Finding Nemo" isn't one of my favorites, but it isn't disappointing like "A Bug's Life," and it is thoughtful, intelligent, humorous and incredibly watchable, just like the other Pixar films.As always, Pixar takes a world of something and completely builds their story around it. In "Toy Story" they gave life to toys and created the world through their eyes. In "Monsters, Inc.," they showed us the monster world. In my review on "A Bug's Life," I said that the reason the film didn't work very much is because it was about bugs, and not about something mystical like toys or monsters that bring back childhood memories. Well, I guess I was sorta wrong, because "Finding Nemo" is all about fish, nothing too mystical about fish, and I still loved it.This tale takes place underwater with the fish Marlin (voiced by Albert Brooks), whose spouse and baby fish eggs get eaten by a vicious shark in the beginning. All but one egg which Marlin names Nemo.Years later Nemo (voiced by Alexander Gould, Elliot's son?) is a bit older, and heading off to fish school for the first time. But haunted by the fact that his spouse and offspring were all killed years ago, Marlin is extremely over-protective of his one remaining family member. Nemo, sick of being treated like a baby, proves how brave he is by swimming near a fishing boat, only to be captured by a scuba-diving dentist. And so Marlin heads off to find Nemo, with the help of his newfound companion Dory (voice of Ellen DeGeneres), who has short-term memory loss and forgets things sooner than she can carry whatever she is doing out. (Like when she is showing Marlin the way towards a fishing boat and suddenly forgets why Marlin is following her.)Pixar doesn't let down the audience on this film. There are a few things that one can always expect from Pixar films: They can expect something (such as toys) to be given their own world. They can expect that world to be given careful attention to detail. And they can expect humor."Finding Nemo" gives fish their own world, and the underwater realm they live in is paid careful attention, painstakingly captured on film with computer graphics. And the humor is always there. All the characters are funny. I especially like the sequences from the inside of a fish tank in the dentist's office, with a bunch of fish including Gill (Willem Dafoe's vocal talents), who constantly tries to escape. By doing so, Gill has suffered major injuries, including landing on the dentist's tools and getting sliced up. This is, of course, a parody of escaping POWs. The fact that Willem Dafoe was in the great war movie "Platoon" might have something to do with that.This is taken from my "Monsters, Inc." review: "Pixar once again not only expands our mind, but our very worlds. I respect their company and commitment values very much, as you can read in my 'Toy Story' review. They stick to the values that made Disney films so family-friendly back in the fifties and sixties: Respect for the audience, respect for quality, and respect for the audience's INTELLIGENCE, something Disney, who has recently coughed up a bunch of lousy, thoughtless sequels, has forgotten. Now, I know that LEGALLY Disney is co-creator of 'Toy Story' and 'Monsters, Inc.,' but they really are not. They just give Pixar the money and get their name branded on the front box of the film. And even then, I have heard multiple claims that Disney is very mean-spirited towards Pixar (read into sequel trouble for 'Toy Story 3') and gives them the bare minimum.With "Finding Nemo," I still stick towards what I said. Pixar Animation Studios is probably the best family film company out there right now, I really hope they separate from Disney some day and form their own production company. They know what interests both kids and adults, and it's almost creepy how they can make their films so engaging and fun to watch. This is one to take the kids to, and afterwards, maybe even sneak back into again by yourself.


                
Fresh off a viewing in a packed theater of kids and parents, my initial impression of "Finding Nemo" was that I had a great time throughout, but don't necessarily remember why.  The film is similar to the "Toy Story" pacing, in that we follow two different protagonists in their attempt to return to one another.  In brief summary, Marlin the overprotective father clownfish must overcome his own fear of open ocean to try and find his only son, Nemo, who has been captured by a diver and transplanted to an ocean-view dentist's office fish tank.The visual impact of "Finding Nemo" is unparalleled in animated film.  At its best, it compares to the experience of seeing the sweeping landscapes of "Fellowship of the Ring" for the first time - not until we own the DVD and my son has watched it a dozen times will I really have an opportunity to see the details crammed into the lush backgrounds of the coral reefs.  It was noticeable, however, that frequent close-ups in open water were used to reduce the amount of time spent rendering those brilliant backgrounds.  In comparison to Pixar films like "A Bug's Life", where every moment of the film includes rich textures and detailed background perspective, this seemed jarring at times.  It should be noted that this is true to what the ocean looks like - if you're not diving in a coral reef, you are probably seeing a lot of floating detritus and gray water - but it's worth mentioning that the fish tank environment of Nemo and his fellow captives is, at times, more interesting than the open ocean.Pixar took chances (or else saved money) with many of the voice actors used in the film.  It was refreshing not to instantly "know" a voice was familiar in the case of many of the characters - all of them did a serviceable job, although the well-known actors also turned in some of the best performances. Ellen DeGeneres had no fear as the voice of Dory, gleefully pulling off vocal pratfalls that would have been hampered by someone else's sense of dignity.  I can think of only one other actress - Julia Louis-Dreyfuss - who I think would have been able to do Dory well.  Kudos to Ellen.  Willem Dafoe is also noticeably brilliant as Gill, and it's a bonus that the animated character he plays is gorgeously realized.  John Ratzenberger does a hysterical turn as the school of fish we all saw in the previews.I am surprised at the number of characters whose voices are not credited in this film.  I wanted to know, among others, who voiced Mr. Ray the schoolteacher and the trio of parents with whom Marlin banters.I laughed out loud frequently and heartily throughout the film, but at the end, I looked back and wondered how those moments of amusement added to the story.  Many people have commented that they loved the 12-step program for sharks ("Fish are our friends, not food!") but in the final analysis, it added very little to the arc and seemed out of character (I realize I'm stating the obvious).  The frequently-dropped comedic digressions were the weak point in this picture, especially compared to "A Bug's Life", where the funniest moments of the film are all critical to the progress of the protagonist and impact the end of the story.My 2 and a half year old son was frequently frightened to the point of crying out and grabbing on to me during the movie, and he followed the primary issues easily.  At a particular moment in the film when things seemed hopeless, I heard dozens of young children beginning to cry.  If your child is very affected by scary or dramatic moments in movies, you may want to talk with them about "pretend" versus "real" and prepare them for the eventuality that everything will turn out all right well before you go into the theater.  His final analysis was that "the fish movie was good!" - so take it under advisement if you have kids of similar age.I give "Finding Nemo" an 8 out of 10 on the strength of its visual lushness, its enjoyable voice work, and its moments of perfectly timed humor.  It does not, in my opinion, match the strength as a *film* of earlier Pixar offerings, but even in its innocuous state, it's higher quality than most of the family films I've seen in the past 3 years.


                
This movie is well-written and has amazing animation. Sure, there are some dumb moments and the sequel isn't that great, but overall this movie is fantastic and well-worth watching.


                
"Finding Nemo" is, quite simply, one of the most beautiful films you are ever likely to see. Next time you watch it, try this for an idea. Press your mute button and watch it without sound for a while, particularly the scene where Mr.Ray (Bob Peterson) takes all the little fish, including Nemo (Alexander Gould), through the coral reef towards the infamous drop off. It's still as enjoyable!The film starts off quite darkly, which is odd considering the nature of the rest of the film - quite light-hearted. It is, however, an essential part of the story, explaining how the fear of Marlin (Albert Brooks) towards the ocean came about, and also as a result the over-protectiveness he has over his son, Nemo.The storyline itself is pretty simple: Nemo gets captured by a scuba-diving dentist, Marlin swims off to rescue him. What helps the story is the many different and fantastic characters that he meets along the way to "P Sherman, 42 Wallabe Way, Sydney". This is of course where he meets the fantastic Dory (played here brilliantly by Ellen DeGeneres). Dory is quite possibly one of the funniest characters in a Pixar movie EVER. Her short-term memory loss is an inspired comedic characteristic that results in some great lines. For example:"It (the memory problem) runs in my family. At least I think it does. Hmm. Where are they? Can I help you?"There are other good characters in this story, though. there are the three friendly sharks, whose motto is "Fish are friends, not food". This proves to be their undoing, particularly Bruce's (Barry Humphries - you know, Dame Edna Everage?), resulting in a good chase sequence through a sunken submarine and mine field. We have the school of fish who enjoy making exciting 3d moving pictures (voiced singularly by John Ratzenberger, Pixar's lucky mascot). And of course you cannot forget the "Righteous! Righteous!" sea turtles.Nemo meets interesting characters in the dentist's aquarium as well, including Gill (Willhelm Daefoe), who is constantly trying to get back into the ocean from whence he came. The rest are all pretty much bonkers - a cleanliness obsessed fish, a smelly blowfish, and a schizophrenic fish whose "sister", Flo, appears every time she looks through the glass of the aquarium.Finally we have the non-swimming characters. The dentist is probably responsible for the scene where more people became scared of them then Laurence Olivier's performance in "Marathon Man". His removal of the tooth of the "Prime Minister" is a great line that doesn't register first time around. This is probably because Nigel (Geforry Rush) has just crashed into the window. Very funny, and also a rather interestingly detailed knowledge of dentistry. Finally there is the movie's token "villain" of sorts - Darla, the dentist's niece, and now famous for been associated with the "Psycho" theme for young people.The movie is enjoyable every time you watch it. Throughout it we see the change in attitude towards the ocean in Marlin's behaviour and dialog, and Dory is always there beside him to provide yet another witty comment. (My girlfriend particularly likes the one about men asking for directions). It is also interesting to note that the final opponent to the success of this magnificent quest is humans themselves - in this case, fishermen. Just as in "Bambi" with the hunter and his mother - sniff - we are portrayed as heartless predators who are tampering with the beauty of nature. The fact that there is no dialogue or anything at all characteristic about the two fishermen makes the anonymity of them even more sinister. Overall, a brilliant movie. Watch it. Watch it again. It rocks! And remember, "just keep swimming, just keep swimming, just keep swimming, swimming, swimming, swimming..."9/10


                
I love to watch animated movies. I find them so entertaining, even though most people would say that those types of movies were meant for little kids I don't think that I will ever out grow them. Finding Nemo (2003) directed by Andrew Stanton and Lee Unkrich is in my opinion one of the best movies. Little kids love to watch these animated pictures, they teach kids and help them form an understanding of the world. Most of Pixar films, if not all of Pixar's films have a message in them, something the creator wants us to get out of the film besides watching it for merely our entertainment. Compared to a Disney movie, Pixar pictures have no magic; problems in the movie can't be solved by a wave of a wand or by a fairy godmother. Furthermore, humans are rarely the main characters and most of the films the protagonist is a non human character. In Finding Nemo there are humans in the story however, they play a small role in the film. We also see that in this picture the villain or the antagonist is human for example, Darla, they don't play a big role in the film but they sometimes support the antagonist. In Finding Nemo we see a clown fish, Marlin who is very protective of his only son, Nemo. And with this, already a lot of people can relate. Many parents are overprotective for their child and do not want them to venture out on their own because of the possibility of them getting hurt. Parents are so scared of letting go and letting them explore the world on their own. While watching the film we also see Marlin overcome his fear of the ocean as he travels with Dorothy to find his son. This is probably the most relatable message in the movie with both kids and adults. We all have fears and overcoming them can be really hard but sooner or later we realize that there was nothing to be afraid of. When we see Nemo is stuck in a fish tank at a dentist office Nemo and his new found fish friends try to help him escape. However, it all goes wrong and everyone gave up on the idea because it was dangerous and could've hurt Nemo. But Nemo does not give up he goes and tries again this time succeeding in stopping the water filter. The film attempts to change our lives for the better. For parents its saying that there's a time where you have to let go of your kids being overprotective can be a bad thing and it can lead to your kids getting annoyed/frustrated and refusing to listen to you. For kids, it's to tell them that your parents care and they want to protect you. Also to never give up in anything they do. These messages are universal they apply to everyone around the world. The theme in this film I think is relevant to any parent watching it. Scared of letting go of their kids, being very overprotective, the fear of losing their kids almost every parent can relate to this.
Marlin loses his beloved mate and all their eggs but one after the attack of a shark to his home. He swears to protect his son Nemo for the rest of his live and becomes a super protective father. On the first day of school, Nemo shows himself off to his friends, challenging his father and getting close to a boat, and is caught by a diver and put in a private aquarium in a dentist office in Sidney. His father, together with Dory, face the dangers of the open sea trying to find Nemo. 'Finding Nemo' is a lovely adventure, indicated to viewers of any age. The story is funny and all the characters are very sweet. Another great movie of Walt Disney / Pixar. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): 'Procurando Nemo' ('Looking for Nemo')


                
Pixar again with another brillaint film. So much happened and so many subjects touched upon in this movie. A great film


                
Finding Nemo is probably the best Pixar movie there is. The story is so beautiful and humorous, although some scenes may seem very frightening to children (or adults ;)
The animation is brillant but in some moments you can clearly see that it was one of the earlier trys on that technology.All in all you can say that the film is not only for kids, also for adults (like every Disney or Pixar production). Simply a beautiful Movie8/10


                
Encore un grand classique de l'animation!
C'est un film dont je me souviendrai toujours,
Moralisant pour les enfants, amusant pour les grands


                
The animation after 15 years still looks amazing. I love thw story as well. Although it is slow at parts, it is still a must see. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0081><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BE>


                
It was a great film to view; for youth population! 8/10 stars.


                
Marlin the clown fish is an over protective to his son nemo, until he is kidnapped by a wacky dentist, and now marlin sets out to rescue his son with the help of a blue tang named dory.
Finding nemo is a very fun and exciting movie but it is not as good as monster's inc.
I used to find this movie boring as a kid - but as I said in my review of Toy Story, that's because as a kid I had an unusually low bar for boredom.Nemo is a young clownfish who lost his mother at a young age - and as a result his father, Marlin, is overprotective. Nemo feels rebellious, and tries to disobey and defy his father. The result: he's caught by a Sydney dentist! Marlin - who's afraid of the ocean - must try to find and save his son. On the way, he meets a forgetful blue tang named Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), who helps him and becomes a major character (and got her own sequel).Good story, great animation, and good voice cast. A winner.


                
Was this film made for lonely sad adults to appraise it's artistic or cultural impact. It's a great family with young kids film, especially when all we're left with is the new Marvel or DC comic action hero film. It's a nice film accept it for what it is.


                
SPOILERSI am not the biggest fan of computer-animated movies. In fact, I think most of them are overrated. My favorite is probably the Incredibles. That is good. This, however, is overrated. I really like Albert Brook's work, but this is probably One of his more overrated movies. He did a terrific performance as a clown fish, though. I just do not think that this is his best movie that he had starred in. The plot is simple, but some things in this movie are cheesy and lame.Here is the plot. A clown fish only has one child after another fish ate his wife and his egg children. Then, the last fish named Nemo is captured by a boat and taken to a tank in a dentist office. If he does not get out soon he will get killed by the psycho child. She even has her own Psycho music. The dad and a fish with short term memory loss have to try to get Nemo back. They go through difficulties. For one thing, they are eaten by a whale shark, they get attacked by jellyfish, and they are attacked an angler-fish. They eventually do get Nemo back from a pipe.Overall, this is a film that young children will enjoy, but I do not think this film is the best computer-animated or Pixar film. This is an average one to say the least. The acting is good, though. Plus, the computer-animation is spectacular and pleasing to the eye, which is good for me since I have seen so many scratchy and grainy silent films. The effects are not all good, though. Some of the colors are so vivid you will temporarily go blind. Anyway, this is an average and overrated Pixar film, but it is enjoyable to watch at least once in your life nonetheless.6/10 Recommended Films: Cars, Toy Story, and the Incredibles.
Dory's terrific facial expressions and splendid eye movements really captivated me. One could almost picture her thought process, such that it was. Dory had a look that you knew she couldn't "answer the question" or "question the answer", but she had that look that you knew she wouldn't leave your side. Great art work.


                
Being a fan of Pixar, I saw Finding Nemo on opening day, surrounded by a host of individuals whose years are mere fractions of my age.  Regardless, I was memorized by the film visually, I thought the emotional depth was well beyond what many past animation films have gone for, and I thought that it was one of the most entertaining films of any kind produced in recent years. My only problem?  The music.  It is not the score was particularly bad.  In fact, it was quite engrossing, but what I have come to expect from animation films is a type of sing-along, the modern American musical, and I thought that that was sorely missed.  Many will scoff at my request for this type of music in Nemo, believing that it would demeaning for such a good film.  But music does not lower the artistic level of such a film, indeed, for a film with this specific audience, songs can be the best way to bring individuals into the story and raise audience involvement.  I believe that a more traditonal animation soundtrack would have greatly increased the effectiveness and longevity of Finding Nemo.


                
I thought it was worth the $8.00... very entertaining, many laughs & smiles. Probably Pixar's best film ever! I thought for sure it was going to be dumb, but I was very pleasantly surprised. Go take the kids to see it, and even if you don't have kids, see it anyway! I loved the movie... the only downside is that computer animation is a little hard to watch for 2 hours.
7.6 out of 10


                
Walt Disney and Pixar Animation Studios have brought us some great computer animated tales over the past years. Beginning with `Toy Story' in 1995, followed by `Toy Story 2,' `A Bug's Life,' `Monsters, Inc. ' and now `Finding Nemo.' `Finding Nemo' is not as original or as creative as `Monsters, Inc.,' however, the film is extremely enjoyable as it is filled with lovable characters that will charm and amuse everyone. Speaking from a computer animated standpoint, it's the greatest achievement visually that the two companies have brought us. 	`Finding Nemo' tells the story of Marlin (Albert Brooks), a clown fish that has left his coral reef home in search for his lost son, Nemo (Alexander Gould). Along his trek through the ocean, Marlin meets several humorous characters-one in particular, a fish named Dory (Ellen DeGeneres). Dory isn't like other fish. She suffers from short-term memory loss. As such, her flaw brings about some of the film's most comical parts as she consistently forgets her name, who she's with and where she is going.On the other side of the ocean, Nemo has been captured and is living in a fish tank with several other oceanic fish in a dentist's office in Sydney, Australia. While there, he meets a fish named Gill (Willem Dafoe) who is the leader of the tank and has a plan of escaping and returning to the ocean. But there's a problem. The dentist's niece has her eye on Nemo. At the same time, word has spread by way of Nigel (Geoffrey Rush), a crane that lives on the sea and visits the fish from time to time, that Nemo's father has been traveling the ocean in search for his son. It's now up to Marlin with the help of Dory, sharks, whales and sea turtles to find Nemo in time before he is taken home with the dentist's niece. One of `Finding Nemo's' strongest points beyond its animation is its humor. Adults will find the film just as entertaining, if not more so than children. Some of the film's funniest points occur when Marlin and Dory happen upon three sharks that have vowed to stop eating fish, under a motto of `fish are friends, not food!' However, when the scent of blood from other fish is in the water, the shark's eyes turn black and they can't fight back the urge to eat fish. It leads to the sharks chasing Marlin and Dory through a sunken battle ship where depth charges are still very much active. When a torpedo is released, it touches a depth charge and a huge underwater explosion takes place. While on the surface, however, two gulls are wading when bubbles hit the surface. One of the gulls looks at the other with disgust and says, `nice.' Another strong point of `Finding Nemo' is how visually striking the image is. The film is filled with every color in the spectrum. What's more, the detail that went into the design of characters and the anemone where Marlin and Nemo live is exquisite. Never before has computer animation been so full of life and dimension as that of `Finding Nemo.' `Finding Nemo' is more than pure fun for the whole family-it's an achievement for Disney and Pixar in their pursuit to entertain at a higher level than usual brand of family entertainment. Incidentally, a great deal of which comes from Disney. It's necessary to point out the score of the film by Thomas Newman, who has composed scores for such films as `The Shawshank Redemption' and last year's wonderful `Road to Perdition.'  The music is elegant, filled with emotion and amusement that reaches beyond the usual campy scores of Randy Newman, whose done most of Disney's computer animated films. In the end, `Finding Nemo' is a treat for anyone seeking a fresh look at the computer-animated genre of family entertainment. ***


                
*May include spoilers but it depends on your outtake of the movie*8/10.  A wonderful tale about a father fish trying to find his son by traveling all the way across the ocean.  Nemo, the son, wants to go to school, but his dad, Marlin, is afraid of Nemo being out of his sight. Marlin had a bad experience when a shark came several years earlier, ate his wife, and 399 of his eggs.  Though 1 remained, and he promised that he would never let anything happen to Nemo.  Back to the present, Nemo gets on a "bus" (stingray) and they go to the drop off point where the open water is. Marlin tracks them, and Nemo gets mad.  Then Nemo disobeys his dad by going to this fishing boat, and touching it.  Nemo starts back, but he is caught by a diver.  Marlin swims after the diver, and then the boat, and then meets this forgetful fish named Dory.  Dory is Marlin's companion all the way to Australia, where mishaps occur.When I first watched the preview of this, I was thinking that this was going to me a horrible, and stupid movie, but was I wrong.  The characters were altogether funny, and the actors that played them.  Albert Brooks played Marlin, the father of Nemo.  He was pretty funny, and was very overprotective of his son.  Though the 2 biggest voices that I heard were Ellen who played Dory, and Brad Garrett who played Bloat.  First Ellen. She seemed to fit the fish very well because she was altogether funny.  It was the script that helped her along, but nevertheless.  I think any other voice would have been bad.  Now Bloat.  I've watched Everybody Loves Raymond only a couple of times, but I recognized Brad Garrett's voice right on the button.  He was pretty funny, and especially at the end when the fish from the tank are trying to esacape, and he says, "Now what?"In the 4 movies that I've watched from Pixar, I've never been disappointed. They have a similar theme, friendship, but it works very well for them. Though their next 2 movies, The Incredibles (2004) and Cars (2005) seem like they will veer off from that current theme.  I tried to keep my eyes open for hidden gags and I found one.  If you look closely in the Dentist office, on the ground, you'll spot a Buzz Lightyear toy.I think all ages of people will find this movie enjoying.  Once again, Pixar has outdone itself in producing a great movie
The latest effort from Pixar Studios has its charming moments and the typical top flight animation one has come to  expect from these guys.. and I enjoyed this story of the fish searching for his missing son more than the overrated "Monsters, Inc." A fun film for the family, though this one doesnt break new ground or really stand out afterwards. GRADE: B+


                
Finding Nemo has some of the best lessons to be learned.  It was maybe a little more personal to me because I have a close relative (child) with a handicap similar to Nemo's.  It has the tragedy (almost as heartwrenching as The Lion King), but it is a sweet, wonderful story about learning how to let go and how to understand and accept other people for who they are.


                
What a delightful film. The best animated film I've seen in a LONG time. Some excellent actors (Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Geoffrey Rush, Willem Dafoe) and witty insight into the sea world. There was nothing disappointing about this film. You must see it! It will definitely lift your spirits, and it's the best thing, I think, Pixar's done.


                
