I'm utterly shocked that people don't notice how bad the acting is in this series. The main character is wooden and completely bereft of any personality or likability. The few pathetic attempts at comedic relief fall flat and are as embarrassing as the stilted "chemistry" between the leads. Just finished the final episode and nothing of interest has taken place, no new insight, no suspense, just pure unadulterated tedium. The period music attempts to make the show fun yet seems contrived. The pseudo-romantic subplot is an exercise in how to not write relationship drama. Big geographic location names are superimposed over each new locale and try to fool us into thinking we're part of some epic plot line. Awkward sideways glances abound and long ponderous pauses by the leads help to break up the consistently sophomoric dialogue. I feel bad for the main character's girlfriend as he has miraculously proved himself to be more of a bore than this show. I would rather be the victim of a serial killer than be forced to watch this drivel again. Fincher should be ashamed as should anyone stupid enough to think this passes for good television.1 decapitated prostitute out of 10


                
I forced myself to watch 2¾ episodes before realizing my patience was only going to become further and further in vain and that this show has absolutely no potential. What I was laboured to observe in this time was the following:Two boring, cliché lead characters with a substance-devoid dynamic which is attempted to be passed of as cute and funny but is actually just banal and in fact lame and almost methodical in its failed efforts at humouring, except methodical would probably be a compliment in this abominable circumstance.This banality of course is not exclusive to the dynamic between the leads, it appears to contaminate the whole show. This especially rings true throughout what I assume is supposed to actually be the highlight of these episodes - during the detectives dealings with Ed Kemper. These dealings consist of Ed Kemper recalling his story, with his little dark jokes and his funny little mannerisms, which don't get me wrong is all fantastic stuff, he's got a great story, even better jokes and quite entertaining mannerisms... It's just a crying shame everyone has already read his Wikipedia page deeming it all useless regurgitated slop we have all already heard before unless you've been living under a rock on planet Pluto. It is in essence a mockery.It is a mockery of more than just Ed Kempers story, it's a mockery of its proposed premise of psychological profiling entirely. This is clearly shown when the detectives solve an assault and related murder solely due to the unrealistic coincidence of the perpetrator sharing a similar motive as Kemper... Wow how intellectual, how complex, how damn unpredictable. How about no. And then there's all the crappy pseudo-intellectual banter in between. "Haven't you heard of so and so's theory of something or other" "Don't I sound so smart" "Oh yeah the theory is just an obvious observation my goldfish could make but hey I got you intrigued for a second didn't I?" In summary: This is a show I might of enjoyed watching when I was like ten and my brain was underdeveloped but unfortunately this came out 12 years too late for that. The people who produced and wrote this should be ashamed and blacklisted.


                
Reasons this is a terrible show:1. Acting is horrendous. It's as if they are reading from Encyclopedias. Mundane, monotone, boring. 2. Each character has zero personality or originality. I haven't found a favorite, because they are all the same. They are all robots. 3. I am perfectly content with the slow story line. But the script has too much filler consisting of college level psychology. 4. The speed of conversations is right up there with Gilmore Girls. But Gilmore Girls was genius because the conversations were human like, unlike the robotic tone here.5. Any attempted humor is not funny.6. The constant stares and head turns never have a reason or make sense.


                
It starts great and goes down very fast. Long sequences of boring dialog. It pretentious in its premise to solve the mystery of how criminals are formed or born. No real plot, no action no mystery........ The acting is terrible. Wants to mimic the BBC crime dramas but fall short way short. You'd be much better off watching Luther for a real thrillerNetflix has a long way to go to create BBC like crime dramas........


                
Acting is GARBAGE and it ruins the series. I gave it a one just to balance out the phony ratings. Real score is about a 5. But f*ck that 9.2 sh*t. Actors stepping all over each others lines...timing is off. Horrible. This had potential with better actors. Fix it Netflix. It can become a good series.


                
The biggest mystery to be resolved about this series is how anyone could have taken a subject as potentially fascinating and tension-provoking as tracking serial killers and turned it into this dull, plodding mess. Bad acting, bad writing, and above all bad direction, which one would not normally associate with the name David Fincher. I kept waiting for something -- ANYTHING -- to happen, but it never did.


                
Get through anymore. Got through 2.2, then decided to read reviews as maybe I was missing something. The premise is very good, but how they get there is not working. Agree that the massively huge font for locations is jarring, not "vintage" to match the era. The lead male doesn't know much and scene after scene I'm left scratching my head...as in "what?" where does that lead to? Nowhere! 
The "sex" scenes are horrible to watch and "Debbie" is very annoying, unlikeable and not sexy. Their meeting scene at the bar is long, drawn out and the dialogue leads to...him wanting to get in her car after she's been drinking to go to her place & smoke pot after she's challenged him all night mentally. A case of opposites attract with zero chemistry between the two. wtf, NO! just no! Who wrote this?
Ok, I usually read the reviews, before and most of all after seeing a movie, I find them useful sometimes. Now, I just felt this urge to write something (it is my first review ever) because I couldn't take it anymore!, all these high reviews and all the good stuff about Mindhunter, it is beyond my understanding. 
I've watched all episodes hoping it will get better, it doesn't! Where is the criminal psichology first of all? All I see are dumb dialogues, poor and unprofesional acting, everything is so predictible , and most of the actors play their character so bad that they've become annoying, they are obnoxious, makes it so hard to keep watching. 
I can't believe it is really that bad.. I am shocked.. because I love this genre I watch them like I breathe, I loved some of Fincher's previous work, this is why I can't understand how people think Mindhunter is a great show. It is so bad.. I only wished I knew it before wasting 10 hours of my short life.


                
I was looking forward to watching this series. What a let down! It is utterly boring to watch and comprises mainly talking heads, not making interesting viewing. What you encounter is a lot of mumbo jumbo about psychology, not making much sense to ordinary people.What surprised me most is that Charlize Theron is a producer of this series, among others, which does her career no good.I am further surprised about the reviews, where people gave it full marks or close to it. Fortunately by scrolling down I came across other reviews which correspond with my thoughts, so I can consider myself still normal and not insane.Believe it or not, according to Wikipedia a second season is on the cards. I only watched episode 1 in full and gave up watching any others.


                
Genuinely confused as to why this series has acquired good ratings? It is insufferably boring from the outset .The problem is there is no captivating plot . It does not develop any sense of urgency/ thrill/ dread etc,no qualities that would draw you in and sustain interest . 
The characters simply drone on and on and on about banal psychological concepts in a multitude of obscure lecture halls.
Hey I wasnt looking for a psychology tutorial , cause this is what this feels like . 
Fell asleep about 3 times while trying to plough through the first episode and vowed no more for me . If you're looking to be thrilled forget it !
This is akin to taking a sleeping pill , trust me !


                
The show starts off with a bang, so to speak, implying a very promising beginning. And then it all goes to crap in seconds flat.The protagonist--a young FBI negotiator--goes from talking down a crazy hostage taker in the first scene to blabbing with some girl at a bar for what feels like an eternity. The dialogue is weird... just weird. It's awkward, stilted, and just keeps going and going.The main character himself acts unrealistically naive. He's walking through life as if he grew up under a rock. It's just too stupid to be believable. But I didn't tell you the best part.If you're expecting this dude to go around solving crimes, think again. He and his partner do...well, pretty much nothing. They just talk about criminal psychology, scratch their heads, and that's it.I went into it two episodes to give it a fair chance. One third through the third one, I just gave up.What a crock.Seriously, I would love to find the people who make these and ask them what they were thinking. Do the people who make TV shows (and bad movies) not ever WATCH television of film themselves? It's as if they are completely unaware of how obviously BAD the idea is. Or maybe they know but just don't care. Or, perhaps, who knows...maybe the target audience is as boring and dull as they are.Anyway.Skip it.
I began this show, finding it really interesting. The first episode had me expecting a condensed down psychological analysis of serial killers in a fictional format, using the real life interviews of actual serial killers. This is what I thought up until we finally got to see Ed Kemper. Following this, I was absolutely dumbfounded at how poorly they portrayed Ed, following which, I was then subjected to entirely poor inaccuracies of his killings and such. The show has started twisting facts unnecessarily. To anyone who has never heard of Ed Kemper, they will think this show is incredibly insightful into serial killers. As for me, with my deep knowledge of Ed Kemper, I have found that the facts are incredibly twisted to a point that I can't forgive this show. If you want to watch this show for the entertainment/drama factor, go ahead but if you are looking for something that actually provides lots of facts and insight into the real Ed Kemper, pull up a documentary or watch one of his actual recorded interviews on YouTube.


                
i just went on and on with all the boring none sense dialogues and a completely not attractive first character hoping to be able to find it interesting till suddenly saw the horrible pictures of the crime..what a sick and violent scene ..pretty sure it wont make any TV series interesting to show pictures of a violently murdered CHILD!!..so please be aware of what you are watching ... i stop at this point..had my nightmare for a while..
Just watch nbc,s Hannibal or broadchurch instead. There's no character development and the conversations are about nothing.


                
So poorly written, I only made it through 1 episode - and I had to really try just to do that. The production value is fine (despite the student film looking color grade) and the acting is okay, but the characters are so mind blowingly stupid. I get they're trying to show how little psychological training people had so they can show story and character arcs, but being ignorant doesn't also lower your intelligence, make you full of yourself, and give you unsound judgment in every single aspect of life and work. Especially the protagonist, who is commented on by other characters as being insightful despite reacting to situations and ideas like a bag of rocks with hair that can somehow talk. Every crime-related situation he comes upon, he acts as though it's his first interaction with another human being and amazingly does not engage in any kind of meaningful inquiry or problem solving to try and figure out what's happening - and yet he acts as though he knows more than anyone else in the room. And, no, all of those theories were not invented in the 1970s. Couldn't one of the writers take just a single semester of Intro to Administration of Justice at a community college before writing this so they'd at least get something right? And for a show that's all about psychology, couldn't they have tried a little bit harder to write characters that are believable and internally consistent? Even The X-Files does a MUCH better job of portraying criminal psychology theories than this show does - and character writing too despite the fact that the protagonists on that show aren't always the sharpest tools in the shed either. If you want a really well made deep dive into these ideas, admittedly without the historical aspect, watch the 1986 film Manhunter instead of this show.


                
Couldn't even get through S1E1 . Bored to the core. Shocked about the high ratings. Definitely not worth watching.


                
What's with all the high 5 star marks for this series. The actors and dialogue are wooden, leaving no engaging reason to be involved in the story. A lot of what must have been perceived as "intellectual" academic information by the protagonists, but in the end, just flat. The whole series is flat! I watched at least 5 episodes hoping for some engagement, but it fell flat.


                
Watch Manhunt: The Unabomber. It's well made. This series is wooden, the dialogue is boring, and the characters un-engaging.


                
