After reading some reviews I've come to the conclusion some reviewers should stick to game shows. I found this show to be smart, not once did I have a moment where I knew what was going to happen. The storyline, characters, and integration scenarios had my attention from the beginning to the end. I look forward to a season 2!


                
Mindhunter is a 10 episode series on N'flix that hits a home run with me. First of all, David Fincher can do no wrong in my eyes, blending trance-like music with scenes that are unforgettable. He does this a few times and my goodness he's the master at it. Every scene, every line...well-constructed and nothing wasted.Mindhunter gets into your head very quickly and not only for the content, but for the era it is held in. If you weren't born in the 70's, that's OK because the producers here have done a masterful job in recreating America in that decade. I honestly don't know how they did it scene after scene. Mindhunter is a series where each character leaves an indelible mark on your psyche. The content is deep and makes you wonder. Don't forget to hug mom. I give it a 10 on the "bingeable" meter.


                
If you are remotely interested in the birth of serial killer profiling, this is a "must watch" series! Although I am not an expert in the field, It's easy to recognize the meticulous attention to detail given toward the creation of "Mindhunter." The cast and associated acting were spectacular. Joe Penhall (Writer of "The Road") has put together another gritty, texture-filled, masterpiece using actual profiles of some of the most prolific serial killers of the late 60's, early 70's. I highly recommend this title!


                
To say that I am a fanatic about shows involving criminal psychology is a gross understatement. I am a veteran of the genre, and thus, easily bored with shoddy character sketch work and less than intelligently thought out plots. Mindhunter is everything but, and I mean everything. Every moment is monumental. The pauses are as riveting as the occasional action, like one gigantic tapestry, its beauty hinging on the the juxtaposition of patterns and colors nestled together. This is a show about the development of Behavioral Science as it relates to serial killers. One after the next the psychology of killers are unraveled through techniques that are routinely called into question, but vindicated, keeping the plot lines alive and well and the characters true to their core values. The interviews themselves are intense and unsettling, mostly because one has no idea what might happen when dangerous criminals are left unchained in a closed space with unprotected FBI agents. But how else would they gain their trust? This is one of the show's most distinctive elements, that you never know what will happen in the presence of almost unfathomable darkness. I honestly wondered to myself where they found the actors who portrayed these manipulative monsters. They were all so masterful, and this applies as well to all of the characters, both central or secondary. The tenth episode opened a door to new territory of psychological horror that I cannot wait to follow into the second season. The ONLY show in this particular genre on par with this one is the first season of True Detective. If you were a fan of that show, you'll love this. One final note, the female characters in Mindhunter are all strong, intelligent, insightful...and off putting. This may bother some, but understand the time frame and this begins to make sense.
I watched the first episode and I liked it just as I do love other Fincher works.The Thing that annoys me is that there are always people whit patronizing manner lashing out others and calling them stupid because they think they know more and others do not have aesthetic vision.Personally I think shows like Mr Robot or mindhunter are great shows and like other great things they're not meant to be entertaining for every individual.So giving 0 or 1 to these titles means it's not for you so please you guys stop misdirecting the audience and don't watch things you don't like or watch them and say you just didn't like it or it wasn't your type.I'm not saying don't criticize.I'm just saying if you're going to criticize you must be honest and fair.But these days it is so hard to find fair reviews in IMDb or metacritic.It was funny for me when I saw a fully negative audience review (with 0 rating) about Mr robot season 3 in metacritic and when I checked his history I noticed he had rated season 1 and 2 with 0 and written negative reviews.Basically I think when Sb doesn't like a show they just quit watching!! So please write fair reviews so that people can decide to watch the show. I recommend this show to Fincher fans and I'm sure most of his fans will love the show as they watch it.It was a bit slow in the first episode but it's not wise to judge a show based on one episode.So far I've related to the show (with some minor problems) and I think it can reach higher levels while it goes ahead.


                
The more you watch this series the more you keep watching! I thought my husband would not like this series but he could not stop watching either. We watched the whole ten episodes over less than two days. What makes this show worth such a high score? It is faultless. The acting is excellent. You can feel the dramatic tension and atmosphere. It is not the usual serial killer series. It is about how modern psychological profiling began and the people who shaped it including the criminals. The setting is the 1970s when people were not advantaged technologically. It is not a documentary but an explanation and description of the beginning of understanding how serial killers are formed. The characters, namely the people working in the unit that was set up to analyse the serial killer's mind, all have lives of their own. We are privy to those as well which include a wife and a child, a girlfriend, etc. They are people who are also flawed and with personal issues. But the main story is the scientific deconstructing of the the mind of the serial killer. The further into the series you watch the better it gets. It might start out an 8 but ends up a 10.


                
After the popularization of Netflix, countless cheesy and unintelligent TV Shows started to arise. Mindhunter is the proof that Netflix isn't lost. It's innovative, stylish and bold. The dialogues are very unique and realistic, the plot in intelligent and the cinematography very beautiful.A true gem! Hope it succeeds!


                
This is a series that is worthy of David Fincher's name. The series is thrilling, suspenseful, intense, humorous, and really, really entertaining. This series reflects everything I love about David Fincher. A good-looking, unappreciated and talented male who gets absorbed by an idea that entirely changes his life. Yes, I think this series feels really like Social Network. Jonathan Groff even really looks like Jesse Eisenberg with that urgent little-animal stare and the steep angle of his chin. I really love this type of protagonist, so I binge-watched all ten episodes. It turned out to be worthy of my time.I hate it when artists hand-feed me what to feel and what to think. I cannot stand the media-makers that think of their viewers condescendingly. It reflects very clearly in their works and it makes me uncomfortable. This series especially shoulders the risk of such unpleasantness because it is a frequently abused genre, FBI and serial killers, so used that people don't expect good stuff out of it anymore. But the series explore it from a intimate, academic point of view. Instead of regarding the criminals as a piñata to tackle, this series is audacious enough to allow the audience to generate empathy for them. It made me sick to the stomach at the first place, but this sickness offset my weariness of all the routines of this genre that the series is forced to use, and kept me intrigued. The series is a masterpiece in that it doesn't throw out one of its most brilliant baits of the first season until the 7th episode, where Holden became to look enchanted, morally corrupted by the serial killers that he was so obsessed with, which eventually threatened to be a part of him. So the audience began worried that Holden might be synchronized into a sociopath. But by watching the series, I realize that as soon as the audience's fear is confirmed by not-so-subtle cues, they start to lose interest and the bait would't work anymore. So our fear and greasy, oily sick feeling was not justified until he was hugged by Ed Kemper in the last five minutes of the season.I am not sure how to respond to their hiring Gregg instead of the more qualified black applicant. That was blatant racism, and Professor Carr's logic to justify it made it even more uncomfortable. The fact that Gregg actually started to fit in upsets me even more. The kinky girlfriend was stiff but fun at first, but then she started to feel overbearing and inconsiderate, which is also a mechanism often used to justify the anti-feministic side. It would reinforce the idea that it is impossible to balance feminism with social roles in reality. The criminology professor, who looked like a mid-eastern Islamic person, flinched from FBI, is even less savory. But at least they casted Jonathan Groff, who came out of closet bravely, as the protagonist. That one is a bonus.I understand that this series is try to be documentary, but takes advantage of the historical blurriness of its subject to be also sensationalistic. Not many people would feel that the team who coined the term "serial killer" must be a good story even if they study it for school. The more I savor this whole season, the more I feel the preciousness of talents that are demonstrated in this series, and feel lucky to be born in this era. Probably because I really enjoy the lonely genius routine. Can't wait to watch the next season.
What a treat this epic 10 episode, first series of mindhunter turned out to be. I was gripped!! Ive seen similar shows as there a dime a dozen of the last 20 years but sometimes you get this rare perfectly formed gem as is the case with mindhunter. From the off your taken on a journey in the eyes of top interrogator holden ford based on the real life serial hunter as he slowly bumps pathways with his partner Bill Tetch also based on a real person( infact the whole series is not loosely based on anything other than real people from the fbi to the serial killers that were infamous in the time period of the 70s onwards) and there in lies the magic of this film, the actors are perfect! From lookalikes to oscar winning performances which i do not say lightly er'um(ed kemper-Cameron britton!) Is as pitch perfect as has ever been done, acting as the likes of brando, from apocalypse now. But everything is perfectly put across from the relationships with the fbi the beginning of understanding why these people/real life serials" acted in such ways. This is raw, cutting edge material that gets better as it goes on as did sopranos or the wire a good mantel to sit with and definately the best in its genre 10/10!


                
If you have an interest in how the mind works, specifically how the criminal mind works, this is a great show! Many people want guts and gore, and might be disappointed that it's not a slasher type movie. It's much more terrifying than slasher fare. The term "slow burn" is very appropriate. It's based on one of the most frightening books I've ever read, frightening because once you read and "see" you can never un-see. This show is like that.


                
Thoroughly enjoyed Mindhunter from beginning to end. The dialogues in particular were quite masterful. Some people are complaining of the slow pace, but IMO this story needs to unfold at a slow pace.


                
I saw the first 10 episodes in 2 days. I got hooked by this fascinating story. Great actors, great script.The guy, who is shown in the beginning of each episode is hopefully playing a big role in the 2nd season.Spoiler alert:In the last episode its shown that the often shown man lives in Park City Kansas. The man is the well- known BTK- Killer Dennis Rader.Im excited to see him in action.
It is a masterpiece that i am with anticipation waiting for. it is the best psychological series that i have seen.


                
Wow.... Simple pimple, it's amazing. If u love shows build around real crimes, serial killers and actual true materials, u will love this show. Amazing cast, and some chilling scenes. Very well played guys. Can not wait for session 2, 3, 4 etc... Don't screw it guys..


                
I literally crave this show...so addicting. Can't wait for season 2!


                
This show is not about bloody murders, is about what is inside of the people who commite them, is the storytelling of how two real FBI agents begun the science of criminal profiling. Interviewing different killers when the term serial killer wasn't even coined by Robert K. Ressler. This is a pretty accurate version of how criminal profiling provide us with the motives and modus operandi behind every murder from the mind of the killer himself.


                
I have been familiar with the works of John Douglas since the late 1990s so I had a particular vision in my head of how this series would be. I almost quit watching halfway through the first episode because it was not what I expected. ( I think HBO requested that the first episode be devoted to illustrating the two lead characters versus diving right into the subject matter of serial killers and related topics.)The soundtrack is full of surprises (I think it's a matter of personal taste how the songs rub you.) Holden Ford (the character, the younger of the two FBI agents) is amusing without trying to be (in a harmless way.)
I really feel they knocked it out of the park and was disappointed when the last episode aired. I had gotten into the groove of how they were fleshing out cases and also how they were learning to communicate with their subjects (violent offenders.)
This series is a delight for anyone who loves to study criminology.


                
Can't speak highly enough about this series. Hooked and hanging for season 2.
Incredible insight into the minds of serial killers and the people who want to understand and catch them.
Slick script, great characters and relationships, perfect soundtrack, the whole package is just mesmerizing. Best tv I've watched in ages.


                
Mindhunter is centered in the mind of serial killers. There are many movies about serial killers (Se7en, Zodiac, The Silence of The Lambs etc.), but not like this. It shows minds of serial killers how profiling and criminal psychology first started. The acting, atmosphere, characters, it's all pretty good. Do not expect any action scene, just psychoanalysis in whole of the series and that's why i liked this series. I want to be mentioned though, Cameron Britton... Honestly never heard of this actor before, but i was fascinated by his scenes, he was so creepy in a politely subtle way.


                
First time reviewer here, and I wouldn't have if I just thought the first reviewer for this page didn't do the show justice. Give it time. Totally worth it. This is a show that will stick with you, haunt you, for awhile. This series will unsettle you...in the best way possible. Watch it.The frankness of the killers, the agents ability to listen in the name of science without judgement. Fascinating.David Fincher does it again.


                
I've been reading the reviews, I understand the different opinions, most of the people who reach this series is waiting for a gruesome view of the criminal mind, gore views, action scenes, charismatic actors and triumphant outcomes, they should feel betrayed by the historical objective of the show.my point of view is that the series is like a historical view/discovering/documentary about the way the FBI began to use psychology to understand and catch the criminals, and all the heavy weight that this research implies to them, their personal life, this study is supposedly improved in the future... for the criminal side and for the internal workers (to avoid causing harm to their life), the show is trying to show technique after technique, and how they're used, how they extrapolated the Kemper experiences to catch a culprit, the success they have, the last technique revealed , for me it was riveting... , it was sublime how the main character was little by little was trying new things, getting along with the serial killers ... and at the end he utterly defeated the last culprit with a twist... and also how this discovering techniques is affecting him, damaging his personal life and career...sorry, I didn't mind the other flaws that this series could have, like pace, slowness, bad acting (I'm not very sure if there exists)... I'm just hungry for new FBI psychological techniques I hope that a new season appears, with the same pace, new drama, new affected behaviors for the main characters... and of course, showing more techniques, but I can't be sure, the approach that this series had at the beginning could be a greater toll to the ratings... just like the toll to the characters with the use of this techniques
Mindhunter , a crime drama thriller that really stands out. First, i need to mention that i really had high hopes for this show , and damn , it delivered. The cast and the acting is absolutely marvelous. I really enjoyed the chemistry between the two main characters. In a weird way they are like Sherlock and Dr. Watson. One being very intelligent and always open to trying out new things and the other one being the more "normal" one. Even in the opening moments of the first episode, this show has a very certain atmosphere to it. It's very dark , but the dark that i always loved to watch and you certainly want more and more of it. I really enjoyed each and every episode. The soundtrack and score was also on point. I can safely say that i enjoyed Mindhunter season 1 just as i did True Detective season 1 , which is a very high praise. This review is probably not the best one you read about this show , but these are just some of the thoughts i have after finishing the last episode. I definitely recommend it and i can't wait for the second season! Thanks for reading this! BG


                
I did not expect to be blown away by this show. The closest comparison in terms of tone and content would probably be True Detective.I read the book Mindhunter (by John Douglas) that this is based on. The writers are able to be faithful to the source material, but this is first and foremost great story telling.The David Fincher touch is perfect. Any fans of his work will appreciate this show.
After watching season one, this show is already one of my favorites! After only 2 episodes I already ordered a book that show is based on! Usually I despise Crime series because they are usually let's say different but the same, similar. On the other hand, Mindhunter opens up a totally new spice to Crime TV shows and its awesome!The characters are very well written and acting is just exceptional. If you're a student of psychology you will love this series from the start. It's not about just solving crimes its also creating a bigger correlation with criminal and psychology in a sense that it's not only used to solve crimes but predict them and stop them from happening.The way they enter criminal minds(sociopaths and psychopaths) it's excellent! As a watcher, you learn why are they the way the are, why are they doing those things. Some stories will blow your mind, as well as scenes, methods of using psychopaths intel to solve crimes and the personalities that you will maybe love to hate or hate to love.Also, already in season 1 you can see everything that a series needs, like transition of main characters, little but very possibly key side plots, battling between two lives and creating a balance between the two.It's very intellectual and demands full focus and attention, it's exciting, promising, and there are so many questions left that I can't wait to be revealed in further seasons!


                
By far Mindhunter is one of the best shows I have ever watched. It has everything one could ask for in an show catered to an adult audience.The show really keeps one hooked as they navigate you through the start of the FBIs BAU with all sorts of drama, psychology and action along the way. I would highly recommend this for people to watch but maybe not in front of the kids.


                
