I watched the entire series from start to finish. It's depthless, features almost no criminal psychology, and relies upon cheap shocks like explicit gore, sex, and violence to elicit emotion rather than actually developing the characters or plot such that one is invested in happens to them. The plot, which is nebulous at best, is drawn out by drowning the viewer in pointless details and complications which arise through senseless behavior. This sort of elaboration is reminiscent of how someone would speak to you if they were trying to prolong a conversation but had nothing more to say.The characters are depicted in plenty of varying situations, but are never really given any depth. It has all the variation and lack of substance that one might find in a stream of selfies.The lack of criminal psychology is quite disappointing and the attempt to compensate for this by name-dropping professionals and theory names comes across as a careless afterthought.The premise was a good, solid idea. But, it was never brought to fruition. Watching this first season just felt like a chore. I'd find myself getting up to go do other things because I was so bored with it. I'd come back and rewind it, not wanting to miss anything, only to find out that yet again, nothing happened.There are so many shows that are better than this one, that it's really not worth wasting one's time with. Instead of this one, I'd recommend: The Killing (US), Bron/Broen (Danish/Swedish), Broadchurch (UK), Dicte (Danish), Une chance de trop (a.k.a. No Second Chance, French), and River (UK). Those which are not in spoken English are available with English subtitles.For the record, I'd still give this one another chance when they come out with the second season (which I hear they've already ordered), but that's only because I've been impressed with Torv's work in the past. None of the other actors in this series moved me at all. She wasn't given much screen time this season, but I felt more depth from her character than any of the others — not to mention, she was really the only character depicted as competent.To those who actually found this season deep or moving, please do explain in detail. I feel that I gave this series a fair chance by watching the entire season, but found nothing worthwhile in it. So, if you did, it would be nice to know what in particular that was. Perhaps your observations could add to the viewing experience for the rest of us. Thank you.
I don't leave reviews often but this was bad. I wanted to like the main character but I just couldn't bring myself to care about him at all. His expressions are wooden and his demeanor is not one of an FBI agent. Where I lost it though, was at the scene where he meets the sociologist at the bar, about 20 minutes into the first episode. This was bad TV if I've ever seen it. The scene just felt way too drawn out. The script was so bad that I couldn't even warrant an eye roll. No, I just sat there in a state of confusion as to how anyone in the industry would let writing like this fly. There's absolutely no sense of fluidity to it. Might as well have had the characters reading off of a teleprompter. And you know, it's highly believable that anyone with the background of an FBI agent would hop in a car to ride shotgun with a drunk ass that he just met at a bar, only to be pressured into smoking dope upon arriving at her apartment. Just kind of makes sense, right?Two stars for set design and cinematography.


                
The plot is tedious, the dialogue is absurd and the acting is at best very wooden. It is not a "slow burner", its just very boring, badly executed TV! How could Fincher/Groff inflict such misery on us unsuspecting viewers, will make sure to give their work a miss in the future.


                
This came highly recommended, with an incredible 9 rating on IMDb at the time of this writing. That's usually from starry-eyed teenagers, but it even seems to be striking a chord with the 45+ crowd. So I gave this a shot. From the very first minute, loud banging music and wannabe-cool antics as if every law enforcement official just stepped out of a cowboy western. How people tolerate this is beyond me, just a sign of low expectations of our times.


                
Too slow for video. They could've just posted a photo. The lead reminds me of how stoic Robert Stack was in "The Untouchables".Fine for insomniacs; this could be better than a sleeping pill.I saw the first episode and just don't want to waste my time listening to such slow-paced dialogue. On screen and part of the plot, these agent-instructors were boring their student cops and their TV audience at the same time.


                
I liked the idea of the show, but it's poorly executed. Two episodes in, and the show just can't hold my interest - it's super boring. Nothing happens. I'd hoped this would be an intelligent serial-killer hunt crime show. It's not. It's not even a psychological thriller type show. It's just... boring.The actors are portraying shallow characters that you don't really care about and the dialogue is forced and unnatural.I'd recommend you watch anything else.


                
The Good: Interesting subject matter. Myself and many others are fascinated by what exactly makes the mind of a serial tick. How can these seemingly ordinary people commit such calloused act of violence? Cameron Britton, who plays Edmund Kemper, does a great job capturing the speech patterns and physical appearance of the Co-Ed Killer. He obviously has studied the real interviews conducted with Kemper after his arrest; which lead to his very realistic portrayal of the man.The Bad: The main thing that plagues this show is the abysmal script writing. It's hard to know where to start on this point. There are so many unnecessary scenes included in the show that it soon becomes apparent that the creators were desperate for time fillers. For example, the 5-10 minutes of scenes of actress Anna Torv (Wendy Carr) doing nothing more than opening cans of tuna and leaving them by a window for a stray cat; a cat we never actually see mind you! Not to mention the corny traveling "montages", random sex scenes, and stilted dialogues between the main characters and their significant others. Almost everything outside of the actually serial killer interview scenes seems to be contrived and only there to kill time in the episode.The acting on this show just plain out sucks. Who ever hired Jonathan Groff to play the lead role of Holden Ford is completely incompetent. I've never seen a lead actor on a show who so completely lacked any semblance of personality, charisma, or gravitas. Groff reads his lines with a dead pan gaze, and monotone delivery. On top of his terrible acting, the way in which his lines are written makes him come off as insufferable know it all. By the end of the first season I found myself hating every scene which he appeared in. The supporting cast may not be as abysmal as Groff, but I never found myself interested or concerned with them. The most irritating character interaction of the show for me was that between Groff and his girlfriend Debbie (Hannah Gross). There chemistry is terrible and every scene with the two of them in it seems like a competition on who can put the least amount of effort into their lines. On top of that, Debbie is just a downright dislikeable character. She is constantly putting Holden down, using drugs, and lying. On top of that she cheats on him with some random guy from her school. And then Holden just takes her back without them ever even addressing her infidelity? I mean common! Holden feels like such a spineless character in the way he lets her walk all over him.Another bothersome thing about the series is the way in which they fail to capture the feeling of late 70's America. Outside of some quick snipits dialogues about the Vietnam War or the Bandura Study and the time period outfits/background settings; there is nothing that makes you believe these characters are actually from that time. The vocabulary that they use seems very modern and completely out of place for that time. And can we talk about the fact that this show is obviously sponsored by Big Tobacco? Hardly a scene goes by without one of the main characters puffing on a cancer stick. If you pay attention you'll notice an ungodly amount of product placement in the show, with packs of Camels and Marlboro displayed in plain view of the camera.
Mindhunter isn't what I thought it would be. It is neither a dense bundle of well organized facts about these killers nor is it an entertaining, slow burning mystery series. What it is, is boring. The actors are wooden, the scenes are dragged out, and the violence of the killers is used purely for shock value.


                
I enjoyed the first few mins. of episode one.Then I just found myself zoning in and out.The show has a certain style and appeal, but nothing spectacular.The worst part, is that this type of show or derivatives of it, have been filling up the TV/Film landscape for years.This reminds me of a Netflix Criminal Minds spin off. There are countless shows about investigators, FBI profilers, serial killers, and studying the mind. This one is OK, but doesn't really bring a whole new level of depth or anything outside the box, from what I saw early on. Entertaining enough, but merely another grain of sand at the beach. The rating is way too high on here.
Was it supposed to be a psychology or sociology class in form of a TV show or did they really want to make a TV series for the purpose of entertainment? Either way, they failed. Judging by the pilot, The first character is wooden and very boring, other characters are also unlikable that I'm sure I would never care about anyone of them if I were gonna watch it more, the story doesn't seem to be moving somewhere and it feels like it's all about the already mentioned first dull character. It was too boring that I was falling asleep as my index finger was pressing the right arrow key on the keyboard. I give this boring TV classroom, two stars, one for balancing the phony rating and the other for the purpose of being just.


                
I got hooked by the fact that it is a crime, thriller and psychology show, but the whole serie just bounces in the daily life of two FBI agents with few drops of excitement. The slow pace will kill you and will reduce your interest in the show. Oftentimes, I find myself detached and thinking about something else. However, I stayed patient until I dropped it off at the 4th episode.


                
