Sometimes, it feels like you're the only sane person in a sea of ignorance. Or the other way around. But WHAT is the appeal of this show? I barely got through the first episode: the acting was absolutely horrendous. Objectively, horribly terrible. The dialogue was what first-year philosophy students think is haughty and intellectual. It's not. It's the first five paragraphs of a wikipedia article, over and over and over. Terrible script & terrible acting equals terrible show. Will not watch more.


                
I was excited about this show. Deep psychological analysis of serial killers? Not super new but sounds interesting at the very least. After the first episode, though, I can't continue any further. I hate to a give a review without giving a full chance to the show but this is too much. The main character could not be more wooden and boring, and really, nothing happens. There's the occasional bloody or sexy scene, which I guess helps in making trailers and teasers, but other than that, nothing. There's a crap-ton of pointless dialogue between characters that is delivered so forcefully and so awkwardly that almost every time someone talks, you get the sense that this is all so unrealistic. Not much of a story, no real striving to any particular idea, and most importantly, not much at all of what you probably watched it to see. I give it a 3 because if anything, it looks nice I guess. But with all that said, what's really puzzling is how on Earth it has such high ratings!


                
I REALLY wanted to like this show. I love crime shows and especially love learning more about true life crimes. About 30 min into the first show I was already over it. The acting is HORRIBLE. The main character looks like he's reading from a teleprompter and his girlfriend is annoying and really not even necessary for the show. Everything about the show just seems forced. What FBI agent gets in the car with a drunk driver (he just met mind you) and goes with her to smoke weed? The show starts and continues to be sooooooooo slow that anyone with a normal attention span will be ready to watch something else. I caught myself constantly daydreaming through out the whole show. Sad excuse for a super hyped show.


                
Well, actually I don't even know were to start. Mindhunters from the trailer looks promising, and being also a Netflix series, was kinda promising, at least quality wise. Boy was I wrong. Right in the middle of the first episode, I was already with this "humm" feeling, because it was just an illogical mess. Characters are totally unlikable, dumb, and almost an offense to all our "knowledge" of a person is. From FBI to the most regular person in the series, it just does not fit. To be honest, I still gave it a go, since well, it's the first episode right? So, during, or almost in the middle of the first episode, and even trying to avoid the non-logical characters, dialogues, and other non-logical things, I kept on watching. Oh sweet faith...To wrap things up, just take a look at this situation. Agent meets girl at the bar, have the most stupid and awkward conversation ever, go then out after a long while, she gets in her car with him do drive away, but the car is just parked in side of the road, basically blocking all the street since on the other side, cars are actually parked. "Well, but this could be some type of setup" you might say. Well, yes, but there are plenty of scenes just like that, like for instance; filming shot starts in a restaurant/bar, one agent is actually grabbing and putting salt on the food, and after 3 sentences of dialog (actually no more then 10sec passed), he just points to his watch, like, time to go, so the other one asks for the bill, and quickly decides to put some coins on the table, while they all went out. Sorry, this is just totally illogical in every point of view. Having noticing this type of things, and believe me, there are plenty in just two episodes, and in combination with the lack of personality of the characters, and their non logical behavior... oh boy.. I actually felt a bit insulted, but anyway..I watched the first episode, and as I said, about the middle, I just wanted to stop wasting my time. I came to IMDb to see if there were some reviews that had a different point of view, and there were actually like two stating that the pace goes up in the second episode, and that they got hooked. I must agree that the pace went a bit up. Still, everything else remains. This series is a total, and complete mess, and I won't be seeing it anymore. The irrationality of this just break almost every bar on what not to do in s series. Awkward behaving characters, dialogues, interactions, cuts, ( THE WORST! Intro I ever saw, (not visually but sound wise), and absolutely boring. What a mess.I'm actually giving this a 3 out of 10 because of the idea that could have turned into something good actually. Nevertheless, I can only say that you should avoid this and not waist your time. If you still want to give it a go, then go and watch the first episode. If the pace is all you were concerned, and the rest was good/amazing (for whatever reason), then by all means, keep on watching. If you have kinda mix feeling about it, then please, don't waist another hour.


                
I had to turn it off after the Episode 4 car crash. I couldn't deal with it. Many other critics hit the nail on the head. Character wise, nobody brings me into the story. They are all very flat, laughably unpredictable, and very pretentious. The script acts more like a college freshman's C+ Sociology paper that regurgitated terms to make itself seem intelligent, and it's obvious that the writers are way out of their league with the subject matter.The only thing I could see good is the set design.I can only compare this show to Star Trek: The Next Generation, which invites it's viewers into an adventure where they can learn about sociological and philosophical history by giving us an enticing story to link reality and actually teach us about ourselves.This show does the opposite effect. Writers 'researched' different terms, regurgitated them through dense, unrealistic lines, and if you didn't quite get what they were serving, sucks to be you, here's a sex scene!


                
OVERRATED // "netflix never disappointing, intriguing , fascinating" STOP IT PLEASE , boring , very boring , nothing really happens in this "brilliant" tv show


                
This was me as well: "Stopped midway through S01E01. Wooden acting. Plot feels artificially made up. Dull dialogues".


                
I've just finished season one and I feel so disappointed. From start to finish, it's slow moving which I can manage but by the end of the season nothing has changed, there is no plot. Every episode starts with a shot of the weird guy but he doesn't feature at all, I guess we need to wait til season 2?All of the characters are one dimensional and cliche. There doesn't appear to be any character development or growth. Lonely lesbian feeding a cat? Why? What's the point? 
I really wanted to love this show but when you compare it to True Detective or Bron/Broen, it just feels like a slog
The acting is wooden, the scenes are awkwardly drawn out, and it just isn't what I thought a show exploring why crazy killers do what they do would be. There's way too much fluff and not enough information to hold my interest. It uses graphic scenes for pure shock value and soft porn as hooks in its opening episodes, things that are both of putting and poorly executed because of the shortage of information that comes with it. I've seen forensic documentaries and slow burning mystery fiction and this show contains none of the good aspects of either. I found it neither entertaining or adequately educational, and so can't recommend this show.


                
The main character is so uninteresting that it alone makes this difficult to watch. Also different scenes felt very unconnected.. I guess its from poor directing.
Im sure this could get slightly better in later episodes but unfortunately acting was just so bad that it pushed me away. In comparison: I love everythin in True Detective S1. Especially the acting and main characters and tensions between them.


                
To say this is slow is an understatement. Slow, boring, predictable. One of the many psychological cop shows littering TV.


                
