Did I miss something?Great atmosphere with an interesting storyline based on real life events. The way the murderers were portrayed was good.BUT with super flat characters and the most annoying main character with below zero emotions I've seen in in a long time. 
The story took way to long to evolve to be honest and the season finale was unpleasant, abrupt and with a forced cliffhanger for another unnecessary season.


                
This is my original review on Netflix: What??? Two stars only??? Yes, that's my final rating for this series, where *final* is the keyword. Actually, I started with five stars for similar reasons as other reviewers. However, after three or four episodes the behavior of the characters became very repetitive and predictable, but I was able to have some moments of joy because of the successes they were achieving. So, I dropped only one star.The real problem started when, aside from repetitive and negative (sometimes nonsense) behavior, even the successes became predictable and boring. So, by episode 7 I had dropped one more star from my rating.Finally, in the episodes 8 and 9, the script used the same formula 'ad nauseam' and, worse, no significant steps on the research, and several loose ends. I could only hope that in a magical movement the loose ends would be tied in the last episode of the season. So, one star was gone.At this point, I was giving only two stars. During the last (10th) episode I was ready to get rid of one more star. I didn't - as an act of charity - because the last 10 or 15 minutes could lead to more interesting things in the next season.Sincerely, I felt kind of betrayed by the director after the 6th or 7th episode, when the series became closer to a soap-opera than to a crime series that catches you. I have no intention of waiting about 10 to 12 months to see the continuation of the story.In sum: the story didn't close any important point, it carries you through a lot of predictable frustrations in the last three episodes, and you have only a vague idea of when or if the writers are going to be interested in catching you again.So, I hope you can read some other bad and good reviews and find for yourself what's important to you in this type of series. For me, it didn't work well.


                
