If you watched the first season you probably know what to expect. Dumb down HBO's Rome, style it after Frank Miller's 300, throw in some second rate CGI, claustrophobic sets, and off-kilter, pseudo-Shakespearian sounding dialog (littered with waaay too many references to male genitalia), and you got yourself an episode of Spartacus. If you like your soft porn punctuated with professional wrestling this is the show for you. Its almost as if the producers asked themselves "how can we get your average frat kid to watch something that takes place in the 1st century BC", and this is what they came up with. Its more the pity that there are some honestly decent actors in this series, but some of the scenarios the plot puts them in, and the scripted lines they're forced to spout, have me cringing in embarrassment.We get an introduction to all of the nasty villains at the gladiatorial school that we didn't like the first time around (or at least... I didn't like), but this time there's no protagonist in their midst to root for, and that's really the only thing that got me through the first season. The knockout gorgeous Jaime Murray might be a reason to continue watching (American audiences will know her as H.G. Wells from Warehouse 13, and Lila Tournay from Dexter), and the always brooding, but likable Peter Mensah as Oenomaus gives us someone to empathize for, but I'm not sure its going to be enough.I have a feeling that I'm going to watch it through to the end though. Unlike soft porn or pro wrestling, there's something about this show that's just appealing enough that it holds my attention. I don't know if its the pseudo-historical background or if its simply the voyeuristic feeling one gets while rubber-necking a bad accident... The excess, the vulgarity of it all... its a bit like watching 70s exploitation or an old John Waters film... its hard to look away even though there's certainly something more edifying to spend your time doing. And heck, I think I can stick it out for six episodes.


                
Trying to portray ancient, non-Christian cultures on screen in this far more tight-laced (despite all the rantings about too much sex and violence) cultural environment of contemporary television is fraught with difficulties for producers aiming for accuracy rather than pandering towards modern prejudices. Let's look at one offering.Spartacus: Gods of the Arena is the prequel to Spartacus: Blood and Sand and much has been made - nay, it is even the crux of its marketing appeal - about the amount of blood-soaked violence and sweaty sex featured. And it is true that the portrayal of blood, in all that slow motioned slicing, stabbing, carving and flaying of the unfortunate humans on the receiving end, is high on the fetish scale. To defend yourself or kill your opponent in Roman times you needed to be prepared to get your hands bloody (and it teaches all those modern gun-nuts how real men used to do it without access to 2nd Amendment firearms), have enough strength, moral inclination and willpower to drive that steel into another human body, and be ready to deal with the splattering and gurgling consequences. And that's what we viewers have to deal with too: the sight and sounds of an arc of blood flying slo-mo through the air, a standard image sequence in each episode, has all the qualities of a moneyshot. And that is my main criticism with Spartacus: I wish there be as much attention paid to visual and aural detail in the sex scenes as there is in the gore. The sex is portrayed as coy: genitals are barely glimpsed (certainly no hard-ons), the writhing only worthy of a standard soft porn movie, the throes of passion look choreographed and determined by lighting directors and makeup artists - you need to almost put it on fast forward to get some earthy grunt and sweaty action. In all, if you're going to make a bodily fluid film can we please have less blood and more semen?


                
