I wrote a number of individual episode reviews of Blood & Sand. I was frankly blown away, it was not merely some of the best entertainment I had ever seen, it was in a class by itself, a sort of take-no-prisoners approach to TV drama. (Sorry for the bad pun) I spent time with this second season, packaged as a prequel, because of the excellent reviews.I agree ... but I don't.First of all, in my reviews of B&S I did indeed commend the performance of Hannah on multiple occasions. He is superb.But to me this season speaks to the star power of Whitfield. It is generally acknowledged that, if not for his unfortunate circumstances, a career upgrade was in store. He was not merely the star, he was also the draw, the glue, the eyes through the audience learnt to evaluate the story, scene by scene in real time. Every time he approached Hannah and said "Dominus" part of the fun was guessing what he really wanted to say,,, That is missing here. The truth hurts. Without Whitfield, you have an above average production. With him, you had a great one.


                
Firstly I don't write reviews, no matter how much I like/hate any show, though I enjoy reading reviews but I feel I should write a review about this show. I was recently introduced to Spartacus season one, I loved the show, the actors, the actresses everything was top-notch. I mean nothing comes close to Spartacus, Lucy lawless is goddess, People say this show would be nothing without Andy, I don't agree. THIS SHOW IS NOTHING WITHOUT LUCY. Once Lucy is done with the show, this show will fall apart.This first show was shot very well, good body show. I feel showing body is a very integral part of this show with the blood of course and yeah the first episode delivered the expectations and I am looking forward to watch this season. I am sure this gonna be one helluva series, I am sad this is a short one but at least we got something good bodies/actors/story to watch other than the stupid reality shows on TV. The blood is too much I agree, but who cares I love it and I love the show and I hope Spartacus is here to stay and stay for long.I just cant get enough of this show. Perfecto.Cheers-


                
When "Spartacus: Blood and Sand" came out, it was a sensational blast from the past with new villains, complex and tormented heroes, and highly original and colourful dialogue. The series had big surprises in almost every episode, largely because the characters on screen were fully realized. They were the complete opposite of the predictable stock characters that appeared in other special effects pictures, like Transformers. Therefore, what you thought of Batiatus in episode 2 was probably very different from what you thought of him near the end.So how did the prequel "Spartacus: Gods of the Arena" measure up against Season 1's Spartacus? Not so well. To be sure, I enjoyed the blood, the violence, the sex and the illicit love story (the details of which I will leave the viewers to figure out). Yet it seemed to me that the creators of this Spartacus were bringing back their old bag of tricks from the first season. There was little in this series that was fresh. Batiatus (John Hannah) was the same old villain. I still enjoyed watching John Hannah's character, but I felt that I had seen this performance before. Batiatus' wife Lucretia (Lucy Lawless) had a couple more character dimensions added, but generally speaking she was the same as in season 1. Fortunately there was a new hero in the prequel, named Gannicus (played by Dustin Clare, who I think does a better job than Andy Whitfield). In his subtle way, Clare seems to be telling us that Gannicus only becomes a better human being once he has been humbled -- and that kind of redeeming story is always fun to watch.Yet outside of that, the plot is problematic. The problem with prequels is that the story line can more or less be predicted and, as a result, the tension is gone in most of the scenes. In Spartacus: Blood and Sand, there was always the possibility that Batiatus might overstep in his bid for greater power and glory and meet the death he so richly deserved. But that concern does not exist in the prequel. Since we know Batiatus is going to survive anyway, the tension in scenes where he appears to be in danger is almost obviated. There is also very little that is new in the plot. Batiatus's house is still the same brothel as in the first season, the stadium is hosting the same old gladiator games, the gladiator villains all look the same, the Roman aristocrats are the same old psychopaths (though one of them is particularly horrid), and Batiatus' little plots play themselves out in the same way.As a final thought, one of the ways to be amused with this series is by seeing it through the eyes of a Marxist. The prequel represents the age of aristocracy with the benevolent landowner (Batiatus' dad) who rubs shoulders with the gladiators and treats them with the same fondness that a father would accord to his son. Batiatus, in this context, is very interesting because he has one foot in the world of the benevolent landowner and another foot in the world of the ruthless industrialist. Eventually he makes the transition to the ruthless industrialist, since only through this change can he acquire greater wealth, status and power. The rich are generally portrayed as morally degenerate and the social climbers, by seeking social elevation, are also morally corrupt. But the poor have stronge moral values or are the innocent victims of the rich at the top. When they become conscious of their status as an oppressed proletariat, they rise up in revolution. I don't know if the makers of Spartacus intended for their series to be interpreted in that way, but that is how the plot plays out.


                
A prequel to Spartacus - Blood and Sand, covering the period immediately before Spartacus's arrival in Capua. Centres the gladiators in Capua, especially Gannicus and Crixus.Meant as a stop-gap series while actor Andy Whitfield, who played Spartacus in Season 1, was ill (sadly, he died of his affliction), Spartacus: Gods of the Arena is entertaining in its own right. Similar to Blood and Sand it is entertaining as a visual spectacle, rather than for any plot- or character-driven devices and works as an excellent guilty pleasure. It's about the action (come of which is between consenting adults...), and what action it is! The fight scenes are some of the most visceral and gory ever put to screen but show just how primal the life of a gladiator was.This said, it's not all style, no substance: the plot is quite interesting at times and character engagement is decent - a reasonable number of people to support and there is a fair degree of character development.Not quite as substantial as Blood and Sand though, plus you know there's no long-term plot: its just about marking time until Spartacus arrives. In addition. as with Blood and Sand, some of the sub-plots are quite silly and the secondary performances are quite woeful at times. Who knew gladiators spoke with a New Zealand accent? The slo-mo fight scenes get overdone too.All up, not as good as Blood and Sand but close enough and highly entertaining.


                
I will watch the series because to this point it is a compelling story and fairly well made. Being that the new series is a prequel, the absence of Spartacus is not relevant. To attempt to continue the story beyond the allotted 6 episode prequel without Spartacus would cause a problem with continuity, so we WILL see Spartacus again.To start with, the opening scene after re-hashing the events of the previous season was a combination of slow motion close-ups of fighting that was simply too fake to suspend reality, although there was one especially shocking aspect of the scene that allowed a person to almost taste the blood. Doctore is obviously not as comfortable with his role as the previous year. The scheming and maneuvering in earlier episodes allowed the violence and sexuality to have a point, now they exist mainly as fillers to the story.Next, The sexuality and nudity of the previous season had a restraint and tension that kept it from being soft porn. Now the sexuality is over-the-top, and I feel that the show has been diminished by the garish display of basically watching a gladiator get his rocks off and other examples of clumsy sensuality. The gay relationships are less organic, there is a forced feeling to the guys kissing. The opening sex scene was garish and almost pointless. The naked slaves in the streets seem like they were placed there to be naked, not to show the culture of the time and place. At times there is a peek at the previous talent with which the show was produced. the incredible story telling of the previous season has been replaced by gratuitous, pointless sexuality and if I am going to watch porn, it might as well be something that doesn't waste time trying to tell much of a story and makes no bones about the topic.(no pun intended)Don't get me wrong...I will watch the series, but the writing in the first episode has left me wondering if there is any point in labeling the series, "Spartacus". The actors are doing what they can with the scripts they are being given, and the writing plainly lacks the epic(- ness) of the previous season to which this season will inevitably be compared.My score for the first episode may simply reflect the actors readjusting to a new season. I have high hopes for this series, and with the incredible first season, there is no reason to settle for less quality due to one actor missing from a short 6 episode series which wouldn't have had him in it anyway.
As the story of Spartacus is now on hold this was an exceptionally smart idea to capitalize on the success of the first series - as a prequel it copies the formula and pushes the sex and sand themes even further - but it is in the main just as successful.It may not be popular to say so but all the Roman written accounts of gladiatorial contests from Cicero to Pliny to the Pompeii accounts bear no resemblance whatsoever to this fantasy world: gladiatorial fights were refereed, only very specific match ups were allowed between types and weights etc; and though many aspects of Spartacus are correct, don't watch it hoping to learn Roman history or customs. For example, while owners of Gladiators had prestige, trainers and owners of training schools were treated on a social par with butchers - and certainly would not and could obtain the status that is conveyed here.Accuracy aside this is action filled and fun and if blood and sex and sand epics are your thing then this certainly fits the bill.


                
