Spartacus: GotA is a lot more complex than people think it is. I believe that the bigger amount of sex and violence make people not to focus as much as they should in the environment of the series.The dialogs are great, the theming is awesome (you can believe you are at the very Roime!) and acting is decent. These things make the series a lot better than just some muscular guys turning into pieces others and some naughty sex scenes.Let's be honest: the stuff presented is not really mind-blowing, but it's really entertaining, and that's the purpose of every good series. So let's be fair and stop seeking Schwarzenegger's neurons, we will not find them, we better enjoy the show the way it is.


                
Spartacus second season is not as good as the first one, but is still very entertaining, if you enjoy as I do this sort of overcharged pulp. The first season brilliantly ended with Spartacus and his fellow gladiators rising up and massacring their master Batiatus and escaping to become fugitives. The illness of star Andy Whitfield (regrettably, he ended up dying of cancer soon after) changed the plans of the producers, and instead of making a regular second season following Spartacus exploits as a rebel leader, they choose a short six episode prequel. The action takes place some years before Spartacus arrival in town, and we see how the upcoming Batiatus rises up to become the top lanista in Capua, against his main rival in the gladiator business, the very evil Tullius (Stephen Lovatt, who is great). To achieve this, he will rely, among others, on his top gladiator, Gannicus (Dustin Clare), originally bought to Tullius at a bargain price, as well as in Crixus and the trainer Oenomaus (the last two, seen in the first season).If Batiatus seemed quite a mean man in the first season, here we see him fight against an even meaner man, Tullius, so we sort of end up sympathizing with him. For something that for obvious reasons was rushed into production, the script is rather good. As with the first season, Gods of the Arena is full of graphic violence and sex filmed with relish. A problem with the second season, in my opinion, is that Gannicus is not as an interesting character as Spartacus (we don't have much of a background story on him), so the focus of the season is on Batiatus, and actor John Hannah does not disappoint. While the machinations between the two masters are great, what is lacking is something as interesting in the sand.


                
This is called Spartacus, but it's the back story to Season 1 of the popular Starz show. I'm assuming that you're reading this after you have watched at least Season 1 of the "real" Spartacus show! While this plays before the events of the other seasons, you get treated at a "previously" segment before this series starts. Which means its major spoil alert if you watch this first.Having warned enough, you should be aware that this tells us the story of Crixus and other members of the House Batiatus. It is really great watching it, bringing forth another memorable Gladiator, in the name of Gannikus. The treatment of Blood and nudity is the same as before and you will get more than enough of it. A really good show that has more to offer than the skin/violence some reduce it to. Not to everyone's taste obviously (as many threads on IMDb show), the Drama works and has brought Starz (channel) on the TV map.


                
Had heard a lot about this TV series but didn't get to watch series 1..... But I thoroughly enjoyed this one. A fast paced story with fortunes changing in an instant makes for a super exciting watch. There is no expense spared in showing blood and violence in the most grotesque way possible on TV, makes you wince time and again and at times feels unnecessary the same way I feel about the show of skin in the series. But I guess the idea is to shock and awe and it succeeds very well with that. The performances are quite good and powerful as is needed for a series like this. Good direction and editing both of which are essential for the success of a 6 episode series. If you haven't watched the previous series I'd suggest that you see it before this one as otherwise like for me the suspense of the original series has been lost in a way. But I will still try to watch the one I've missed. Watching it in HD was especially good fun .


                
Given that this short, prequel series to SPARTACUS: BLOOD AND SAND was necessitated by star Andy Whitfield's ongoing battle with cancer, I think it does a very good job. In essence, this is a show that sets out the early days of the House of Batiatus that features so prominently in the original series, revealing how the characters played by John Hannah and Lucy Lawless rise to fame.At least half of the cast list is populated by new faces, and most of the fun comes from guessing what's going to happen to them, given that we know they didn't return for the later series. I'll admit that I wasn't too enamoured by Dustin Clare's boastful Gannicus, but the presence of Jaime Murray, Marisa Ramirez and Stephen Lovatt is more than enough to retain the interest. And, of course, there are many old favourites who return, like the characters of Crixus, Oenomaus and Ashur, and we get a chance to see the reasons they turned out like they did in SPARTACUS: BLOOD AND SAND.As in the first season, John Hannah steals the show with his endless plotting and ranting against the gods. He's fantastic here, and I think it's great how the producers were able to get another six episodes of entertainment value out of his character. The action is as stylised and grisly as ever, if not more grisly, and there's enough manipulation, backstabbing, gossip and heartfelt emotion to satisfy any fan of TV drama. Okay, it's not quite as good as BLOOD AND SAND, but that's purely because there are only six episodes to work with here, rather than 13, so they just don't have time to cover as much ground.


                
I started watching this TV series on the recommendation of a friend on having many bold scenes. Spartacus Season 1 was a complete breakthrough in the history of TV series for its extremely bold scenes. It centered round the life of Spartacus, how he got himself into the arena, how he lost his wife, how he rose to fame in the arena of gladiators. Finally it ended in the capture of the house and death of Batiatus(John Hannah) and Lucretia(Lucy Lawless of Xena:Warrior Princess fame). But the truth is that the show must not only be praised for its bold scenes. It has history of the gladiators of Cappua, action in the arena, plots and treachery by noblemen, and much more. Although the show lacks suspense due to the fact that it is history show, yet the other elements of the show makes it a Must Watch! The 2nd season which is actually a prequel to the first season is also as much action filled( i would say more action) as the 1st one but it has its own faults which i have discussed below- 1) Firstly, the show really doesn't revolve round Spartacus but Gannicus( Dustin Claire),a gladiator. Gannicus is the champion of the arena of his times and eventually gains freedom through his performance in the Games. But the story of Gannicus is worth watching. 2) Secondly, it has only six episodes, a mini-season in fact. I personally feel more could be done to the story.


                
Knowing, I was worried about the fate of SPARTACUS. But 'Gods of the Arena' didn't disappoint. We are given further insight into some of our favourite characters with focus on the rise of the Ludas. The quality acting & a story which is delivered at a faster pace enthrals the viewer. It left me wondering - In a room full of villains, is our bad guy just an ambitious man?


                
I'm editing this review for the mere fact that the season has aired and it's about time I get to reediting this to fit that.The strongest episodes are the first and the last two. If every episode had been as interesting as those, this series could have been amazing. I have no idea how this series has a higher rating than Blood and Sand though. It's good, but it's not that good.The characters development gets stunted and granted, there are only 6, but wouldn't that mean the writers just make sure that the series has even more plots to be weaving? I mean, considering it is a prequel and there are a lot of questions fans were left with after B&S finished. The show sets up for the third season after the finale by making fans wait for a much anticipated reunion between certain friends and enemies. This is going to be interesting considering a lot happened the last 2 episodes that affected everyone.The series and finale, in my opinion, certainly don't measure up to B&S, but its first and last two episodes more than made up for the lack of depth this show has lacked.


                
This is a prequel to 'Spartacus: Blood and Sand'. With Andy Whitfield sick, the show tries to continue production with the prequel. It struck on a good idea. Anything to bring John Hannah and Lucy Lawless back is a good idea.It's a struggle for dominance between gladiators Gannicus (Dustin Clare) and Crixus (Manu Bennett). Batiatus and Lucretia are as weaselly as ever. It continues the style and substance of the first season. It works just as well as the series. This is very much Batiatus' show at this point. Anybody who saw the first season will love this mini-series.


                
The show is very entertaining and an interesting portrayal of Ancient Rome. There is a lot of sex and a lot fighting. Everybody is always plotting something and it is interesting to watch everyone's schemes unfold. Unfortunately as a prequel we know certain things such as who will rise, who definitely won't die and other events that are bound to happen. Even if you haven't seen Blood and Sand, it unfortunately gives a fairly detailed flash back to the first season. Unfortunately it lacks Andy Whitfield who undoubtedly made Spartacus: Blood and Sand what it was. There is full nudity in it so you may want to keep it away from the kids. I recommend this show because as most shows on premium channels there is no censorship. If you don't have Starz or even if you lack a cable or satellite provider it is available on Netflix on-line streaming usually within 24 hours of its Friday showing.
Like many productions that followed, even though this series was obviously somewhat inspired by Ridley Scott's epic Gladiator, the storyline is original. As expected with a series of this kind, there's lots of well executed action, (perhaps an excessive amount of blood at times) plenty of good actors and sensual sex scenes. Although I must say I wasn't too keen on John Hannah's character constantly using the 'F' word, which seemed rather unnecessary.The choice of lighting, color grading and style of filming is similar to 300, but again it's still interesting and the plot is original. And speaking of 300 I particularly liked Peter Mensah, who was in very good physical form for this and portrayed a very sympathetic character.Some of the sets could have been better, however overall a very enjoyable series and if I could I would give it an 8.5 if I could.


                
I didn't think a prequel mini-series could live up to the high standard set by Spartacus: Blood and Sand and boy was I wrong. While I don't think the plot developed as well or the story was quite as riveting, this 6 episode season was absolutely fantastic. The budget seemed substantially higher and you could tell in the special effects... especially the blood spatter. It looked so much more realistic and less campy than the first season. That's about the only element of improvement, though the rest of the show was also fantastic. My favorite aspect is hands down the fact that the show starts so distant from where Blood and Sand begins but as the episodes come and go, you can slowly see the setting conform to where you expect it, with Gods of the Arena ending exactly where you can see a smooth transition into the original season. Yes, this show lacked a protagonist of Spartacus' character but Gannicus slowly grows on you. I honestly didn't care for the character at all in the first couple of episodes as he felt too comical and not very genuine but by the end of the season you're rooting for him in the arena and out of it. Overall, great show.


                
