Dull, boring movie of two con men (Robert Redford and Paul Newman) going up against a gangster that killed one of their best friends.Aside from the great Ragtime music and the costumes there's nothing even remotely good about this.  I was basically bored stiff by it.  The plot was predictable and the movie moved at a snails pace.  The comedy wasn't funny, the dialogue seemed forced and the "twist" in the plot was laughably obvious.  Even Newman, Redford and Robert Shaw (all good actors) looked thoroughly bored during the movie.  I've never seen Newman so lifeless!But, as some previous posters have said, maybe this was considered fresh and new back in 1973.  That could be...but it certainly doesn't age well!  The best movies hold up no matter how old they are...this doesn't.  How it's in the top 100 here is beyond me.  I really can't recommend this at all.


                
Before I began my analysis of The Sting, I studied how George Roy Hill works with Neuman and Redford in Butch & Sundance and how he manipulates his story in Slaughterhouse-Five.  I noticed that Hill never worries about impressions in his work, he only wants to entertain the audience at the expense of whatever brain cells they lose in the process.Consider his working of Slaughterhouse-Five, one of the greatest anti-war books ever written.  He strips it of fluidity, adds in his comic touches, then slaps the viewer in the head and makes you feel stupid for watching it in the beginning.  That's how all his films work.The Sting relies on similar principles.  Characters are not people, they are scenes to be created.  Hill is much like Richard Donner and Tennessee Williams in that respect.  Notice how Neuman and Redford plan their "great con" at the end.  It's all a facade to show that the film shakes on its feet like Jell-O.Overall, don't bother with this movie.  If you want GRH's best work, just watch Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid again.  2 out of 5 stars.


                
this movie is so bad. i really don't like the story or acting. it's overrated in my humble opinion and makes people fall asleep. watch the social network instead. this movie just makes no sense because it talks about things that are boring and not fun. i wouldn't recommend watching it at all. sometimes i wanna fall asleep so bad that i have nightmares i am still awake. the only interesting part was the naked woman at the beginning. if there was more of that this could deserve a two star review. but even that can't make me love it. it's one of those movies you have to be crazy to enjoy. the part where they steal the money is predictable and dumb. i've seen barney produce better feature films. have you ever seen the count of Monte cristo? this is WORSE. can you imagine? stay away, stay far far away.


                
I love Redford in Three Days of the Condor and Sneakers, but this was a Redford I didn't much care for; a rude person. It gave me such bad vibes that I just had to turn it off.


                
