If your movie has high production values, attractive stars, and doesn't trip over anything major before it ends, most people on this site will start their rating at 7 or 8 stars. That's how low the bar is for a rave. And it's why I don't much care for movies like The Sting. It's idea of film merit is to pre-sell the production so they don't have to worry about people comprehending anything or thinking about much. This movie proves that if you market some star power and a little production design you can trick people into thinking they've seen a great movie. It's so sure that its casting director and designers did a fantastic job, that it fails put much energy into it's characters or story. It's not as well-designed or produced as movies both before and after. It's not too interesting, it's not much fun and though some people describe it as 'funny' I can't name a line I laughed at. It's just an overinflated period piece. Robert Redford, though attractive, seems lifeless and miscast.The cinematography is much too bright and evenly lit like a TV production. It flattens out the cheap looking exteriors. The whole thing would benefit from a better understanding of noir. Except for a handful of establishing matte shots, the movie is extremely careful not to let much more than fifteen feet of a set into view, producing a claustrophobic feeling. I don't need to see Al Capone in a 1930s Chicago storyline, but not even mentioning him is bizarre. With 7 Oscars wins, The Sting is the classic story of popularity overcoming lack of merit. But I'd bet there is virtually no audience for it that didn't first see it back in the 70s. It may be the least worthy Best Picture winner, but of course there are plenty to choose from.
Fluffy eye candy as two 2 bit con men attempt to fleece gangster Robert Shaw out of his money in an elaborate- and unbelievable betting hoax. Lightweight and overrated. Newman and Redford make google eyes at each other in a film so devoid of substance its almost pathetic. 1930s Chicago looks like a back-lot set, the 20th. Century Limited looks like a tinplate toy Lionel train-which is exactly what it is. This is proof that "pretty boys" like Newman and Redeford are just sleepwalking through their roles in this. And can somebody PLEASE explain why ragtime music- music from some 25 years before this story takes place is used? One can only stand the "Entertainer" so much. Also, why did this film win ANY academy awards at all?I just don't get it. Overrated, to say the least. The real "sting" wsas how this movie fleeced you out of paying the admission price to see it. Talk about a con job!


                
Like Chariots of Fire, The Sting is an undeserving Best Picture winner that owes it's enormous success to its score. In this case, Scott Joplin adapted by Marvin Hamlisch. Inspired by the success of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969)which also featured a popular, Oscar-winning theme, The Sting reunites the director and the 2 stars with diminishing results. Butch Cassidy was diverting, had some charm, and was nice to look at, but The Sting is cloying, claustrophobic, and its charm calculated, and at 129 minutes it seems interminable because nothing in this film about an elaborate con involving good-hearted crooks seems to matter. As for movies dealing with cons, I prefer A Big Hand for a Little Lady, Trick Baby, House of Games, Felini's Il Bidone ("The Swindlers") and even Harry in Your Pocket which was released in 1973 the same year The Sting was named Best Picture while Badlands, Sleeper, Payday, The Homecoming, The Long Goodbye, Mean Streets, Paper Moon, The Last Detail and Serpico were not even nominated for Best Picture


                
