The fix is in, the odds are set, and the boys are ready to play for the big time, both on the screen and behind the camera in this breezy, endlessly entertaining movie classic.Robert Redford is small-time hustler Johnny Hooker, happy to play the marks in Joliet until the murder of his mentor pushes him to go up against the nastiest mug in Chicago, Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw.) Hooker'd rather ice Lonnegan outright, but will settle for a big con with the help of a slightly wobbly but game scammer named Henry Gondorff, played as only Paul Newman can.Newman and Redford, along with director George Roy Hill, had a lot riding on this pony, given it was a follow-up to their earlier "Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid." To measure up, they had to produce nothing short of another classic. And so they did. "The Sting" won the Best Picture Oscar in 1973, and remains the sentimental favorite among many in choosing between the two films.Comparing "The Sting" to "Butch Cassidy" is kind of overdone sport, and tempers, as Lonnegan would say, run hot. But you can see why "The Sting" worked as well as it did by looking at how the director and the stars played it differently within the same basic framework as "Butch Cassidy." Newman and Redford are again outlaws and underdogs. Period detail abounds here as it did with "Butch Cassidy," and there's another memorable score amid the proceedings, Scott Joplin rags modernized by Marvin Hamlisch. The score even produced another hit, "The Entertainer," to compare with "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head."What's different about "The Sting," and what makes it such a classic in its own right, is the way the stars service the plot. In "Butch Cassidy," Newman and Redford's comradeship was the story. Here, the chemistry between the two actors is minimized in favor of spinning a yarn with enough red herrings to feed the Swedish navy. The tale here is better than "Butch Cassidy," which is a more elegiac film with grander cinematography and funnier set pieces. "The Sting" is an edge-of-your-seat caper flick from beginning to end.You can't really call "The Sting" a comedy. Though there are many laughs, especially when Newman hooks Shaw during a poker game, Hill won't let the audience relax enough for that. What this is is a con game, played on the audience, designed not to cheat but entertain by means of clever hoodwinking and constant misdirection plays.You'll get no spoilers from me. This is one worth sitting through with no expectations. Five gets you ten you'll enjoy Newman and Redford, and a terrific supporting cast (one advantage over "Butch Cassidy") that includes Charles Durning, Eileen Brennan, Dana Elcar, Harold Gould, and Mr. Hand himself, Ray Walston. There's another familiar face from "Butch Cassidy," Charles Dierkop, Flat Nose Curry in "Butch Cassidy" and Lonnegan's right hand here. The best performance may be Robert Shaw's; he exudes menace aplenty but some humanity, too, when he takes Hooker under his wing after learning he came from the same hard streets of Five Points Lonnegan sprang from.Terrific period detail, too. The dialogue is great and feels real in its Runyonesque way, while the cons are elaborate and logically played out. Watching this a second time is especially fun because once you know how the plot goes down, you find yourself catching clues you missed the first time, and enjoying the film even more for them.Why didn't Newman and Redford team up again? Certainly there was another good movie for them to partner up in, but as Gondorff would have put it, only chumps don't quit when they're ahead.


                
Johnny Hooker and Luther Coleman are `grifters' or confidence tricksters in 1930s Chicago. Unknown to them, however, one of their victims works for a vicious local gangster named Doyle Lonnegan, and when Lonnegan finds out what has happened he has Luther murdered. Hooker is not a violent man by nature and admits that he does not know much about killing, but nevertheless wishes to take revenge for his partner's death. He decides that the best way is to hurt Lonnegan's pride by relieving him of some of his wealth. He joins forces with another con man named Henry Gondorff, and together they come up with an elaborate plan, not only to cheat Lonnegan, but also to do it in such a way that he never realises that he has been cheated. The plot unfolds with great ingenuity; until the final denouement the audience are never quite sure which developments are for real and which are part of the elaborate scheme.Crime thrillers set during this period are normally associated with the classic `film noir' style, with its dark, brooding, cynical atmosphere. In `The Sting', however, George Roy Hill deliberately sets out to create a very different mood. The style is almost the exact opposite of film noir. The acting is heavily stylised (as is the scenery), and the division of the film into sections with titles such as `The Hook' or `The Line' is reminiscent of the formal division of a stage play into acts and scenes. The film is not in black-and-white but in bright colour, and the mood, far from being heavy and brooding, is light and cheerful. Scott Joplin's music, although written slightly earlier than the period in which the film is set, fits this mood perfectly. The major actors all play their parts perfectly- Robert Shaw as the glowering, menacing Lonnegan, Robert Redford as the young, idealistic Hooker (insofar as a con-man can be said to be an idealist), and Paul Newman as the older, more experienced and laid-back Gondorff. There are also good contributions from Charles Durning as the corrupt policement Lieutenant Snyder and Robert Earl Jones as Luther.Despite the cheerful mood, the film has serious undertones in keeping with its themes of revenge and murder. I am not usually a great admirer of what are known as `heist' or `caper' movies, as I feel that too often they glamourise crime and dishonesty. `The Sting', however, is different. Hooker and Gondorff live in a world where the moral order has broken down. The police are hopelessly corrupt- Snyder, the one representative we see of the forces of law and order, is on Lonnegan's payroll. There is no chance of Hooker getting justice for his friend's murder through the normal channels; the only way in which this can be achieved is to go outside the law. Where the police are crooked, only the criminals can execute justice. The emotional satisfaction we feel at the end of the film is because a sort of moral order has finally been restored and, moreover, because this has been done without anyone getting injured except Lonnegan's wallet. An excellent film, which well deserved its Academy Award. 9/10.


                
THE STING is so full of twists and turns at every unexpected moment that it never stops drawing you into all of its traps. All of it is performed at a fast clip and the performances have all the nuances needed to keep you entertained and in suspense.Sparked by perfect period detail, a Scott Joplin piano score courtesy of Marvin Hamlisch and grand performances, it is gritty and at all times entertaining--it deserves to be seen more than once to relish all the tricks you missed the first time.For full enjoyment, a plot description is better left for the first time viewer to discover so I won't give any plot details here.The three central performances are perfection--Robert Redford, so comfortable in a role he was obviously born to play, Paul Newman, the epitome of a confidence trickster and Robert Shaw as the man who falls hard for The Sting. Newman and Redford are even more at home here than they were as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.No wonder it won so many '73 Oscars--including Best Picture. A film to relish again and again, with scenes that never lose their punch. The story is full of clever touches that will hook you into the 1930s atmosphere and have you waiting for the knockout ending.Watch for the scene of Redford and the waitress he seeks out at 2:00 a.m. It's the kind of acting that can melt your heart.
Newman was again teamed with director George Roy Hill and Robert Redford, and the two stars again played outlaws who are basically easy-going and human, and whose criminal exploits are comically engaging<U+0085> Here the setting is Chicago in 1936<U+0085> Henry Gondorff (Newman), a well-known, slight1y aging con artist, is hiding from the law, but he comes out of retirement to teach small-time hustler Johnny Hooker (Redford) the "Big Con." With the assistance of a large group of amiable crooks, the two work out an elaborate scheme to cheat an important racketeer, Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw), out of $500,000.Unlike "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," the film is inordinately complicated, and has many twists, turns and surprises<U+0085> It is actually one con game after another, with the audience tricked as well as the characters<U+0085> The steps in the swindle fall neatly into place in the manner of television's 'Mission: Impossible,' although once we think about the plot, it makes little sense<U+0085> But we're not meant to think; "The Sting" is designed, and works extremely well, as clever entertainment<U+0085>Perhaps it was the Newman-Redford team that made "The Sting" popular, and Newman alone may have difficulty drawing audiences, but one thing is certain: In fifty one years of film acting, Newman has become one of the screen's most magnetic stars<U+0085> Even today the very mention of his name evokes an aura of moody rebelliousness, rugged individualism, cool detachment and, above all, overpowering sex appeal<U+0085> And he has created more memorable characters than have most actors in much longer periods of time<U+0085> At least four<U+0097>"The Hustler," "Hud," "Cool Hand Luke" and "Butch Cassidy"<U+0097>are so well-known, so indelibly impressed on the public consciousness, that they stand among the immortals of the screen<U+0085>"The Sting" received ten Academy Award nominations<U+0097>more than any other Newman film<U+0085>
The movie begins with an interesting cheating on the street. This was really jaw dropping. This trend continues throughout the movie. In fact, you cannot trust on any person. Anything can be fraud. This makes the movie very interesting. The climax was so superb. Not writing much about the plot, it may spoil your viewing experience.One of the best movies with a lot of twists and turns. The movie is among the top list for no doubt. A well made movie of 70's. Technical perfection is another plus point of the film. It was nominated for 10 Oscars and won 7.A must watch movie. Highly recommended.#KiduMovie


                
Winner of 7 Academy Awards including Best Picture, The Sting, is one of the most popular and critically-acclaimed films of all time. Set in the 1930's this intricate comedy caper deals with an ambitious small-time crook (Redford) and veteran con man (Newman) who seek revenge on the vicious crime lord (Shaw) who murdered one of their gang.How this of charlatans puts "the sting" on their enemy makes for the greatest double-cross in movie history, complete with an amazing surprise finish. Directed by George Roy Hill Written by David S. Ward Reuniting the director with Redford & Newman, all 3 worked together on Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid.


                
THE STING is a fine 1930s-set comedy adventure film re-teaming Paul Newman and Robert Redford after the runaway success of BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID. I found it more enjoyable than their previous outing thanks to the intense storyline, which is set in the world of gangsters and gambling and features oodles of suspense and tension as the two men attempt to pull off one of the biggest scams in history.The thing that becomes quickly apparent when watching THE STING is just how well written it is. The script is very clever without being obnoxiously so and the involving opening set-piece is a fine example of this. Newman plays in support here and has less screen time than I expected, but the film belongs to Redford anyway and he's a delight, the best I've seen him. The third player in the thing is Robert Shaw, who brings level of quiet intensity to the picture that makes his character even more imposing than the famous henchman role he essayed in FROM Russia WITH LOVE.Although THE STING has a long running time, not a moment of it feels slow or boring. Instead it keeps moving through interesting set-pieces, mainly focused on gambling (which is a fascinating cinematic subject matter in the right hands) but also including a number of decent foot chases too. Everything builds to a classic climax that rounds off an excellent film overall.
One of the best movies ever, and one of the best classics of the 70's. Very captivating and interesting story, with good actors, good characters and fantastic scenes. Highly recommend. A true masterpiece of cinema.


                
Robert Redford and Paul Newman really can do no wrong when they're working together. The Sting is one of the greatest con artist films of all time. It is still is fun to watch even when you know all the twists and turns.


                
Funny, delightful, witty, thought-provoking, and aware of everything it's up to. The Sting is a stylish crime film that is for everyone. And, of course, Redford and Newman shine. It's just a bit convoluted in the first 20 minutes. (9/10)


                
You will be hooked all the way to the end. You must watch it.


                
This is an elegant film that depends for its gravitas on the death of a fictional African American confidence artist, played by Robert Earl Jones, and the haunting music of a real life great African American musical composer, known as Scott Joplin, who died of venereal disease after his frequent patronage of various bordellos. Now that we have that out of the way, let the games begin!This is a fascinating film that many people love; especially those who like to imagine that they are smart or 'with it', but while I have always admired the convolutions and revelations of the plot, I have mixed feelings for people who pride themselves on being able to take advantage of others. I have an even lower regard for people who hand out assignments for murder to hired henchmen. But there is something about the pathos of this film set in the seething and yet sunny corruption of 1930s Chicago that makes you root for this group of what could be largely out of work actors as underdogs. They are up against Doyle Lonegan, a fourteen carat career criminal, ably played with undeniable menace by Robert Shaw, after one of their rookie confidence artists unknowingly crosses paths with a real life courier for the Lonegan mob.This film puts you in the position of Jake Gittes in CHINATOWN. As the lead villain played by John Huston cheerfully told Jack Nicholson, "- you may think you know what's going on, but you don't -". THE STING isn't as dark and tragic as CHINATOWN, but it definitely has its own somewhat comic layers of complexity to it. The first time I saw it, I felt as conned as every one else in the audience, even though the film kept gently suggesting with its Saturday Evening Post inspired inter-title cards, '- here it comes, here it comes -' and in a faux scholarly way prepares to complete your education regarding the confidence game and the nature of THE STING.This film has all the reticulation of a Sherlock Holmes adventure, but is just as much or more about deception and permanent concealment, as it is about placing trust in the carefully schooled perception of a trained expert piecing all the clues together towards a final revelation. This inversion of restoring the moral order would later be made homage to in films like HOUSE OF GAMES and PULP FICTION, but of course, hearkens back to HUCKLEBERRY FINN and other tales where things are not all that they appear to be on the surface. Therefore, my date and I came out of the theater with wry smiles and a more than satisfactory entertainment experience, wondering to ourselves what was this sleight of hand involving mobsters and grifters really all about?Paul Newman as Henry Gondorff, presents an admirable portrait of a master grifter who has been around and can offer mentorship to the up and coming Johnny Hooker as played by Robert Redford. This teacher - student relationship was very satisfying to me, and reminded me of some of the more perplexing relationships I experienced with my own instructors at Cass Tech. Everyone wants to be placed in the hands of an expert or sit at the feet of a master of his or her craft, and this is a thread that runs throughout the course of the narrative. People may tend to neglect the fact that one of the reasons Luther Coleman sends Johnny Hooker to work with Henry Gondorff in the first place is so that he will not perpetuate the shortcomings of his early experiences as a grifter.I have mentioned a few of the main characters, but this is the first time I found myself listing nearly the complete cast in my notes, because this really is an ensemble effort pulled off to brilliant effect. The film leaves you on a lighthearted note, but from the beginning around its contours is the darkness of the death of yet another black man whose life was lived under the mantle of American Criminality on a grand scale, underscored by the melancholy strains of a master pianist and musician whose genius was somewhat stifled beneath whorehouse sheets, but remains with us still. There is an interesting interplay of Life and Death, Good and Evil here, but it would appear that according to Henry Gondorff, the clever and resourceful best know how to play both sides of the street.
There are not too many Hollywood stars which when working together, impress the director Mr. George Roy Hill. Among the few, were the main characters in this movie called " The Sting. " The depression era story is set in the 1930's. A couple of grifters named Johnny Hooker and Luther Coleman (Robert Redford and Robert Earl Jones) con a mob courier out of the money he is carrying. Although the take was only $11,000, it belonged to a Mob boss named Doyle Lonnegan, (Robert Shaw) who immediately puts a contract on the two. When Luther is murdered, Hooker escapes to Chicago and teams up with a big time con-man named Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) Meanwhile, Lt. Wm.Snyder of the Bunko Squad (Charles Durning) wants Hooker for passing counterfeit money and Agent Polk (Dana Elcar) of the F.B.I. wants him to betray Gondorff to them. Seeking revenge against Lonnegan, for Luther's death, Hooker, Gondorff and their friends contrive an elaborate sting operation which if it fails will most likely get them all killed. The story is slick, quick and punctuated with Scott Joplin's rag-time scores. The result is a Classic made memorable by Hollywood's finest, such as Ray Walston, Harold Gould, John Heffernan, Jack Kehoe, Eileen Brennan, Dimitra Arliss and Robert Earl Jones. A fun movie for all and right out of an era which seemingly offered only despair. ****


                
Did this film deserve the Academy Award for best movie and best direction in 1973? Hell, yeah! It's the over-the-top plot (probably one of the greatest in the American filmography ever), the great performances by all the actors, the card tricks, the surprises, the music, and so much more.Someone might think that it's far too silly of a movie. Well, I only have one thing to say: Look further. It isn't just an indulgent movie; it's one with a point: a tribute to friendship, loyalty; the clever (Redford-Newman) against the wicked (Shaw); it may as well be another version of a Bildungs-roman: Redford doesn't only take revenge for his friend's death. He learns and learns as the movie goes along. It takes more than lust to beat the powerful; he has to learn about real life first.I rest my case. I just love the movie because it combines fun with art (yes, art!). And my girlfriend also loves it...


                
This was an excellent movie. As I was watching it Robert Redford looked dead on Brad Pitt. Maybe it's just me but the jaw line, the mouth, and the eyes--they are eerily alike. Because of that I kept seeing the two main characters, Robert Redford and Paul Newman, as a 1973 Brad Pitt and George Clooney.The comparison totally fits. Newman and Clooney don't look that much alike but they were both the older of the couple, salt and pepper hair, the brains of the operation. Redford and Pitt look just alike, the younger of the couple, almost like the apprentice. Both tandems going for a major score, employed multiple players, and took several days to set up. If you haven't guessed by now I'm comparing The Sting to Ocean's Eleven (the Clooney/Pitt version).The Sting was very clever, suspenseful in a light way, and a movie that keeps you engaged because you don't want to miss an important detail. This was a great movie and definitely stood the test of time.


                
By the purest of coincidences I watched two films starring Paul Newman in one day, one on the big screen and one on DVD, and both stood up amazingly well. I have already covered his breakout role as Rocky Graziano in Somebody Up There Likes Me, which was screened at the National Film Theatre, after which I came home and played the DVD of The Sting. Both films benefited from outstanding supporting roles though Somebody lacked a co-star of the stature of Robert Redford, and The Sting was replete with the likes of Ray Walston, Eileen Brennan, Robert Shaw - who, to be fair, shared equal billing with Redford and Newman - Harold Gould etc. The sure-footed screenplay by David S. Ward has more twists than a pretzel, the period detail - 1930s - convinces and a great time is had by all. Highly recommended.
Redford and Newman go beyond good acting, and their names apitamise greatness.  With a great script these actors know no bounds.  The Sting is a classic that never shows its age.  It was the first movie I ever saw, at age 4, when the family went to the Drive-In.  This movie could pass being made last year.  A script with twist, bends, and dives; with characters you love and ones you hate.  Acting that is believable,and historically accurate. The best performance of Robert Shaw's career, he outshone Redford and Newman.  This film is exceptional, and one of a few movies ABC showed for around 13 years after its release.


                
Don't do what I did. Don't walk into the living room when the last ten minutes of The Sting is playing on television before you've seen the entire movie. Watch it from the beginning.If you watch it from the beginning, it's fantastic (I'm assuming). Paul Newman and Robert Redford team up again, and bounce off each other like brothers. It's truly wonderful to watch them together.The Sting is a con-man, hustler, heist movie. Two con-men team up to get back at the boss; all the twists and turns will keep you on the edge of the seat the entire time! If that isn't enough, it's set in the 1920s, so there's cute music and darling costumes. If you haven't fallen in love with Robert Redford yet, watch this movie (or The Great Gatsby) and you will. He's just irresistible in 20s clothes.This is such an enjoyable and timeless classic. It's exciting, delightful, suspenseful, and classy. It's the kind of movie you want to dress up for.


                
Wow, what a masterpiece!I re-watched The Sting recently for my family who'd never seen it. The story line depicts a bunch of grifters who need to take down a big-time mobster bank in the 1930's. What an all-star cast of actors in the prime of their careers - Robert Redford as the youngster who needs schooling in the ways, Paul Newman as the grizzled veteran, Robert Shaw as the big- time mobster, and tons of superb supporting stars you will recognize.The acting is terrific. The music is great. The plot will keep you on your seat from start to end. The Sting keeps you rooting for the underdogs throughout. This film is one of the rare gems that will be fun for young and middle and old folks alike. Except for some gun shot violence, and a little tawdry scenes with all that gambling houses offer, this film is fine for all. Sit back and enjoy the ride. The Sting - a must see masterpiece! Enjoy.


                
Classic adaptation of the crazy, corrupt and difficult years from the life of the American nation in the 30's. Brilliant screenplay, mesmerizing knot, intriguing play and fully surprising denouement. Major cast, major-director film - worthy Oscar winner. Holds up as a beautifully constructed piece of mainstream entertainment. One of the most entertaining and enjoyable con artist films. The performance of Paul Newman and Robert Redford is top-notch - especially the last one - he played his part with such a pleasure that let you think he truly wanted to trick that guy. At the end even the audience feel the piercing mind sting of so refined deceit.


                
Written by screenwriter David Ward and directed by George Roy Hill, this film practically dominated the Oscars back in 1974 with ten nominations and seven wins one was for Best Director and for Best Picture. It also saw the reunion of "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" alums Hill along with Robert Redford and Paul Newman collaborating again for another Oscar winning film that which added another star to their already more impressive resume. But what's peculiar is that Butch and Sundance made the top 50 on AFI's top 100, "The Sting" didn't even place. I mean what gives? Even more odd was that Butch and Sundance lost the Best Picture Award in 1970 that year to the equally poignant "Midnight Cowboy". While "Butch and Sundance" was funny and more entertaining,"The Sting" was superior in terms of intelligence and the plot twists have very unexpected outcomes. The cinematography really captures the scope of the Great Depression era subliminally and the caper elements are quite ironic and subtle rather than obvious. And it matches the scenes in an immaculate perspective. The props and locations were very accurate to the time settings and I give a lot of praise to costume designer Edith Head for providing such exquisite costumes that gives the Depression era of America that certain look like you've travelled back in time and lived in that time even if it's two hours long. The musical score by Scott Joplin and Marvin Hamlisch gives the music of the area a fitting look.that matches the time period this movie takes place.While in "Butch" Newman was the central character there, "The Sting", it's clear that Redford runs the show and rightfully earned his Best Actor nomination Redford's character Johnny Hooker is the perfect blend of charm, charisma and a clear mischievous demeanor to go along with the package. Paul Newman is more a background player here as veteran schemer Henry Gondorff who sets up his assembly and oversees its execution. Newman's performance is still as equally exhilarating as Redford's only his portrayal has more of a tough guy approach than a colorful one that Redford's Johnny Hooker. A hats off goes to Robert Shaw as mob boss Doyle Lonnegan, for his brilliant supporting role. Other honorable mentions goes out to Charles Durning, Ray Walston and Eileen Brennan for carrying out their performances brilliantly. With a tight plot that fun and entertaining, "The Sting" will surely please the true blue movie watchers out there.
Every once in a while, a movie comes along that just "checks all the boxes" of what makes a really great movie: Great actors who "know their stuff" even in the small roles, who are pitch-perfect in their parts? Check.Great writing: superb dialog that doesn't make you wince or cringe, that's true to the story and the characters, that even in the pauses and silences moves the story forward, and that has some memorable, great lines? Check.A great director, who knows what he wants to do, knows how to do it, has the experience to put it all together, and trusts himself and the audience to follow the plot twists without beating everything to death or trying to "dumb it down" so that even a moron can follow it? Check.Visually enjoyable, opening up a place and time that may never have been real but has the look and feel of reality, and that becomes an important part of the story? Check.Has a soundtrack that's appropriate and sets the mood right, has costuming ditto, and gets all the technical issues right so it all works flawlessly? Check.Man, how often does this all come together? Not nearly often enough."The Sting" is a straightforward caper movie, a bunch of grifters who are all working together to pull off a job that in some way revenges the death of another grifter, Luther Coleman, played by Robert Earl Jones. Robert Redford, in one of the two lead roles, is Luther's friend and partner-in-crime, Johnny Hooker, a brash young grifter who seeks the help of Paul Newman as Henry Gondorff, a wise and experienced con man who has forgotten more about grifting than most grifters ever know. Hooker wants to find a way to con Doyle Lonnegan, played by Robert Shaw, the gangster boss who ordered Luther Coleman's hit when Hooker and Coleman pull a grift on a "mark" who happened to be carrying the week's take on the rackets for one of Lonnegan's managers.And therein lies the story: the "sting" of Doyle Lonnegan, who is a dangerous gangster with no inhibitions on ordering a hit on anyone who crosses him up or threatens his position in the organized crime world.The movie plays out suspensfully, with several twists to the plot that all come together at the end. I'm glad I'm old enough to have seen this movie when it first came out, so I didn't know what those twists were, and I won't spoil the movie by giving them away.What I am going to say: when you're tired of all the movies that are big-budget action stories, when you've had enough of the movies that are sequels and prequels and spin-offs made because they can make money, when you're fed up with comic-book heroes and movies made from books or "graphic novels" or other sources that guarantee the movie an audience, sit down and watch "The Sting." You'll be seeing a genuine original movie made by and with people who loved what they do and do it well. You'll come away at the end wishing that someone would make movies like "The Sting" now, just for a change....And you'll be seeing a movie that is one of the all-time great entertainment movies ever made.
The time is September, 1936.Johnny Hooker (Redford) is a small time con man who happens to steal from a crime boss Doyle Lonnegan.His partner Luther gets killed and he has to run.He goes to Luther's contact Henry Gondorff (Newman), maybe he can help.And he can.They come up with a scheme that includes "track-betting".The Sting (1973) is directed by George Roy Hill.It's written by David S. Ward.The team Paul Newman and Robert Redford work very well together.This was their second collaboration.Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) is a classic, and at least Butch might ride again in an upcoming movie.It's too bad those two never got a chance to work together for the third time due to Newman's passing.Robert Shaw makes a great villain in Doyle Lonnegan.Charles Durning is terrific as Lt. William Snyder, who never seems to catch Hooker.Ray Walston does a great job as J.J. Singleton.Eileen Brennan is wonderful as Billie.Harold Gould does a fantastic job as Kid Twist.It's awfully nice to watch the great late Dana Elcar portraying FBI Agent Polk, aka "Hickey".Robert Earl Jones, father of James Earl Jones, does a terrific job portraying Luther Coleman.James Sloyan plays Mottola, who gets conned in the opening sequence.Sally Kirkland plays Crystal.Dimitra Arliss is Loretta Salino.The movie does a great job capturing the spirit of the era.The music is one key element that brings the 30's before your eyes.Its main melody is "The Entertainer", a piano rag by Scott Joplin.It was lightly adapted for the movie by Marvin Hamlisch.There's a lot of classic stuff in this movie.The con itself is most intriguing to watch.It's a lot of fun to watch the poker game, where Gondorff acts like a drunken fool and he beats all of them.The ending is most memorable, where Gondorff and Hooker end up shot only to get up again.Interesting trivia: The diner where Hooker meets Lonnegan is the same diner interior used in Back to the Future and its sequel.The movie earned seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, directing, screenplay and music.The Sting is a movie that's worth checking out at least once.I've seen it twice.
You have got yourself:1) Robert Redford (nominated for best actor in leading role) 2) Paul Newman 3) an extremely beautiful plot 4) laughters 5) twists 6) 7 Oscars 7) Best director 8) great acting 9) Best music 10) Best Story 11) Unforgettable scenes and lines 12) What more could you have asked for?I watched this movie when I was 15 years old and back then we didn't have either DVD's nor internet and I liked the movie so much but didn't have the chance to watch it again. It was like a fine chance that the TV played this movie and I kept the title on my list of movies (yes even then I was a movie addict and I had my list ever since I was that age) until I finally was able to have it in my library and the day I was able to buy it, was a great day for the movie is too old and not all vendors were capable of getting it. It was sure worth the trouble!


                
For me, this movie was a gateway to the movies of the past. After seeing The Sting and shortly thereafter, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, upon the insistence of my father I realized that perhaps the movies of his time had more to offer than simply old vernacular and bad punches. It was around this time that my criteria of the definition of a good movie shifted more towards performance and plot rather than special effects and bullets. Sometimes our parents are right. I should note that when I first watched this movie I was about 10 years old and spent most of my days playing outside and watching espn fishing shows on Saturday morning, waiting for the highlights.The Sting features the lovable give and take, son and father, leads Paul Newman and Robert Redford. They are superb, as is Robert Shaw as the chump. This movie is highly recommended to all audiences of all ages and its appeal does not diminish after multiple screenings.


                
