Do not look at this through the prism of "Foreign Films". You'd be wasting your time and miss something far too important.Hollywood does scale like nobody else, leaving the competition gasping in its wake. France does intimacy, and brutality. Nothing is sacred. And rather than try to revive the New Wave or emulate Hollywood like most widely seen French films of late, "Intouchables" harnesses its core strengths - ease with intimacy, willingness to ridicule anything and brutal honesty - and delivers one of the funniest, most honest and touching films I have ever seen.Sy is a failed robber, going through the motions and playing the stereotypical jobless émigré. Cluzet is a romantic and melancholy mind trapped in a useless body. The circumstances that bring them together are too funny to spoil here, but meet they do, and an awkward relationship quickly blossoms as they bring out the best in each other.The film's simplicity is delightfully misleading: the script is a masterpiece of comedy writing, and however good the rest of the cast is, the central duo is magical. Sy's comic timing will have you in stitches, but it is his honesty and vulnerability that make you fall in love with the character. Cluzet isn't your typical sad-sack, instead, much of the finest pleasures in the film consist in watching him use his keen mind to mess with the world around him (a subplot about an abstract painting really takes the biscuit, you'll know it when you see it).This is one of the most unique, beautiful and honest friendships ever committed to film. It will make you laugh, it will make you cry... a delightful celebration of everything in life that makes it worthwhile.


                
I am now trying to find words to describe this movie for an hour. I couldn't.You've seen it, or you haven't. It's monumental and outrageously good.The cast is brilliant. The jokes lovely. The story and the idea behind the movie is beautiful. Especially when you've worked/lived with handicapped people. The music is such a perfect choice, it is unbelievable.I hope this movie makes a plenty of people think about how good their life is and how bad it could have been.Bottom line: Oscar-worthy. Period.


                
In less than two months, "Untouchable" became the second most successful French film by number of spectators, such an event by itself that people went then to see it, not because they thought it was good but to see what was so good in it: that's the virtual circle of success. My biggest disappointment in 2011 was with "The Tree of Life", a movie I sincerely wanted to love but couldn't, and I left the theater before it ended with a bitter taste of frustration. Proportionally, my greatest positive surprise came with "Untouchable" because it was the opposite expectation: I was sure I would dislike it, figuring the movie manipulated viewers through the overused device of the improbable friendship. Why such preconceived negativity? Well, when a young black guy from French suburbs, darkly depicted in Mathieu Kassovitz 'Hate' and infamous for its occasional riots, befriends a rich quadriplegic, I immediately think of 'good feelings', 'mainstream populism' <U+0085> unaware that I apply to myself a cynical judgment that can undermine my very way to enjoy not just this film, but any film. After all, why getting ready for hatred when it's so relieving to give the benefit of the doubt and get ready for appreciation? Especially since more than 15 millions of French people, from different ages and backgrounds liked it. So, I saw it <U+0085> and loved it.The story of "Untouchable" is the kind of unintentional masterpiece that only movies can provide every once in a while, it has no other pretension than to depict a magnificent and inspiring friendship story starting as a simple job. A young man with a Senegalese background, Omar Sy as Driss, only needs a signature to prove that he attended an interview for a live-in carer job. For some strange reason, Paul, the rich man, played by a wonderful François Cluzet, gives him the job, with a one-month trial period. The reason of this choice is smoothly handled by the script: the film starts with all the job applicants, every one of them unnaturally posing and getting mixed in prepared answers. Then, Driss casually enters, without waiting for his turn or knocking on the door, he's got enough problems to deal with, unemployment, an experience in jail, being a pariah for society, and undesirable even in his own family, especially her adoptive aunt. Driss' attitude pleases Paul, because after his paragliding accident, he can't feel his body from neck to toes, and needs caring almost 24 hours per days and 7 days per week, so he really doesn't have time for bullshit either. And this is a remarkable aspect in the script written by the two directors Eric Toledano and Olivier Nakache: it doesn't waste time cementing the friendship, the two leads rapidly get fond of each other, a feeling illustrated in the poster with both posing with natural smiles. The film shows Omar's struggle to learn how 'needy' Paul is, which provides some priceless comedic moments, but "Untouchable" goes immediately to the core, an eye-opening message about the life endured by a handicapped person, making all the wealth in the world pointless and the richness of heart and mind, priceless. Through Driss and Paul's interaction, the film explores the real needs of people in life, respect and understanding, acceptance and love. Maybe if it was handled by other directors, it would have been predictable but in "Untouchable", the complicity between the two heroes feels absolutely real. There's one scene when Driss shave the bushy beard of Paul,<U+0085> well, I won't spoil it for you, but the part was a clever mix of realism and comedy because anyone would have done what Driss did at one moment, and that's the secret of the film: it feels real.Some movies can work with a good story but they need good performances, in "Untouchable", it's almost impossible to determine who carried the film, both Cluzet and Sy were great. And I don't get the complaints: why they didn't respect the original story where the carer was an Arab, or how they 'sugarcoated' the handicap? I even heard that in America, they were accusing the film of racism because Driss was portrayed as a sort of (I quote) 'helper monkey'? Seriously, this is getting old <U+0085>The way handicap is approached never flirts with an exaggerated pathos, nor the opposite, which is the most intelligent achievement. There's a sort of heart's intelligence in the way Omar teases Cluzet with his own handicap, and the film provides the extraordinary message that pleasure and thrills have unlimited media, whether they come from pot, an ear-massage or even paragliding. Many of Paul's friends criticizes the presence of Driss in Paul's life, but Paul doesn't care: Omar is a man full of life, big, tall and strong, and when he uses violence to teach a man the respect of a parking sign, Paul admits this is the right method. Both are in the same wavelength. I wondered if the title "Untouchable" referred to the lowest caste in India, echoing the two men's conditions, both outcasts physically and socially, but I guess, their relationship evolves into a friendship precisely because they're both strong-minded, and together, they become even stronger, until getting untouchables ... in the noblest meaning of the word.There are real people in "Untouchable", nothing works as plot devices even if some situations are so cinematically appealing: Omar inviting everybody to dance during Paul's birthday, his learning of the aristocratic world, the art of abstract painting, and the way he breaks the conventions with an unconventional charisma reaches a level of energetic comedy that reminds of the greatest days of Eddie Murphy, with Cluzet as a perfect straight-man not deprived from a sense of humor. "Untouchable" is simply an inspiring story of friendship with whatever defines this beautiful virtue. And yes, it's one of the best French films ever, and certainly one of the best of 2011.


                
Well, I've just got out of the theater and i must say that all the reviews are right. this is an amazing film! The actors are simply the best, Omar is not only a great comic but also a great actor.The filming has a certain touch that brings to mind "What's Eating Gilbert Grape" in the way the director was able to capture not only the suffering of Phillip but also the joy.Not wanting to spoil the film for others, i highly recommend seeing this in the theaters and with a loved one.It is also a good film for teenagers as it holds a few wonderful life lessons.Enjoy.


                
It has been 9 weeks now since Intoucblaes has come to the movie theaters. I did not give it much thought at first, but the universal acclaim I have heard convinced me to go see it. I don't over-stating the universality of the acclaim, people of various races, classes, colors & countries told me it was a must see. I had no expectations, and I was floored. Intouchables, directed by Eric Toledano and Olivier Nakache, starring Francois Cluzet and Omar Sy is possibly the best French movie of the year. This is not because of a lack of worthy contenders, but truly because Intouchables is that profound. It touches on themes of presumptions, social class difference, health, and as naïve as it may sound, the universality of humanity. The story is not as important as is the relationship that is displayed between the two protagonists. Philippe (played by Cluzet) a rich aristocrat that loves adrenaline rushes finds himself a paraplegic after a paragliding incident. Driss (played by Sy) is, in appearance a typical hoodlum from the ghetto. The two are brought together and wonders happen. The audience then sees how the men affect one another as they engage in a truly honest relationship. Driss is charismatic, lighthearted and funny, helping make Philippe's life enjoyable again. In the process the traditionally cold French aristocracy around Philippe warms up and lightens. He is like a hot knife through cold butter. Again, it is not so much the story that is important as is the social commentary. The commentary is not judgmental and is very subtle, revealed only in the contrasts the director chose in the story and its contexts. His method reminded me of a sort of Zen approach to comedy. One example you can catch from the trailer alone is the contrast between the able bodied black Driss and t the crippled white man, etc. The audience is also given wonderful sights of Paris and France as we go through the Pyrenees, Cabourg and the various streets of Paris. On paper the review does not make the movie justice. It is hilarious in a way that is true, honest and by which anyone can relate to. Most importantly it is revealing and comforting in its reminder of the essential in life : love. It's approach is simple, pure and honest and that makes it worthy of the title of "best movie of the year". I cannot say more; the film must be experienced. My friends tried, they failed, so I trusted them and I saw it. It floored me. Go and be floored. PS - I heard American studios have purchased the rights for the film. They will need a brilliant director, screenwriters and perfect actors to make the original justice in the way "The Departed" did for "Infernal Affairs".


                
Just seen last night, amazing movie, great performances from actors, particularly from Omar, and Cluzet is great as usual. Photography of images are great, supported by good choice of locations supporting actors are all good and natural so doing a great job to give a great solid base to the story. RIch of emotions on a simple story where ordinary people become extraordinary. Good representation of social differences in France without being too heavy on it. Simple, beautiful, efficient, like a good French cuisine, making a great dish full of tastes magically mixed :) Most to be watched and even more emotional when you know its based on true story !


                
It's not because I'm French that I appreciated this movie which I've seen twice. Too give the really infamous appreciation of the reader from Toronto to the French public, qualifying us of a segregationist country is difficult to gulp especially coming from north America which has not a very glorious past on the matter even in recent years. Perhaps the commentator should see the movie "The help" to refresh his memory... But what I'd like to say here apart of praising the fabulous interpretation of both leading actors is to remind that this is a true story, it did not come out from the directors and scriptwriter heads.Philippe Pozzo Di Borgo born in 51, got a dramatic para-glider accident in the French Alps in 1993 being totally deprived of movements from the base of his neck to the tip of his feet. 3 Years later his wife died and he was helped out of his depression by Abdel Sellou his life-aid assistant. He published his terrible story in 2001 under the title "the second breath" (in French "Le second soufflé"). The directors have had the compliments of Di Borgo for the way they adapted his story. If in any way this was biased he would never had accepted the film to be left in that state. The Di Borgo family is a very old and wealthy family whose origins goes far back in the history of France, and their residence in Paris is considered to be one the jewels of the capital at the same level as The Hotel de Sully in Paris. What is shown in the film is exactly what happens everywhere in the world as far as handicapped are concerned: tendency to overwhelm them with pity which is more diminishing them as if their fate is not enough for them to swallow every minute or second each day. The way the racial problem is viewed is properly demonstrated. The police behaves in different ways depending of the color of your skin or your country's origin and sorry to say North America is a very good example of this so perhaps is not a proper judge on this matter.The authors had the courage to state this straightforwardly. The film shows on the contrary how a man with a very limited education at the beginning, a former convict, is capable progressively to change his views, and find in himself at the same time the good Samaritan aspects and help with humor and punch, his handicapped boss to find a new belief in his shattered life at 42! At the same time the boss demonstrates an open-mindedness which was not obvious to get not only because of his handicap but because of his origins and his wealth at first. Let's not illusion ourselves on the matter, everywhere in the world few wealthy people would accept to have as an aid an ex convict whichever color his skin should be! It's a fantastic lesson of tolerance, and friendship. For just those reason this movie would deserve an Oscar or Golden Globe awards.09/07/2013 : I've just seen that under "Crazy credits" is mentioned that 5% of the revenues of the film will go to an institutions caring for disabled persons. I just don't see what's crazy about that! I find this kind of remark particularly shocking and insulting both for the producers and the actors especially in this case where the story told is a true one.I suggest the administrator to delete that remark or change its qualification.


                
I CANNOT BELIEVE that "Bridesmaids" is nominated for an Oscar, just like Brad Pitt for his completely boring and not convincing part in "Moneyball", when in 2011 such a great movie was made!!! Did the Academy even see this?It's a shame and in my opinion proves that the "Academy Awards" are just ridiculous and have nothing to do with good film and acting. Francois Cluzet's performance is outstanding, as is Omar Sy and the story is just lovely and touching in a wonderful non-Hollywood way. (REMAKE? ARE YOU KIDDING ME?)Spread the word and enjoy this beautiful movie!!!


                
Intouchables is a true story of Philippe ,a rich aristocrat who is paralyzed from neck down and Driss ,an unemployed man coming from a poverty stricken family..Francois & Omar as the lead cast give a superb performance .. The charismatic Omar (Driss) is just amazing..His very presence on screen is powerful as he juggles between rib-tickling comedy and some serious drama...Francois (Philippe) is on par with Omar...He gives a very controlled performance and is able to hold strong against Omar's contrasting character.Considering,Francois had to act as a quadriplegic, he has done an amazing job..His expressions itself substitute any needs of dialogues.. The bond the two develop is pure gem.Story is smooth and never drags..It could have been an intense drama movie,but the directors usage of comedy made it stand out from other similar stories..Direction is sharp & the movie doesn't rely on any over the top scenes..The music is beautifully blended into the movie and it enhances the effectiveness of many scenes...The Intouchables can be described by one word..Beautiful...The movie is a must watch for all..Acting- 5/5 Story- 5/5 Direction- 5/5 Comedy- 5/5 Drama- 5/5


                
wow, what a wonderful movie!! full of love, friendship and laughs. just like i always said, when a french movie is good, it's not just good, it's great! and this movie simply explains it. no wonder this movie would have won some international awards, it really deserved it. with these two great actors of two generation, the performances of both is just a perfect casting job. this is an absolutely feeling-good movie, warm up your heart without any intention. in this movie, you will see how it's like day and night that the extreme poverty of the immigrant families and the extreme prosperity of the french rich people. by contrast, this movie used it to prove that oil and water could have mixed together and evolved into a very heartfelt social structure. i enjoyed it 100%.


                
This was for sure one of the Top5 or Top10 movies I've ever seen. The actors, the ambiente, the story ... simply everything was in a perfect combination. This film is for me in a league with films like "The Elephant Man", but for a much wider audience. And as the title say, after this film I really have to consider to reduce my ratings for several films, because it seems a bit unfair to put them on the same level as this film, although I don't have anything to criticize on them at all. All the persons in the film are very authentic played. And both main characters surprised me with a brilliant performance. I would say, that both actors are really what they are playing in the film. If I would see François Cluzet in the street, I would be surprised not seeing him in a wheelchair. The emotions shown in the last sequence of the film are so brilliant.


                
My my where do I begin.To start with I did not want the movie to end at all. Its becoming more and more rare for movies as this one to come by. This movie completes the circle, as far as movie going experience goes. The movie has left me with a sort of warm feeling in my heart that cannot be said in words alone. There is something about the way French movies are made, when they get it right they are simply par excellence. Hollywood kisses concrete.Anyway, I feel most of us humans are quadriplegic though not physically but emotionally in someway or other. But what one may agree is that when you cry you cry alone, but when you laugh the whole world laughs with you.If just by the word "quadriplegic" you are expecting it to be a dark, heart shattering, emotionally overloaded movie then I would passionately defend against such a prejudiced opinion. One is not the physical form alone. One can have a beautiful body but a black heart and vice-verse.A very well written, full bodied script and an exceptionally well directed movie. Characters cannot become more real than this on the silver screen. Omar Sy in my opinion has done a very good job. He lived his character and not played it. To contrast him we have François Cluzet who kept the sparks flying. Omar Sy's comments on Bach, Vivaldi etc classics had me in splits. And also do not miss out on the singing Human tree, the very mentioning of which is having me in splits.Wow !!! that was some movie. Go get this movie guys and see it today, no now.


                
When I went to see Intouchables I am expecting to see a good movie because the buzz in France about it right now is pretty unbelievable, to the point that a 10:30am screening was full (10 days after the release), I left the theater happy because I didn't see a good movie but the best movie I have ever seen. I loved Nakache & Toledano previous movies, for me they represent what French cinema does the best these kinds of comedies that always put you on the verge of tears while laughing at jokes that feel so real. With Intouchables they put that characteristic even further; the movie is FULL of jokes and it also treat one of the most serious subject. François Cluzet is at the top of his art, the best (French) actor of his generation for sure. Omar Sy delivers a spot on performance, I particularly enjoyed his melancholic look, you can just see the emotions in his eyes. Their on-screen friendship is probably one of the best I have seen and we can summarize it with these words from the movie "These guys they have no pity" a friend of Philippe-talking about Driss- to which Philippe answers "You know sometimes he hands me the phone because he forgot". Driss forget that Philippe can't move his legs, his arms, can't feel anything that is under is neck and this is priceless for Philippe. In a world where everybody looks at him like an handicapped, Driss' behavior is more that a fresh air, it's a reason to live for, to think that maybe there are others people like him, that can see further that his wheelchair. The music is also spot on, just enough to make you feel the emotion without being too much. I really hope it's going to win lots of Césars. It's really going to be a tie this year for the best actor performance between Omar Sy, François Cluzet and Jean Dujardin (The Artist). I predict an American remake in a few years, you know Hollywood...
This is one of the best movies we have ever seen. My wife and I see 3 movies a week on average over The past 40 years. Saying it is one of the best is quite a statement. This French movie with sub titles is simply Spectacular. The storyline involves a man crippled in An accident, his wife has passed away and he cannot Find adequate help which he requires 24/7. Until he meets the Most unlikely of people to care for him. The acting by Omar Sy & Mr. Cluzet Is the very best. The movie has everything you want in a Movie. It has compassion and is spectacularly Funny. Run to see this movie. The two prime Actors must be recognized for a whole host Of awards. Wow!


                
This movie completely brought magic to my life. I don't remember the last time I've seen such an awesome movie.At the moment, this is my favorite movie.I had a bad opinion about the French people but after watching this movie my opinion has changed. I've learned a lot after watching it. What did I learn ? Holding everything I have to the most, loving everyone I have on my life and really living your life.This movie makes you want to get out and breathe, loving your world, how beautiful it is.I completely recommend it, I've rated it 10 out of 10.I'm sorry for any mispelling as English is not my primary language.


                
A typical, wonderful, french film, full of surprises that grip the mind and the heart, being an Englishman living in France and having a good grip on the French language this film enveloped me like a cozy blanket on the sofa on a Sunday.The Acting is marvelous, the scripting is genius, and the Paris 'decor' helps to give it a certain romance between the 2 principal actors.A must see even if you can't understand French get yourself an auto-translator or take some french student with you that can translate "en-direct".Go watch it!


                
After spending the better part of 2 hours watching this glorious film, I have decided to take it upon myself to express my utter delight at the fact that a film like this regardless of the scenario can be such a joy!It is safe to say to all movie fans that 2012 has been extremely disappointing in terms of quality story lines, scripting and acting in general. We have become so used to the annual 'blockbuster' scenarios that at times we as an audience tend to forget what it is like to actually experience something of great quality.The two main protagonists in this film are Philippe (François Cluzet) a wealthy quadriplegic and a far removed and initially troubled Parisian - Driss (Omar Sy). The chemistry that each has towards one another and the play on Driss' ignorance to Philippe and his disability makes this feature charm you from the very start - along with the contrast in social standings, education and hobbies their lives become dependent on one another over time. Through the use of the extremely well placed quips, jokes and glorious rhetoric it leaves you always wanting more, and it does just that. To actually say this in a review is genuinely rare for me and I hope that this film gets the genuine recognition it deserves by the audience who watch it in the future, for it is a rare masterpiece of cinematic perfection parading values of friendship and humour that you will want to talk about with your friends for quite some time.No words can really describe the true delight this film has brought to my life and those who were with me in the cinema. Truly excellent!
I hadn't expected too much of this film because of the carer/wheelchair storyline. It just didn't sound very interesting. So I was pretty much astonished to find myself watching a truly marvellous and entertaining movie.It's a unique storyline which is apparently based on true life. The two guys at the centre of the plot keep bouncing jokes off each other leaving you in fits of laughter. But it's not just a comedy; there's a lot of sad, moving and beautiful stuff in there as well.Script, direction, filming and acting are all of the highest standard.This is a very sensitive treatment of human relationships; sad, funny and involving. It's simply a great movie. I can't recommend it highly enough.


                
I can't remember when I've been so moved by a movie or story. The power of love and interconnection, and learning how to care for someone else besides yourself are strong themes in this movie. It was funny, touching, tragic and wonderful all at the same time. For why are why here on this planet if not to take care of each other and impact each others' lives? These actors I've never seen took me on an amazing ride that I'll not soon forget. It is amazing how two people can affect each other so deeply. Absolutely one the best movies I've ever seen. I went to the movie with my sisters, dad and husband. My dad is frail and my husband helped him to the restroom during the movie. Life is so fragile, but we prop each other up and that is how we get through it all.
Watch it to see what life's all about. Watch it to find out what friendship's all about. Watch it to hear some amazing music. Watch it to see how to live your life even when you think it's too hard sometimes. Watch it if you still don't believe life is wonderful. Watch it if you're bored with your life, if you think there's no point or no hope. Watch it if you've stopped enjoying simple things. The plot is simply thrilling, the acting as well,with a large amount of extremely good humour plus a great deal of equally amazing music. You have to be careful, however, as once you've watched the movie for the first time you will not be able to keep your mind off it and the beautiful music makes it even more difficult... Watch it. :]


                
I love French movies, so different from typical Hollywood stuff full of special effects but often with lack of depth in stories.This movies is so simple, humane, deep. It's about what should happen more often, great friendship between two so different persons who are able to go beyond prejudices and stereotypes. It's not a sad movie at all, like it could sound to some people, and it's absolutely not racist like I have read somewhere else in the comments. I suggest to all people to go and watch this, you will go out of the cinema with something great you have learned and seen. It's definitely the best movies I have seen this year so far.


                
By just looking at the front-cover for this movie, I could imagine this would be something good. The beginning really got me into it and I just wanted to see what would happen later in the movie. It did not take long before I actually felt that I was in their lives. From start to the end I was just stunned by all emotions this movie gave out.I had never thought that I was both going to laugh and cry at the same time, just to mention I am not that guy who easily get affected by a movie. This was something really impressing! To all out there who not have seen this movie, I really recommend doing it. You may be thinking this is a another boring drama, but after seeing it I can tell it is more than drama. Comedy mixed with love, feelings and friendship makes this movie something out of its own.


                
I'm 21 and have lived in France nearly all my life. My cousin recommended this film to me and when I saw that Omar Sy was one of the main actors, I just laughed. For those of you who don't know, Omar Sy is one half of a famous Canal + sketch comedy show called Omar & Fred. To sum it up, it is very light hearted, even silly, comedy. However, to see him perform at this level and with such ease simply amazed me. The relationship & chemistry created between the two characters in the film would make you believe that Omar & François Cluzet were best friends in real life.François Cluzet is also excellent in this film. To a certain extent, his performance reminds me a bit of Dustin Hoffman's in Rain Man. This role shows how versatile he is as an actor. The last film I saw him in was "Ne Le Dis à Personne" (Tell No One) and his role in that is, literally, the complete opposite, yet he pulls off both wonderfully.I have seen my fair share of "touching" movies but this completely blew me away. If you have 1 hour 40 minutes of your time to spare, please, use it to watch this film. You will not regret it.


                
This is my first time stepping to the other side, from been a viewer to been a reviewer. This film made me do it. It shook me and made me realize that when you have nothing to lose then you have all to earn. It start with two mans that are in the lowest points of there lives. They are so different yet so connected. It will show you that you don't need to judge by look or by color and anyone can have a chance to influence the life of the other.I will not say any more but this: Go and see this movie. this is a once in a lifetime.


                
I was almost unknown to French Cinema, until two years back watched " Tell no One " one of the best thriller I ever seen and I become fan of Francois Cluzet.The Intouchables is an excellent movie to watch.The acting from all leading roles are really good, they lived their characters.Movie has emotions, jokes, funny situations & gives positive thoughts to look at life.One word, go and watch the movie10/10 for movie10/10 to Francois Cluzet


                
