A film about a wealthy paraplegic and his less than obvious choice for a physical aide. The aide is some guy from 'the hood' who gets the job because he shows no pity for the condition of the paralyzed man. From the premise up we get treated to a repetition of the same joke with the paraplegic at the center. I can't remember the last time I saw such an array of unfunny clichés posing as a film. Omar Sy does well as the French version of Will Smith and other actors perform on par. The film's impact just relies too much on the obvious humor excavated from situations involving a man who due to an accident can only move his head. Would perhaps have been funny as an episode of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. Quite a trial to sit through.


                
Isn't this movie rather racist, seeing that the black guy is portrayed as violent, horny, unsophisticated, rude and criminal. And the guy that this character is based upon wasn't even black to begin with. But of course, being black, he can dance like there is no tomorrow. But what the heck, stereotyped aside, I found this whole venture far too predictable and aiming at easy laughs. Like when he sold the black guy's painting for 11000 Euro or making fun of the Opera. Sure the majority of people have no interest in modern art or opera, but if you want to make fun of those, does it always have to be that straightforward?Also, when Driss starts working at the posh place, he needs only a couple of days to become friends with everyone, a few misunderstandings, but from then on the two oh-so-different people get along so fine, that you might wonder where the drama is. Oh right, it's a comedy. So the black guy threatens the daughter's ex-boyfriend into bringing croissants to the mansion each day. Because obviously, threatening other people is another thing that black people are really good at. So this teenager apparently feels threatened enough to bring croissants to these overly rich people very day. Says the housekeeper one morning: Can you bring some more tomorrow because we're having a brunch? Like, if you dig that kind of humour, you might really enjoy this movie, but if you hated 'Bienvenue chez les Ch'tis' as much as I did, you're in for a big disappointment.
Some feelings cannot be expressed or demanded only a true friend can get it; we can live in our emptiness forever and can express only to ourself but actually there is no gain but only pain...it won't satisfy but shall remain us in loneliness.. But only a friend with crystal clear heart who's ready to sacrifice himself can lead us to our destiny.He can fulfill our desire which are avoided outside but demanded inside. An excellent movie of an intouchable's intouchable demands. Based on a true story,very much inspirational a family drama French movie nominated for one golden globe award too.. Worth watching the movie, I watched it on the TV. Here Driss is the friend recruited by Philippe who's the intouchable.


                
