This movie surprised us. We checked on IMDb and saw 8/10 for a french movie, without hesitation we went to the movie theatre to watch the movie.The subject is hard but the movie is really funny. In a few seconds you are fully projected within the film from the beginning to the end. There is no special effet but the actors are playing very well and the movie is based on a real story.If you are skeptical for French movie don't be for this one ... it is a must see movie.Enjoy the movie.


                
This is the story of friendship between a quadriplegic (Phillipe) and his black attendant (Driss). At the surface one has the impression that the film will be a tearjerker with oodles of sentimental scenes coming one after another. Being from India and having witnessed such films of dying person or disability which are meant to titillate the sentiment of the weak to my mind I perceived one that of a contrived, loud, excessively melodramatic "Gujarish" which was also about a quadriplegic person. But as I started watching it how I wished to see such a film being made in India. The movie is a lesson to live life with full vigour amidst adversities. The film starts with two persons in car with one in the wheel driving it crazily through the busy roads of France when they are stopped by the police. Driss challenges Philippe that the policemen wouldn't arrest him but on the contrary would escort them. Thus they put a bet of 200Euros.Driss faked a drama about how he was taking quadriplegic Philippe to hospital for emergency and thus he had no option but to opt for rash driving. They succeeded in creating guilt amongst the policemen thus assuring them to escort Phillipe's car. As they start the car again there is an immediate smile in my face that this will be film full of life. From there the movie goes back to where the hiring process is on for a caretaker. Driss, an outlaw leaving in the black community of suburbs took the job. Unlike the other caretakers Philippe become connected to Driss easily because of the Driss's lack of sympathy towards him. In fact the film works at this level which makes us feel that people with certain problem needs affection rather than sympathy. Driss is an outlaw, rude and brutally honest and somehow there seem to be a connection with Phillipe who is a rich loner losing his lower half to an accident. The zeal for life is still there but the support is missing. From having food to shower to everything he needs someone else's "hands" not out of sympathy but out of compassion and he found it in Driss. Driss on the other hand learns the art of living from Phil's quadriplegic existence. He learns to respect life, family and more than that Himself. He gains confidence in life and tries to induce that to Phillipe by trying to re-marry him to his lady love. The climax is one of the best I have seen in recent times. It is honest, sweet, touching yet there is no forced melodrama. The simplicity brings down tears of happiness as we learn the real characters that inspired the reel version are living a happy contended life overcoming their individual short comings at physical as well as psychological level. There have been several films on friendship between a black and white but there is nothing contrived in the plot. Director duo Olivier Nakache & Eric Toledano's intention is as pure as the friendship portrayed.Their success lies in their usage of subtle humour to tell this touching story.The wide angle of camera reflects a contentment which the protagonist is having with his surroundings. The gradual bonding has been kept subtle with small sequences like Driss taking Phillipe to open air around 3am and then offering cigarette. These are the small things which help in taking the bigger step. The usage of light has been apt as the shade gradually shifts towards brighter shade. Dorian's editing gels with the character transformations. The long cuts in the initial reels changed to short cuts reflecting the happiness and youthful exuberance within. Ludovico's soft background score suits the mood of the film. The occasional use of orchestra uplifts the mood after prolonged calmness which fits Phillipe's characterization. François Cluzet and Omar Sy as Phillipe and Driss respectively are flawless. Veteran actor Cluzet fits in perfectly as Phillipe and brings out the hopelessness yet the desire to live with perfect conviction. The clumsiness of a quadriplegic comes from his mannerism. And then there is the young talent Sy whose comic timings are more than perfect. His range of expression helps in showing the change in the curve of his character as he softens down on his basic mannerisms. His initial mockery to the aristocratic existence, to his understanding of their behaviour and thus a change in his own expressions are put across with perfection. "Intouchables" celebrates life and the reason it works is one can identify with the basic emotion. Someway we all are saddled in our existence fighting all odds and struggling to overcome adversities of life. This film brings in hope; it throws light to the darkness in our existence. It teaches us to love through tales of true friendship, a virtue that is losing its value in this materialistic existence. It tells us to believe in our strength and never lose hope which we tend to even in minor setbacks. Without trying to sympathise on bygones the film subtly teaches to look forward and use every precious moment of our life to be happy. The movie is a must watch for everyone who can breathe. P.S : This year a great tragedy happened in my life for which I was mentally down. But this movie really helped me to have faith in life and all to a certain extend. I really want to thanks the director duo for making this film


                
First of all, excuse my French. But kind of bull***t are North American viewers seeing when they see that movie?Sorry to disappoint the people who think that movie offensive to Black people, but French people are far from dumb and racist. Are you saying that all these people with all kind of origins who laughed out loud at the screening are wrong? So are the Japanese jury who gave it 2 awards.Yes, The original guy was Arabic and Omar is black. But the directors knew him and wanted to work with him again (his show on the Canal + channel is quite hilarious), maybe they shouldn't have. Yes, they should have taken a white guy, so Omar wouldn't have played the part because of the colour of his skin and American viewers wouldn't be shocked what do you think? From the NA reviews I've read, the fact that the Black guy serves the white one is shocking. From what I saw a lot of white people didn't feel the the position to be demeaning. As for me I didn't see a Black guy but a guy from the poor suburbs of Paris. The clichés are unfortunately true, in Paris suburb 10% of the population are living in overcrowded accommodations. Life can be pretty hard when you have nothing to look forward to. So yes, Driss enjoys the fact that he's got his own bathtub, he likes playing the tough guy, and so on. He won't become a fan of classical music and ballet. It's real life, not Disneyland!! I think this is the way the American remake will be (can't wait not to see it!)Personally when I watched the movie, I just wanted a laugh and I did!! Non-stop laughing is what we need when every time you turn the radio or the TV on, news are so bleak...
This movie does not really need another review, but after seeing what Daily Beast's (Marlow Stern) and Variety's (Jay Weissberg) critics have written about it, I feel that one thing needs a serious clarification. It is somewhat disturbing and, at the same time, really telling a lot about USA's culture that American reviewers see this movie as "race-relations" feature.I've read all of the 38 reviews written here on IMDb until now and I would suggest to both Stern and Weissberg to do the same. Maybe they could learn something. Most of the reviews here were written by non-Americans and, tellingly, most of them do not even mention race or race relations or anything similar. To me that shows how deep anything to do with a difference in color of skin has been intertwined with USA culture when even in this film - where nobody from, let's say the rest of the world, does not see any racism or anything similar - the only thing USA critics do see is the difference in color of skin. Sad, very sad.I'm, therefore, afraid that, if it shares Stern's and Weissberg's opinions, most of the USA audience will not see the real beauty of this film and will, probably also under the influence of critics' reviews, see the movie as a race-relations feature when that's the only thing it's not.And what it is? It is (I can't believe I'm gonna write this) a carefree comedy about a quadriplegic and his personal aide. The movie does not at any moment come even close to apathy or pathetics which is a success on its own. The movie also has just about the perfect amount of black humor and political incorrectness and does not cross those borders at any time. I think this is the only movie about a disabled human where, after seeing it, you will go out of the theater laughing. And I can't remember any movie which approaches such a difficult theme with such ease.Additionaly, the soundtrack - both Einaudi's score as well as selected tracks - is fantastic.A lot has been written here about cast and I would just like to add that along masterful performances of both Sy and Cluzet, the rest of the actors are equally great, especially Anne Le Ny and Audrey Flerot.


                
In Paris, the aristocratic and intellectual Philippe (François Cluzet) is a quadriplegic millionaire that is interviewing candidates for the position of his caretaker with his red-haired secretary Magalie (Audrey Fleurot). Out of the blue, the rude African Driss (Omar Sy) cuts the line of candidates and brings a document from the Social Security and asks to Phillipe to sign it to prove that he is seeking a job position to receive his unemployment insurance.Philippe challenges Driss and offers a period of adaptation of one week to him to gain experience helping him. Then Driss would decide whether he would like to stay with him or not. Driss accepts the bet and moves to the mansion, changing the boring life of Phillipe and his employees. "Intouchables" is a beautiful and uplifting story of friendship based on a true story. My daughter had watched this movie a couple of months ago when she was traveling on vacation and recommended it a lot to me and yesterday I saw it on DVD.The screenplay is excellent and the directors and writers Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano have a magnificent work. This theme in the hands of a weak director could transform the uplifting story into a corny or melodramatic movie. But they succeeded making a funny and touching comedy.The cast is also fantastic, and the chemistry between François Cluzet and Omar Sy is amazing. Anne Le Ny is also wonderful and Audrey Fleurot is a very beautiful woman and excellent actress in her ambiguous role luring Driss. In the end, I went to bed late but feeling good. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Intocáveis ("Untouchables")


                
I saw this title and I was really skeptical to the storyline : "Another comedy drama that will neither make you live the story alongside the characters (feel their emotions) nor will it make you laugh" that is what i thought. But men was i wrong. I love the way François Cluzet and Omar Sy play in this movie ; so natural , so good. I lived every second of the movie like it was my life. I came to like Driss and Philippe as real characters and now at the end of the movie i wonder where did they go. That is the kind of emotion this movie generates. It has everything you could expect from a great movie : story, characters, laughs and cries, tension and so on. You won't regret seeing this movie alone or with someone. I appreciate great work when i see it and this film made me take into consideration seeing more french movies as it improved my opinion on them. Enjoy this movie and every frame of it :D.


                
It was very exciting to hear that 'Untouchable' would finally be shown in the UK after appearing in so many other countries first. Having read plenty of hype about this film I was preparing myself to be disappointed but, luckily, the film felt engaging from the very beginning and went on to be a wonderfully touching and funny experience. There is also a fair amount of excitement and romance thrown in for good measure!Despite appearances, Untouchable is not really about race, disability or class; it's about friendship. The two main characters both feel disconnected from society for various reasons, yet the connection between these two outsiders is so genuine and believable that you are drawn into their relationship. In fact, the performances from Omar Sy and François Cluzet are simply incredible. The massive amount of meaning conveyed in the slightest look between them is acting at its very best. On many occasions, you find yourself laughing with them and the fact that one is a rich white guy in a wheelchair and the other is a poor black guy fresh out of prison ceases to be an issue. One of the most interesting themes for me was the effect that Driss's lack of pity had on Philippe. I understand that the film has been applauded by many disabled groups and I can see why. Pity is a very selfish and unpleasant emotion and I can imagine that the effect of such pity would be quite destructive on a person in Philippe's situation. Driss simply reacts to him in natural and honest way, which is extremely refreshing to see and a lesson for all those who would look down on anybody with pity.The film is not without flaws however. It is a little 'lightweight' in places and there are a few clichés here and there (even though the film manages to avoid most of the more obvious stereotyping). The subtitles are also not brilliant in places and some of the meaning is slightly lost on occasion, but I guess that happens all the time. Overall, I would have said that this was a lovely 8/10 'feelgood movie' but the superb quality of acting easily bumps it up to a 9. Unmissable.


                
A comedy like that is tough to master. Balancing the funny and the dramatic stuff and still keep enough character development inside. And while I wouldn't say that both characters really redeem themselves (wholly), it gives them nice touches. Touches that include quite a lot of non-PC behavior (be alert and do not watch, if you are sensible to that sort of thing).It is a french comedy with heart. And it was a sleeper hit in Germany. Word of mouth made this a big success. A bit of credit has to go to the people who dubbed it I guess (I watched the original version with subtitles), because they must have done a phenomenal job. It is not perfect, but that fact makes it even weirder and more adorable


                
I heard about this movie for such a long time and when i finally saw it last night i realized how right were the people that talk good about this movie. The dynamic of the movie is really interesting and every character is well composed, no one at the end has his story incomplete or anything like that. Was also amazing to see, at the end of the movie, the small video with the real Philippe and Driss. Is amazing just to think about the real story of those people, i can say that i tried to substitute the character i got in my head after have seen the movie with the real person i saw at the end. The story of Driss' family (i was afraid) was going to be used too much to change the character, or just to make him look in a different way through the movie; Luckily it didn't. This movie is definitely going in my 'Best Movies' list
This is a perfect film. I had some hesitations with respect to this film before I went- I was scared it would be too melodramatic with a huge focus on the pain and struggle of the disabled guy. Three minutes into the film, I realised my prejudgement could not be any further from the truth. I have laughed throughout the whole film and I enjoyed every second I was in the movie theatre. It approaches the relationship between a carer and his patient from a completely different point of view than we are used to. The support actor and actresses are very good as well.This is a must see film. I strongly recommend it to everyone.
Okay, so my first concern why I didn't want to watch The Intouchables was the story itself. Like it was scavenged from a Hollywood studio's thrash can: "A disgustingly rich quadriplegic guy hires a down-on-his- luck young man from the projects to be his personal aid. The cool dude shows the stuck up old man how to have fun and in return the rich guy teaches him about arts, manners and whatnot. Initially they have a few quarrels that mostly derives from the social, racial and age difference (and that the man is actually paralyzed from the neck down) but in the end they grow close and live happily ever after." That really sounds like something Hollywood might cook up. Like Scent of a Woman or Flawless.But here's the catch: This movie is based on true events. Not in the sense as Titanic for example, where the only historically accurate fact was that "the ship sunk". It really how it happened in real life as depicted in this movie. Philippe Pozzo Di Borgo (the real life billionaire who this movie is about) personally oversaw the making of this movie to make sure it depicted the story of him and Abdel Sellou (his aid) as realistically as possible. Sure, they took a little artistic license here and there, but it's mostly accurate.The thing about cripples and terminally ill patients is that most people don't know how to handle them. Dr. House said it best in the series, that once people know you have cancer, from then on everything will be about cancer. People will feel obligated to feel sorry for you 24/7. They will be overly attentive, overly helpful to the point of annoying and will be really careful about how they talk to you. They will never ever just be themselves around you. Even if you've accepted your condition a long time ago, and sometimes you just wanna forget your debilitating disease, you'll be reminded every single time by these people who cannot NOT see the cripple or the person with the death sentence when they look at you.What this movie offers is a unique insight into a relationship that defies this. Driss is brash, brazen and completely disregards the notion of feeling sorry for Phillip. He acknowledges the fact that he is a quadriplegic, and he slowly learns to take care of him, but he seemingly refuses to be the gloomy oh-I'm-so-sorry kind of hypocrite society wants him to be. Instead, he makes fun of Phillip's condition on many occasions making even Phillip himself laugh. He introduces a fresh and invigorating energy into Phillip's life, which makes him see the world in a new light. Instead of wallowing in the sad and painful past, he starts to look to the future, take chances and make the best of what he can of what he still has.All in all, The Intouchables was a really positive surprise. It's not a perfect movie but it's a perfect story.


                
The Intouchables begins with the disoriented action of an elderly white aristocrat being driven at thrilling pace through Paris in a Maserati by a strikingly tall (Omar Sy), as they devilishly evade arrest following a high-speed police pursuit. The narrative then returns in time to establish this relationship, which cleverly exploits the 'Unlikely friendship' cliché which would otherwise be presumed by the audience as tired before commencement.The acting of both Francis and Omar combines to carry the realism and humanity upon which this magnificent film is grounded in. The incredibly dynamic portrayal of a mutual sense of humour, which acted as the primary catalyst between Philippe and Driss is testament to the level of artistry deserving of all awards they received for their performance.Ludovico Einaudi has done a magnificent job at creating a score that not only sounds realistic itself, but brings classical profundity and a very French grandeur in to contrast with the very down-to-earth themes of friendship and raw human nature. Cinematically flawless, the urban landscape of Driss' hometown becomes equally visually appealing as the aristocratic parties and over-decorated sweeping hallways of Philippe's mansion. Long-lens portraiture on wet Paris streets with dancing Bokeh consistently delivers as cinematography explores both the romance and cold edginess of the city's colour palate. While The Intouchables delivers in all sections of production and narrative value, the story lacked legitimacy and depth when delving into the life of Driss, and at times felt slightly tokenistic and perhaps too evidently conceived from high-budget production. Despite the lack of a grungy social representation that maybe I wrongly expected, I vote this film as just short of absolute brilliance.
Before watching, my only expectation was, that it really is a comedy, not a drama with two laughs in it. Turns out, it was a comedy with very subtle touch of drama, it is a movie worth every second of your time... does it have flaws? I don't know, I was too busy enjoying every minute of it. Captivating actors, beautiful script and great sense of humor. This is one of those very rare movies that make a tiny change deep inside you and you'll know it happened when the movie is over. Watching this, you can laugh at a tetraplegic's shortcomings without feeling bad, because it is in absolutely good spirit, you can laugh at the serious things in life, because they can't kill you and somehow can always find a way to have some fun no matter what.


                
This is easily the best and most memorable movie I've seen in a very long time. Its formula is simple: the juxtaposition of two people from two radically different backgrounds who, with time, become the best of friends. And oddly enough, there isn't the initial suspicion or antagonism; they hit it off right away. But the relationship grows and deepens until they become inseparable.The real strength of the film lies in the characters and the men who play them. One is a sophisticated, literate, older white man who is paralyzed and confined to a wheelchair; the other a young, lanky, street-savvy black man with naught but the clothes on his back. They have such charisma, such chemistry, it is a tour de force from beginning to end. Particularly the younger man, whose infectious smile and boisterous humour keeps the mood light even in the darker moments.It's set in France, and you do have to endure subtitles (which are not well done; occasionally the punch line of a joke comes up too soon), but it's well worth it nonetheless. This is the first time I've seen a French film that didn't leave me depressed and suicidal by the end. I hope many more like it will follow.


                
Prepare yourselves for one of the most touching relationships ever brought to screen! Forget Fred and Ginger, forget Humphrey and Ingrid, because now it's all about Phillipe and Driss. Most French films I watch are nasty (but brilliant) shockers like Inside and Martyrs. Of course I've seen the odd gentler one like, I've Loved You So Long but even that's depressing. The funniest French films I've seen are Jean-Pierre Jeunet's, Amelie and Micmacs, but Untouchable just about betters both of them. It's not just one of the most funny and touching French films I've seen, but just films in general. Only a seriously bitter and cynical person could hate Untouchable.The film opens with wit and energy as we see Phillipe and Driss trying to out-run and out-smart the police for speeding. It's a funny and clever sequence and just a taste for the even more amusing shenanigans to follow. But of course we can't just jump into the middle of the film! We need what Midge calls, "a flash-back" so we can see how they got there. What Untouchable does so well is build up its characters so we can care about them. Driss comes from a working-class background, living in a tiny and over-crowded flat. He's also a thief and his Mum has kicked him out, and although Driss is a thief we can still care about him, especially as the film goes on and we see just how funny he is.Phillipe is the opposite. He's a hugely rich invalid with silly money to spend on paintings that look like "a nosebleed" as Driss puts it. But like magnets opposites attract. Driss is obviously attracted to his lavish quarters, already bigger than the whole flat he used to live in! The film takes time building up their relationships, as we see them bond through some very funny and touching moments. The directors make the audience feel as though we're bonding with them, so in a sense it's a three-way relationship and becomes all the more personal. Untouchable is also a comedy, there are some hilarious moments which I won't spoil, but it had me and the audience laughing pretty much all the way through.The directing is really well done, and I also really liked the music which made some touching scenes even more touching! It's no wonder that Untouchable was a huge hit in France, because it's such a light-hearted and entertaining film, yet is also quite memorable too, thanks to the wonderful performances, witty screenplay and classy directing. Untouchable is a sort of rom-com but Jennifer Anniston is no where in sight! It's one of those 'buddy movies' which shows a touching kind of platonic love similar to that of Rain Man. It's a relationship we can all relate to and care about the couple involved.Untouchable is a French classic and one I hope to watching in years to come. I defy anyone to watch and not to become involved in Phillipe and Driss' wonderful relationship. An endlessly funny and moving film which those with a sense of humour can enjoy. It's a wonderful feel-good film!


                
This is a truly excellent french film which highlights themes from love to comedy. I really enjoyed the music which went with the movie as it captured the mood of the (based on a true story) storyline. The main piece was Fly by Ludovic Einaudi. The actors play a splendid role to depict the life of the real paralysed man and real carer.I only watched this last night and i watched the original - in french. It is a very recent film filmed in Paris and i find this film suits any watcher for the reason that it contains both high-up, posh lifestyles compared to "chavs" smoking and speeding Maserati's. The Humour is captured best in the original version as i would imagine a few humorous jokes may not work in translated English. I Loved it.


                
Wow. That's all I can say about this movie. The fact that it's based on a true story is all the more amazing, and I immediately looked up the people the movie was based on as soon as it ended. Once in a while, a movie comes along that elicits emotions from deep within the heart. You don't know how it's going to end and you are smiling when the movie is over, wishing there was more. I usually don't laugh out loud while watching a movie but found myself doing so because even the jokes in this movie were so genuinely funny without being crass.Both the lead actors did a wonderful job. The chemistry between them can be felt and you really feel as if you are watching the story unfold in front of you and not on the screen. All the characters were well developed in their own roles and there were no loose ends (something most movies neglect to tie up). Watch this movie. You will surely recommend it to others as I am doing right now.


                
Every time I type the word intouchables, my iPad tries to correct me. Spell-check OCD. So here I was sitting in the theatre wondering what I was doing at the press screening of the French film 'The Intouchables'. Never having heard of it, one glimpse at the trailer had me convinced that irrespective of my initial hesitation, this was going to be fun even with the subtitles. To my surprise, it was dubbed in English. Hurray to that!Based on a true story, the film is about Philippe (François Cluzet), paralysed by a paragliding accident and his unconventional, unqualified, newly acquired caretaker Driss (Omar Sy), a street thug trying to live off governmental benefits. Being tired of a life of pity, Philippe finds happiness in Driss's rogue behavior. They both help each other find peace from their past, permitting them to face an uncertain future filled with new opportunities.'The Intouchables' is a heartwarming story that makes you laugh at every turn even though it's handling a sensitive topic. The on screen chemistry shared by the two protagonists is delightful. It reminds you of the basic needs of life (love and understanding) through their honest friendship while delving into their complexities with authenticity.Omar Sy's comic-timing will have you in stitches as you fall in love with his character's dependence and morality. There isn't a dull moment with him on the screen. Cluzet fits in perfectly as Phillipe makes you feel his helplessness and to an extent his futility as a handicap who longs to be treated as an equal. Support in the form of Anne Le Ny, Audrey Fleurot, Clotilde Mollety, Alba Gaïa Kraghede Bellugi and a few others is subtle but interwoven beautifully into the story.Director/writer Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano have shown how small, almost innocent things can lead to life-changing events. From shaving to a crazy drive through the city, you connect to everything you see on the screen without the feeling any pity. Music by Ludovico Einaudi adds beautifully to the mood while Dorian Rigal-Ansous's editing paces the film flawlessly based on the emotional curve of the characters.Inspiring! Makes you look forward to life with a little more hope.
After having broken box office records in its native France and across Europe, The Intouchables is brought to American screens.It's a story about a white man and a black man. The white man is rich and paralyzed from the neck down; the black man is an ex-con from the projects. The former needs a caretaker; the latter needs someone to turn his job application down, so he'll be eligible for unemployment benefits. They meet. They clash. And, against all odds, they become friends.That's the plot of The Intouchables (based on a true story), and that storyline has prompted many American critics to label the film "racist." Maybe it's coming from a misunderstanding of some journalists, or from a cultural difference between USA and France, but race is absolutely not the subject.Indeed, the French title Intouchables which translates literally as untouchable, refers to the 5th Indian caste, these people ostracized by society, as the two characters. Philippe is rich but quadriplegic from a paragliding accident. Opposite, Driss is full of life, but he is poor and comes from the suburbs. His disability is purely social. Using humor to explore the sensitive topics of class inequality, and quality of life for handicapped individuals is a tall order for filmmakers of any country. However, directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano accomplished all of this.An irreverent, uplifting comedy about friendship, trust and human possibility, The Intouchables depicts an unlikely camaraderie rooted in honesty and humor between two individuals who, on the surface, would seem to have nothing in common. A great film!


                
This movie so easily could had become a forced and melodramatic one but luckily it's one that got made with lots of tact and skill, making this one fine drama, with a comical touch to it as well.Guess that I really like contrasts in movies. The two main characters are complete opposites of each other, in about every way imaginable. Driss is poor, Philippe is rich. Driss is vibrant, Philippe is a quadriplegic. Driss is black, Philippe is white, etcetera. They are a complete mismatch on paper but yet they become best friends, which forms the central point of this movie and works out so well because it gets made believable.They don't just become good friends, they also learn from each other and I believe that they also become better persons because of that. This is were the movie its warmth and soul comes from, in my opinion.It doesn't ever dwell on it that Philippe is bound to a wheelchair and can only move his head, or that Driss is poor and also has a poor relationship with this family. If anything, this movie is a celebration of life, rather than than a movie that will bring you down. The effect of these sort of movies often is that it actually strengthens its drama because you feel far more involved with it, also since the movie doesn't shoves its drama down your throat constantly.There are some small side-plots in the movie but the good news about them is that they don't distract from the main theme and storyline of the movie and the movie never puts its emphasis too much on any of the side-plots or its secondary characters. It keeps a great and effective focus on its main subject, throughout pretty much the entire film.It's a great movie, in every way. It has a good look to it, that isn't cheap or rushed. It's a respectful and professionally made movie, which all paid off for it.Also the acting is just great. Everybody seems perfectly cast in their roles and know how to handle their characters and manage to fit within the style and tone of the overall movie. Of course François Cluzet and Omar Sy carry most of the movie and they did a more than great job with this.It's just a movie I can't say anything bad or negative about. It's well made and effective, which makes this one of the better genre movies out there!9/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
After watching this beautiful film I felt two things. Shame at my prior laziness for avoiding any non-English speaking films and excitement for the wealth of films I am about to discover. There is a film world outside of the UK and USA. Anyway I haven't much to say about the film, you'll get a good incite into it by watching the trailer. From the subject matter I assumed at some point during the film I would need tissues to dry my tears which would have made reading subtitles difficult but thankfully I didn't. At times its sad but is also uplifting throughout. Its just a lovely film and may throw caution to the wind by watching it again without the subtitles!


                
Unlike their counterparts in the rest of the world critics in the UK - where it opened today, months after its initial release last year - have been giving this movie a hard time. I would have thought that people who spend their working lives watching one violent film after the other punctuated by mindless horror, teenage pap and worse would find a film like Untouchable a pleasant antidote but that doesn't seem to be the case and the fact that it's all true - we learn in end captions that both men remain close - appears irrelevant. So much for hacks; the International public have already embraced it and it's more than likely the UK will follow. For many non-French audiences Francois Cluzet appeared on their radar first only six or seven years ago when Tell No One was an International hit. Jazz buffs had registered him as far back as 1986 when he co-starred with Dexter Gordon in 'Round Midnight' (coincidentally another 'true' story based on an unlikely friendship between American Jazz pianist Bud Powell and a young French fan). I personally have yet to see him give even a mediocre performance let alone a bad one; as for Omar Sy this is the first time I've heard his name. There are, of course, precedents for unlikely male bondings in fact Francis Weber, the French writer-director, specialized in the genre in such titles as Le Chevre, Les Compreres, Tais-Toi etc, Daniel Auteuil has also joined in at least twice (Mon meilleur ami, Apres Vous) and so on but despite it being well-worn Untouchables applies a new lick of paint to the genre and delivers a feel good title to remember.
¨Sometimes you have to reach into someone else's world to find out what's missing in your own.¨ Intouchables is a remarkable ¨feel good¨ French film mostly about friendship, but there is a little bit of drama and a love story included as well. This film with relatively unknown directors and actors has managed to make some big noise in Europe, and especially in France where it has become the second highest grossing French film of all time. The key to the success of Intouchables relies on the great chemistry and performances from Francois Cluzet and Omar Sy. They are just absolutely great in this film and their friendship felt authentic and real. The movie mixes the drama with the comedy really well and it works better than most films have in the past when combining two different and sometimes opposite characters together. Sy and Cluzet play totally different characters who come from very different backgrounds, and although we've seen this play out in hundreds of films in the past it works really well here thanks to their terrific performance and a great script from the directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano. Cluzet has a sort of a Dustin Huffman vibe and he says so much with his expressions without having to say anything at times, while Sy plays a more outgoing character who isn't afraid to speak his mind. This odd pairing reminded me a lot of another film which I really loved, Goodbye Solo which follows a similar premise at times. Intouchables is a feel good movie, but it transcends the term at times and becomes much more. An absolute must see, especially if you've ever had to work or live with a handicapped person.Philippe (Francois Cluzet) is a very rich quadriplegic who lives in his mansion with several servants and his teenage daughter. He is hiring a live-in carer once again (since most only last a couple of days with him). Driss (Omar Sy) happens to be applying for the job, but actually just wants to get rejected so he can live on welfare without having to work. He's been in prison for the last 6 months and away from home, but Philippe decides to actually hire Driss for the job considering he is someone different who doesn't look at him with empathy and actually treats him like a normal person. Driss and Philippe come from very different backgrounds, but they seem to complement each other very well. Philippe is a millionaire who's interested in art and classical music; while Driss comes from a poor African background, who's interested in pop culture mostly and in bands such as Earth, Wind, and Fire. Driss is really outgoing and becomes really close friends with Philippe. Together they share various stories about their past and end up helping each other solving some present conflicts. There are some other secondary characters whose names I don't even remember because they are not very important to the story, but mostly revolving around other house servants.Intouchables is actually loosely based on a true story involving a quadriplegic and his Arab carer who ends up befriending him. The directors actually came across a documentary about these two men and decided to film a movie about it. One of the greatest things about the film beside the inspiring story was the casting. Omar Sy and Francois Cluzet were really the perfect match and they had me laughing real hard at times and at the border of tears during others. It is truly an emotional and powerful film, a story that will stick with you long after the film ends, and by the time the credits role you will have a smile on your face. It is a feel good movie, but never feels cursi or anything like that. I was really surprised with Omar Sy and hope he gets many more roles. This is really a great French film, very different from Le Prophet but just as good. I had a really good time watching this movie and recommend it to everyone.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com


                
In these days, in my country, the movie Intouchables is ranked very high in box office. Usually French films are not that popular or familiar in this country's movie industry. Therefore it is quite surprising to see that people are very eager to see Intouchables, a film from France. At first, it was not famous to people at all because promotions were not big for the movie. However, as time goes by, Intouchables is getting bigger and bigger. Almost every person who watched the movie tells to friends or writes review on the internet that Untouchables is a amazing film. And I think that is a real and successful marketing.I also watched it today, and I definitely recommend this film just like others did to me. So fun, moving, beautiful. While watching the movie, the audiences including me burst into laughter or tears for every single second. very priceless moment.


                
My wife was frightened when I was suddenly burst laughing at Omer Sy's spontaneous acting scenes. I enjoyed watching this masterpiece. Omar Sy is a great actor and he deserves an Oscar for his role in this movie. I found Omar Sy's role much more challenging and unusual than Jean Dujardin's... of course, few people make silent films today, but the character itself was incredibly stereotypical. As for The Intouchables, I really liked the film and found it entertaining and thoughtful at the same time .The chemistry between the two leads is wonderful. Not quite as insufferably retro as it sounds, the formulaic film gets a boost from the endearing performances of its leads — particularly Sy, whose ex-con-turned-servant instructs his cultured boss on the pleasures of '70s soul classics and pot-smoking before cleaning up nicely. The racial politics remain as sketchy as the sitcom-style jokes, and Harvey Weinstein smells a hit, having bought both the movie and, alas, the rights to remake.


                
