It failed for certain reasons:-There were too many plot holes:
*What was the actual reason for Doctor Strange to give the Time Stone? *When Avengers grabbed Thanos, why Tony Stark didn't cut his arm with laser?*Why Thor couldn't aim at Thanos's head? Was he really that unprofessional?*How did Thanos knew he was not going to vanish along with half of the universe? Was he simply "lucky?" -Amount of superheroes was staggering. Nobody pays to watch their favourite chracters with little or no interaction between each other whatsoever.-The movie brought us nothing new. It felt like a well-prepared mixture of previous Marvel movies. This was not we've been waiting for. Utterly dissatisfying.
Avengers: Infinity War (2018) is something new with the ending that the antagonist defeats all protagonists and destroys its fictional universe. And what we saw was the shooting game of 159 minutes. 
 The Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)'s box office record was 133,061,397 HKD. This is ranked as top #2. The Avengers (2012) was 96,705,670 HKD ranked #7. Moreover, Avengers: Infinity War (2018) has been ranked #10 box office mega hit blockbuster 86,134,777 HKD in Hong Kong at the present since its release in the end of April. 
 American comic characters and its model figures, comic books, and souvenirs flooded the every town malls and markets around Hong Kong. Even though you can't tell their identities, you are quite familiar with their imaginaries. Marketers who handling American comic-related products succeeded in mass marketing operations in this market. 
 The story line is simple enough that antagonist Thanos defeats Iron Man, Hulk, Captain America, Doctor Strange, Spider-Man and other sub characters who embody this American comic justice league to put an end to their universe. And it is racially white heroes' world. I can only see fat Chinese sub character with oriental magic...
 As the result, what we can only see is 159 mins of shooting game, and at the end we see there is nothing more.... It reminded me of Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven.
At the end, what I can say for this film is 'Only this, and nothing more...' Like Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven...
0 out of nothing!
Nothing made sense in this marvel movie. When back in the day people used to make fun of superhero movies for their vapid storylines and characters, i actually found ironman to have a very good character development and even the 1st avengers to be entertaining and most MCU movies to have a logical flow. This movie made no sense and was just 3 hours worth of deus ex machina. This IS ther superhero movie people used to complain about. How did it possible get an almost 9 star rating?!?!?! wtf!?!?! i've nvr reviewed a movie before but i had to this time, it was the ultimate disappointment.


                
Deserves like not even a 1 star. this movie was nothing but CGI filled with subpar performances and a very mad score/soundtrack. the movie is basically just an ad for avengers 4. and in this film deaths occur at the end but they don't mean anything since all of them will come back. what? this is absolute trash storytelling. you expect audience to be sad and then just bring the characters back the next film.
So, this was it, the culmination of a decade of Marvel movies preparing and leading up to this final showdown? Well, I could not be more disappointed.Here is why:
Yes, the film brings together many different story lines. But it does so in pretty predictable ways. A few mildly funny scenes when the heroes of different movies meet for the first time. But that's it. That's about the only good thing I can say about the story.Yes, CGI and FX are top notch. But as the story is pretty simple in itself until the end, that's not saving the day.The story in deed is very lame and to a large extend either predictable or stupid. There are quite some inconsistencies such as humans breathing on Titan, Thor talking in space and such. Not the ingredients of a fantastic climax movie.A few examples (Spoilers!!!):
Thanos kills almost all Asgardians, but Thor. Thor proves he can survive and even talk in outer space, survive the fire of a star. Wow, really? Lame.Thanos is so powerful, you wonder why he hasn't collected all the stones a lot earlier. This now seems like a walk in the park, no real challenge. Anything dangerous coming, he could simply step through to another part of the universe, or he could use the Reality Stone and turn everything into soap bubbles. We he uses his powers only so scarcely? Well, otherwise the movie would be over in 10 minutes. All fights leave you wondering why Thanos is not using all his powers. Not convinving!When the team on Titan has Thanos "at sleep", they don't even try to kill him, which, it seems, would have been the most reasonable thing to do. And then Peter Quill, just short of victory (removing the gauntlet), cannot stop talking and slapping him with his bare hands??? Seriously? Lame and stupid.Wakanda, the nation with the most advanced technology, lines up foot soldiers for one to one combat against killer beasts? 18th century battle tactics in the 21st century? Seriously? Instead of using all the advanced technology (other than the shield) or even simple things such as machine guns or airplanes with bombs etc.? They are not even attacking the base ships where the beasts come from? Stupid, unconvincing and hence lame.Vision, completely lame. Wasn't he a very powerful fighter in Civil War? Now, he seems to be just a simple robot with a lamp on his head.Thanos loved Gamora - honestly??? Wow, why on earth should he? Really not convincing. The Soul Stone was so evasive and couldn't be found for many millenia but then we simply fly to a planet closeby (suprise, suprise, we learn during the film that Gamora conveniently knows where the Soul Stone is (a hint which was obviously forgotten to be planted in an earlier movie)...) , meet your field guide Red Skull, then throw someone (you love) into the pit and that's it? Nobody could have done that before? Not convincving...Red Skull, completely lame. Why was he even in the movie? No role to play other than saying this is where he went after vanishing in Captain America?But worst of all, Dr. Strange, destined to protect the Time Stone at all cost, just hands it over then (never using it BTW)? Well, I assume this is not the end of the story but who wants to wait a year ot two for the sequel film just to find out why this really unconvincing and unmotivated surrender is really a grand victory?And finally, the death of so many figures, just flaking into non-existence? That's what I call a complete and utterly disappointing anti-climax.Never after a Marvel movie, reading "Thanos will return" on screen, did I think, "Better not, good riddance, and I'm most definitely not waiting for it". This is not a weekly serial where one could tolerate such a deep cliffhanger. And if it is not a cliffhanger, then what? All really dead? And from now on only prequels? What a great disappointment. 2 hours of FX and CGI fights with a few funny scenes mixed in. That's all. No clever story anywhere in this movie, maybe later, but that's not the basis for a rating of this movie. So much opportunity for great story telling, so many cool and deep characters, and then this uncreative and unmotivated piece with this disappointing cliffhanger. Ok, granted, it is most certainly not the end of the story and all will be smart and clever in the sequel. Maybe, but this here right now is mostly lame and stupid and far behind the possibilities.
Another avengers movie, another crappy one. It is extremely overrated, overhyped, disappointed. The middle of the movie is slow and no intensity at all. The final battles are just tasteless, emotionless. I don't know why people cry or sad for this kind of ending. It is just tasteless. Honestly if Ironman died by being stabbed by Thanos, that would be emotional, because he fought hard and would die a real hero. But he didn't die, and the ending scene, dozens of heroes die one by one, like a natural death, I don't even think that they died fighting, and its too fast to be emotional. It's obvious that they will be revived in the next movie, why would I cry?. I felt the ending scene was just trying to get some tears from audience and set up for second part, which will definitely steal tons of money from marvels fan again.LASTLY, the motivation of Thanos to acquire 6 stones is the dumbest thing I have ever heard, even worst than my politicians. How killing half population of the universe solve the over-population issue???? Didn't he know that he will have to do it every 10 years because population will just rise back. Seriously, if some one just stops fighting and tells him how stupid his idea is, maybe he would listen and understand, and save all of us 2h30m and $13 ticket together with all the disappointment. Only marvel can steal tons of money with such dumb idea, because it has already trained the whole young generation to be dumb.In a nutshell, I won't watch any stupid marvel movies ever again. Brainless tasteless movie for kiddy marvel fans or simple minded people.
This movie was litterly the same as the avengers and civil war. Nothing new here except that the hype is getting stronger??? By rules of nature hype must die down over time but marvel fanboys want more bad movies? Disney's board of director's and their shareholders are laughing their ass off. They acquire the rights of a universe with some superheroes en then they release 5 superhero movies a year that are complete and utter trash but its fanbase will love it no matter wat. now a cgi war movie (were we all now how of how it will end, it doesn't becouse Disney will keep spitting out these movies until marvel fanboys stop going to these trash movies.) Is considerd better than movies like Silence of the Lambs, Se7en, forrest gump and Leon??? Well if this is the case than i will leave this site and never come back becouse i use this site to see if a movie is worth seeing. But if a crap movie like this is considerd to be as good as THE GODFATHER!!! then i can no longer trust this site and will de-recommend it to everyone that wants to use it for the same purpose as i did.


                
It was boring and I Sleep when I watch the movie It was Kid Family friendly I don't get any jokes the best thing in this movie is Thanos Poor CGI


                
Unfortunately, computer-generated mayhem is much more important than character development. One-liners is not good writing. There was such hope with the Dr. Strange movie and nice writing....but this "Avengers" film does nothing to add to any of the previous characters' story lines...especially Dr. Strange. It's a jumble, with explosions/death/violence...with little use or reasoning behind it's constant grinding noise. All the tears shed by actors, had no heart behind it. It's sad when money drives a movie rather than writing. Just because something owns Lucas Industrial Light and Magic, doesn't mean it has to be on screen at all times. I thought SE was supposed to be light-seasoning...not complete coverage.The offering lacks in so many ways. Sad...had high hopes.


                
Not everything that glitters is gold! I'd say this often to the script-writers of the past years successful SciFi franchises. I mean, not every story that ends dramatically is profound, good or emotional. You do not become a name of the universal literature if you repeated the recipe with Romeo and Juliet. Neither applauded, nor famous, even rejected by some, and, definitely, you would polarize the audience. On the other hand, you get some franchise fans who will accept you uncritically, guardians of everything that's included in the story. Look at what's happening with Star Wars.
Returning to Avengers, I see the scenario getting out of the accepted framework: they gave us 18 movies with the heroes of the Marvels universe (and movies about them) to kill them suddenly, unbalanced, easily.
The last "Avengers" resembles an episode of Dr. Who (older). I paraphrase it: in the last episode they destroyed the universe to revive it the following season.
Yes, it would seem. Although, there are some excuses for the TV series: the time crisis, the continuing production for several months (each season), the pressure of the producers, or of the heads of the TV station. The Rock-n-roll machine.But the "Avengers" franchise had almost everything: a huge budget, PR, enormous production resources, an army in the back.
"Infinity War" is not even that movie that you can say about: is not so bad that if you take it out from the bigger story, it could be OK, but it ruins the larger universe ... No. It's a dry sum of mini-stories (for the many characters), some of them gathered together to die like fools.
I quote a friend: What's the fool, the one who wrote the screenplay or the one who laughed at the jokes of the "Guardians of Galaxy"?
The visualization is really impressive. But the story sucks. Marvel is ruining the reputation by putting all the superheroes together without a whole story.


                
Man, i miss those days when superhero movies were actually good. tou know like the dark knight trilogy or spider man 2 and even LOGAN made me restore a little faith in this genre .this movie was the most overstuffed and over the top and unnecessary movie i'v ever seen. the dialogue as always seems like its written for 10 year old kids, but what else can you expect from Disney. and of course this movie will make a lot of money and so do the fast and furious movies. people seem to want garbage these days. oh and btw SPOILER! a lot of them die a the en, but guess what. they are guaranteed to come back in Avengers . smh. and i don't fault marvel for their universe filled with MEDIOCRE movies. we blame Disney. kind of how like they ruined last Jedi. we should bring back Sam Raimi or Christopher Nolan to save the superhero genre
I never write reviews, and I'm a very very big supporter of the marvel universe, but this movie is the most depressing thing ever!!!! WHY!!?? WHY!!?? JUST WHY!!!!!!??
I felt like I needed to vent out my frustration, because the end left me with such a sourness that I don't know how to explain it!! 
I hope they do something about all my favorite DEAD characters in the next movie!
This is the worse film to date for marvel, too many plot holes, it was sold as an avengers movie should have just been infinity war, said every character was in it that was a lie, and was very much the same plot as the title that I have sub lined it.


                
Lotsa flashing lights and loud noises, little else. Went home and watched "The Wolverine" (the second one) to be reminded of what I like in a popcorn flick.


                
The movie is a great example of kitsch. A definition from web:
"Kitsch is art that's garish, nostalgic, and very low-brow. Some people who love the aesthetics of souvenir culture think kitsch is really cool, while others think it's in very poor taste.Kitsch is a German word that's been adopted into English, meaning "worthless, trashy art," or the quality of that art. A ceramic figurine of a puppy with sad eyes is pretty kitsch, as is a velvet Elvis painting. Of course some people think that kitsch is really beautiful and fill their homes with stuff that other people consider trashy souvenirs. If your painting teacher tells you your portraits are kitsch, that's probably not a compliment."


                
Keep in mind that just because s movie makes billions, that does not make it a good movie. Like most of Marvel movies this is an insipid mess. The entire plot took 10 years to develop and is summed up in this latest entry in 4 or 5 sentences. Acting isn't necessary or required, just grimace and look sweaty and vacant. Meanwhile we'll fill the screen with 50,000 CGI lights and explosions and convince you what is happening matters. Well it doesn't.


                
We all know that these movies are blockbusters , we know that we should not expect much , when someone sits through one of these he /she should not expect citizen Kane , or the seventh seal , these movies are almost always mindless action scenes and big bangs and boom ( throw in a few punch line and some lame one liners and voila you have have your self an action movie ) but , at the same time these movies must be compared with other movies of the same genre , even the same universe to see pros and cons and for this i like to review it based on two of my favorite MCU movies. Winter soldier and Ragnarok , one being very serious the other choosing a very light and sarcastic approach ( almost parody like ) for their subjects , both i think did a far better job than this . As infinity war stumbles between being dark and fun and ends up tedious and stupid , characters do stuff which makes zero sense Heimadall can see all but he could not see Thanoses big ass ship ? Loki is holding the stone and he sends Hulk to earth ? Thanos acquires all the stones , becomes the most powerful being in the universe but has to kill people to save the universe ? cant he.. i don't know make the resources infinite and be everyone's hero ? If no , then why did it take him this long to act upon his plans ? Heroes run head on towards the bad guys LOTR style ? Its the 21 century guys humans don't fight that way you know , Thor has the power of lightening and thunder but needs an axe ? then why didn't he just chop off Thanoses head ? And the most important question , who invented these stones and don't they have something to say about how these things are used ? You see this is what makes a movie this big this bad . And since we are sure that the people who died are bound to be revived again ( don't bring visions back that guy is a nightmare ) there is no sense of tragedy or loss just a very lame move to pull on our heart strings .
I don't know why there are so many positive reviews for this movie. I guess these days you jam a bunch of big stars, overdo the top special effects and a flimsy story line and you get a blockbuster movie. SMH


                
This is a film made for children, not adults. Ninja-Turtles kind of movie. Stupid jokes, no plot, non-sense whatsoever. At least, when I was a child, films used to make if only a bit of sense; not any more for milennials, it seems. New world, new styles, very little brain. Pity...


                
This was an awful movie! pretentious and trying too hard.. no plot, no story developement.. mediocre acting performances!!!One of the leading actresses used to work for website videforex.tk as a model and account manager, how can she end up in a A-list movie? The first avengers was quite original. But this one!!! I was excpecting it to be way better. I spent more time thinking about how cold the theater was than being interested in the things blowing up in the movie LOL.Seems Hollywood is now a CGI puppet for making superheros movies that shouldn't be made in the first place. If they keep making movies like this one people will start watching the 50' titles again.Just my cents.


                
Avengers Infinity War was way too long. Endless fight scenes, nonexistent plot, cheap deaths. The 8.9 rating proves that IMDb is irrelevant when it comes to rating the quality of movies. This was so disappointing.


                
It totally wasn't how i expected it to be. It's just a silly film with only action. Many cringy dialogues and dumb moments ruined the film. I felt really bad when yondu died in GOTG 2 but in this film never felt anything for anyone. So many died but i don't know why this film was in a rush and that's why their death didn't made me feel bad for them. They should have increased the runtime of the film. One of the worst thing is characters were not balanced. Captain america hardly had any dialogue. Hulk was shown only for 30 seconds in the entire film. There were many ways to stop thanos but hey he should look badass so let's make heroes dumb. Cgi was okay but in many places it looked cartoon-ish. In one scene it looked like Mark ruffalo's face is pasted on hulk buster. The film is full of plot holes.
SPOILER: The plot is simple that the supervillian succeeds, but Russo brothers waste too much time on piling up the superheroes. The film is just too long, and you keep looking at the watch to see when it will end. There are too many characters, and if you did not view the previous Marvel films, you would hardly get any sense of who they are. It is an OK film for Marvel fans, but chaos for a general audience.
SPOILER: So far I have enjoyed the MCU.I understand that 31 movies have "led" to this.Nevertheless I left disgruntled at the end and didn't waste any more time waiting for the post credit scenes.There was too much senseless fighting, too little story. Too many idiotic plot holes. Too many characters just killed for the sake of it.Thor gets his ass whipped at the start of the movie, but nearly kills Thanos when he has all the stones.At the end some of the more popular characters like Black Panther, Doctor Strange and Spiderman turn into ashes and you really KNOW that it is not going to be permanent. So why do it in the first place? Why not show how half of the universe is actually "re-balanced" and what that actually means and what the reaction of the universe will be.Avengers are little on that scale and with some many brilliant minds in their rows they were unprepared. Civil War or not...
