If you like to watch for 2.5 hours how your heroes get beaten and even killed then this movie is for you, otherwise it will not entertain you. 
At the beginning Thanos has only one Infinity Stone but at the end he has all the stones and therefore he snap his fingers, half of the population dies (Avengers included) and ... THE END!
This means that there are 5 fights for the 5 stones and Thanos wins all the fights by beating and/or killing the Avengers.All MCU movies structures are the same. They are split in 2 parts: in the first half the heroes get beaten and the villain wins all, but when all hope is gone it start the second half when the heroes recover from their wounds and they win (almost every time) with a big "idiotic" bam.
The Avengers: Infinity War is the first half. I think it will be entertaining to watch it when the Avengers 4 will come out (just like The fellowship of the ring + The two tower). It's very likely that in Avengers 4 they will use the time stone to reverse the time to resurrect the dead Avengers. Or maybe another stone (honestly I don't really know what they can do) but the resurrection is for sure.Bottom line: this movie is watchable if you see it only once. But to watch several times how your heroes get killed means that you need therapy.PS: When Dr. Strange looked into the future to find a positive solution, he found only ONE from millions of possibilities and they didn't used it. Why? Or they used it but Strange didn't saw in the future that Peter Quill is coming?
I was waiting for this for a long time but I have slept during the film... The animations, effects were pretty good but unfortunetly It was boring. I am not sure If I want to watch it again.


                
This movie has various problems and the first major one is the lack of focus. We keep jumping around to various places and I can't even keep where all of them were.One moment, we are on earth, the next on Knowhere, the next on some other planet to which I can't even remember the name. And it's not just the places, it's the characters too. There isn't one lead or even 5 lead characters we can somewhat focus on. They try to focus on everybody which means nobody is the actual lead character. There was another movie that was initially praised but in the end was heavily critizised for lacking focus on a real main character - that was Star Wars The Phantom Menace. I see the same problem in this regard here with the story.Due to the lack of focus the movie also has pacing issues and therefore to me felt boring. And then this goes on for 150 minutes. And the biggest problem at the end of the movie is that there is no payoff.......ok stop, I have to correct myself there. The payoff (here comes the spoiler) is, that the bad guy wins. Everything the heroes tried to do failed and you know what I was actually kinda rooting for Thanos, because I couldn't care enough about any of the other characters. He became the protagonist for me, which makes me feel terrible as well, because he kills half the population in the universe.In the end I was just happy that the movie was over. However the writers put themselfes in a corner. Thanos is pretty much god at this point and objectively speaking there is no way anyone could defeat him at this point except if they go for something like "his glove lost the power after he used it" which is cheap. That will then result in the heroes trying to get back the time stone and then turning back time or something similar stupid.I will not see the next one in cinema. At this point I am pretty much done with superhero movies. I guess I can thank Disney now for first pushing me away from Star Wars and now Marvel.The effects and sound were decent though.
We occasionally use IMDB to judge whether a film is worth watching at our local Odeon. Generally, that works well but a score of 8.9 for this film (currently) is hugely misleading IMHO. This is clearly a film that polarizes audiences - those who have bought into the Marvel franchise and have watched every previous film (31 apparently) mostly love it; those (like us) who have watched a few here and there seem to be disappointed / puzzled / bored.For a non-fan there are a couple of major issues: Too many characters and too much back story that we can't remember or never knew. The fights seemed rather perfunctory and, I know it's the fashion these days, but the shortness of each shot (a second? half a second between cuts?) makes them impossible to follow. One positive reviewer has criticised low scorers saying it's like watching the last 2 minutes of an hour-long drama and expecting to understand it. I think that's unfair. Surely a film should make sense in and of itself - I wasn't charged less to watch this one, so surely I should be able to enjoy it on some level? For the record, we recently went to see Thor: Ragnarok and Black Panther and enjoyed them both (particularly the last one).Which I guess brings us back to where we started... redressing the balance of that crazy 8.9 score. No, this film is NOT better than Apocalypse Now (8.5) or The Terminator (8.0) or Citizen Kane (8.4) or Taxi Driver (8.3) or Raging Bull (8.2)... that's just crazy! My honest advice: If you like Marvel, you'll probably love this; if you're not a big fan, save your money for something else.


                
Sometimes in this life there are things beyond criticism, the Mona Liza for example or Turners rain steam and speed or Chaplin in The Kid. Masterpieces all, no debate right?
Then there are products is one soap powder really better than this other, or a $1000 perfume can it really be better say than one at a mere $10, beauty they say is in the eye of the beholder! So they say. Then there is this new mega movie Avengers Infinity War, now i would take issue with anyone that this is actually a movie at all, it is a consumer product the must see/ have accessory for the moment, Pre-sold, Pre-packaged to a ready made audience desperate to spend their money, it is just another fashionable element in today's throw away age. Telephones i believe are sold this way, at least this is how i see the commercial world of now. Now, i know my views are in total opposition to the frankly ridiculous high score's on this web site, and please don't think i am not grateful, my local multiplex needs big profit films to survive and hopefully prosper so the likes of me can see proper films that are real cinematic experiences but make next to no money, usually that's the fate of most superior films these day's! 
Can i be positive in any way about this Marvel, well i saw it in 4DX & 3D, the chair swam and jolted, there were lights, flashes, and sprays or did i imagine the last one, oh yes, the sound was loud, very very loud. and Oh yes do not forget, it is extremely long, very very long, like a bad flight across the Atlantic but without the benefits of a helpful service attendant's tray. Did i enjoy it? in any way, well no, just too much of a good thing, i like sugar in my tea, but 32 spoons is to much! This i will call it for ease, a film, it just had too much of everything. Now, i can just imagine steam boiling over from most readers that i am clearly to old and out of touch, but i argue not so, the trailer for Deadpool 2 was so funny and inventive that i am eagerly awaiting this release. As for all these many many super hero's to numerous to remember and to numerous to mention, i do have a question for superhero's obviously adoring public the question is, are the comic books any better?


                
In the end this movie proved to be an absolute slugfest that never stops. The action is nonstop and there is neither any buildup or climax to the action. This could have been redeemed if the actors had any time to do their jobs but they were never given any time to perform and so the characters are rather disconnected from their surroundings and their reactions ridiculous. The only character that is given time to evolve in this movie is Thanos, and he is an interesting figure and I fully approve of how they chose to adapt his motivations instead of following the comic books. But one character is not enough and as usual there is nothing on the line which is hardly surprising since they need to milk every cent they can out of the franchise, and I do not in any way blame them for this. But when the movie ends and not a single character have been killed except for heimdal I really can't bother with their cash grabbing ways any longer. For the people who actually believes that half the characters died i pity your stupidity, because it is painfully obvious that they will be revived in the next movie and everything will continue. 
 
The day marvel decide to actually have the heroes sacrifice crap and take responsibility for their actions is the day I will respect marvel. After watching this movie I feel that the correct way to continue is to make an entire movie about what an complete and utter failure Peter Quill is, just like they did with Danny Rand in the defenders.
*** Warning, mild spoilers ahead *** Ok, what sticks out about this movie? Nothing much. 
The acting is lackluster. No character has a character arc - understandable because none of them are given any significant screen time. The whole movie is basically one endless 3-hour brawl (with some battle scenes blatantly ripped from Star Wars/Lord of the Rings). Some of the brawls are so over-the top that they are ludicrous (even by comicbook standards). Example: When you break a moon into pieces and hurl all of them at someone on the planet below within one second then the impacting pieces should not just make a puff of dust when they land. The motivation of the villain makes no sense (after achieving his goal the universe will just be back to the earlier situation soon enough). Given that it's hard to emote with a villain in the first place having a full CGI villain makes it even less likely. Some of Gamoras mood swings in the matter where we're supposed to emote with him or her make even less sense.Speaking of CGI: It's on a level we've come to expect with some weird exceptions. E.g. in one instance we see Bruce Banner's head in the open cockpit of the Hulkbuster armor while he's standing around in the background - and it looks like someone just copied it in with MS-Paint. Seriously. Not even Photoshop quality but MS-Paint.The humor is relegated to one-liners and most don't land. The serious one-liners are predictable and pithy. 
The music score is effective if somewhat over-the-top pathos-heavy (but that's not unusual for US films, so it' one of those things we've come to expect to have to endure)The overwhelming feeling is that this movie was "designed by comittee". The boardroom idea seems to have been: "Take the things that people enjoyed in other movies and make them non-stop". 
Problem is: It doesn't work that way. Gems in movies are that because they are rare. Taking the time to lead up to them makes the payoff all that sweeter.After coming back I rewatched the first Avengers movie just to see if my memory deceived me. But no: It is a way, way, WAY superior film in every respect.
This movie has certainly made history. A film that has so much going on and still manages to be boring just has to be some sort of a record. I went to the cinema with so much hope and enthusiasm and left wishing I'd kept my cash instead. The fact that so many characters leave no room for any sort of character development probably comes as a surprise to no one, and yet every single person in the film managed to annoy me at one point or another. The only exception to that rule was Stephen Strange, whom I've come to completely adore. I've always disliked Tony Stark so I was truly sorry I didn't get to see him disappear in a cloud of poop-colored dust but at that point I was almost beyond the point of caring. Black Widow, another one of mine top runners for the character I despise the most, thankfully did not have much screen time, and yet more than most. Spider Man - more like Pathetic Spider Boy, amirite - was once more delegated to being Iron Man's most faithful groupie, and poor Bucky had maybe three minutes of screen time (after finding out that Hawkeye was not actually in the movie, he was basically the main reason why I really wanted to see this steaming pile of hot garbage, so another disappointment there).
Also, considering the number of characters who died in this, we can be almost certain that they won't stay dead, otherwise Marvel wouldn't have anybody to make movies about anymore, unless they want to bring about Squirrel Girl. So any emotional impact any deaths may have caused was non-existent. Most of the jokes fell flat, and even though the storylines were woven together almost masterfully, it did nothing to disguise the fact that this flick was basically just another pathetic cash grab. And boring to boot.
And to add insult to injury, after I sat through the entire credits, I was treated to the promise of Captain Marvel. Horay. We don't need another character up in here, we really don't. And especially not Carl Manvers.
Not worth the cash, not worth the hype, not worth another word.
Lets keep it real, the movie was overhyped by Marvel fanbois. And if we're being honest this movie actually deserves a 6 or 7 rating. It started weird, and as someone pointed out already the Order didnt get an introduction, and theres no need since theyre all dead. Escaping Asgard when Hella destroyed it was pointless since they're all dead as far as we know, unless Loki used some magic to hide them.. but going back to the beginning of the movie.... we dont know. It was a pile of shi and we need to stop rewarding crap with praise. Im sure part 2 will be better but very overhyped by fanbois, the weakest link in the chain
Nice visuals :-), but honestly, when I go to a cinema, I go there to enjoy myself and come out happy. The advertising for this movie was a huge gimmick that rode the Black Panther wave, which had people buying tickets. Most people are desperate for the sequel now. I left the theatre with people watching all the credits, hoping for something to happen. If you speak to Marvel fans, they argue with you, claiming that the sequel will be great. Meaning this one was bad to some extent. The movie didn't have to drag out for so long. Everything felt very DragonBall Z'ish, but no pleasure in the end. I seriously wish I had watched something else.
Avengers (first part) were far better than this, and MCU legacy will carry on "Coming back from dead"
I'm not a great fan of Marvel, but I went to see this movie thinking it would be a bit of a romp. You know, something light-hearted and fun, with some great action sequences worthy of a big screen. Where the heroes win in the end.The action sequences were epic. The plot had holes that were just as big.Sure, some of those might be resolved in the next movie, and the heroes will probably win in the end, but the ending was an anti-climax, made worse because of the needlessly sappy and drawn out failures of all the different Avengers.At the end of the movie, no one left the cinema. The audience sat there stunned, waiting for some glimmer of hope. It never came. There was defeat. There was death. There wasn't the satisfying victory to help ease the long set up and the forced attempts at humor. Even the post-credit teaser was depressing.I won't write this movie off completely given there's more to come, but disappointing to have to wait until the next movie for some catharsis.


                
Two and a half hours of film that'll be reversed in the first 10 minutes of Captain Marvel. Fun fight scenes, garbage plot, and yes I know it's allegedly building up to something, doesn't matter, still big let down...at least Deadpool 2 is only a month away
I've watched every MCU movie at least twice. I love them all, even Iron Man 2, but this was terribly disappointing. This whole thing gave me the impression that the writers watched a lot of Game of Thrones and thought: "I know what people like, let's kill a bunch of heroes!" Even if the fight scenes devolved to the absurd, it didn't matter, we had good guys dying, so this would be a win.Now obviously it's a comic book movie, so it's a safe bet that most if not all of the heros they killed will somehow miraculously be resurrected, but that's not the point. I just paid £12 to watch characters I fell in love with get murdered for 2 hours only to have it wrap up with half of everyone dying. Now I get to wait an entire year to find out how they're going to fix it.If I wanted to get punched in the stomach, I'm sure I could find someone to do it for less than £12 and 2 hours of my time.
Awesome visuals and CGI, but this is not 1990s. Terminator 2 was awesome back then. Now CGI just does not impress anymore. That's Michael Bay territory, and this movie sure looks like that - awesome CGI and dumb plot.Character and plot wise, I just want to say that I am sick of heroes and villains having their abilities appear or vanish from one scene to another just to justify the plot. Not to talk about stupid character decisions that completely change the plot...It takes away from the soul of the story which becomes simple, forced and artificial.SPOILER:Just one example for abilities (but the movie is full of it): in one scene Thanos beats the pulp out of Hulk, but in the rest of the movie all the other heroes receive punches from him like it's nothing.And one example of stupidity: Quill becomes responsible for the grim ending by saving Thanos in the last second, as Thanos was on the verge of being stripped of its powers.I expected more...
The ending ruined literally everything about the movie, they shouldn't split it from the next movie that fixes everything, the ending shouls have been the start of the next movie, it should have ended when thanos traveled back to seeing his daughter still young.
Nothing but cheesy comedy and a predictable ending. This is getting way to over hyped by the fan boys. We know none of the characters are dead because marvel has 27 sequels planed for each character. It's basically a trailer for the next one. If you've seen the trailers you already know what happens. Don't watch.
I'm hoping they can pull it back on the right track with the sequel.


                
Good action scenes, but that's about all this has to offer.
Oh, and the dialogue between Stark and Strange was at least interesting.
I thought Thanos would be a real badass, but then he has a crying scene! Give me a break! Also, Banner could not transform into Hulk! 
Acting was just okay, Downey and Cumberbatch were best, by far.
Story was predictable and pretty boring, ending was confusing.
Another movie that fails to live up to the hype.
First off i'll start by saying that i'm a marvel/superhero fanatic, i have an imdb account older than 10 years and this is my FIRST AND ONLY REVIEW. I'm still a little kid inside which loves superheroes. If you are the same, then you should understand the following. This movie is NOTHING except some fancy effects and some funny lines here and there. The only thing that made me give this movie 3 stars are the actors which gave me goosebumps when i saw them, the hope they bring (yes, i'm naive that way). Besides these facts, Infinity War is the biggest marvel movie dissapointment in their history which lead to an ending that couldn't be more evil (100% victory for Thanos), half the universe dies, heroes included. If you are one of those people who like happy endings, like me, this movie will dissapoint you to your core. It is sad that we have to witness the biggest weekend boxoffice for such a horrible movie. DO NOT be fooled by the big ratings on IMBD, we all know nowadays movie reviews in here are rigged more than the national lotery.
The 10/10's just go to show how shallow general audiences have become!! Far from a masterpiece... lots of camera shaking, too many characters, sensational garbage. Jam packing every single marvel hero into 1 film and an ending that is far from 'deep' and just forces you to watch the next installment to make sense of it.3 stars and that's generous!


                
This film is disappointing, at best. Its plot is a series of battle set-pieces, in which a cast overstuffed with hero figures engage in pointless fights with an unbeatable enemy. The dialogue is throwaway, the scenes of human interaction brief and trivial, and the moral seems to be "you can't win". The ending is particularly offensive, because it violates the prime rule of narrative-- providing the viewer with a sense of closure. At the end (almost) everybody dies and then. . .The End. Tiresome, overwrought, and banal
With the very high rating, I am convinced to watch it... it appeared very good...but then .... the nothing came, and well it was nothing ! HAHAHAH seriously, it was the nothing !


                
I really liked the first Guardians of the Galaxy. Likewise Iron Man & The Avengers. But these never-ending franchise add-ons are pretty boring unless you're 12 or a CGI junkie. There's very little evidence of a story behind all of the mind-boggling action, over acted drama, and special effects. It drives me nuts anymore, when fighting takes a 5 minute 'time out' for a lame, "poignant" dialog scene. I guess that I've seen too many of these to enjoy them anymore.


                
I just went to the Infinity War movie today and should have read reviews before going to see it.
The Guardian and prior Avenger movies were so good and funny that it made me want to see this movie. 
What a surprise when most of my favorite characters are gone. I will not be going to the next one. 
Maybe the people who love this are Marvel comic fans.
