Such a huge hype for this movie all these years and I prayed it shouldn't be like few of the overrated movies of the MCU. And thankfully it didn't. The movie delivered what was expected from it.Full paced action with CGI as a visual spectacle.And the anti climax was a bit of a gamble which paid off perfectly.I would have given it a 9 if not for the unnecessary misplaced humor,which the directors are still refusing to let go.
I know I'm extremely late to the party, but I waited for a time to sync up and see it with a friend (we both have too many obligations in the education realm), plus I had to see Doctor Strange and Thor: Ragnarok beforehand.Now before I leave any impressions, know that my experience was dampened by students with a moronic goal of sabotage by deciding to blurt out anything about the film they knew that I wouldn't want to know. I mean... what can I do to them in retaliation? Fail them? Strike them down with the hammer of Thor? Nothing, they're untouchable and they know it. It's sad, and I thought I've taught them to be better than that. Unfortunately, that select few is out there and always will be. I've waited nearly thirty years of my life for a film of this impactful magnitude to come out in its respectful genre, and individuals half of my age decide to play the card of indecency upon me and essentially impede on the level of my viewing experience.All that being said... it was a very good film, even better than I liked it (the problem was the spoilers). In fact, if I were to list negatives for this film, it would really just be all in one lump-sum bullet point regarding the lack of grounded material: a lot of space related stuff, nanotechnology (and I really don't like the Iron Spider compared to regular ol' Spider-Man), whims of inexplicable magic sources, levels of seemingly unbeatable friends and foes where I don't understand the devastation of a punch or explosion onto the individual taking the blow, and the recurring MCU element of death not necessarily being a finality for characters' ends.Conversely, there were many things that I really appreciated about the film. The first thing I would like to mention was the balance of everything, starting with the balance of characters and their moments. I thought this was going to be a massive issue going into this film, where it would just be one endless action battle and people wouldn't be able to serve their parts correctly, or they would only serve aspects as a moment of convenience to further the plot. Instead, where everyone was at during any moment seemed very natural to the overall MCU progression of items, and interactions that were had (on top of some that have yet to occur, lying in wait for the fourth Avengers film) were nicely played out. Villain encounters even appeared late in the film, which is kind of nice so that the legend looms larger as the movie goes on instead of playing beats such as: "We need three fights between hero and villain, so let's spread them out." Even characters who are physically inferior weren't just suitably matched up with other characters of that nature, and instead they found a way to possibly hold their own or team up to make things equal enough so that the fights could be anywhere with anyone. None of this works just in script alone; this was done by the hands of great directing. The Russo Bros have found a way to serve this great kind of balance for two straight films, though in Civil War it really felt a little more like: "Let's force the issue and get everyone on screen at once, even in a bit of a friendlier brawl." Admittedly some characters miss the boat of even appearing in the film, but it was few and far between, and they are explained away where frankly it worked just fine.Another great form of balance was in the light versus dark emotional moments. I have been on Marvel for having too many lighthearted moments in their films, or really too much levity for the sake of entertaining the crowd on their first viewing of a film. They really pushed the envelope with Thor: Ragnarok, and honestly I was not appreciative of it. They needed to find a way to strike the right balance of when to say what and what surface level of comedy they need to inject during the characters given the moments, but most importantly every light moment needs to be balanced with a dark moment for emotions to hit the right heartstrings. Infinity War does exactly that. I wasn't eye-rolling when they injected humor, and only one or two comedic bits were out of place for the moment they were in. That is a fair price to pay for the overall structure. They had enough characters to find those moments with in the 160-minute running time, and for once they didn't have the villain(s) either be demoted to that same level of yuck-yucks nor did they subject them to another character's comedic relief as a way to actually victimize them.This is a great time to transition to this film's villain: Thanos. I have had my quips with MCU villains being rather underserved in scope compared to that of the larger picture at play, like where they may be more of a pawn so the rest of the chessboard could do its thing. Thanos, however, appears as the king of this universe's chessboard. He was the main character in this film, and probably had the most screen time. He was not just a villain seeking ultimate domination of everything for the sake of it, he has his own goals and purposes in an attempt to restore a harmonious balance (there is that world again) for all species. It was not only believable, but it was also sympathetic. He shows remorse for his (attempted) actions, he shows mercy to those who beg for it so long as they aid in furthering his cause, and he speaks with a level head in a way that if we haven't already had eighteen other MCU films liking our heroes so much that we would actually root for the bad guy here. Definitely the best served comic book villain in a decade, if not right alongside the Joker for 'overall' status. Granted, Heath Ledger has given us the performance of a lifetime, though that character is very one-dimensional (and really good at that dimension, no doubt). Thanos really surprised me that he was more than just a large purple alien wanting "MOAR."I want to give the directors credit for making an extremely long running time feel extremely short. I don't know if I'm sitting here saying that I'd like to watch a whole 'nother hour of the film, but they hit the right beats and paced it so evenly that they really made time fly by in a manner that other films really can't speak for in the same vein. For all the movies I own on Blu-ray, I sometimes stop short of watching something that runs this long because I tell myself: "This is a long film man, you are going to be devoting a lot of time to this." I don't think I'll be saying that about Infinity War. If I were to show this to a friend who hadn't seen it yet, I wouldn't be warning them about the duration of it nor would I fear they would be looking at their watch every fifteen minutes wondering when it would end. The more you get into the film, the more you lean forward on the edge of your seat. Yes, sometimes they do cut away from characters to get to others because they have to, but you never forget your place where others are at and you aren't dismayed at the next grouping's story line. It all worked so very, very well.I'll cap this off with one thing that wasn't as strong as I hoped it would be, and it was in the movie's action. There was nothing wrong with it, but outside of some last-act battles I wasn't ever really wowed by anything either. All visual effects were top-notch, though (ehem, Ragarok was not good here too). I do think I'm putting this on a relative scale though, because it's interesting that I say that looking back at the whole picture that I think the moments outside of the action were actually better than the action points themselves, not in terms of entertainment but just in overall value. That's a good thing too, so now you're not just sitting around waiting to be getting your money's worth again. This jumps back to how the film's length is not a concern. No action scene overstays its welcome either, or it has enough dynamic elements and cross-cutting that it fits properly (again, jumping back to Civil War, that airport scene was just way too contrived... this doesn't have that). Age of Ultron was much more of a popcorn flick for me that I really do enjoy, and The Avengers has all of its lasting appeal in the final third of the film when they all assemble together, so I think I can say this one is the most consistently put together.Overall, I would say that my experience was definitely a great one and it is likely hitting inside my Top 3 of all the MCU films (The Winter Soldier still wins). I'm not ready to officially rank it just yet and I still have a lot of questions about what I saw in this one, but again that's a good thing about this film's natural depth where I'll have to watch it more than once to understand and appreciate those items. I really think the thing that brings this movie down a notch was my experience because of spoilers beforehand, and I didn't want to believe many of them to be true but unfortunately many were. This is a movie that I even avoided watching trailers for. Any knowledge about an event I am already interested in does not help ramp up the hype by me learning more about it. Shame on them for doing that to my theatrical viewing, but thankfully this film did not only rely on its spoiler-bound moments to be as good as it was. It was very ambitious, and I can't wait to see what they come up with next because I really have no idea where they want to go from here.


                
Epic superhero team-up from Marvel Studios and directors Anthony & Joe Russo. When an alien named Thanos (motion capture and voice performance from Josh Brolin) begins to collect all six of the Infinity Stones, incredibly powerful artifacts that grant their possessor unimaginable abilities, it's up to the galaxy's greatest heroes to try and stop him. Original Avengers Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) and Captain America (Chris Evans) join forces with newcomers Dr. Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch), Spider-Man (Tom Holland), Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman) and even the Guardians of the Galaxy, among others, but will their combined might be enough to stop Thanos' apocalyptic plan? The culmination of plotlines 10 years in the making, this is one of the biggest gambles in movie history, and it seems to have paid off. The directors and screenwriters somehow manage to juggle this many characters and keep the balance just about right, with memorable moments doled out to all of them. The plot itself is very basic ("Stop Thanos"), and much time is spent on well-executed action scenes and eye-candy science fiction set-pieces. The dialogue is very humorous, and the various character combinations are amusing. There are usually three or four story directions going on at once, with the action switching from location to location frequently, but never in such a way as to become a distraction or disorienting. The biggest question mark of the film was how well Thanos would turn out, a villain that's been teased for the last 6 years in these movies. I was dubious about Brolin's casting, as while I like him in many things, he never struck me as intergalactic demi-god alien appropriate. I'm happy to say that he works out fine, and while the effects work done on him is very good, his voice sells the character, arguably one of the best developed out of any of the Marvel movies thus far.I won't go into spoiler territory, but I will mention that the ending may befuddle or even anger some viewers. As a former comic book reader, I wasn't upset by it, and even expected it (even before the internet spoiled things for me). But those going in blind should be prepared for an unconventional finale.


                
I was there ten years ago when Iron Man graced our screens. I was too ignorant to see the movie in the cinema but I was there the second the film came out on DVD. One of my all time favourite cinematic memories was seeing The Avengers in 2012 with all of my friends, after Iron Man came out we saw every film leading up to the Avengers in the cinema and stuck around for each post credit scene. Here I am six years after The Avengers, Infinity War tickets go on sale and I buy two for the BFI IMAX in Waterloo for me and my girlfriend. I walked into this movie with nothing but high expectations and they were all met. This film benefits from the existence of the other 18 films in this illustrious franchise. It builds upon every single character thread and arc laid down in previous films. No theme is left untouched and no character is left without their traits and quirks. Time has left it's toll on some and has barely graced others. Iron Man's unwillingness to let go of the life he stepped into 10 years ago shows in his absolute eagerness to step into battle with his new nano-suit. Captain America's optimism has wavered but his ability to fight for what is right hasn't. The romance between Wanda and Vision doesn't feel random or forced because their connection has been present since Age of Ultron and especially Civil War. This film continues a theme long explored in the MCU, familial issues. First explored by Stark's complex relationship with his Father which culminated in 2016's Civil War this film widely explores the relationship between Gamora and Thanos. And what a relationship it is. Thanos is terrifying but the love and compassion he feels for Gamora makes him even more terrifying. This movie does what no other superhero film is doing right now, it uses it's original score (sorry Guardians) to the best of it's ability wherever possible. I would highly recommend seeing this film as it is amazing, it's characters well realised and is a creative masterpiece.


                
Wonderful graphics, intriguing story, strong acting, but some of the cheesy jokes are making these movies less than laughable...Of all the comics I read in the 60s and 70s, I don't recall any emphasis on laughs...I love a joke as much as the next guy, but it's hard to take a comedic line seriously...Still, a great show and I'll be long anticipating to learn where it goes now...Though it seems readily apparent!


                
After years of just sitting back & enjoying movies I pick based on : reviews,ratings,trailers & my favorite actors ,,,I decided this morning to finally give back to society & start puting reviews on movies I like ,,,I like Marvel Universe ,,, ever since the comics eventhough I admit I'm not a di hard collector ,,, yet Marvel's 1st kick into the big screen back in 2008 with it's magneficent piece of iROMAN ,,, was an amazing kickoff for thier franchise ,,, alright enough entro ,,, & back to the movie we're reviewing here ,,, the long awaited and much anticipated appearance of Thanos ,,, 
to me ? I'm currently in an age phase where I root for the villain ,,, (it's called growing up )people in charge of bringin him to life did a damn good job ,,, Ruthless , Brutally charistmatic , almost emotionless & yet purposeful to his vision ,,, still I think there is much to his origin story than what was shown ,,, very good combat brawls ,,, well put dialogues ,,, 
the ending opens up countless theory paths ,,, I like keeping us hanging like that ,,, i don't want this to be a long one ,,, but I think Thanos deserves his own movie Marvel ,,, cheers ,,,


                
Infinity War is movie number 19 in the current installment of the MCU. Some say that the movies have lost steam. Or that they're burnt out on superhero movies. To those naysayers, Infinity War may not be enough to revitalize their interest. But to anyone who still loves Marvel movies, Infinity War is a welcome and satisfying addition to the collection. There was good reason to be concerned about this movie. The marketing pitch pegged it as the most ambitious crossover event in history, which sounds kind of cool but also comes with its share of challenges. Crafting a story that juggles this many characters seems impossible, and choosing the correct combinations of heroes to group together is tricky. Finding a villain worthy of taking on the entire universe worth of Avengers is perhaps the most daunting of all. I worried about each of these going in. After seeing the movie, I can comfortably say that Infinity War delivered on all fronts. Thanos (a commendable Josh Brolin), delivers in a huge way as the star baddie. He's the key to whole movie. It does not work if he doesn't deliver. Fortunately, he does.The plot revolves around Thanos and his pursuit of the six Infinity Stones, which he hopes to use to eliminate half the population of every planet in the universe. Most would call this genocide. He calls it mercy. He believes if life remains unchecked, populations will grow too large and civilizations will eventually suffer and starve.So, it's up to the Avengers to stop him. You get the idea. For as crazy as Thanos may sound, he comes across as a somewhat reasonable guy at times. His past even makes him empathetic. Also, and this is absolutely crucial, he's scary. Every time he appears on screen, the audience knows that anyone could die. Any Avenger could die. Thanos is that powerful and that ruthless.Though all characters did not receive as much screen time as they deserve, this was only the case because so many characters deserve and have had their own movies. Kudos to the Russo brothers for handling the situation as well as could possibly be expected. The character pairing choices were brilliant. Fortunately, Marvel benefits from the fact that the funniest Avenger, Thor, also happens to be the Avenger most likely to end up in space for a meeting with the hilarious Guardians. The group immediately strikes a comic chemistry, as Starlord struggles to maintain his confidence as his crew oohs and aahs over the hunky Thor. 
Spiderman and Ironman boast a similar dynamic. Peter calls Tony "Mr. Stark" and Tony calls Peter "kid." There's a certain father-son/mentor-protégé sort of never completely clear vibe that lends itself to comedic gold, especially when Spiderman proves himself to be as capable as anyone else, despite his age. Tom Holland is distinguishing himself as far and away the best Spiderman ever.Nearly all the good guys and gals have their chance to showcase their skills (except for a couple absences, which I won't name). Captain America, the Guardians, and Black Panther all receive well-deserved grand entrances. The filmmakers did such a great job using music to smooth the transitions in a few key scenes without overdoing it. You can probably guess which ones get their walk-up music.Looking back, this movie opens with a bang and never really lets up until the credits roll. It's fun, funny, thoughtful and fulfilling. I only have three complaints.1. I don't care about the romance between Vision and Scarlet Witch. They seem like fine people, but I just can't get there. Romance is not why I watch these movies. Also, her calling him "Vizz" is objectively hilarious, even though that wasn't the intention.
2. There's one scene with Thanos and Gamora that felt clunky and thin. This becomes problematic because it's pivotal to their relationship and the rest of the movie. You'll know what I mean when you see it.
3. The movie has a problem with stakes. Are there any? Again, you'll know what I mean when you see the movie.Despite my minor gripes, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie. It seems like most viewers did. Join the phenomenon and see Infinity War today. If you love superheroes, you will probably love this movie.


                
"Avengers: Infinity War" is the newest addition to the now already long-running Marvel superhero franchise and in my opinion this movie is a definite contender for best installment of all. These 2.5 hours were directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, who started with Community and then entered the Marvel world with Captain America and for this new Avengers movie, they reunited with writers Markus and McFeely. Let me start by saying that i was a bit critical about previous Marvel films, especially Avengers movies as they frequently united way too many characters without properly elaborating on most of them. And the stories about them failing on their own against the villains, but eventually managing to succeed as a team after overcoming their conflicts and differences was gently-speaking not too new or creative. But this one here is different. Almost all characters have their moment to shine really, well Black Widow could have had a little more than that Hulk moment, but she is the exception. Even those they added new now like the Guardians of the Galaxy and the characters from Black Panther add their fair share of material worth seeing. Peter Dinklage is pretty interesting and memorable as a dwarf (yep!), the stories on romance and male friendship are nice to watch too and even Benedict Cumberbatch is tolerable for once. I think that movies, especially superhero films, often stand and fall with their villain and here we have Thanos played by Josh Brolin as the main antagonist and he is just utterly great and memorable. Maybe you could say that his (self-perceived godly) ambition to erase half the planet is a bit too mathematical, but everything else about him is outstanding and I have virtually no doubt that he will end up as one of the most memorable villains of the movie year 2018. Even in his weaker story lines, like the part with his "daughter" that does not feel entirely convincing early on, he shines and elevates the material to a level where it really saves this entire part of the movie. So yes huge thumbs-up for Thanos. And another thumbs-up for virtually everybody else. Except Starlord unfortunately because honestly his grief may have been huge, but the how he basically destroyed the Avengers' effort that had them close to victory was just ridiculous, so to some extent you can blame him for billions of people dying eventually. Or are they really? I believe there will be a new Avengers movie in 2019 by the same team of writers and directors, so the ending may not be as finite as it seemed to be. You can almost call it a duology. Is all hope really lost? We have to wait a year and see. Honestly I doubt it because there will be a Black Panther 2 for sure at some point, so I guess they will find a way to get things right again for the good guys. It will also be interesting to see if they bring back those who died earlier too, not just those that vanished at the very end.Anyway, this film we have here is one that will make a huge impact come awards season 2018/2019 in all technical categories, especially Visual Effects where it is maybe a lock for an Oscar nomination with a great chance to take home the win. Another thing I would like to say about this film is that it is also a triumph in terms of the comedy, which is not always a success in Marvel works. But here there are some really hilarious scenes and as many bad things as I said about Chris Pratt's character earlier, his banter with Thor is hilarious. And there is a lot more of course. Drax is also amazing in that one scene where he stands there doing nothing. You will recognize many other pretty funny moments when you see them. So what is it that made this film so amazing. I would say it is the script this time. It is bold, daring and not scared of anything while never becoming too absurd or unrealistic (and yes that is possible for superhero films *cough* Deadpool *cough* glad we did not see him in here). But the outcome here is the exact opposite of too many cooks spoiling the broth, both character- and writer-wise. You absolutely do not want to miss out on this one and good thing is you really don't need to have seen any other Avengers or Marvel movie to appreciate the quality we were given with this one. I am truly very curious about the sequel and cannot wait to check out. This third Avengers movie is my favorite 2018 release at the point of April. And it has a huge chance to stay in the top5, probably top3 until the end of the year. It never dragged, which is always a success for this running time and it gets better by the minute the longer it goes. And the way things turn out eventually reminded me a bit of the last Wolverine film "Logan". Happy endings are no longer essential. Realism is what it is all about. Highly highly recommended.
The russo brothers did a good job on managing a huge number of charecters,movie was entertaining as hell ..what they did with thanos was great but i would have love to see thanos a bit more horrific by nature and looks(the purple guy from age of ultron credit scene) with that intense character ,after all he is thanos!!anyone except ebony maw from the black order didn't looked promising.
The ending was tragic but still amazing ...overall it was a great movie to watch speacially at big screen.


                
If you enjoy reading my Spoiler-Free reviews, please follow my blog :)My most anticipated movie of 2018 was released a few months ago but at the time I was super busy, so I only had the opportunity to write a mini-review. Now, with Ant-Man and the Wasp coming out this week, I am writing full reviews of the 2015 Ant-Man as well as this monumental film, which features a lot of our favorite superheroes. I didn't watch a single clip or trailer for Infinity War, but my expectations were as high as ever. I went into the theater expecting to (finally) get a movie to rival with The Dark Knight for the best superhero film of all-time ...Unfortunately, I didn't get it. I will get my two issues out of the way now so I can focus on the positives because this movie has a lot of them. Being this a spoiler-free review, I can't get in-depth about its ending, so I'll do it like this. While its concept is incredibly daring and its execution seamless, the emotional impact is significantly reduced by my knowledge of the MCU's future. Everyone knows which films are being developed for Phase 4, myself included, so I can't just ignore what I know. In the same way that I consider every single movie leading up to Infinity War, I also consider the future releases, especially since this is a two-part film with an overarching story.My other problem is its balance of characters and storylines. First of all, I cannot imagine the colossal task of having to put together so many characters like the Russo brothers did. This is probably the one issue I was expecting this movie to have because I think it is impossible to perfectly balance this many groups of characters, where protagonists of their own sagas are left to secondary roles. While I do think that they mixed the characters beautifully, sometimes it felt that the film was just going from scene to scene without a real flow.There are a lot of heroes who have to be introduced and teamed up with other ones. Even with 156 minutes of runtime, it feels that they needed more time. The first half of the movie is a bit convoluted since basically, the transitions from scene to scene become repetitive and action-heavy, with no time to breathe. Sometimes it works (the opening scene is jaw-dropping), sometimes it doesn't. These are my only issues with an otherwise outstanding movie, I enjoyed every second of it!Like I said above, the Russo brothers brilliantly combined characters with one another having in mind the tone of each individual saga. Every actor and actress bring their A-game, everyone's script is excellently well-written. If I had to choose, my standouts are Chris Hemsworth as Thor, Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch, Zoe Saldana as Gamora and, saving the best for last, Josh Brolin as Thanos. Oh my God, Thanos ...Undoubtedly, the star of the film. I never expected that Thanos would have as much screentime as he did, especially when it comes to his backstory. This is the best Marvel villain yet! Even though he is a total maniac, I understand where he is coming from and his motivations are actually plausible. His story is so well-told that I almost wish that he succeeds in his mission ... How crazy is that?!When someone says "CGI villain", everyone instantly associates that to a horrible and depthless character. Well, Thanos is the exception to the rule because not only the CGI is mind-blowing, his characterization is amazing. Every single second that he is on-screen, I can feel it. His menacing and powerful presence is indescribable in words, you have to see it to believe it. I repeat: best Marvel villain to date!The action is one of the best in the MCU. The fact that this was the first movie in the history of cinema to ever be entirely shot with IMAX cameras definitely elevates every single set piece. Every sequence feels astonishingly epic and the Russo brothers are part of a very small group of directors who can seamlessly handle shaky-cam. Even in the first half, there are so many entertaining action scenes, cleverly filmed and with fantastic visual effects.Nevertheless, the big spectacle is saved for the third act where everything feels like I am watching those last epic battles in The Lord of the Rings franchise. Winter Soldier and Civil War might have better choreography and longer takes of action, but when it comes to the enormous and boundless sequences, Infinity War brings it home with bone-chilling charges on armies and exciting epicness levels. Also, the score is sensational and it definitely helps to raise a few goosebumps both in the emotional and action moments.It is hard to rank it inside the MCU and even harder to do it inside the superhero genre. I do not have the ability or knowledge to do it know. However, it is a ground-breaking and unique film, for sure. There is no other movie with such high stakes as this. Don't get me wrong, even though this film is dark and tragic, the Marvel humor is as funny as ever. In such an action-heavy flick, having the sometimes exaggerated Marvel comedy is a breath of relief and if there is a movie that needs it, is this one.Congrats to the Russo brothers! I never imagined the day where I could experience a film with so many superheroes, let alone such a magnificent one. Avengers: Infinity War is a ground-breaking movie in the genre, it has some of the most epic superhero action I have ever witnessed and one of the best villains of the genre's history, Thanos. This had everything to be an A+ but some issues with its ending and with the overall balance of characters and their storylines bring it down a bit. Still, it is undoubtedly one of the best superhero films ever and I can't wait to watch again!


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Avengers: Infinity War" (2018) was a pretty fun and good movie overall. The ending kinda saved it for me to be a 7/10, ending was good and that is why i'm giving this movie 8/10. But i do not believe that it will end eventually the way it ended in this movie, common - there a more bucks needs to made from this universe. That said, i do not understand what is this movie making on the IMDB 250 list (currently at 30th position) - its definitely not that great. You can trow a rock at me if this movie is better then "Terminator 2" or "Apocalypse Now" - this only shows how many fans this movie and franchise has - not the quality of this product itself.Overall, "Infinity War" was a good 2 h 20 min escapism, but it suffers pacing issues here and there. At the end i liked this picture and will check the 2nd part as well.


                
"Avengers": Infinity War" is an epic unlike any other. It's a reminder of how far the MCU has come in 10 years and this movie capitalises on its bloated, but beloved cast to draw you in. Every character gets their own moment to shine a little, the dizzying, vibrant comic book action is satisfying and defies conventions. While admittedly, this darker chapter in the Marvel movie-verse is oddly paced and suffers from the occasional tonal inconsistency, all issues can easily be forgiven as almost each scene is a sizeable dosage of fan service. Josh Brolin as Thanos deserves all the attention he gets, as he is a villain with a tragic story to tell. For really the first time, the consequences are felt and resonate long after the credits roll. non-stop comic book action and surprising emotional depth. While a little uneven at times, its beloved cast, outstanding villain and sheer scope never underwhelm and the end product is something truly epic.


                
Infinity War is a astonishing film which serves as the culmination of everything that occurred in MCU since the first pictures. Would seem, the movie had to turn out obscure and overloaded, but screenwriters so skillfully bring one moment to another that the movie bewitches with the first until the last minute. "War" connects those who didn't know about existence of each other, divides the teams which developed in the past, transfers characters from one region of the Galaxy in another, accompanying everything with grandiose battles. At the same time the narration remains clear and fascinating. Of course, if you've watched the previous movies. It's not a movie for those who want to get acquainted with Captain America, Thor, Hulk and other famous characters. The film is shot for fans, and the better you know the MCU story, the you derive bigger pleasure from viewing.


                
A mean, ugly purple dude scours the universe for the pretty gems that fit into his snazzy metal gauntlet, intent on using the power of the stones for his own nefarious needs. It is up to a team of brave superheroes to try and stop him.I've fallen way behind on my MCU, and am probably not the best person to comment on this latest instalment; or maybe, just maybe, my objectivity makes me more suited than most avid fanboys.For the best part of two hours I was reasonably entertained by what unfolded, despite not knowing the backstory to several of the characters. The plot was pretty easy to pick up, the action scenes were visually impressive, and there was never a lull in pace. It was slick, big-budget popcorn fodder designed to appeal to the masses, but which hardly qualified as revolutionary or indeed, all that memorable. Eventually, I could feel tedium creeping in. And then the last act changed everything...The finalé, in which half the population of the entire universe ceases to exist, makes Avengers: Infinity War a movie that lingers in the mind long after it has ended. Spiderman, gone. Dr. Strange, gone. Black Panther, gone. Groot, gone. And many more besides. Well-established characters vanish in the blink of an eye, and I have to admit feeling a lump in my throat at their casual dismissal. It's a bold move, for sure, and one that will guarantee discussion from all that stay the distance (which reminds me, be sure to remain seated for the now obligatory after credits scene).6/10 for the first two hours or so, but that ending... I'll be generous and add a couple of extra points for Marvel having the balls to go ahead with it.***EDIT*** Having pondered the fate of so many superheroes, I now expect Marvel to bring most of them back to life in the next film via Dr. Strange's powers of time manipulation-not such a ballsy move after all. My rating might be reduced to 7/10 if this is the case.***
First of all when I rate a film, I use this system for rating - 5 is a pass, 6-7 merit, 8+ distinction. I NEVER give a 10./10 because it's IMPOSSIBLE to make a perfect film. Thus my 8/10 would be 8.5 (distinction) if I could give half a star. Thus this film is VERY GOOD, but has a few issues.Because of the nature of the film, there are a LOT of characters, so inevitably some characters (2 in particular) is glossed over. Even Stan Lee's cameo was as brief as it could be (but considering his health that is understandable. This is the ULTIMATE crossover movie - virtually all marvel movie is represented in some way.To say this film is action packed is an understatement - if anything there is TOO much action - I could make a decent case this is 2 films rolled into 1 - hence the title of the review! Having said that, all action scenes were well done, and the issues re CGI I had against Black Panther weren't present here.As was shown in trailers, Thanos is on a quest to gather all the infinity stones to complete his plans for the universe. As such, Vision is a key target. We begin however in the cosmos with the Ragnarok survivors in a spot of bother. Loki shows his best & worst, and my appreciation for what Tom Hiddleston has done with this character is never higher than here. From here keeps flashing between earth & the cosmic realm - bringing into play the guardians.From here, it is standard MCU fair - if you've enjoyed any of the other movies, you will love this one. The big difference is Thanos - played fantastically by Cable - sorry Josh Brolin (nod to deadpoll ;-) ). and BOY has he done a fantastic job. All the claims that killmonger was the best villain in the MCU - are made to look VERY silly after watching Thanos. His plan is beyond diabolical, but the way he is played, it is quite possible to sympathise with him. Without saying WHAT he is trying to do, his motivations are to be benevolent! Whilst if he succeeded would be about as horrific as is possible, he doesn't do it to be evil destructive. In HIS mind, he is trying to prevent an even worse catastrophe! Yes the film plays it from Thanos's POV, and Thanos is taking a macro view of the universe! What is so great, is how Thanos is portrayed with a level of sympathy. It's as if Thanos doesn't WANT to do this, but he sees it a the only way to ultimately save the various species!I can see why people may not like this, there's things in here that I wouldn't have done. But for me, there is NO QUESTION this is an excellent film - but unlike many of the recent MCU films, no way could you consider this a romp! It's a complete tonal change from Ragnarok. And that is what I love about the whole MCU. They aren't afraid to change a working formula. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, I've DELIBERATELY not discussed much, as this film needs to be seen - if nothing else Josh Brolin's performance. This DESERVES to make way much more money than Black Panther. When politics change, Black Panther will not date very will - Infinity War WILL in my view.the trailers fairly represent the movie. You like them, you WILL love this. Oh and Peter Dinklage shows why he is such a giant talent!HIGHLY RECOMMENDED


                
The best thing I can compare Avengers: Infinity War to is a high speed roller coaster. From the first action sequence to the last the viewer is flung around various battles, universes and emotions. Thanos was much better developed than I expected, and seeing many characters from different films finally interact was rewarding for those who have been watching MCU films since they first came out. While IW was not the best or deepest super hero movie I've seen, it is unlike any other cinematic experience I have ever had. It's easily the closest I've felt to reliving Saturday morning super hero cartoons in theaters, especially with the "to be continued" ending. I was expecting pure fun and I got exactly that. Can't wait for the next one.


                
The hype train behind this movie was insane. You should have been there, it was such a ride. We were losing our minds at this image, and crying over that shot from the trailer, and speculating about every little thing. It was something special to behold. So now that this gargantuan movie is here, was it worth it? Was all that hype warranted or did it all go to waste? I'll say what I can here, but to put it simply, this film gave me everything I wanted and more.Guess I'll just start with the bad, because no movie is truly perfect, and this one is no exception. There's one shot in the beginning between Tony and Pepper that constantly blurs in and out of focus, which I would guess is a problem with the whole thing being shot with IMAX cameras. They're great for the action scenes but really poor for scenes of two people talking. I don't think they do enough with the characters they're given, mainly because I've followed Marvel movies religiously for close to 8 years now and would have just loved to see all the witty banter they go through. And yet there's not too much of that. You have all these A list actors, and you do... pretty much nothing with them. A little annoying but whatever. There is stuff, but to me they could have gone farther still. And the last issue is the Soul Stone. They throw it in, but I'm guessing only for fanservice and to go through with the ending. The problem is we've been looking for the Soul Stone for 6 years now and no one knows, and now it's Gamora who's known this whole time? Yeah, that's kinda an issue.Really all that stuff is me nitpicking. What this movie doesn't do so well here or there it makes up for in spades with all this really cool stuff. Every action scene is superb. And trust me, there's a *lot* of action scenes. There's one at the start, then there's another in New York, then there's another on the ship thing, and another in Switzerland or wherever, and a really big one on Titan, and a really *really* big one on Wakanda. It wouldn't be too much of a stretch to say the whole movie is one fight scene honestly. And not just one long boring fight scene, they do so many wonderfully amazing things in it that saying anything here kinda defeats the purpose.The characters don't need too much more fleshing out, as we already know who these people are from other movies. And that was really my biggest concern going in, that they would give everyone an extra backstory. But the film goes, "you should know who these guys are by now, don't expect us to waste precious time on them." The only character this really happens to is Gamora, but she never had that big of a backstory to begin with, so it doesn't truly matter. Besides, she dies anyways. And not just at the end, which I was surprised by.Speaking of the end... I love it. It's so bold and brave of Marvel to literally erase every character we've cared about for the last 6 years. The only people that end up alive are the original six (I'm going with Hawkeye/Antman being Schrodinger's Cat, where they are both alive and dead until further notice), Rocket, War Machine, and Nebula. And I agree with it, mainly because deep down we all know Avengers 4 is probably going to undo at least part of the damage. Peter Parker dying isn't the end of Spiderman, because Spiderman is a suit, not a person. (STILL WAITING ON MILES MARVEL). Dr. Stephan Strange, Sorcerer Supreme dying isn't the end, Sorcerer Supreme is a title. T'Challa dying isn't the end of Black Panther, they've already announced a sequel within like a month of his movie, and besides, Black Panther is just another title. A kingly status, not a person. I love the ending just because of the sheer ambition and bold choice made, but not everyone did clearly, as I could tell people walked out really really sad. I don't blame them, it sucks seeing them die. But that's exactly why they did it.Thanos is the coolest villain Marvel villain... ever really. I'd say better than Loki, better than Ego (whom I've learned to love), better than Michael Keaton that one time, better than literally every Marvel villain. He steals the show, and in a way you can understand his thought process. He thinks what he's doing is right, wiping out half the universe so that the last half have a better, more prosperous life. And in the end he wins, and his ambition is realized. Was what he was doing right in the end? To him maybe, to us maybe. And every fight scene involving him, except maybe the very very last one where he walks up to Vision and just kinda blows through the remaining force through sheer over-leveled might was absolutely fantastic. He is far too powerful, but everyone against him puts up one hell of a fight.So I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and I can tell a lot of other people did as well. It's not a perfect movie, honestly to me Iron Man 1, Guardians (both), Avengers 1, and Dr. Strange are still better, and none of those top Dark Knight, but still. I love this movie. And you should too, if you've been like me for the past year. Go watch it at your earliest possible convenience!.. just remember to bring tissues.
Not bad,not like the ending tho,i like the way they picture Thanos,behind all that shredded body he still got heart
This movie was good at first but just went downhill very fast especially considering that lots of battles happened at once and that a lot of people die that just makes it bad. I do not reccomend this movie.
Some could argue that the booming comic book film industry has grown a little stale since its inception with 2000's blockbuster X-men. Some argue that it's just the same shtick of hero-fights-bad-guy. There are a few titles that have been absolute standouts that work in a vacuum as a piece of media, such as the Dark Knight trilogy and Logan. However, one disappointment I've long held is that the stories don't feel like a comic book.Naturally, stuff is inherently lost in adaptation from comic book to the big screen. If you want to see what happens when we try to re-create media in a new medium, you need look no farther than 2014's The Killing Joke. The last third of the film was nearly panel-by-panel identical to the original comic, but most fans would tell you that the comic is still head and shoulders above. But, that's neither here nor there.The essence or flavor of comic books was perfectly expressed in Sam Raimi's Spider-man Trilogy (yes, even the third one). The stories seemed to juggle subplot and characters, but the narrative weaved them all together effortlessly. Some of the most effective moments in a film were just that - moments. These films showed a deep respect and appreciation for comic books. Then, Batman and Iron Man show up, and the stories gained a new form. Like I said, adaptations inevitably require changes, but it seemed like the studios had abandoned this style. I did see glimpses of it in films like the first Avengers and in Civil War, but for the most part, I was slightly disappointed. Infinity War brings it back. It feels like an event comic. The story trades back and forth between several subplots, the heroes don't need to explain who they are or their backstory and motivations because we already know these characters, we've spent films with them. The villain is menacing and memorable (I'd say even more compelling than Thanos in the original Infinity Gauntlet comic). Characters die and there's already setup for them to come back. The story is somehow organically a collection of moments yet still somehow flows as a compelling whole. Avengers: Infinity War is a big, dumb, action flick. The dialogue, shot composition, editing, etc., are all above-average, but none of it is pushing cinema to new heights. What makes it great is the feeling it can give the audience thanks to great characters and good storytelling.


                
A film that exhilarates and cheats you at the same time, aching for a closure that never comes. Sure, non-stop action with all your favorite heroes and foes, yet an overly fast paced plot leaves only the outstanding SFX to remember when you feel cheated by the ending, and knowing you have to wait another year to close-out the mystery. So until then, you have to jump to your own conclusions. Not a fan of these type of plots. Still, exciting and well directed and acted. A generous 8/10 from me.


                
I've grown up with these films. I've grown to love them, I've grown to love the characters. This film delivers. No joke, I'm still sobbing after the ending. This deeply and emotionally affected me. I can't imagine what a feat this must be for the Russo brothers, but I salute to them. This movie is borderline perfect in my eyes. DCEU is over. Pack up your bags DC. Thank you Marvel.


                
Spoilers:
With so many biggies dying or turning to dust, and the time manipulation being elemental here I am afraid that in the end we will revisit all of the areas and deaths only to find everyone getting up and walking into another movie. I sure hope that I am wrong.
Great movie, good to see all the superhero's in one film, the ending confused me, what's next?


                
A blockbuster film that can't be missed and has awesome special effects


                
