I was amazed to see so many negative reviews; so many people are impossible to please. This movie was 2 1/2 hours long, but I could have sat there another 2 1/2 hours and not noticed. Thoroughly entertaining, and I love how the directors weren't afraid to take chances. I've read a lot of other user reviews that claim that there's no plot. Unless you're mentally handicapped or not paying attention because you're on your phone the entire movie, the plot is pretty clear, and decent in my opinion.


                
I went and looked, and I want to express my thoughts.I went to this film with very high expectations, with a sense of something. I went to him twice, the first time, myself, and the second with the family, and I was even surprised that my mother, sister and dad (who do not understand this movie at all) brought unreal pleasure and an ocean of emotions.Each frame, each scene does not let you get bored, from the Marvel logo, and to the stage after the credits. Favorite heroes once again experienced side by side and you feel it, you are completely absorbed in a hurricane of events and you are watching it in one breath. In comparison with the War of Infinity, even the Confrontation looks like an ordinary fight in the sandbox.Uuuu, and the villain, the best as for me the best in this kirovoveselennoy, he is not just a bot at once, without motivation, no, it's just the opposite. I liked Thanos so much that you do not want to, and he began to impress me, in terms of his convictions (I had it only once, with Joker Heath Ledger). He has feelings, he makes choices, he's alive.Tense scenes are beautiful, in one moment I still let off a meager male tear (and this happens to me very, very rarely). What about the humor, the jokes are correct for me, and they do not bother you like Thor: Ragnarok, although in the beginning they look a little tight. Well, the action, it is very high-quality, and in comparison with the Black Panther is generally ideal.And of course the film can not be without punctures. The lack of predictability of some story lines, and a couple of moments that were very predictable, but they are fade against the background of all this scale.Yes, you will not find anything in this film about something, something, but, what, what, what, steep humor. Thanks to Marvel and of course the Rousseau brothers, the beautiful actors and the wonderful movie that I've been waiting for for 3 years.Out of 10, I give the War of Infinity 9.


                
Well, Well, Well....I was so ready to tear this down - 19th MCU film, too many stars, bloated CGI, first of a two parter, and so on and so on...Yet, this is so much fun. Pure popcorn...now in the dictionary under "popcorn film" is just the poster for this film. Somehow, the Russo Brothers have juggled all the parts to give everyone some time in the sun. They are helped immensely by two things: the premise is so pure Mcguffin that you just watch Thanos look for Infinity Stones which gives a primal momentum and that the film's stars/characters are looking to move on - that means, actual stakes for once as people could really die and not just comic book dying either.The DC people must be kicking themselves. The lightness and comedic touches are brilliant. You are laughing out loud, comedy level, but at totally organic character humour. It means you are so entertained throughout its rather long running time.The other big surprise is Thanos himself. Normally, I hate CGI characters but somehow they have made Thanos and Josh Brolin work enough to give the character an actual arc. This is one of the better MCU villains and I never thought I would write that.The stakes are real, the charisma levels are amazing, it is like "Oceans 28" and I can't wait for the sequel...that says an enormous amount considering the challenges this film faced.


                
This movie has made me feel things that I haven't about a movie in a very long time. If you are anything like me you will definitely feel a sense of "everything is gonna be alright" because of the generous sprinkling of light humour that makes the situation feel less serious than it actually is. The emotional roller coaster that begins right at the beginning of the movie to the very end has you feeling more and more frustrated and on edge as it goes on. Don't get me wrong this movie is absolutely stunning and amazing and a cliffhanger at the end has you wanting more and more. I'm definitely very excited to see how this storyline will carry out in the next Avengers movie.


                
The most anticipated movie of 2018 has now been released and my word, I have to say that Infinity War was brilliant on each scale, whether be its story, Visual Effects and the ensemble cast consisting all the Marvel characters. Every Marvel Fan needs to watch the movie as words cannot describe the magnificience of the movie.


                
Avengers: Infinity War is the seventh film in Phase Three of the Marvel Cinematic Universe and the nineteenth film overall. Directed by The Russo Brothers (Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Captain America: Civil War), it is truly a terrific film of its kind and a near-perfect culmination of everything the cinematic universe has been building up to for ten years.Two years after the events of Captain America: Civil War, the Avengers team remain a fractured group of heroes, with some completely dropping off the radar altogether. However, one day, the powerful intergalactic tyrant Thanos (Josh Brolin) arrives on Earth to complete his collection of Infinity Stones, which upon acquiring all six, will allow him to control half of the known universe. With time quickly running out, The Avengers must reunite and team up with the Guardians of the Galaxy to put an end to Thanos' unquenchable thirst for power.Avengers: Infinity War is more than a typical MCU superhero film. It is a celebration of ten wonderful years of entertainment and overall fun. While the film does struggle with some tonal shifts during the first act, its brilliant action scenes and clever dialogue more than make up for these shortcomings. The film's ending will be overwhelming to some and most likely will divide fans over how it is executed. Directors Anthony and Joe Russo do a superb job developing Thanos' personality outside of simply wanting universal domination. His motivations feel somewhat morally ambiguous and at times even make him seem sympathetic. Despite the film's darker tone, there are still some hilarious scenes of banter among the heroes, particularly between Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr) and Steven Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch). As is the tradition, be sure to stay after the credits for one bonus scene.I rate it a solid 9/10


                
I adored this movie. In my opinion, it is one of the best Marvel movies ever made. The Russo Brothers did an outstanding job at directing the movie, and made sure that there was just enough humour, battle scenes, and plot moments to not make the movie boring, but also not make it confusing, either.In the first few opening scenes, the villain, Thanos, and his henchmen are immediately portrayed as being very ruthless, dark and evil, when they massacre many innocent people; we are immediately given a apocalyptic scenario in the movie's introduction, but I think it shows what the heroes are up against, and definitely makes 'the Mad Titan' live up to his name.Throughout the film, different heroes from the franchise meet up for the first time to team up against the villains, and makes for some hilarious cross-over moments that you wouldn't find in any other Marvel movie. Despite all the humour and pop-culture references, there are some very dark scenes such as the torturing of Thanos' own daughter, and the slaughter of entire planet's populations ordered by the most interesting member of 'The Black Order', Ebony Maw (who is one of the best secondary villains in all of the Marvel movies, and really comes across as a terrifying character).Towards the end of the movie, Thanos is forced to make some terrible decisions to fulfil his quest to collect the Infinity Stones. Probably the most exciting scene is the blood-thirsty battle that takes place in the futuristic, African country of Wakanda. This is the ultimate fight between Thanos and the superheroes. This scene provides some amazing cinematic shots and definitely makes the whole movie worth watching. The movie's plot twist comes into place just when you think that the heroes have won. Some people may find the ending confusing, but I believe that it was the perfect choice, and sets up for its even more exciting sequel (which releases Spring 2019). It is interesting to see that the 'good guys' don't always win, and that Marvel is taking risky steps to improve the quality of their films.In conclusion, I would highly recommend that you watch this dark, but amazing movie as soon as you can. It is definitely one of my favourites, and I cannot wait to watch it again once the Blu-Ray releases.
This was Thanos's movie. Wow. I actually got a little bit of tightness in my chest in the scene where he was crying. I did not expect that! Pragmatism is so often the tool of the villian and bright unyielding idealism the mantle of the hero. Is Thanos right? Maybe, maybe not. He certainly believes he is right. That's something to discuss with your friends later as well as how you feel about who lived and who didn't. One of my favorite parts about the movie was people's reactions.The previous movies in the Marvel universe fleshed out all the characters and developed the plot. Therefore this movie is more action packed and the end-game. This is the big fight and the big plays are coming out and boy do they come out swinging!It was an intense movie and I can see a lot of people disliking it just because they dislike the ending or liking it because they are thinking it will all work out in the end. I don't judge movies on if what I want to have happen is what happens. I judge them on content: The funny moments were delightful and laugh out loud great and the emotional moments were gut punches that got gasps from the crowd and had people leaning forward in their seats, eyes intently locked onto the screen. You know it is good when it gets those kinds of reactions!Go see it! This is a movie that will make you feel something and get you to think afterwards and that's what the best movies do!
Remember it's fast, does not have time for crap scenes, everyone is lucky to get a line.
Hard to catch on for non MCU guys but I gotta say Awesome.


                
I've seen Infinity War and all the other Marvel Cinematic Universe movies at least 3 times. This film was worth waiting 10 years. Although the movie is 2.5 hours long, it was not boring. Every scene was action packed and detailed. In fact, you definitely need to watch it at least once because there is a bit too much information going on. Thanos was a great villain. He was scary yet likable. You can see his emotional side especially with Gamora. Of course, no movie is perfect. Thor was overpowered, probably because of his newfound powers in Ragnorak and stormbreaker. I didn't like that Captain America had a smaller role than normal. Additionally, I'm sure Hulk had a minor role here for a reason. Like in Civil War, Vision was mostly useless as well. I get that he was stabbed earlier in the movie, but he still could have done more. Some people do not like that half the universe "died," including the heroes. However, I enjoyed that the ending was not a cliche of the hero always winning. People need to understand that this movie was originally supposed to be in 2 parts. "Part 2" should have all the answers when it comes out next year.
Infinity War does a brilliant job by seamlessly combining the last few films together. It picks up where Ragnarok left off on the space shuttle with Thor, Loki, Hulk and all the remaining Asgardians. It opens with a distress call as Thanos and his Dark Order have slaughtered most of passengers including some of the remaining Asgardians. He interrogates Thor and beats Hulk so bad he is too scared to ever turn green again. A defeated Hulk/Bruce Banner is then transported to Doctor Strange's Sanctum Sanctorum so he can warn him of Thanos' arrival. It is down to Doctor Strange, Wong, Tony Stark and Spider Man to prevent Thanos' evil minions from destroying New York and taking the time stone. It's a thrilling action sequence that introduces Starks cool new nano-bot armour that creates its own swords and shields. Thanos has been teased since 2012 and the wait has paid off here as he is by far one of the best villains. The story is more about him achieving his goals which is refreshing to see as the villains are normally sidelined in these films. He is so determined to get all six gems, each gem making him stronger. The Avengers and Guardians have to race against time to stop him from finding all six. One sequence on his home planet 'Titan' is worth mentioning and like most of the film, it is breathtaking and tense. His crew (Dark Order) also seem unbeatable as they battle the rest of the Avengers in Wakanda with their alien army which also proves difficult. Thanos gets some interesting backstory, it would have been even better if the menacing Dark Order got some backstory themselves as we never really understand them or their motivations.Even though it enters familiar ground, it is often done differently and most of the time it's unpredictable. It's full of surprises and twists which will leave you exhausted by the end. Although Infinity War feels over stuffed with characters and storylines, the Russo Brothers do an exceptional job by giving each character enough to do. Its great to see some focus on characters like Gamora and Thor as previous films have kept it prominently on characters Iron Man, Hulk and Captain America. That's not to say they don't get anything to do because they do, it's just not as much as usual. This entry really does require you to see all of the ones before it as it can become confusing. They often call back to previous events and storylines, so it's a better experience if you are familiar with all of them. There are also so many fun references like Rocket Racoon's need for artificial limbs, Thor's new haircut and Drax's constant quips. There are too many visual effects shots which could have been avoided using practical effects. The CGI shots don't look bad, but sometimes they can be distracting. However it's a technique that is quicker than any other, and with studio films of this scale that's just a small price to pay. The action scenes are so well directed accompanied by a music score by Alan Silvestri who always adds that extra level of excitement to them. It is a relief to say Infinity War runs well over 2 hours 30 minutes which is the longest Marvel film. There is no point saying its "baggy" or "overlong" as fans of the franchise will greatly appreciate this and with so much going on the runtime is justified.


                
My greatest fear of endless war was as follows:
1- How are they going to gather so many heroes and make them non-disposable? 2 - how are they going to make a villain so AWESOME that it makes sense for so many heroes to come together to defeat him. And the film responded to me in the most incredible way:
Each hero has his role in the plot, as are 4 jewels to be protected the film made situations for the heroes to meet and protect these jewels, and these situations are great.
The villain is generic, but as the film presents us he is better able to perceive his motivations and that he is not simply generic but unique.
An incredible movie with beautiful scenery, breathtaking action sequences and a script that gets better as we know the marvel universe better


                
An almost perfect movie!! For a long time, we're waiting for a superhero movie that is not clichéic and boring, and we have Deadpool,but Infinitty War is a visual show, and it's worth our time. I can hardly wait for Avengers Endgame next year


                
SPOILER: 'Avengers: Infinity War' is the third Avengers film and the 19th Marvel Cinematic Universe film overall, serving as a culmination of the last 10 years. Will not a full-stop (Avengers 4 comes out next year), it does a great job of bringing the much-teased infinity stones/Thanos storyline together. Lots of knowledge of the previous MCU films is assumed, especially the two most recent films which lead directly in to this film - 'Thor: Ragnarok' and 'Black Panther'. It might make some sense if you haven't seen the others, but probably not too much. The stakes are certainly high, with a number of deaths of key characters throughout (no spoilers) and the opening scene literally taking no prisoners. The vital part of this film is the villain, Thanos (Brolin) who - despite being large, ugly & purple - gets enough backstory and shows adequate ethos to almost empathise with his reasoning for wanting to destroy half the universe (via the infinity stones). While there's some deaths and plenty of tension/darkness in parts, there's still lots of laughs, mostly thanks to Thor (Hemsworth), Starlord (Pratt), Rocket (Cooper) and Drax (Bautista). The CGI is fantastic the entire film, with plenty of scenes in space and on new planets, which is always great to see - as is Iron Man (Downey Jr.)'s inevitable new suit. The way the team-ups are handled is done really well, with Dr Strange (Cumberbatch), the Guardians of the Galaxy, Spider-Man (Holland), Black Panther (Boseman) and the Avengers all split up, so there's always different scenes moving things along at a good pace. The third act battle is not predictable and the ending is hugely shocking - certainly no cop-out.


                
When I was a kid just after watching Superman II that one day there will be a film that will have in it, Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman as well as other DC Comics superheroes but it will knocked out of the park by a Marvel film starring the Hulk, Spiderman, Thor, Iron Man and others I would had not believed you. Heck Black Panther did twice more business in the US box office than the Justice League film.Usually villains in superhero films want power just to destroy everything. Thanos the villain wants to bring chaos and destroy what seems half the population of the worlds in order to bring a new order of peace and prosperity. No more starving kids scavenging for food. It is a Nazi way of thinking, we get people in social media platforms who go on about how we need to control the population growth to save the planet. So reduce the population in Africa, in Asia in the Middle East. You know find a way to get rid of those black and brown people! Well Stan Lee who created a lot of the Marvel characters is Jewish and knew about the perils of this Nazi way of thinking.Thanos wants his infinity stones to get ultimate power. You might think he has never loved something or anyone but he need to make sacrifices himself. His quest for the stones sees him battling Thor at the start of the film. Along the way their are casualties which leaves you wondering what will happen to those individual Marvel films in the future.The Russo Brothers have certainly made a film where the various characters from the Marvel universe coming together feel natural and organic. Just look as to how well the Guardians of the Galaxy characters gel with Thor or Tony Stark.They also have made the film so well paced although the running time is a tad overlong. It starts with action scenes and the action scenes crop up in this film relentlessly but we also get humour and brief character moments but always you know this is a comic book adaptation.


                
MAJOR SPOILERS!! DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM!My headline is the easy way to describe this movie. It is grand, majestic and spectacular. Just like Thanos towering everyone else with his physique this movie also stands above everything else, at least most of it. Because wow, this movie is really something to behold. Marvel went all in with everything here, the cgi is phenomenal, the acting is great, the story is well told, the pacing is near perfect. I have seen this movie twice in IMAX 3D and once in 4DX now, and i have never seen a movie with better image quality than this one, never.Ever since the MCU started with Iron Man i have seen every film released, most of them are good, some are outright great, a few are mediocre and very few are bad. But for the most part it has been a hell of a ride, and I've eagerly been awaiting this movie for quite some time, we all knew that it would come down to this, but were you prepared for what would be the outcome? Not many were, though many of us knew several avengers and other major characters would die in this film, i did not expect it to be this many.This movie truly didn't waste any time getting down to business, as before ten minutes had passed, Heimdall and Loki are killed, and we see the Titan kick the crap out of Hulk, this set the tone for the entire movie right of the bat, and was IMO a smart move, now we knew for sure what a badass Thanos is, and this was before he got all the stones.What the Russo brothers have done here is to overdo themselves. Winter Soldier and Civil War are two of the best MCU movies to date, and you got to wonder how Marvel found these guys, and knew what they were capable of, because Infinity War just lifted the bar even higher. This movie is sort of Michael Bay's wet dream, this is what he wants to achieve, but never can because he has no idea how to tell a story or handle emotions. This movie is a 2 hour and 30 minute spectacle, which has action scene after action scene lined up, and it never feels too much, somehow they managed to balance it, and that is a feat not many directors can pull off.But also the music is masterfully composed, and fit every scene perfectly. And the costumes and props design are state of the art, everything looks and feels so right in this film, all the people involved has done an outstanding job.And i really have to give it to Josh Brolin. Thanos is easily the best villain i have seen in quite some time. He is a complex villain, that is so well portrayed i almost start rooting for him, and that is saying something come to think how many years i have grown to love the avengers and the guardians. This is also big thanks to the amazing cgi that just brings so much life into the character. I can understand his motivations, i can side with his thoughts, i both agree and i disagree at same time. Such a great character, easily the best MCU villain so far, and i had Loki as my favorite before him.At the end when Spider-man, Doctor Strange, Scarlett Witch, Nick Fury, Star-Lord, Black Panther, Mantis, Bucky Barnes and many others are killed because he gets all the stones, i both felt a sense of pride for Thanos completing his mission, he truly is a determined badass. But at the same time i felt great sadness that so many of the characters that i loved, are dead.But MCU has killed characters before, which has been brought back to life, so i guess that will be the case here as well, as the next movie most likely will deal with time travel and fight Thanos in the future and the past. Dr.Strange gave up the time stone because of the 14.000.605 outcomes that he saw, only one lead to victory for the avengers, and giving up the stone was the beginning of the victory path. So even though this movie ended on a cliffhanger, it left enough hints that will be talked about for a whole year, and it will build the biggest hype in the history of cinema. So at the end of the day, this movie just delivers on so many levels, and it will make way for the rise of many new characters to enter the MCU, and finally take down Thanos and undo some of the damage he has done.It's quite amazing that this movie actually managed to live up to the hype, that should not even be possible when you think about it, but it did. The movie is absolutely amazing.I can't wait for Avengers 4.
Have found myself liking or loving a lot of Marvel's previous work, while finding a few faults with most. It is very easy on the most part to see why they are highly regarded critically, though those more critical of their work have raised criticisms that can be agreed with by me. Loved the first 'Avengers' film, while 'Age of Ultron' was more problematic and generally a lesser Marvel effort though still having a good deal to admire. 'Infinity War' for me was the best one, or the one enjoyed most. Would also go far to say it's one of Marvel's overall best, and a perfect example of how to do a superhero film and how to balance a large cast of characters and a lot going on. Can totally see why it has been so positively reviewed and it deserves the positive hype from personal opinion, though would hesitate in calling it flawless or one of the best films ever. More could have been done with the very end, which felt like it ended a little too suddenly without resolving everything to full effect. It may very well have been leaving room for a follow-up, but to me it's always been dangerous somewhat to do that just in case a follow-up doesn't happen.Scarlett Johansson also has far too little to do, with too short screen-time. Black Widow is the only character to me who felt underdeveloped and Johansson struggles to do much with it.However, the rest of the cast are spot on. A big shout out goes to Josh Brolin, who makes for a menacing and melancholic Thanos. Speaking of Thanos, Marvel have tended to underwhelm with their villains, underwriting them and giving them vague or inconsistent motivations. Thanos is easily one of the best Marvel villains along with Hela, one of the most interesting and of surprising complexity where he is a threat but one can see his point of view.Robert Downey Jnr, Chris Evans and Chris Hemsworth are also standouts of a near-uniformly great all-star cast. There are a lot of characters here, but somehow on the most part it didn't feel like there were too many (a big danger with films with many characters and a trap fallen into quite a lot). They hold a lot of intrigue and manage not to be too sided and true to character. Likewise, the story is very eventful with a busy main story and several subplots. Yet it didn't feel sprawling and managed to make sense and never lose engagement. Basically it's a non-stop thrill-ride and tautly paced, with some reveals that leaves one gasping, twists that genuinely shock, rousing entrances and some of the finest action sequences of any Marvel film or any film recently, that are truly exciting and big in scale without being too noisy or exhausting. The climax is truly epic, in scale, spectacle, thrills and emotion. 'Avengers: Infinity War' hugely impresses in the script too, with snappy banter, hilarious quips (along with 'Thor: Ragnarok' this is one of the funniest Marvel films, Thor has the best of it), tension and an emotional poignancy not seen to this extent or as strongly in Marvel films. It's all intelligently handled and the humour didn't feel misplaced or inappropriate to me, this is a Marvel film that delivers on the spectacle and thrills while also having brains and heart. Marvel never disappoints when it comes to the production values. 'Avengers: Infinity War' is not an exception. It's beautifully and atmospherically designed, slickly filmed and edited and the special effects, not overused or abused, are some of the most extravagant and spectacular for any film seen recently. It's tightly directed and dynamically and rousingly scored. Overall, an excellent film and one of my standout viewings of all the films seen so far from the first half, and overall, of 2018. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
This movie is perhaps the most anticipated movie of the year, maybe even of all time. So naturally, I went in the theater with really high expectations. With that, comes the fear that the movie won't live up to its hype. However, Infinity War manages to keep me on the edge of my seat from the beginning to end. For the first time, you can really feel the struggles and despair from our favorite heroes which is a great move from Marvel to keep audiences engaged. Infinity War is, in my opinion, the best marvel movie up to date.


                
This movie was great! It did a great job bringing characters together and action was good can't wait for the next one!


                
It's like Transformers, but with a story intact! All the Transformers movies were epic to me, but as the sequels came, the stories got more and more lost. Not Avengers: Infinity War. As an ex-comic collector (over 15 years), I was quite well acquainted with Thanos. My biggest worry was how they were going to pull off a weird looking hulk of an alien like him and not make him look like a doofus. Pulled off they did. Thanos was convincing and menacing, but most importantly he felt "real". Of course, no one can fault the fantastic, solid cast in the Avengers - Captain America, Iron Man, Spider-Man, Scarlet Witch, Dr Strange, etc. (though I missed Hawkeye) were all rock-solid and it's amazing how their characters shined through despite the very very full cast of the Marvel Universe. The action was epic - this is where it reminds me of Transformers - where the CGI was fantastic, blended well, etc. The difference? Infinity War had a rock-solid story that tied in all the characters really well, and it had a whole raft of emotions - funny, sad, poignant, shocking, surprising, mindblowing moments all came through the movie. It is one truly epic movie that deserves to be on the big screen. I love it, and can't wait for the next part. Highly, highly recommended.


                
Avengers: Infinity War (2018) is an epic blockbuster that scratches that superhero itch you've felt since its trailer. With a cast as big as Thanos and action that blows you back into your seat, it's hard not to re-queue when the film is over. 
Unlike the destruction caused by Loki in the first film and Ultron in the second, with this film, Thanos brings a whole new definition of threat. The heroes' greatest battle begins here and the special effects, acting, emotion and intertwining story arcs make for an exiting Marvel experience. 
The humour element was well balanced, unlike the changing trend with some of the latest Marvel instalments, and the chemistry between characters seemed authentic. I do admit, however, that some scenes seemed disjointed and proved to block the flow of the narrative - a minor nit-picking issue. The pacing of the film flowed well and at no point, in the 2.5 hours, did I feel bored. 
Infinity War is a high-octane, action-fueled, amazing instalment that succeeds in living up to its insane fan hype. The Internet is a harsh wasteland, and spoilers are out there, tread carefully!!9/10


                
Quite honestly this shouldn't work. Marvel has been approaching its breaking point for a while now. By conventional wisdom there are too many characters, too many storylines, too many warring threats and points of interest. We could even kind of see it in The Age of Ultron. Too many plot points, too vast a scale, too far-reaching a scope.But somehow Marvel broke through. This is an amazing movie. It is everything that was promised and more. A third installment that actually manages to raise the stakes, to deliver something that feels bigger, grander, more epic than anything we've seen before. And keeping in mind that this is Marvel, and that we have seen some truly astonishing things already, that is saying something.So what exactly did they do to pull this off? Well, for one, they absolutely nailed the villain. Thanos (Josh Brolin) had already been teased multiple times in previous films, but he had always been a big question mark for us. Would he truly be that threatening? Would he actually have the menace, the charisma and the ambition to stand as the biggest threat the Avengers had ever faced? I'm glad to report that he does exactly that, and more. Thanos might very well be the best villain Marvel has ever produced. That is not as high a bar as it perhaps should be, but it's still plenty assuring.The usual tricks are also in full display and they work marvelously. Beautiful CGI, good character moments, lush backgrounds, fun character interactions and a real sense of adventure. Granted, the storyline is one of the grimmest yet seen in Marvel, but that merely makes it all seem worth more.Now, to be fair, this is only the first part. The Infinity War will continue in the next Avengers film. But this is one of those rare Part Ones that manages leave you begging for more. That ending... We will be talking about that ending for decades to come.


                
Let me be clear Infinity War is not flawless, it has its faults but thankfully they are overshadowed by two hours of awesomeness.Every movie in the Marvel universe for the last decade has ultimately been building up to this therefore expectations were through the roof and for the most part it delivers.Almost every character from the MCU teams up to face its most dangerous foe yet, the mad titan himself Thanos and if you know anything about the comics then going in you'd know to brace yourself for heartache.With all the hype as to who wouldn't survive the film I'm left wondering just how many deaths are permanent, this is a superhero universe after all so never say never.Though the story and Thanos's motivations differ from the comic this can be forgiven as the new story is wafer thin but competent.As you can imagine one of the most exciting things about Infinity War was uniting heroes we've never seen side by side and that certainly delivers on all fronts. The action is thick and fast, despite the dark overtone we have plenty of comedy and teenage Groot didn't ruin the film like I feared he would.Obviously this is not a big finale and merely a high profile chapter in a much larger story but the movie is highly climatic regardless.I am saddened that this wasn't a two parter, alike Civil War (2016) this was a huge story and perhaps should have been broken up across movies.Infinity War is a contender for the best Marvel movie and instead of feeling burnt out after the never ending stream of films this has wet my appetite for more and I can't wait for the next film.Excellent stuff, though where in the blue hell was Ant Man?The Good:Children of ThanosThanosAll out action as expectedTies everything together nicelyThe Bad:Peter Dinklage (Never thought I'd say that)So many characters were spread too thinThings I Learnt From This Movie:If Thanos and Cable ever meet its going to be super weirdDishonest footage/photos are commonplace now (Look up the footage of Hulk in Wakanda running with the rest of the team) Seriously, never happened.Somewhere out there right now are DC fans claiming this is a bad film


                
Absolutely Amazing. Lives for the hype. I was surprised to see how serious this movie is compared to other MCU movies. If you're going to see this movie expecting those classics gags and one liners from the other movies this is not it. This movies has complex and emotional carachter arcs and it all comes down in such a perfect tone. 10 years lead up to this. Definitely worth the wait. The only downpoint is that it lacks the cosmic ingredients from the cosmic (if you read the story you know what I mean)


                
Avengers Infinity war was great for me as a fan of both the comics and the MCU ever since its inception. However, i can absolutely see the flip side of this, being a celebration for the past 10 years of the MCU it manages to embody the theme, tone, emotional stakes and attachment established in the past 10 years. Thus, for an audience who has barely seen any of the MCU films they might find it difficult, confusing and even just a storyline mess with no emotional stakes or attachment to the characters that I as a fan embody.Infinity war embodies all that comes before it and because of that it was able to deliver action, spectacle and a complete combustion of stories that it wouldn't be able to without this rich background and journey that has culminated to this moment.Despite all this, infinity war does still manage to weave in character arcs and development, characters like iron man, Scarlet witch, Star lord. All got meaningful character building arcs. While many other characters were unfortunately rather lost in the mix. But, these are just minor complaints considering how good of a job the Russos have already done in balancing stories, characters and handling brilliant action scenes. Considering the astronomical task of crafting the film there has to be characters that are more in the background and playing second fiddle, and I think that is perfectly acceptable. But arguably the films greatest victory is in Thanos, this is very much his story. Not only did we get a pure world conquering, villainous villain but we got to see so many sides to him. We saw brief moments of tenderness, but still see the menacing all conquering 'mad titan' that he is.more importantly, he had a motive that isn't of selfish origins. Thanos actually has a point and that creates an ability for audiences to understand where Thanos is coming from. This is something that marvel has had a huge issue with in the past but with Thanos and even the recent Killmonger perhaps marvel has finally found a way to fix its notorious 'villain problem'.


                
