Granada Television scored another hit with David Suchet's faithful delineation of the irritating little habits and precise fastidiousness of Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot to provide the most credible interpretation to date.  The same production company had also been responsible for the earlier extremely watchable Sherlock Holmes series with the incomparable Jeremy Brett.  Although Sir Peter Ustinov gave colourfully entertaining performances in various movie and TV dramatisations (`Death on the Nile', `Evil Under the Sun', etc.) his pompous Belgian detective always seemed too large and gregarious to be convincingly possessed of all the little foibles of Christie's narratives.Hugh Fraser is appropriately laid back as Poirot's companion, Captain Hastings, in noticeable contrast to his more commanding Wellington in the enjoyable and successful ITV dramatisations of Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe novels.  A convincing Chief Inspector Japp is provided by Philip Jackson who, whilst in respectful awe of Poirot still attempts to promote Scotland Yard as other than the implied bunch of duffers most famous fictional private detectives encounter.  Pauline Moran played the ever-efficient assistant Miss Felicity Lemon.  Other than these four constants, a host of guest actors, directors, scriptwriters and cinematographers were involved in the series to provide a variety of storylines and styles. Over the past decade Carnival Films amongst others have also made various one-offs with the same key cast.The two episodes I have seen recently, and first shown in February 1989, seem to particularly warrant some observation on their themes.  `The Third Floor Flat' makes a tongue-in-cheek comment on <U+0091>The Queen of Crime' herself with Poirot losing his bet with Hastings to detect the murder culprit in an amateurish theatrical play, as the writer (whom Poirot dismisses as `an imbecile') does not reveal all the facts until the wily detective on the stage has exposed the perpetrator to an assembled gathering of the usual suspects.  In this instalment the motive for the inevitable murder is given as the absurdly flat refusal by one spouse to grant a divorce to the other, a common mechanism of Christie's that is rather extreme and not wholly satisfying.  This episode is also notable for a rare display of emotion by Hastings when he is visibly shaken after his beloved vintage car is wrecked, and Josie Lawrence makes a guest appearance in one of her first straight roles after the comic improvisations of `Whose Line Is It Anyway'.Fine photography and attention to detail prevail to create a nostalgic impression of 1930's London although there is not much evidence of the Great Depression affecting this particular society.  There is a superb evocation of the art deco period with the Mansion flats being particularly impressive and similar to those found around Marylebone.`Triangle at Rhodes' affords Poirot a chance to escape the London scene and his usual crowd, and provides us with a travelogue promotion, whilst also touching on attitudes to divorce.  With her boyish husband (Peter Settelen) seemingly besotted with the archetypal femme fatale, Valentine Chantry (Annie Lambert) on her fifth marriage, Marjorie Gold (Angela Down; `Emma') makes a deliberately misleading impassioned proclamation on the ease of divorce in the 1930's claiming she is from the old fashioned generation that doesn't believe in it or holds with the modern attitude to life of `easy marriage, easy divorce.'  If divorce was that easy then it is a contradiction to Christie's often used plot device for removing stubbornly recalcitrant partners.  Although divorce was a painful experience for Dame Agatha herself in 1928 (with her husband's affair leading to her notorious disappearance for eleven days in 1926, the subject of Michael Apted's stylish 1979 film `Agatha') she does not address the issues with any feeling, only using it as a contrivance, unlike Charles Dickens some 70 years earlier in the 19th century with his social commentary in `Great Expectations', when there was little scope for women caught in an abusive marriage.  With Italian troops occupying Rhodes there is some recognition of history as Poirot passes on his observation of the strengthening of harbour defences to a highly improbable MI5 type, ineffectively trying to hide as a harmless Major (Timothy Knightley) by paying unreciprocated attention towards another English hotel guest (Frances Low) holidaying on her own, who in turn seeks Poirot's protection.Incidentally with 2001 being the 25th anniversary of Dame Agatha's death on 12 January 1976 her books are being relaunched by HarperCollins and the Palace Theatre in Westcliff-On-Sea, Essex has dedicated a festival season to all 23 of her plays.The original Granada series is available in DVD and VHS tape formats from Amazon and Britannia Music.


                
Mystery fans were fortunate in the late 1980s to have no less than 3 definitive television performances to enjoy:  Jeremy Brett as Sherlock Holmes, Joan Hickson as Miss Marple, and David Suchet as Hercule Poirot. Suchet's performance as the fussy little Belgian detective was a joy. Every detail of the character was perfect, from the stilted, pedantic delivery to the exquisitely fastidious grooming.  Suchet's skill as an actor was such that he was able to turn a rather flat, implausible character (and even fans of Agatha Christie admit that her characters are pretty two-dimensional) into a complex, eccentric but essentially believable person.  Some of the credit for this also goes to the fine writing in the series.  The writers were responsible for fleshing out the bare bones provided by Christie's stories, but they did it in such a way that the filmed versions flow naturally and seamlessly.  The supporting actors were also very fine, especially Hugh Fraser as Captain Hastings - whereas in the stories Hastings, who is usually the narrator, remains a rather sketchy character, here he becomes a genuine person.  He is not Poirot's mental equal by any means, but admirable in his sympathy, kindness and general embodiment of Englishness, and we can understand Poirot's affection for Hastings.  It's difficult to see how this dramatization can be improved upon.


                
David Suchet is absolutely the best Hercule Poirot I have ever  seen. He personifies the Hercule in  Agatha Christie's books perfectly. Also, Hugh Fraser (Hastings) and Philip Jackson (Japp) play their parts wonderfully. This show has a very good story line and each episode has a baffling mystery. If you are a mystery fan, I recommend this show to you. Make sure you look for it!


                
I literally grew up with Poirot, Sunday nights as a nine and ten year old were all about Poirot, Pistachio nuts, Terry's Pyramint.The productions evolved over time, the early hour long format episodes were much lighter viewing, over time they became more gritty, more daring. One good example is Series 3's Plymouth Express, a much darker presentation they anything that had gone before. By the time you reach Elephants can remember in Series 13 there was something very dark about the production.I would imagine it became more difficult for the producers over time, they were able to cherry pick adaptations during the early years, some books were much more suitable to the screen then others, The ABC murders and Death in the Clouds would have been so much easier to work with then say The Big Four or Cards on the Table.The adaptations remained fairly faithful to the book, there was never a fear of them doing what they did with the Marple series, and transplant Poirot into novels he was never intended to be in, for a good reason each of her works had a certain flavour. A few times changes were made to the books, I can only imagine for good reason, too many characters, budget restraints etc. The Big Four and Appointment with death being altered more then some.So good was David Suchet in the role, that now when you think of Poirot you see David in your mind. I think it will be a while before someone attempts to remake Poirot for the small screen. David had a lot to live up to, Poirot had hit the big screen, Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile had both been huge adaptations, the remakes both compete favourably. Suchet is Poirot.Characters were switched and added quite a lot, Hastings, Japp and Miss Lemon were often drafted in, but in later years that wasn't the case. It's hardly surprising as each is so enjoyable. Watching them all reunite in 'Lord Edgeware dies' was special.Generally the productions were very good to excellent, for me at the top of the pile are The ABC Murders, Curtain and Sad Cypress, each are literally flawless. The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and The Big Four are two of the relatively few lesser offerings, with the only true misfire being Murder in Mesopotamia.For years I hoped for the productions to be completed, at times it seemed like they'd never get through them, I'm so glad they did, but I am missing him.Who knows maybe one day The Monogram Murders will be made, not a Christie story I know, but it would be worth it to see Poirot anew once again. This truly was a fabulous series. 10/0


                
Poirot is an excellent tv series, with great production values and an outstanding cast. The only bad thing I can say about it is that I've already seen every episode 5 times, and remember how they all end. David Suchet is excellent as the refined, French speaking (Walloon) Belgian detective of the title. On all his cases, he is ably assisted by his Watson, Captain Hastings, and his secretary Miss Lemon. The series is set in the thirties, and the characters still carry the scars of the first world war with them, while at the same time omens of the next conflict are ever present. A fourth member of the cast is their modern Art Deco apartment building. The jazzy score gives an extra feeling for the period.
Anyway, if you haven't seen this little gem already, don't miss it. It is as good as Agatha Christie's other detective series Miss Marple, with Joan Hickson.


                
There were many one hour and somewhat less two hour episodes of the Hercule Poirot mysteries shown on PBS; and foresighted fans should have taped them then, because when A&E re-runs them, parts of each have to be removed to make room for all the commercials. Very often, the solution at the end flashbacks to scenes that we never saw because of the abridgments and frankly the value of these episodes are reduced considerably. But now Acorn Media is reissuing them in complete versions, with the two hour features on DVD and the shorter ones on VHS. Both series are a delight. The acting genius of David Suchet is enhanced by his usual supporting cast (Hugh Fraser as Hastings, Philip Jackson as Japp, and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon), the wonderful guest casts, the done-to-perfection ambiance of time and place--the late 20s and early 30s--with all those fabulous art-deco buildings they have managed to find and populate. The first boxed set of 3 episodes contains "The Disappearance of Mr. Davenheim," "The Veiled Lady," and "The Lost Mine." In the first, you might spot a bad flaw in the solution. Hint: how long was the playing time of the average 78 rpm disc back then? The second set includes "The Cornish Mystery" (with a genuine "blonde hussy"), "Double Sin" (with a Sweet Young Thing in Distress), and "The Adventure of the Cheap Flat" (with a neat reversal on the plot of Doyle's "The Red Headed League"). And if too many solutions depend on Poirot overhearing by chance some remark early in the story, well that should teach you to be more alert to these things on future viewings.  Also if Poirot is not above breaking the law with a little forced entry now and then, well so did Sherlock Holmes. Released at the same time as the DVD edition of "The ABC Murders," ;Death in the Clouds concerns a killing on an airplane during which Poirot himself is fast asleep. As in all Christie mysteries, the red herrings keep coming; but as in few Christie mysteries, not all that many characters have the opportunity to be near the victim at the right time. (Many mystery writers are fond of "the crowded murder scene" in which every character was able to reach the victim at just the right time.) And although you might feel cheated at the solution--and this one is a tad far fetched--you had so much fun up to that point that you don't really feel like carping. The ABC Murders in my opinion is one of the better Poirot mystery novels and it transfers very well to the screen. First of all do not confuse it with the horrible film "The Alphabet Murders" with Tony Randall. This is a fairly faithful adaptation of the Christie novel that has Poirot and Chief Inspector Japp chasing after a serial killer who matches the initials of his victims with the name of the town in which they are killed. And although the murderer turns out to be not exactly the least likely suspect, there are enough red herrings--one gigantic, the rest minor--to keep you guessing until the inevitable scene in which all concerned are gathered in one place to hear how the Master has solved it all There is a bit of nonsense with Hastings' stuffed souvenir of the South American jungles and the last murder is shown but its purpose is not explained as it is in the original. Very amusing sleuthing for one and all--and a very welcome relief to the grizzly "modern" mysteries now being shown with extreme close-ups, whispered dialogue, and as much gore as possible in each frame.


                
These seventy episodes, these eighty-four hours of film, these thirty- five DVDs are worth a mountain of gold of course. Agatha Christie created this particular character who is probably as famous as Sherlock Holmes, and that is telling a lot. The stories themselves are nearly anecdotal but the character is absolutely fabulous. And the actor composed his character so well that we really think he is the man in the story. Some extras explain that transformation of an actor into his character.First this character is surprisingly original for an English detective story writer. He is Belgian. He is some kind of refugee in England. He kept a delicious French accent, in fact a mixture between the Belgian and the French accents of the French language. This accent is kept constant and unvarying over twenty-one years by the very same actor who is aging of course but since Poirot's adventures stretch from the very end of the First World War to just before the Second World War this aging is natural. The actor ages the same number of years as the character.Second the character has a distinctive physique, walks in a distinctive way, has an astonishing moustache that evolves with age but not that much, though in the last episode he reveals the most astounding secret. He dies in that last episode and the explanation of the last case is post-mortem, in fact four months after his own death. Hercule Poirot can reach beyond his own grave.The character has a final characteristic that is particularly distinctive but also irritating. He is absolutely vain and his vanity makes him consider he is the most intelligent detective, and probably man, in the world and that his little grey cells have no equal. He has no real competitor, not even Sherlock Holmes, of course. That vanity makes him extremely nasty with most people around him and first of all his secretary, Captain Hastings and his valet-butler, not to speak of all the policemen he has to deal with. This vanity becomes a feature without which Poirot would not be Poirot. Agatha Christie made him like that and he has to be like that. She even includes in many episodes a female detective story writer who is her own impersonation as a fictional doppelganger of herself. And of course that doppelganger is not that swift and she often lets herself go into the traps of false logic, I mean false criminal logic. The logic of a criminal has little to do with that of a story teller.But the whole series has another quality that makes it nearly real. It is rooted in real life. Poirot is rooted in England in 1918 as a veteran from the front on a convalescing period. Then the cars, the trains, the radio, and every single fixture in society move up with time little by little, year after year. All the characters, policemen and others age and go up in society, are promoted or just go away, disappear or die. The treatment of this environment, settings, buildings, people, theaters, etc, makes the series believable and true to the core. Of course I would advise you not to watch the thirty-five DVDs in one go. Take your time and alternate four or five DVDs with something else for a few days. It may become slightly tiresome in heavy doses. But then you will find out that the various episodes are always a tremendous description of all kinds of social or cultural situations, in London and out of London, and quite a few on the continent. Of course Agatha Christie's stories are quite realistic, but the TV production was very careful to look for and find the proper elements that makes the whole thing rich and entertaining but with enough variation for the series not to become tiring. We will also note how the political situation is clearly alluded to and evoked particularly the rise of Hitler and some Nazi party or groups in Great Britain. This political and historical realism was typical of Agatha Christie and it is perfectly kept in this series, and you will enjoy it.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
What can be said about Mr Hercule. Is it his perfectly groom mustaches? His great and always neat suits? I will tell you...His use of the little gray cells(to poirot saying "use the gray cells" is saying use your brain and look at things from a different perspective.I have been, not only an Agatha Christie fan, but i just simply adore Poirot. He is brilliant and its fascinating the way he solves the crimes! Reading the books is good, but watching Mr. David suchet play the role in any poirot film is brilliant casting and he brings the character to life! If any of you have read the books and have not seen any of them brought to life, i suggest watching any poirot film starring suchet, you will not be disappointed! Enjoy!


                
The adventures of eccentric Belgiun sleuth Hercule Poirot and Captain Hastings, his British through and through sidekick. Other characters to appear in most episodes include Poirot's secretary and close friend Miss Lemon and Chief Inspector Japp of Scotland Yard who is close to Poirot even though he has often been outwitted by him and cannot adjust to Poirot's eccentric lifestyle.Since it began in 1989 with "The Adventure Of The Clapham Cook", over thirty episodes have been made, including hour-long dramatisations of Agatha Christie's short stories and feature-length episodes of the full length novels featuring the detective. The series for some people marked a breath of fresh air from the overblown cinema films of the 1970's-80's like "Murder On The Orient Express" and "Evil Under The Sun", in which actors were cast on the basis of their celebrity status rather than their suitability to Agatha Christie's characters. This series has always chosen actors who are not big name stars, but many have had wide experience on stage and television and suit the parts down to the ground. The series is also distinguished by its impeccable production values and a remarkable attention to period detail of the mid-1930's with its cars, clothes and gloriously designed art-deco sets. In 1997 David Suchet announced that he would never play Poirot again after the filming of "Dumb Witness", but fortunately he has since returned his most celebrated role and it looks as if we've got many more of these quality films to look forward to. Of course the series has often fallen below it's own standard, but I am one who feels that Suchet is the definitive Poirot, just like some believe Joan Hickson to be the definitive Miss Marple. Suchet really does live his most famous role. In an interview he talked about how he has read all of Agatha Christie's Poirot novels and in doing so has created a dossier of all the characters eccentricities and habits in order to enhance his excellent performances.Here are some of my favourite episodes;1. Evil Under The Sun (2002) 2. Lord Edgware Dies (2000) 3. The ABC Murders (1992) 4. The Mystery Of Hunters Lodge (1991) 5. One Two Buckle My Shoe (1992) 6. The Case Of The Missing Will (1993)The Case Of The Missing Will stands out for me because the original short story by Christie was very short and there wasn't much to it, it gave me the impression of something she wrote just to fill the gap in the short story collection entitled "Poirot Investigates". The screen writers had to add to it considerably, even to the extent of adding new characters and plot wise there was very little of the Christie stuff left in it. Sometimes you'd expect this situation to end in disaster, but in view of the circumstances I feel they did a first rate job. Like other episodes it was beautifully made as well.The ABC Murders is another episode which is essential viewing for fans of this series. It had only been filmed once before as a dreadful comedy version called "The Alphabet Murders" in 1965, which starred Frank Tashlin as Poirot and Robert Morley as Hastings. In ITV's version under the skilled direction of Andrew Grieve, impeccable performances and tight editing, it came to full-blooded life as a dark, sinister and overall exciting thriller as Poirot tracks down an evil serial killer who travels around the country choosing his victims by their initials in the order of the alphabet. This really should have made the big-screen paired with the above in support.


                
As far as I am concerned, David Suchet is the best ever Poirot. He looks like the picture one would have in one's mind when reading the books. Peter Ustinov was an excellent actor but did not look like Porot at all. The main characters are also excellent and you warm to them easily. Hastings is loyal, terribly British and a perfect foil for Poirot. He is intelligent but without any imagination. This makes him ideal for gathering information for Poirot. Japp is basically an good old fashioned sound copper, who has problems solving anything remotely difficult. BUT he his intelligent enough to use Poirot whenever possible rather than trying to compete with him. As with the other characters, Miss lemon is perfectly efficient with just about the right dry sense of humour,


                
Agatha Christie's Poirot is a wonderful and brilliant show that lasted for many years, based on the ingenious tales of murder and mystery by the queen of crime herself, Dame Agatha Christie. David Suchet dissolves into the role of the great eccentric genius, Hercule Poirot, a character previously played on film by Albert Finney and Peter Ustinov. But none were as perfect for this part as David Suchet. And where would a detective be without his loyal companions, Captain Hastings, Chief Inspector Japp and Miss Lemon, all of them delightful and lovable, played by Hugh Fraser, Philip Jackson and Pauline Moran respectively. This is definitely British television at its best, and seeing these wonderful and ingenious novels and short stories come to life is really a treat. Different episodes also feature different stellar casts, Death on the Nile and Murder on the Orient Express come to mind. I also have to acknowledge the wonderful score composed by Christopher Gunning, that is really a wonderful tune and sets the tone for a fun time. Even after this show sadly had to end, it will always be re-watched and discovered by new people, and Suchet's performance as Poirot will be cherished and remembered forever.


                
When I first read the Poirot novels, I tried to imagine this meticulous, egg-shaped headed, impeccably dressed, oiled mustached person who would never exist in real life. It was kind of hard to believe that someone could be so eccentric in nature and yet a person of first class intellect and understanding of the human mind. David Suchet has brought to life what many of the readers would not have been able to portray in their imaginations.This is an amazing portrayal of a series of novels into a TV series. I still believe that reading a novel beats the television in building the tension and creating the excitement. The cases are still very much interesting!Watch this series if you like old time mysteries. If the simple country people and their scandals appeal to you. Watch this to see the dedication of a team of people who worked 24 hard years to bring EVERY Poirot case written by Agatha Christie on TV! And finally, watch this to see an amazing actor adroitly performing as arguably one of the most difficult characters created in this genre of fiction.


                
During the evening of the last weekend Isaw the final episode of Agatha's Christi Hercule Poirot, a series which at first I though to be just a fat gentle man who bees around the nobility. Then I start watching it and it is addictive ,the characters amazing the settings are as accurate as it gets and truly bring the Interwar period in Europe when our protagonist lives and solves the crimes.Now to the Poirot, he is like he was pulled out of the books and in to the real world, everything from its quarks to his intelligence are expertly depicted and David Sushet was a excellent choice. Man I wander if the creator of the series had a time machine and when to the future and saw how well was Sushet suited to the role and they pick him up. If this the case then ,maybe just maybe, a certain Doctor had put his hand in to the but ,DOCTOR WHO? (PUN intended). For real the series was on the air from nineteen eighty nine to twenty thirteen, it could be just perfect casting, like with Robert Downey and Iron Man, but then Who knows, WHO knows(:)) ?OK enough thing the time whammy stuff, this series captured the essence and the atmosphere of the period between the two World Wars nicely, from the costumes to the ethics. And in some episodes the fear for the coming war ( Blitzkreg anyone? ) and the trauma of that soldiers carried from their trends back home and many of them our their families even when the events of the series are happening, still relive the pain that the Great War ,as the First World War was called back then, brought them. This fact alone make the series great from any stand point.To give a send that would honor with the right way Agatha's most famous hero, A revoir mon ami. Nough said.


                
Oh i love this series and David Suchet is a genius.i'm so addicted to it that i can't stop watching it,when i put one episode i always have to watch at least one more.I bought the DVD Box Set for my partner as a Christams present cos i know he appreciate this kind of series but i knew nothing about it till i watch it once and now i'm hook up on it.I live in London and i find fascinating how they really get the period right with all the deco building and the costumes. The acting of course is fantastic with Suchet as the best Poirot ever and fabulous supporting cast from Hastins,Japp and miss Lemon. Overall the best British TV series in a long time.


                
It is the end of 2013 and on TV, "Poirot" has bid farewell to Hastings with words reflecting on the validity of the criminal methods that he spent his life investigating and of course, the usual chiding of his friend for "lacking the little gray cells". It is a sad moment in the history of television because "Curtain" has closed on one of the most beloved characters and one of the most brilliant series ever made for television. David Suchet's Poirot has gone down in history as one of the most brilliant and convincing portrayals of any character on screen. His performance supported by convincing performances from Hugh Fraser, Philip Jackson, Pauline Moran and a long list of guest actors factored along with the largely faithful depiction of Christie's novels that never failed to maintain the true spirit of her plots, gave this paradoxically unassuming and self-effacing series (in contrast to its self- congratulatory and arrogant protagonist) a long successful air-life of a quarter century, surviving successfully, based solely on the quality of its programming, for 24 years from 1989 to 2013.I am reminded of Lord Tennyson's words - "men may come and men may go, but I go on forever." Several series have come and gone since "Poirot" started airing and several with continue to come and go, while Poirot continues to entertain us through repeat airings and DVD sets.


                
Reading Christie's Poirot was a great experience for me. But the shear plot and the style of the books written aren't the only reason why I like the Poirot series. It's the atmosphere of the era which was brought to us in a splendid manor. Watching Poirot makes me want to move back 80 years a go, live in Art Deco and ride the famous steam lines from coast to coast.The cleanliness of the frames, perfection of scenery and the scholar English dialogs really made me enjoy Sunday afternoons. Yes, I know it's an ideogram of times long passed but it still is one of the best portrayed history based motion picture contents.Also, Poirot shows one particular thing that really was authentic for the time when novels were written - concern for crime and it's impact in society. Today's vision of murder is widely accepted as something normal and common. Watching all sorts of CSI programs made today's environment accept murder as an acceptable category, no matter how sinister, bizarre and pointless it is. Poirot represents a completely different point, showing that a crime was a scarce and socially unacceptable unlike today. By enlightening all the aspects of the crime Poirot makes not only good entertainment, but a conclusion with meaning and a clear message.Concerning Poirot, I'm sorry about two things - that the world has degraded so much in the last 80 years, and the fact we don't have more good series like Poirot.10/10


                
At first I was somewhat lukewarm towards the Poirot series; although my family was enthused with the episodes I found them a bit bland. The Sherlock Holmes programs from Ramada starring Jeremy Brett made them seem boring in comparison (and perhaps a vague memory of Ustinov playing Poirot didn't help much). But after seeing Finney in Murder on the Orient Express I was interested, and during a stay at isolated Bar Harbor, Maine I decided to check out an episode of Poirot from the local library (oddly enough the same one reviewed here previously). Suffice it to say David Suchet is the definitive Poirot. He has in the past played American movie chieftens and diabolical Middle Eastern terrorists, but he portrayal of Hercule Poirot transcends them. The settings are perfect, proficiently replicating the Art Deco feel of the early 1930s. And Poirot's fastidiousness and simple directness make him unique amongst Agatha Christie's creations.I highly recommend viewing these episodes.


                
A literary legend became a TV phenomenon when David SUCHET took on the role of Hercule Poirot, Agatha Christie's most famous sleuth. Suchet's Poirot became the most-watched detective in the history of the PBS Mystery! series and a hit all over again on A&E. Now, all 36 one-hour episodes from the series are available in this 12-disc Classic Collection. Using his "little Grey cells" and aided by the affable Captain Hastings (Hugh Fraser), Poirot unravels the thorniest cases without mussing a hair of his famously sculpted mustache. Lush art deco period details and scripts infused with delicious Christie wit make these mysteries irresistible.Starring: David Suchet, Hugh Fraser, Philip Jackson, Pauline Moran. Director: Andrew Grieve, Edward Bennett.


                
I am a huge Agatha Christie fan, at 17, and I absolutely love Agatha Christie:Poirot. What I love most about Agatha Christie's books are their clever final solutions and well developed characters. My favourite Poirot book is Death on the Nile, Sleeping Murder for Miss Marple, but my favourite of all the books is And Then There Were None. Back to Agatha Christie:Poirot, the period detail is splendid, with wonderful costumes and sets, and matched with great music. David Suchet is impeccable as Poirot, in my opinion he doesn't just play Poirot, he IS Poirot, just like John Thaw WAS Morse. Don't get me wrong, Peter Ustinov and Albert Finney both gave enjoyable portrayals of the character, but Suchet has something that makes him the best of the Poirots, he not only looks the part, but he brings this sense of humour to the role, and his co-stars were always saying how he was always in character when he put his moustache on. Hugh Fraser is very entertaining as the rather naive Hastings, as is Phillip Jackson as Japp and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon. The scripts are always well written, the stories are intriguing, and the characters fairly complex. Out of all the episodes, which range from good to outstanding, one of my personal favourites has to Five Little Pigs, very haunting and tragic at the same time. It is true that very few of the episodes are completely faithful to the books, but the fact that all the episodes are so well-made and acted, that is forgiven. 10/10 for a wonderful series, one of my favourites along with Inspector Morse and Touch of Frost. Bethany Cox.


                
Maybe I'm a bit sheltered when it comes to reading classic literature, but I have never read anything by Christie, and I never realized the character of Poirot was created by her.  Despite this fact, I discovered a large collection of videos from the series at the local library...so I picked the first one from the set and checked it out.  I wasn't expecting all that much, being that it's British, and like many Americans, I find that the two countries have very different tastes when it comes to television.   I must tell you, I was very pleasantly surprised, and I like the episode very much. It was the episode, "The Disappearance of Mr. Davenheim," in which Poirot takes a bet from Japp that he cannot solve the case in 7 days without leaving the house.  Poirot takes the bet, and the story progresses from there.  The character of Poirot is very funny, and despite the fact that I have to strain to understand what he's saying sometimes (due to his accent), I like him a lot.  This seems to be a great detective series, with superb writing and acting.  The secondary characters of Japp, Hasting, and Ms. Lemon (I believe that's her name) are very well written as well.  It's not your typical american fare, but it suits me just fine.  I'll definitely be checking this show out when it comes on A&E, and I plan on checking out the rest of the series from the library.  Great show.  10/10


                
By the end of the series the character was as perfect as the original stories. Justifiably lauded by the Christie family and critics alike, Mr S delivers a tour de force performance throughout.Some Americans miss the point of AC. She didn't write cuddly thatched, half timbered crime novels like the New England 'Murder She Wrote' stuff. Her's were a dark, chilling reflection on what lurks just below the surface of the English reserve particularly and humanity generally. At the end of each episode you should feel a sense of brilliance mixed with fear & distrust of the person next to you. AND SO YOU SHOULD! TV brilliance at it's best. Watch once a year.


                
At first Poirot seems like a comic book character, and really that does not change much. However, once the viewer is inured to the fantasy-like stories, it becomes very entertaining. What strikes me most about the series is the superb photography, the choice of vistas, the colors of the scenery, of the vehicles, and of the characters' clothing. The "art deco" look of the buildings, art, furnishing, and clothing is eye candy.Poirot's supposed genius and ability to figure out even the most convoluted situations is gratifying for those who want the bad guys caught and the good guys rewarded. His ability to admit his failure is notable, but sometimes it is as if he is saying, "I am sorry I thought myself wrong, when I was really right." Poirot's sidekick Captain Hastings is much like Holmes' Watson, about a step and a half behind and a day late. Much as with Watson, one wonders what good Hastings does, but sees clearly the impediment he is to Poirot.A classic and characteristic exchange between Poirot and Hastings shows the contrast between the shallow Hastings and pensive Poirot. After speaking with the "Veiled Woman" (a villainess posing as blue blood), Hastings says, "What a stunning woman!" Poirot replies with a knowing smile, "I sometimes think mon ami, that you are too easily stunned."Chief Inspector Jap at first is the bumbling, jealous cop who resents Poirot and gets in Poirot's way. As the series develops, Jap's respect for Poirot grows as does Poirot's for Jap. Eventually Jap becomes an ally and helper for Poirot. It is funny to see the contrast, as Poirot stays in the finest hotels while on a case, while Jap shares a bed (out of fiscal necessity) with another cop in a hostel. When Jap visits Poirot's office, he is served coffee in a plain cup and saucer, while Poirot drinks his nog (looks like Irish coffee) from a fancy clear, silver-handled tankard.All in all this is a very good series, and fuels the addiction of movie-lovers like me. Another well-done British production; head and shoulders above anything on American TV. This from an American reviewer.


                
British mysteries don't get any better than this. Poirot is a wonderful series that shows the pure dedication of the cast and crew. Each episode has 1) a baffling mystery, 2) great performances from the cast, 3) gorgeous production values, and much more. David Suchet is the quintessential Poirot, hands down. He studied every single Poirot book or short story in minute detail, and gets every trait of Poirot's down perfectly. He even pays attention to how many sugar cubes Poirot puts in his tea (it's three, by the way). If that isn't dedication, I don't know what is.The rest of the cast supports Suchet ably. Hugh Fraser as Captain Hastings, Philip Jackson as Inspector Japp, and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon lend a sense of humor, comradery, and fun to the series. They are sorely missed in the most recent feature-length episodes, and I hope they will return. Speaking of, the newer episodes are slightly disappointing in that they stray from Agatha Christie's plots and lack the feel of the earlier episodes. But Suchet is superb as always, and they are entertaining mysteries in their own right.You really owe it to yourself to watch this fantastic mystery series, even if you are not naturally drawn to that sort of thing. Believe me, you won't regret it.


                
David Suchet is an excellent in his role as Monsieur H. Poirot. He managed to play so well in this film series that every time someone mention Agatha Christie or Poirot - my first thought is related to these series and specifically Mr. Suchet acting.I shall keep these series for my children one day as I thing they are truly amazing.Would definitely recommend them to everyone who loves detective stories, has nostalgia to 20's, 30's and even further up to 50's of XX century. To many people the story might be lacking "action" but in fact the genuine spirit of Poirot (said in the books and in the series many times) is the human psychology not the rough power or so popular lately "action".My recommendation - get yourself a nice glass of brandy and go back to the past where you can see some of the best detective stories every made!


                
This unforgettable television series, which has spanned almost twenty years, is one of my favorites and one of the best TV series ever, in my opinion. It meticulously adapted all the tales and novels in which Agatha Christie included her most famous character: the infallible Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. There is certainly merit in this character, which undoubtedly contributed to the success and recognition of its creator, one of the most celebrated, read and translated authors of police fiction. And there is certainly merit in this author. Therefore, this series ends up being a well-deserved and just homage to both creator and creation.We have to stand up and applaud David Suchet's talent. I think its unanimous, he has been the actor who best managed to give life to the Belgian detective, famous for the manias in regard to cleanliness, order, arrangement and refinement. He was Poirot, he became the character. I think for an actor is probably the greatest achievable achievement, redundancies aside. I also enjoyed the appearances of Hugh Fraser (as Captain Hastings), Pauline Moran (as Miss Lemon) and Phillip Jackson (as Chief Inspector Jap). Each contributed in the best way to the success of the series. Each episode adapts a long story or novel by the British author. The screenplays are great, the mood of mystery is very pleasant. The attention to detail, almost perfect costumes and season settings and the surrounding soundtrack help make the series memorable.


                
