9/23/17. Maybe 3 1/2 stars. It was a challenge to get through all the episodes, but I did. Overall, they were above-average murder mysteries, with a few outstanding ones here and there. I think it was because all the episodes were movie-length (around 90 minutes) that probably could have been done in shorter segments. Good casting, and, of course, great writing.


                
As a huge Christie's fan, I welcomed this TV series frantically. I read all of her books more than ten times each. So my review is for her book fans. Not for those who just watch these on TV or videos.Art and decorations, costumes, castings, everything is beautifully revived, with some effort to put within two hours. My top recommendations are: 1. The Hollow - Almost no changes of characters and settings from the original story. The Actors are very convincing, too. There's a slight change at the ending. 2. One, Two, Buckle my shoe - Also very faithful to the original though the plot was very complicated. With some necessary reductions of side characters. 3.All other episodes except: 1. Appointment with Death - Totally changed story and cast of characters. Title should be Disappointment with this. Christie would have been raged if she saw this. 2. Dumb Witness - Also I was confused, wondering what am I watching? No settings and affairs are familiar from the Original. 3. Cards on the table - Unnecessary change of murderer at the end. It spoiled the original. I want movies to be faithful to the original story. The series is fulfilling my need and showing some more pictures I couldn't imagine.


                
Marvellous attention to period detail. Atmosphere more important than substance! If one wants to while away an hour or so on mindless quality rubbish this is hard to beat! If one has any complaints about them please do not do so to the BBC - it was made by a commercial TV channel! http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094525/companycredits Even BBC America broadcasts productions from commercial channels so do some checking before appearing foolish!I have seen the filming crews in action a couple of times. They particularly liked Lubetkin's "HighPoint" in Highgate (I have lost count of the number of episodes it appears in) - and they managed to film "Evil Under the Sun" on Burgh Island, in Devon, where Agatha Christie actually wrote the story (published 1941)! (Mind you it looked as if they were filming in October rather than the more appropriate July/August. I hope the cast did not suffer too much.)


                
