Poirot is an excellent tv series, with great production values and an outstanding cast. The only bad thing I can say about it is that I've already seen every episode 5 times, and remember how they all end. David Suchet is excellent as the refined, French speaking (Walloon) Belgian detective of the title. On all his cases, he is ably assisted by his Watson, Captain Hastings, and his secretary Miss Lemon. The series is set in the thirties, and the characters still carry the scars of the first world war with them, while at the same time omens of the next conflict are ever present. A fourth member of the cast is their modern Art Deco apartment building. The jazzy score gives an extra feeling for the period.
Anyway, if you haven't seen this little gem already, don't miss it. It is as good as Agatha Christie's other detective series Miss Marple, with Joan Hickson.


                
British mysteries don't get any better than this. Poirot is a wonderful series that shows the pure dedication of the cast and crew. Each episode has 1) a baffling mystery, 2) great performances from the cast, 3) gorgeous production values, and much more. David Suchet is the quintessential Poirot, hands down. He studied every single Poirot book or short story in minute detail, and gets every trait of Poirot's down perfectly. He even pays attention to how many sugar cubes Poirot puts in his tea (it's three, by the way). If that isn't dedication, I don't know what is.The rest of the cast supports Suchet ably. Hugh Fraser as Captain Hastings, Philip Jackson as Inspector Japp, and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon lend a sense of humor, comradery, and fun to the series. They are sorely missed in the most recent feature-length episodes, and I hope they will return. Speaking of, the newer episodes are slightly disappointing in that they stray from Agatha Christie's plots and lack the feel of the earlier episodes. But Suchet is superb as always, and they are entertaining mysteries in their own right.You really owe it to yourself to watch this fantastic mystery series, even if you are not naturally drawn to that sort of thing. Believe me, you won't regret it.


                
I have watched this series many times and I hope you will find my thoughts useful:Episodes created between 1989 and 2003 are mostly under an hour in length. One or all of the characters: Miss Lemon, Inspector Japp, and Hastings appear in each episode, and they are generally a lighter, or at least have some humour in them at some point. They are also better costumed than the second series. Episodes created between 2003 and 2014 are movie length - usually around 1 1/2 hours. In only one episode do the old regular characters show up, otherwise there are now new characters on the side including his man George, and a novelist friend. The episodes are much darker, devoid of humour, and with poorer period costuming and sets, however, the quality of film and direction are better. They stand as theatre-worthy films. David Suchet is the only constant through all the episodes. His character changes - becoming angrier, darker, and more religious in later episodes, but this can be explained as characteristics of Poirot as he ages. Which brings me to my worst complaint about the series. I REALLY WISH the producers had thought about presenting the episodes in the order in which they were published over a broader range of years, rather than the 1934 - 1939 time frame. Most of Christie's books with Poirot were written in the 1930s, but he does appear in books published between 1920 and 1972 (with one flashback story set in 1917). It would have been nice to see the episodes spread out from the early 1920s to the mid 1950s - which would excuse Suchet's 24 years of aging better.Regardless, it is a great series, and Suchet is the ultimate Poirot. I am sure he must be typecast as I have only ever seen him play Poirot, or crazy Arab terrorists... but he deserves kudos for bringing Poirot, with all his unsocialized prissiness to life.


                
I was a little skeptical about this TV Series at the beginning because I regarded it as slow and old fashioned. Instead it proved to be surprisingly good exactly for its pace, not as fast as the modern ones, but still enjoyable and for its dresses and settings, which well reproduced the period of the first decades of the 20th century. And the latter is the suitable set for great actors as David Suchet who delivers an outstanding and truthful performance as Poirot, managing to define the character through his physical peculiarities, as the penguin-like walk, and his typical ways of saying like "making the little grey cells work". Besides the main character other interesting personalities come up as Poirot's secretary, Miss Lemon, the partner Capt. Hastings and CI Japp. The plots are nicely developed and unpredictable, but there was no doubt on that since they're based on Agatha Christie's novels. A special mention for two episodes in particular "Evil Under the Sun", which has a beautiful setting on a Devonshire island and a classic as "Murder on the Orient Express", which has an almost mystic touch and it also shows a unusually fragile Poirot, asking God for help.


                
These adaptations are trying to stick to the books as much as posible. It most often does, although the books are obviously better. The great performance by David Suchet has to be highlighted as he is probably the best actor who ever interpreted Poirot.


                
Agatha Christie's Poirot is an ITV TV series based on Agatha Christies novels and short stories, some 70 in total, running from 1989 to 2013 in 13 Series. Most if not all of Agatha Christies works were adapted. Starring David Suchet (Poirot), Hugh Fraser (Poirot's assistant), Phillip Jackson (Chief Inspector Japp), Pauline Moran (Poirot's Secretary) and David Yelland (Poirot's Butler). The latter recurring characters are prevalent in the early series, but used as needed throughout and to a lesser extent in the later series, with David Yelland appearing towards the end. In Murder on the Orient Express for example, Poirot solves the case alone.Poirot is a period piece with most of the episodes set in the 1930's, which deviates from Agatha Christies timeline. High production values and excellent casting are highlights of the series.Poirot is a murder mystery series, with each episode following Poirot solving one of his cases, which invariably is one or more murders. Given the excellent casting, it is difficult to determine the murderer, unlike lesser shows such as Midsummer Murders, where the most accomplished supporting actor is frequently the perpetrator.The plot is Poirot uncovering a series of apparently unrelated clues, with Poirot in front of the suspects at the end piecing the puzzle of the crime together. Each of the suspects is examined in turn and ruled out leaving the perpetrator, except on the odd occasion where they are all guilty. Poirot solves the cases by analysing the psychology of the suspects (whether they could carry out the crime), eliminating suspects and using deductive skills.Most of the crimes are committed by the upper classes of society, with the episodes typically set in an English country mansion. One episode involves a serial murder (The ABC Murders). Series 6 onwards are double episodes, based on the novels; the earlier series were based on the short stories.Well acted, high production values, the only criticism is the length of the latter series. Special mention goes to David Suchet for his portrayal of Poirot. 7.5 out of 10.


                
It's surprising that it took me so long to discover this series. After all, I am a big mystery / Agatha Christie fan, and I've watched "Death on the Nile" and "Evil Under the Sun" with Peter Ustinov as Hercule Poirot countless times. I'm glad I did discover it, in any case; it's a very rewarding investment of time and money. Let's begin at the start: Agatha Christie's stories. They are the backbone of the series. With very few exceptions, they remain clever, witty and (if you have not read them, of course) unpredictable after all these years. And the most amazing thing is, YOU KNOW that there will be twists, you're expecting them and looking for them, and they still hit you from nowhere!Another major factor in the success of the series is the production quality. Wonderful locations, impressive sets, meticulous costumes (and hats!), authentic cars - you actually feel as if you've stepped back into the past. Nearly all the episodes are vaguely set in a 1936-1938 period, but there are a couple that are set even earlier. The photography is as good as you'll find in a polished cinematic production. The direction is usually stylish and smooth. The music is memorable. This really is cinema on the small screen.Finally we get to the actors. Most people say that David Suchet is the definitive Hercule Poirot, and after seeing him play the role for 17 years and counting (!), it's hard to argue. That does NOT mean, however, that I will dismiss Peter Ustinov's portrayal, which despite what some people think is not that different to Suchet's: the eccentricity, the vanity, the humor, the good manners, the anger, the humanity and the sympathy, they are all there. It's just that Suchet, holding the role for so long, has had the chance to perfect his performance down to the small details. Hugh Fraser, as the well-meaning and brave but intellectually inadequate Captain Hastings, Philip Jackson, as the straight-thinking Chief Inspector Japp, and Pauline Moran, as Poirot's loyal and highly efficient secretary Miss Lemon, are PERFECT in their roles - the chemistry between these 4 main members of the cast is magic.In 2002, the series made a somewhat controversial turn: Poirot's 3 sidekicks were all dropped from the films, Poirot was not shown spending his daily life at his London apartment anymore (though in the last 2 episodes he has moved back - into a different apartment but on the same building), and the tone became noticeably more serious. There have been some complaints about this change in direction, but personally I consider ONLY one of them legitimate: the lack of faithfulness to Christie's original novels. Having not read most of them, it doesn't bother me much (exception: "Cards on the Table"), but I can see why some people might object. The other complaints are not legitimate IMO: a) Hastings, Japp and Miss Lemon are not in the films? They were not in the novels either. b) The tone is too serious, there is no humor? The tone is appropriate for the stories told, and there is still humor, but it is more subtle now (the only dead-serious episodes IMO are "Sad Cypress" and "Five Little Pigs", and they SHOULD be dead-serious: they are both tragedies with innocent lives lost and dreams shattered). c) There is too much violence and/or sex? Nonsense. There is no episode that would get anything more than a mild PG-13. Actually, the most bloody and vicious killing in the series happens, if I'm not mistaken, in an old episode, "The Plymouth Express" ("The Adventure of the Egyptian Tomb" is pretty nasty as well). And, let's face it, most Agatha Christie stories were never intended for kids below the age of 13, anyway.In closing, here are my favorites from each of the 10 seasons so far:Season 1: "Triangle at Rhodes" (reminiscent of Ustinov's "Evil Under the Sun", and better than Suchet's version of the same novel!)Season 2: "Peril at End House" (mainly for the magnificent seaside setting and Polly Walker's beauty and acting)Season 3: "Wasps' Nest" (actually my favorite episode of the entire series! The most atypical - NO CRIME IS COMMITTED! - and the most moving - the ending nearly brought me to tears both times I saw it) Season 4: "The ABC Murders" (great story, great performance by Donald Sumpter as Alexander Bonaparte Cust)Season 5: "The Chocolate Box" (another atypical episode; it takes place in 1936 and 1916 Belgium and we get to see Poirot in his early policeman days!) Season 6: "Hickory Dickory Dock" Season 7: "Lord Edgware Dies" (brilliant story - a double deception). I never saw The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, to be honest: there is not much point in seeing that one if you know the ending, and I heard it was bungled anyway.Season 8: Neither. Instead I'll pick 2 from Season 9 Season 9: "Sad Cypress" (A near-masterpiece; a sensitive, compassionate portrait of a sensitive, compassionate woman, wonderfully played by Elisabeth Dermot Walsh), and "The Hollow" (an incredibly beautiful visually film, with one of the best female characters & performances in the series (Megan Dodds)) Season 10: "The Mystery of the Blue Train" (a throwback to the grand old-fashioned multi-suspect "Murder on the Orient Express"-style mystery; AC thought this novel was one of her worst, so most of the changes in its adaptation must have been improvements).And a final note: although I found "Cards on the Table" to be one of the weakest Poirots in a LONG time, at least it gave us Zoë Wanamaker, who was quite funny as the mystery writer Mrs. Oliver (Agatha's alter ego?), and apparently we'll be seeing more of her in the future.Overall, a wonderful series, a must-see for fans of the genre.
This is a review based upon my viewing the program on NetFlix. I enjoyed the series up until the last two seasons. Poirot's character (I admit I have never read any Agatha Christie) had always been a jovial, amusing, polite and courteous fellow whom anyone could be friends with. But the last two seasons, he became a dreary, vile, dark, unhappy, spiteful man who raged even against his faithful companion Captain Hastings.The episode "Murder on the Orient Express" is truly confusing as if it had been written by three writers oblivious to each others' work. Poirot condemns a soldier to suicide, condones a violent hate-filled sexist murder and apparently learns nothing from the experiences, as a viewer would expect sensing that the two incidences were included for a reason, and leaves The Orient Express filled with intense hate against people whom he knew nothing about. What was the point?
