During the evening of the last weekend Isaw the final episode of Agatha's Christi Hercule Poirot, a series which at first I though to be just a fat gentle man who bees around the nobility. Then I start watching it and it is addictive ,the characters amazing the settings are as accurate as it gets and truly bring the Interwar period in Europe when our protagonist lives and solves the crimes.Now to the Poirot, he is like he was pulled out of the books and in to the real world, everything from its quarks to his intelligence are expertly depicted and David Sushet was a excellent choice. Man I wander if the creator of the series had a time machine and when to the future and saw how well was Sushet suited to the role and they pick him up. If this the case then ,maybe just maybe, a certain Doctor had put his hand in to the but ,DOCTOR WHO? (PUN intended). For real the series was on the air from nineteen eighty nine to twenty thirteen, it could be just perfect casting, like with Robert Downey and Iron Man, but then Who knows, WHO knows(:)) ?OK enough thing the time whammy stuff, this series captured the essence and the atmosphere of the period between the two World Wars nicely, from the costumes to the ethics. And in some episodes the fear for the coming war ( Blitzkreg anyone? ) and the trauma of that soldiers carried from their trends back home and many of them our their families even when the events of the series are happening, still relive the pain that the Great War ,as the First World War was called back then, brought them. This fact alone make the series great from any stand point.To give a send that would honor with the right way Agatha's most famous hero, A revoir mon ami. Nough said.


                
At first Poirot seems like a comic book character, and really that does not change much. However, once the viewer is inured to the fantasy-like stories, it becomes very entertaining. What strikes me most about the series is the superb photography, the choice of vistas, the colors of the scenery, of the vehicles, and of the characters' clothing. The "art deco" look of the buildings, art, furnishing, and clothing is eye candy.Poirot's supposed genius and ability to figure out even the most convoluted situations is gratifying for those who want the bad guys caught and the good guys rewarded. His ability to admit his failure is notable, but sometimes it is as if he is saying, "I am sorry I thought myself wrong, when I was really right." Poirot's sidekick Captain Hastings is much like Holmes' Watson, about a step and a half behind and a day late. Much as with Watson, one wonders what good Hastings does, but sees clearly the impediment he is to Poirot.A classic and characteristic exchange between Poirot and Hastings shows the contrast between the shallow Hastings and pensive Poirot. After speaking with the "Veiled Woman" (a villainess posing as blue blood), Hastings says, "What a stunning woman!" Poirot replies with a knowing smile, "I sometimes think mon ami, that you are too easily stunned."Chief Inspector Jap at first is the bumbling, jealous cop who resents Poirot and gets in Poirot's way. As the series develops, Jap's respect for Poirot grows as does Poirot's for Jap. Eventually Jap becomes an ally and helper for Poirot. It is funny to see the contrast, as Poirot stays in the finest hotels while on a case, while Jap shares a bed (out of fiscal necessity) with another cop in a hostel. When Jap visits Poirot's office, he is served coffee in a plain cup and saucer, while Poirot drinks his nog (looks like Irish coffee) from a fancy clear, silver-handled tankard.All in all this is a very good series, and fuels the addiction of movie-lovers like me. Another well-done British production; head and shoulders above anything on American TV. This from an American reviewer.


                
David Suchet is an excellent in his role as Monsieur H. Poirot. He managed to play so well in this film series that every time someone mention Agatha Christie or Poirot - my first thought is related to these series and specifically Mr. Suchet acting.I shall keep these series for my children one day as I thing they are truly amazing.Would definitely recommend them to everyone who loves detective stories, has nostalgia to 20's, 30's and even further up to 50's of XX century. To many people the story might be lacking "action" but in fact the genuine spirit of Poirot (said in the books and in the series many times) is the human psychology not the rough power or so popular lately "action".My recommendation - get yourself a nice glass of brandy and go back to the past where you can see some of the best detective stories every made!


                
A series of adaptations of the Agatha Christie novels. Featuring David Suchet as the famous Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. Poirot is a super-sleuth, with amazing powers of observation and deduction. We see him solve many a baffling case, often a murder mystery. He is generally accompanied by his naive associate Captain Hastings, the stereotypical policeman Chief Inspector Japp of Scotland Yard and his practical and methodical secretary Miss Lemon.Great series. Clever plots and a fantastic series of performances by David Suchet as Poirot. He absolutely inhabits the role, a role which spanned 24 years, 13 seasons and 70 episodes. Wonderfully colourful with some great, eccentric mannerisms which make Poirot an incredibly engaging character.Helping this engagement are the characters of Captain Hastings (played by Hugh Fraser), Chief Inspector Japp (Philip Jackson) and Lemon (Pauline Moran). The three actors deliver great performances and the characters all complement Poirot well, In addition they provide great sub-plots to each episode. Hastings is Poirot's assistant, though it is often difficult to see why Poirot employs him. Hastings is incredibly naive and tends to jump to the wrong conclusion when it comes to solving crime. His chivalrous soft spot for the ladies doesn't help either. His naivety, charm and love of golf and cars are great sources of amusement.Japp provides the police view. He's not naive like Hastings, but he simply follows the evidence and the obvious deductions, like an average detective would. This provides a great contrast to Poirot's methods and reasoning. Japp's role is also to compare and contrast English food with continental food...Miss Lemon provides the practical side of things and the feminine touch. Good for sub-plots, especially involving administrative things, or her latest hobby.In the later seasons, the three companions disappeared and the only semi-regular appearance was by Zoe Wanamaker as Ariadne Oliver. She was quite amusing with her brusque no-nonsense approach but it wasn't quite the same as having the gang together.It is this camaraderie, warmth and colour that separates the Poirot series from the Miss Marple series. Marple herself is a very bland character, plus has no regular side-characters to provide colour and sub-plots. This makes Poirot far more engaging than Marple.Plot wise, the quality varies from season to season and episode but they have never failed to be interesting. The variations can be traced to the show's history. It started in 1989, with each episode being about 50 minutes long. This gave mixed results. There wasn't enough time to develop the plots too thoroughly so many of the mysteries were quite simple in their development. Not that they were bad - all of these short-form episodes were entertaining - they just weren't as good as some of the later episodes.Season 6, in 1994/95 was where the series switched to movie-long episodes, and the plots ticked up a notch. Plots were developed better and got more complex. Seasons 6 to 8 (1994/5 to 2002) were the peak of the series. Clever plots, engaging scripts and the whole gang was there. From Season 9 it was only Poirot, but the plots were still very good. Towards the end though the writing got weaker, with the writers taking liberties with Poirot's character. The mysteries were still reasonably intriguing but some of the substance was replaced by style.On the plus side, the later seasons are great for star-spotting. The success of the show allowed it to hire big name stars in guest roles. There's also plenty of stars-to-be to be seen.Overall, a great series with hardly a bad episode.


                
The gray cells, English rituals, clean suits, and of course the genius of Agatha Christie that created this character.. Hercule Poirot.
It's a favorite series for me, I still been watch them as separate episodes. what I really like about this series, is the logical analysis of this man, his thoughts and quiet, and the series in general has a special pattern.
I think I'm going to keep loving this show and this character.


                
In the same spirit as Jeremy Brett was the definitive Sherlock Holmes, so David Suchet is the definitive Hercule Poirot, Belgium detective relocated to 1930's London, where he takes on various mysterious cases that come his way. The way Suchet becomes Poirot is remarkable, so convincing is the transformation, that one may think David is really Belgian(please don't call him French!) Hugh Fraser as his associate and best friend Arthur Hastings, Pauline Moran as his secretary Miss Lemon, and Philip Jackson as Chief Superintendent Japp round out a superb, and highly talented cast of regulars that it was a joy to watch them.Agatha Christie would be extremely proud(I think!) of how faithful, intelligent and engaging these adaptations are, a model on how to get it right! These can be viewed many times over to appreciate the skill and handsome production values involved. Bravo!


                
I've been a big fan of the Poirot series ever since seeing my first episode on PBS - which MAY have been in 1989, the year the series first aired, I'm not sure. Poirot has been fortunate from the beginning to have a wonderful cast, headed by the superb David Suchet, and to have clever writing, mostly the dramatizations of Anthony Horowitz, fabulous sets and props, and first-rate directing and cinematography. The series was for a long time a personal favorite of mine, alongside Jeremy Brett's equally superb Sherlock Holmes series and Joan Hickson's all-too-few appearances as Miss Marple.I would unhesitatingly recommend ANY of the 49 episodes produced from 1989 to 2002. I too liked Peter Ustinov's movie version of Poirot, but the films simply cannot compare to the wonderful ensemble acting of the TV cast; Hugh Fraser as Captain Hastings, Philip Jackson as Inspector Japp, and Pauline Moran as Miss Lemon.And there's the trouble, for me at least, with the post-Horowitz episodes. Poirot is really something of a cartoon character, an ethnic stereotype of the sort that hasn't been seen on U.S. TV since the '60s. Played for fun, with a supporting cast conveying humor and camaraderie, the series is incomparable. But recent attempts to play the stories 'straight' (I'm not sure they DO stray from Agatha Christie's plots, however) feel fake and lack the fun of the earlier episodes.I've seen the early episodes, from "The Adventure of the Clapham Cook" to "Murder in Mesopotamia" dozens of times, and will probably watch them dozens more! But the episodes from 2003's "Five Little Pigs" to 2006's extraordinarily nasty "Taken at the Flood," well, once was MORE than enough!


                
It is one of the best serials in the world . David suchet portrays as the poirot that AGATHA CHRISTIE would have thought about while writing the books . The serial is completely marvelous


                
