Back To The Future is such an inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking that it is impossible to forget about it. The casting of every character involved was absolutely perfect, and the performances were spectacular. I first saw this film when I was six years old, and it is the only movie that I know of that I don't think I could ever get sick of.
One of the best things about Back To The Future is that it really makes you think. You can have in-depth conversations about the plausibility of the story-line and spend hours discussing the film. The story is awesome, it is delivered cleverly and entertainingly, and the movie as a whole is just so much FUN that it can be forgiven whatever number of time-travel discrepancies that may be found in the plot. I cannot recommend this movie enough. I have never found a movie other than this one that provides such a huge dose of great fun, and it has the desirable quality where you are able to see something new each time you see it. The only problem is that they stopped at part III.


                
What can I say about this movie that was already said? It is my favorite time travel sci-fi, adventure epic comedy in the 80's and I love this movie to death! When I saw this movie I was thrown out by its theme. An excellent sci-fi, adventure epic, I LOVE the 80s. It's simple the greatest time travel movie ever happened in the history of world cinema. I love this movie to death, I love, LOVE, love it! I firstly saw this movie in the early 90's as a kid on VHS tape and I was blow away by the action and the score and the title back to the future. This movie is one of the best masterpiece time travel epic adventure film. Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd are fantastic at acting. Music theme score by Alan Silvestri is excellent I could listen to it whole day.Back to the Future (1985) From the Academy Award "- winning team of Steven Spielberg" and Robert Zemeckis** comes the hilariously groundbreaking adventure that thrilled critics and audiences alike - and sparked one of the most successful movie trilogy ever! Directed by Robert Zemeckis the movie begins with Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) a teenager who has a really messed up family. His ultimate goal was to become a rock star which was heartened by his girl friend Jennifer Parker (Claudia Wells). But things went wrong when scientist Dr. Emmett Brown/Doc (Christopher Lloyd) wanted Marty's assistance for his new invention.At that night Marty went to assist Doc's invention the Time traveling Car "DeLorean". Marty was told to record Doc's first time travel to the future. At that instant they were attacked by some Libyan terrorists who were cheated by Doc for Plutonium.After killing Doc they turn towards to Marty and without any intention Marty enters the Time Traveling car. But it was previously set by Doc and when activated Marty gets transfer to 1955 from 1985.What will he do next, will he can come back to the future, or will he stuck back in the past for his rest of the life. More than that will his time travel make serious effects on the future? Dealing with time travel and time paradox Steven Spielberg presents this amazing journey of Marty set up in the time of 80's and 50's. Scripted by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale for the story of Bob Gale himself, tells a science fiction adventure in a family oriented tone.They really work hard to sculpt that sci-fi thread into a thrilling, culture clashed family movie. A good story with a great script. Also the soul of the movie was given by the legend Alan Silvestri. His composition was all memorable especially in the chasing and emotional scenes. Over the top the theme music, it was the most dazzling and recognizable themes in the movie history.More than that the casting was simply brilliant, each and every actor is born to play their respected roles in this movie. Michael J. Fox was the only actor who can play the role of energetic Marty McFly, which was considered for numerous actors. Also Thomas F. Wilson was brilliant in his performance as the Bad boy Biff Tannen. Lea Thompson did a great work in portraying Lorraine Baines's two different life times, as a teenage girl and a matured mother. Well the extra talented Christopher Lloyd had almost "chewed every scenes" in the movie. Mr. Lloyd's versatile performance as the madman and genius scientist Dr. Emmett Brown is one of the great memorable roles in his carrier.Last but not the least, it was Crispin Glover who steal the show as the nerdy teenager/father as George McFly. It was an interesting portrayal as a boy who was transformed to a man. Crispin Glover lived in that part. I don't know whether the movie would be a masterpiece without his unique performance. Above all I want to remember this as a romantic movie and it couldn't be made without the songs "The Power of Love," and "Earth Angel".The rating I am giving is 10/10 the original and the best one of all time. I love this film, it is my favorite time travel movie of all time and I love it to death! All in all it is the greatest sci-fi, romantic movie of all time. It is the part of the great Movie History, which consider itself as " A Modern/Classic Masterpiece! "


                
Zemeckis's 'Back To The Future' trilogy has been a childhood favourite for a long time. Having revisited it today, brought me to a nostalgic state. The 80's saw a lot of excellent original fun 'young' films like 'Back To The Future' (of course), 'Better Off Dead', 'Heathers', 'The Breakfast Club' etc. What really made these films immensely enjoyable then, and classics today, is that they really reflected what it was like being a young person in the 80s. The movies themselves were well written, well executed, well acted and they cut straight to the point.Back to 'Back To The Future'. This one is sheer fun, even today. There's an incredible energy about it but it still manages to stay an 'innocent' film. The music is very effective. It's slick and follows a steady pace. The special effects are decent. Though people might pick on the plausibility of the time travelling, I think this is really a very minor flaw because it is overall a well written movie and the point was to entertain. Yet, this is not to say that it's brainless entertainment. I think it cleverly brings forth some interesting themes and I liked how they funnily used some ideas of Oedipus Rex's story.The acting is superb overall. Christopher Lloyd as the over-the-top mad scientist is a laugh riot. Michael J. Fox totally owns Marty McFly with his natural charisma, raw energy and brilliant dialogue delivery. Lea Thompson is cute and vivacious and Crispin Glover is good.'Back To The Future' is one of the most enjoyable time-travelling classics. It's over 23 years old and it still hasn't gotten old. Sadly, they don't make it like this these days but then again we always can revisit them. That's why they're classics.


                
One of the last movies I went with sister to see back in 86. The film blew my mind. My friends never wanted to see this one. I was happy I went. Many year's latter, I bought "Back to the Future" at Mc Donalds for $2.99 or for some other low price with a meal. The film ages well, and I love it just the same. The director and screen writer mixes science fiction, humor, and action perfectly. A big component of the script is time line theory which drives the story. Marty has many problems to fix, and finds out more than anyone wants to know about their parents. Michael J Fox and Christopher Loyd were excellently casted. Marty and Doc what a chemistry. With the film series one see the many dualities with time travel, that become a constant with the movie. The town clock, being awoke in a strange place, and letters. Keep this in mind when watching the 2 other sequels. The theory that time repeats itself is evident. What a time machine, the Delorian adds to this movie. Worth watch over again. 10 out of 10! Thank you TBS for showing all 3 films.


                
When you talk about Back to the Future, you have to talk about the whole trilogy. Because Zemeckis and Gale didn't make sequels they extended the length of one film, which is very different than a sequel.The ultimate film must allow the audience feel part of the film and relate to the characters. This film is the best because it takes a fantasy story and makes it adaptable to real-life. I don't know how soon anyone will be able to time-travel, but you can relate to Marty McFly's (Michael J. Fox) reaction to the change. Even if you're not a teenager you can believe it in someway. Back to the Future is the perfect and its been extended into a masterpiece with 2 sequels or extensions as I see it. Definitely a must see, if your pathetic enough not to have seen in at least the last 8 years.Amazing story by Gale and Zemeckis. Great acting especially by Michael J. Fox, but also great work by Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson and Tom Wilson. Such an exciting an involved story.


                
As a child, I used to watch this movie religiously. I loved the chemistry between Doc Brown and Marty McFly, I loved the all too familiar soundtrack and the ridiculous way in which George McFly laughs. This movie has become such a nostalgic and feel-good film for me. I had the good fortunate to see all three 'Back to the Future' movies in cinema last year and it was such an experience to watch this timeless classic with people who enjoy this film as much as I do. Everyone has to see this film at least once in their life! Such an amazing, funny Sci-Fi from the 1980's. I just can't get enough of this movie - it will just never get old. Cannot recommend it enough!


                
I just asked my friend that I'm speaking with through instant messenger if he had ever seen "Back to the Future" and he said "Yeah, who hasn't?", sadly, I never had the opportunity until tonite and he called me a failure as a movie buff, well, at least I've seen the movies now! Ha ha! I'm back on track! Well, obviously, this is my first review for the first Back to the Future and when I came her to IMDb, I knew this was a well loved movie, I was just amazed at it being on the top 250, but I can't give it a lower rating because Back to the Future was an excellent film that was ground breaking for it's time and still today.Marty McFly and his good friend, The Doc, are two science nuts. Marty isn't really happy with his home life and the fact that he and his parents are very square and strict, The Doc calls Marty and shows him his latest invention, his De Lauren that he built into a time machine. When the government go after The Doc and Marty has to get away, he jumps in the car and goes back to the year of 1955, when his parents met. Instead of the way his mom and dad met happening to his dad, he ends up being in the position and mom ends up falling for her son, not even knowing! But he has to make sure his parents are together in time so he can get back without altering the future.Back to the Future to this day is still a timeless treasure that I notice more and more is becoming part of a newer generation. Michael J. Fox should be proud, his work will be remembered for a long time. Back to the Future worked so well because of the great story and the humor was great, the whole cast worked together and made a terrific movie that will be looked back on thirty years from now and still be considered cool.10/10


                
Back to the Future is one of those rare, almost forgotten, pieces of pop culture that, surprisingly, draws little attention to itself.  Unlike such notable gimmicks as Star Wars, Indiana Jones, Jaws, and Independence Day, there aren't any low-budget leeches trying to imitate off this work and cash-in on its success. This is due to the near flawless script.  Why it didn't win an Oscar, you're guess is as good as mine.  Making a time-travel storyline as in this movie that doesn't fall into plot holes the size of Terminator's is exceptionally difficult.  I'd know.The film starts slow, and gradually accelerates as it progresses.  You could almost call it a Jerry Bruckheimer movie for kids with Spielberg's trademark nostalgia.  The characters themselves are typical stereotypes for a movie like this and none of them, not even Marty himself, gel with potential.  In some ways it's as if MAD magazine made the film in an attempt to be serious.With such an automotive obsession as this film has, one must wonder if George Lucas was involved.Overall, I have to praise this movie for its inventiveness and originality, even if it created most of our time-travel cliches.  4 out of 5 stars.  Well worth your time.


                
This film is just one of a kind. The charm and wit are so good it will have you wonder how they came up with such a concept, Michael J Fox is at his best as are the rest of the cast. Humour,comedy, science fiction, this film has it all. This film will remain timeless,I would urge anyone who loves films to add this one to their list now. The special effects are still great looking and look far better then most effects today, your heart will still be in your mouth when Marty races towards the clock tower in a bid to get struck by lightning, this is a film you will watch again and again and will always put a smile on your face.


                
When I was little, my mom bought this movie on DVD for my dad. He turned it on one day and I brushed it off as "one of those weird old movies daddy likes". Eventually, I came out, sat down, and watched it. And the rest was history. I was so in love with this movie, that for 80's day at my school, I dressed up as Marty McFly. Nowadays, I love the movie more than ever. My favorite thing about this movie is the relationship between Doc and Marty. Most of the time, when a kid or teen hang out with an older person in movies and TV, people think they're more than friends. How many jokes have you heard involving Batman and Robin's relationship? However, Marty and Doc's relationship is pure friendship. I'm really good friends with one of my drama teachers, so I know how strong that type of friendship is. What else can I say? I love everything about this movie! If you haven't seen this movie, go see it now. Like...right now. Stop what your doing and go see it.


                
Back to the future is probably one of the best movies if not the best movie I have ever seen. This movie is just fantastic, awesome and flawless. The action and suspense of this movie still excites to this day. You can watch this movie over and over again and still be thrilled. Most likely This is easily one of the best movies ever made. A must watch movie for anybody, any age, even if they aren't a very big movie person. Not much more to say.The movie has almost no flaws at all, and will not disappoint anybody who views it. A true classic that will endlessly entertain anyone. Overall a truly entertaining, memorable and amazing movie with very few flaws. Ten out of Ten stars.


                
What else needs to be said? Anyone that knows anything about filmmaking knows that this is the best film ever made. Try watching certain movies over and over and see how quickly you get sick of it. This movie is different. The depth and richness of storytelling, the characters, oh my, the characters. Doc Brown is easily one of the best and most memorable on screen characters in any film ever. Biff, Griff, Buford...best on screen bully ever! Compare this movie to other epic movies, such as Star Wars - while those types of movies are great in their own right, Back to the Future is different. There is a warmth and comfort to the way that Bob Gale and Bob Zemekis crafted this screenplay. It's pure genius. And for all of you fans that always have to mention "plot holes" or "minor flaws" - please make sure you have seen every second of the 25th Anniversary set of the trilogy that has an entire bonus disc, as well as more bonus features and two different commentaries on the main discs. Bob Gale is aware of every little detail about his script and talks about it in the commentaries. My true love of this film came as a result of watching all the behind the scenes material - which if you haven't seen, you must see it if you're a fan of this movie. It will give you a whole new level of appreciation for this film. As someone that is into filmmaking and a total nerd about directing, cameras, technical details, I can't get enough of watching and listening to these guys talk about how everything came together just right for this masterpiece to happen. I can't say enough about this film, its actors and all the people involved in making it. Truly something not to be rivaled and we will probably never see anything close to it ever again.


                
There are though films, that you need to force yourself to pay attention to, before the payoff (the ultimate example being Tarkovsky's Andrei Rublev) and there are films that you can simply enjoy effortlessly, such as Back to the Future, one of the best films ever made! Yes, that's right, it surely belongs to the top 100 best films ever, perhaps top 30. I would rank it as among the top 5 comedies ever made and among the top 10 science fiction films ever made as well!Why? It is so freaking good! The 1980's were indeed the peak of pop culture: films and music only got better and better until they peaked in the mid 1980's and this is the peak right now: the coolest film ever made. It is way better than Raider of the Lost Ark in delivering fun!


                
This is without a doubt, my favorite movie of all time. Back to the future stars': Micheal.J.Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson and Crispin lover just to name a few. I did that without checking ether which proves that I've seen this movie WAY to many times in a week (6 times to be exact). Lets get to the plot.It's about a kid who gets sent to the past, accidentally stop his parents falling in love and seducing his mum? Creepy.Real talk time!!!! (A time when I talk about whats good/bad about a movie) The Cajigger: (main plot item) it is the DeLorian the coolest time vehicle ever made. 88/100The feel: this move irradiates 80s' it has the cool guitarist, it has the girls with weird hair, it has the teen which just wants to rock 'n' roll... PARTY ON.The Doc: he is the equivalent of mixing Dr Frankenstein, Mel Brooks and Dr Evil. You get the idea. A funny, crazy scientist. It's as epic as it sounds.This movie is easily the best time travel movie and even the best movie ever made.don't do yourself a disservice and not watch it. GO WATCH IT.
In 1985, Doc Brown invents a time machine out of a DeLorean. However, when he is shot down during a test run of the machine, his friend Marty McFly hops in, and finds himself in 1955. He ends up "Saving" his father from a car crash (the action which led his father and mother to fall in love with each other), meaning his and his sibling's existences are now at stake, so he must find a way to get his parents together before he disappears completely.This film is a comedic Science Fiction film with a great script and story. Great performances by the entire cast, with Huey Lewis and the News' songs "The Power of Love" and "Back in Time" also deserving praise.I recommend you watch this film, as well as it's sequels. These films are frequently shown on ITV 2.
One of the best movies EVER! Back the The Future is movie on time traveling. Time traveling has always been exciting and fun. I've watched this and About Time which are movies about time traveling and both are awesome. BTTF is TOO Awesome. Couldn't believe this was a 1980s movie.BTTF trilogy is an incredibly awesome adventure taken by Marty McFly and Dr.Emmett Brown. Dr.Emmett Brown a crazy, funny scientist invents the time machine, the biggest dream of his life. And Marty who is his friend gets to be a part of this awesome adventure by mistake. The best thing about this movie is how it shows whatever happens is bound to happen whether you want or not. And how with change in your attitude or with some help you can completely change your whole life. "If you put your mind to it, you can accomplish anything." - Dr. Emmett Brown Back to the Future is an amazing movie. This 1985 movie is so much better in quality as compared to the movies nowadays which have a shallow impact on the audience. You will actually feel connected to the movie and glued to your seats till the end There are not many movies of 8.5-like rating which are packed with Comedy, Drama, Adventure of such level... It's a MUST WATCH for all.Hope you all enjoy it too. Cheers!


                
I feel that there is no such thing as a perfect film,but in today's cinema,"Back to the Future" comes amazingly close.It has laughs, AND thrills,always a great combination.I am amazed at the attention paid to nearly every single detail here.For example,at the start of the film,Doc and Marty are in the parking lot of the "Twin Pines Mall".Then,shortly after Marty arrives in 1955,he accidently runs over one of old man Peabody's beloved pine trees.Toward the end, after Marty returns,the name of the mall changes.This is something you just don't notice until you see the film several times as I have. Excellent casting,particularly Christopher Lloyd as the unforgettable Doc Brown,the humor of the Ronald Reagan bit and the Johnny B. Goode sequence,along with the ultimate heart pounding ending and the attention to detail as I mentioned make this film as close to perfect as you will see in modern cinema.The sequels? Forget them.This is the only one of the trilogy you need to see.


                
Back to the Future (1985) is an amazing film that everybody needs to see. It is almost impossible not to like this movie.The story is about a 17 year old teenager called Marty McFly (Michael J Fox) who is friends with a scientist named Emmet Brown (Christopher Lloyd). Doc Brown builds a time machine made out of a Delorean and Marty is sent back to the year 1955. Whilst in the 50s, he meets his parents (Crispin Glover and Lea Thompson) and accidentally ruins their chances of getting together. Now, if Marty does nothing to bring his parents together, then he will never be born. On top of all that, the Delorean needs plutonium to run, without it, Marty can't get back to 1985.Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale give us an excellent movie with spectacular acting from Michael J Fox, Christopher Lloyd and Thomas F Wilson. The soundtrack is great too, by Alan Silvestri, and the songs by Huey Lewis and the News are great too.This film is full of nostalgia and it is timeless.
The hero of the film is named Marty McFly, though his mother insists, when he ventures back in time 30 years, on calling him Calvin Klein. The film's observation that, in those days, a name sewn onto the back of one's pants was probably one's own is only one of the shrewd, rueful contrasts it draws between 1955 and the present day. Once Marty (played winningly by Michael J. Fox) steps into the specially equipped DeLorean owned by a mad scientist friend of his and floors the accelerator, he finds himself in a much simpler world. The neighborhood where he will someday live hasn't even been built. The local soda jerk thinks anyone who orders a Pepsi Free (''If you want a Pepsi you gotta pay for it!'') is being a wise guy. The town's movie theater is playing a Ronald Reagan film, and when Marty announces that Mr. Reagan will be President some day, he is met with a stare of disbelief and a sarcastic remark about Vice President Jerry Lewis. One of the things all teenagers believe is that their parents were never teenagers. Their parents were, perhaps, children once. They are undeniably adults now. but how could they have ever been teenagers, and yet not understand their own children? This teenagers by being one. But "Back to the Future" is even more hopeful: It argues that you can travel back in time to the years when your parents were teenagers, and straighten them out right at the moment when they needed help the most. Great movie!!! Absolutely to watch!
Just watching this got me hooked in! It was very good from the start to the finish. Once i watched the rest i wanted them to release even more of the film like maybe a forth and fifth trilogy. I think that the best has to be so far episode 3 because it is the most exciting with all of the time travel. I could watch it over and over again. I would definitely watch this as it is an amazing film and that there is even more to come in the next episodes of back to the future and that is why i rate it a ten. If you are into an action packed film and want to get up with the family then this is a perfect film to watch. I have been very engaged with it.


                
With recent events in the real world coinciding with events predicted in this movie (timing wise) I thought it would be fun to go back and watch this.This movie is still really entertaining and Michael J Fox is always a delight to watch. I know some of the predictions clearly don't come true but so what? Any movie that has a time travel theme that references modern times is always fun to debate with family and friends and I still like the humour and the characters in this movie.I still think this is a good family movie even decades later. Nothing violent, no nudity just fun.
Well what can't i say about BTTF?? I have loved it ever since i saw it as a kid. And the sequels brings you straight back into the action of Marty McFly and Doc Brown and keep you glued to your seat the whole time. It is pure family fun with such an emotional core. Michael J Fox and Christopher Lloyd are a perfect comedy duo and play off each other so well backed by an incredible supporting staff who really take you on an action-packed, thrill ride through time.But all of that can only be possible through the amazing design and production crew that delved into the 1950's era with a flourish and took you to the unknown future with creative flare. All of this under the great directors made this an incredible story to watch. This movie will be one I hold dear for many years to come.
It's a teenage movie, it's a comedy, it's a science fiction adventure... and there's nothing better.Back to the Future is a smart inventive all-time masterpiece and I have never known any other movie that I have seen that I have watched over and over again and again, that's how much I love this movie. The cast and their chemistry on screen are unforgettable: Michael J. Fox as Marty McFly is an energetic teenager with a passion for music and someone who does not want you to call "chicken".Christopher Lloyd as Dr. Emmett Brown is a scientist who wants to invent something unique that works and to change the world. With his new invention of time travel that he made out of a DeLorean. Christopher Lloyd's performance was not nominated for an Oscar because his performance was the most fascinating part of the movie and one of the most interesting performances in a movie that I've seen in a long while. More praise goes to Chrispin Glover's performance as George McFly. He was my favourite part of the movie, especially the two scenes where he tries to woo Lorraine Baines and says "I'm your density" one of my favourite movie quotes. The moment in the film (SPOILERS just in case you haven't seen it yet) where he stands up to Biff surprised me and showed me that he could stand up for himself and the woman he loves. Lea Thompson was fantastic as well as Lorraine Baines.Back to the Future was something that surprised me because I never knew now how much I would love it. I don't know if I've ever felt this good about a movie in a long time since I first watched Jaws or Whiplash.10/10


                
An aura of 'cool' permeates everything about Back to the Future. I could imagine seeing this film when it came out in 1985 (of course I wasn't alive) and watching Marty McFly riding through Hill Valley on his skateboard while holding onto the back of a truck to The Power of Love by Huey Lewis and the News and thinking to myself, "omg, this is just the coolest film ever". To me Marty McFly is the personification of cool, he rides skateboards, has a hot girlfriend, plays guitar. Yet his life is far from perfect; his dad is a dweb, his mum is an alcoholic and his uncle is in prison. This brings him down to a relatable level, plus he hangs out with a crazy old scientist. Why? I don't want to know. I like the mystery of not knowing how this unconventional friendship came to be. The technical jargon between Marty and Doc is a never-ending pleasure to listen and even lines which shouldn't be memorable are somehow highly quotable ("Wait a minute Doc, are you telling me that it's 8:25...dam I'm late for school!"). Likewise taking the coolest looking, commercially available car and making that the time machine is yet another stroke of genius. Notice the scene in which we see the DeLorean for the first time; it's impossible for Doc Brown to get inside the DeLorean while it is inside the truck so he would have had to get into the car and drive it into the truck and just wait there until Marty would show up and then drive it out and exit the car. I guess Doc thought he had made a time machine that looked so badass he really had to give it an impressive introduction to Marty. The whole movie has the best uses of product placements I've seen in a film; never before have I been happier to see advertisements for Pepsi and Texaco. The pacing of Back to the Future is perfect, the film never lets up; the odds keep stacking up against Marty and the suspense towards the end of the film is crazy.Even though most of the film takes place in the 1950's, Back To The Future is the film which defines the 1980's. The ending in which Marty finds his family has been changed for the better and he gets the 4x4 vehicle he wanted; it's a wish fulfilment fantasy and very much a capitalist, 80's ideal. It's an uplifting ending, providing you ignore the fact that Marty now has to adjust to living with a family he has no previous memory off. It makes sense that Marty goes back to the year 1955, the time period of when adolescence had a voice and began an economic force for the first time in history; plus just take a look at the title of what won Best Picture that year. Marty's mother being attracted to her son is weirdly funny plus his mother being the opposite of her adult herself; makes you question your own parents claims about their day. I'm always struck by the moment when Marty tell his relatives in 1955 he has two TVs and they think he's joking yet if you told someone in 1985 that households today own upwards of 6-7 TVs, they would have the same reaction.Star Wars, Indiana Jones and Back To The Future; to me these are the trilogy of trilogies. The three film sagas I can watch again and again, always notice something new on each viewing, discussing every character to no end, coming up with crazy fan theories and trying to find an explanation to any possible plot hole. I'm sure there are still plenty of subtle gags, use of foreshadowing and who knows what lurked within this film which I still haven't noticed. Is it possible for a film to be 100% perfect, one which has absolutely nothing wrong with it no matter how minuscule? I can't think of another film (or series) which has a better use of repeating images and motifs. If I could only bring one DVD to a desert island, it would be my trilogy box set so I could spend my time uncovering every last secret in the trilogy. I love how self-contained the movies are; there are so closely connected to each other and the perfect film trilogy to watch in one go (as I have done several times).But what is it that makes Back to the Future immensely beloved by such a wide audience? I can tell you why I love it but I have a weird and eccentric film taste. Perhaps it's due to time travel is something we all fantasize about, as well as the idea of seeing your parents when they were young. The themes the film explores such as family, coming of age, the generation gap and the optimistic message of free will, that our future isn't written; it's whatever you make it.To Be Continued...
One of the most iconic movies in cinematic history, where, in 1985, young Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) travels back to 1955 in a time machine (named the DeLorean) invented by his scientist friend, Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd). In meets his high-school-age parents and inadvertently disrupts their first meeting; therefore, he must unite them in order to save their eventual courtship and marriage, and ultimately, Marty's own existence.Despite being an '80s film, the special effects team really did an awesome job in making the time travel elements seem spectacular but realistic-looking, especially the DeLorean.The direction by Robert Zemeckis was well-paced from start to finish, making the film engaging throughout, from Marty traveling back in time to save Emmett Brown to him meeting his future family. Seeing the transformation from the characters in present time to the past with Marty trying to patch things up in the past for a better future outcome are things that make time travel films brilliant. I also especially liked the dialog from the 1955 time-line, "He's teasing you, nobody has two television sets!" Spot-on acting by Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Crispin Glover and Thomas F. Wilson. They all made the film fun and entertaining. As a time travel film, this plot really has a race against time element that makes this movie that much more exciting and an edge-of-your-seat experience. A must-see for sci-fi fans! Grade A


                
