A funny sci-fi? Unusual but here it not only works but does so spectacularly. A whimsical but very clever time travel story that bedazzles you leaving you wanting more.The charasmatic Michael J Fox plays a wonderful bumbling high schooler searching for love, a guitar gig and his existence which he himself threatens to erase.Clever and humourous references litter this fun flick; references which are further improved upon in the sequels. Views of the same scenes from different angles, different perspectives and different timelines abound.Fun for the entire family.


                
A young man (Michael J. Fox) is accidentally sent thirty years into the past in a time-traveling DeLorean invented by his friend, Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd), and must make sure his high-school-age parents unite in order to save his own existence.After almost thirty years (2014), this film loses none of its charm, and actually gains respect. The movie has had such a strong impression on everyone, whether they have seen it or not, as it completely permeated pop culture.The script is genius, not only how it parallels 1955 and 1985 (some of the references are dynamite), but how it set the scene for the sequels (despite allegedly not intending to have any). This is just one clever gag after another, and may require repeated viewings to catch them all.


                
Time travel is a difficult subject to cover in a movie, but Spielberg pulled if off with the Back to the Future trilogy.Michael J Fox in his finest role as Marty Mcfly and Christopher Lloyd as Doctor Emmett Brown make an unlikely pair, then again a DeLorean makes an unlikely time machine, so i guess it doesn't matter.OK so there are some plot holes (Marty the youngest Mcfly, dissapearing from the photo last) for example, but the overall impact of the film is so entertaining that bigger plot holes could have been allowed and the film would have been just as good. It's hard say why this movie is so great, or why it still looks as good as it does, even by modern standards (don't forget this is 20 years old) but if it has escaped your viewing then just see it as soon as possible and i'll bet you'll want to see the rest of the trilogy the second you finish watching it.I think it's just entertainment in its purist form.A big 9/10
I watched this movie again for about the seventh time after a 10 year lapse or so. If there ever was magic on screen, Back to the Future has it. By the end of the film, I was only thinking, "Wow, Hollywood was once capable of putting magic on the screen." It really makes you wonder if the best of Hollywood is behind us.To summarize a few components of the movie: The storyline and plot are superb, even with the minor plot holes. The acting is spot on in every scene. Today's film editors should watch this film a hundred times to see what editing should really be like, nearly flawless. The direction is unbelievable in my opinion. The screen writing and script are perfect as well and will make you laugh and smile throughout the movie. Every line by the awkward McFly family, every crazy rumbling of "Doc", and even the cheesy bully taunts of Biff fit together so well.When I sat down to watch this movie a few days ago, I expected to see an aged movie that I remembered being much better than it actually was. I'm so glad I was wrong.


                
Fresh off the success of "Romancing the Stone", Robert Zemeckis parlayed his newfound clout into the highest grossing movie of 1985 - "Back to the Future". A combination of science fiction and nostalgia, the movie touched a chord with contemporary audiences and continues to resonate with viewers thirty years later.The movie's protagonist is Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox), a teenager who is accidentally sent back in time thirty years. After he unwittingly prevents his parents' first meeting he must make things right or else he'll nullify his own existence.Although the premise is science fictional, the treatment is more or less fantastical, with only a superficial attempt to explain the technology behind time travel. Regardless, the souped-up DeLorean and its flux capacitor make for an iconic time machine.Meanwhile, the Oscar-nominated original screenplay offers something for everyone. In addition to the overall element of science fantasy spectacle there's action, adventure, romance, comedy & even surprising dramatic depth at times.However, the story may not have come to life so vividly without the movie's well-assembled cast. Replacing Eric Stoltz after shooting had already begun, original choice Michael J. Fox was thankfully able to accept the lead role at that juncture. Today, it is difficult, if not impossible, to envision anyone better suited to the role of Marty McFly. In support, Christopher Lloyd is likewise irreplaceable as Doc Brown. The icing on the cake is Marty's parents, enthusiastically played by the lovely Lea Thompson and the always interesting Crispin Glover.Zemeckis's direction also leaves little to be desired. The movie has an attractive look throughout and even the thirty year old special effects have held up pretty well. Musically, the movie benefits greatly from Alan Silvestri's rousing orchestral score. The pair of soundtrack contributions from Huey Lewis and the News are also memorable.Overall, "Back to the Future" offers high concept thrills backed up by considerable film-making prowess. Iconic in many respects, the movie is among the best, and the most entertaining, of the 1980's.


                
Synchronize your watches! If my calculations are correct, when this baby hits 88mph, you're gonna see some serious s***. Directed & written by Robert Zemeckis, this movie will forever remind me of what good-feel movie is supposed to be. The movie is about a teenager from 1985, Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) whom is sent back in time to 1955. While, he was there, he meets his future parents in high school and accidentally becomes his mother, Lorraine (Lea Thompson)'s romantic interest, causing a time-rip. Marty must repair the damage to history by trying to get his parents to fall in love, and with the help of scientist Dr. Emmett "Doc" Brown (Christopher Lloyd), while, also finding a way to return to 1985. I love the fish out of water history time-travel comedy, with the high-stakes action scenes. It was very entertaining. I love how the film has its running gags, and inside jokes of historical pop culture events; of Robert Zemeckis's work, and what was happening in the 1980s at the time. The movie has everything for every audience member, at the time. While, most movies were risqué and adult-aimed at the time; this movie balance it, enough to make it watchable for both family and single house-hold settlings. Parents went to go see it for nostalgia reasons. While the movie is mostly set in 1950's, it's truly a mark of the 1980's. I have to give the movie props with its controversial movie dilemma, with the Oedipal relationship with his mother. In any other movie, this might be tasteless, and turn people off, but Back to the Future made it work. I can also buy that, teenager Marty McFly would be friends with an older mad scientist, Doc Brown without it being creepy. Both have this father/son relationship that I love from this film. Mad praise to Christopher Lloyd for creating this character for his own. I can't see, anybody besides him. The production was indeed challenging. There were some changes that help the film, a lot. First off, is the title of the film, the film was almost call, 'Spaceman from Pluto'. Gladly, somebody came to their senses, and went back into the title, 'Back to the Future'. Another is that, while, Michael J. Fox was the first choice to play Marty McFly, but he was committed to the show Family Ties. So they hired Eric Stoltz. I wouldn't say, Eric Stoltz would be awful in the movie, but indeed, Michael J Fox was the best choice for the film and they wait on production, until Fox's schedule opened up. The supporting cast is well-acted. Crispin Glover that played George McFly got all George's nerdy mannerisms, right. Lea Thompson is just amazing, and beautiful actress to play Lorraine McFly. Thomas F. Wilson as the bully, Biff Tannen was just hilarious. Every scene with him, made the film, so much better. You'll love to hate him. The set use for the film is one of the most famous movie backlot, previously being used in such works as 1962's To Kill a Mocking Bird, 1960's Inherit the Wind, and others works. The movie had a pretty good pace. There weren't a lot of slow or boring moments. Maybe, the beginning, it does take them, forever to get the time travel part of the film. Eight minutes were cut, including Marty watching his mom cheat during an exam, George getting stuck in a telephone booth and Marty pretending to be Darth Vader. Thank God, they cut the 'Nuking the Fridge' idea. An early draft of the Back to the Future script saw Marty travelling through time in a fridge and being caught in a nuclear bomb detonation. Spielberg would later use this in 2008's Indiana Jones & Kingdom Skull. Zemeckis almost cut out the "Johnny B. Goode" sequence as he felt it did not advance the story, but the preview audience loved it, so it was kept. The visual/special effects are just ground-breaking for the time, and it's just beautiful to watch. The opening scene, flawlessly sets up the film's central themes of time and space, provides heaps of exposition. The music by Alan Silvestri is emotional, epic and intense music. It's give the feel of two friends alone, fighting alone against two of the greatest forces ever know to humanity; time and fate. About Huey Lewis and the News, "The Power of Love". It's a product of its time. It doesn't hurt or help the film. It's just there. I do love the 'Earth Angel' song. It's romantic as hell. There are some nitpicks that I could focus on, like the time-travel plot-holes, but trying to understand the logic of all the time travel paradoxes, would take you out of the movie, and give you a headache. It's not worth it. Still, how his parents never find out that Marty McFly look like the kid, Calvin Klein from their childhood? Other faults of the movie are, the Pepsi product placement and its over used clichés. The movie also one of those films that would audience would see anything in it, as people see symbolism from 9/11 tragedy, JFK assassination conspiracy, Aliens, and others. Others see the film, themes taken from ancient and spiritual myths such as Kronos vs Zeus, the Bible, and others. One thing, it did influence is the skateboarding culture. The movie occurred during the 1980s infancy of the skateboarding sub-culture. The film was such a success, that it create two sequels, 1989's 'Back to the Future Parts II' and 1990's 'Back to the Future Park III'. It also create an animated series, theme park ride, several video games and a forthcoming musical. As with all great movies, Back to the Future, has stood the test of time. It never gets old. Overall: Power up the DeLorean, turn the time circuits on and get the flux capacitor! Where we're going, we don't need roads.
It's hard to believe it's been 22 years since the original BTTF came out, so the fact that the movie is that old shows it truly is a CLASSIC in every sense of the word. I'm so glad they made this trilogy, what a wild ride it was. It certainly holds up to the test of time because it's just as fun to watch it now as it was back in '85. The world has changed so much since then and watching these movies is a nice escape from today's nerve wrecking reality. I wish I could get my hands on Doc's time machine so I could go back in time to fix the mistakes I made in my life... who doesn't!?! Cherish these movies and show them to your kids and grandkids... they will love them so much you can count on them sharing the adventure of Marty Mcfly and Doc well into their FUTURE!


                
You can't review each movie alone, the trilogy is so bond together that it's impossible.Must say that this is one of the most memorable Sci-fi comedies or movies related to time- travel in the whole film making history. The story's great, you'll love the plot. Dr. Brown's explanations make sure that even the most complex things could be understood by everyone. You'll get excited for all the high-tense scenes like never, even after seeing it several times. That's one of the best things about the movie. Alan Silvestri's score is just great, gives an emotional touch like not many scores do.Now, a little problem comes to the fx. instead of using models like in star wars (what also made star wars win Oscars for the effects) they started using CG, just CG technology wasn't yet so perfectioned in 80s-90s like nowadays. That's a little problem though, the movie's not overloaded with these FX at all.


                
Contemporary high schooler Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) doesn't have the most pleasant of lives. Browbeaten by his principal at school, Marty must also endure the acrimonious relationship between his nerdy father (Crispin Glover) and his lovely mother (Lea Thompson), who in turn suffer the bullying of middle-aged jerk Biff (Thomas F. Wilson), Marty's dad's supervisor. The one balm in Marty's life is his friendship with eccentric scientist Doc (Christopher Lloyd), who at present is working on a time machine. Accidentally zapped back into the 1950s, Marty inadvertently interferes with the budding romance of his now-teen aged parents. Our hero must now reunite his parents-to-be, lest he cease to exist in the 1980s. It won't be easy, especially with the loutish Biff, now also a teenager, complicating matters. Beyond its dazzling special effects, the best element of Back to the Future is the performance of Michael J. Fox, who finds himself in the quagmire of surviving the white-bread 1950s with a hip 1980s mindset.


                
HUGE 1980s hit movie. Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox in his breakthrough role) has a miserable life. His father is a wimp, his mother an alcoholic and they live in a rundown area. His only friend is a crazy scientist (Christopher Lloyd). Lloyd turns a DeLorean into a time machine (don't ask) and Fox accidentally ends up in 1955. He also accidentally fumbles his parents first meeting--so his mom is falling for him! He has to get his parents together...or he won't exist. And how is he going to get back to 1985?Sounds silly but this actually is a lot of fun. The direction is good and the script is fast and very funny--I LOVED Lloyd's reaction to Reagan being president and Fox dealing with 1950s life. Also the 1950s outfits and cars are incredible. SPOILER!!! It does go a little too far at the end with Fox supposedly inspiring Chuck Berry--but that's a small complaint. END SPOILER!!! The acting is good. Fox and Lloyd are both great and play off each other very well--some of Fox's dead pan expressions to Lloyds ravings are quite funny. And Fox is so YOUNG! Lea Thompson was excellent playing Fox's mother--she convincingly ages herself AND looks like a teenager. Crispin Glover overdoes it though as Fox's father--TOO over the top. Also great to see Frances Lee McCain playing Thompson's mother--this woman is a great actress and played mothers through many great 1980s film (like "Footloose", "Gremlins", "Stand By Me" and into the 90s with "Scream"). Also Billy Zane (in his first role) appears as a bully--but has no dialogue.Only two things spoil this a little. The open ending (it ends with "to be continued...") and the constant product placement--I know a lot of movies do it but here it was virtually nonstop! When it starts calling attention to itself that's a problem.Also Huey Lewis and the News (remember them?) had a big hit with the opening song "The Power of Love". And don't miss Lewis' cute cameo as a teacher at the beginning. I give this a solid 9.


                
Real good movie, haven't seen it in a while but I want to see it again. i think every child should see this and I think every parent should let their child see this, it is truly a reflection on how when the people were making this movie what they thought we would have today but seeing as to how we pretty much have nothing they thought we would have, you see kinda how times changed from then to now. Also, can I be the first one to say that their hover board are cooler than ours, their hover boards actually hover meanwhile what we call a hover board, has wheels and is not at all hovering. Also, why aren't time machines invented yet. They are pretty much essential to my life but i don't have one :(


                
Recipe for fun: take one teenaged boy from 1985, a "mad" scientist who's obsessed with finally getting his 30-year experiment to work, and a very special Delorean--mix in some family troubles and a complicated love triangle; cut in some quotable dialog; heat it up with plenty of action; remove from the '80s and let cool in the '50s; and top it all with Huey Lewis and the News.There may be one or two people left on the planet who don't know the plot to Back to the Future. Okay: Young Marty is accidentally sent back in Doc Brown's Delorean from 1985 to 1955 and has to contact eccentric Doc's 30-years-younger version to help him get back to the future. (See what I did there? Clever, right?) Marty's biggest challenge is to not change anything in his past that could adversely affect the future -- say, preventing his mom and dad from falling in love, which would jeopardize his very existence. OOops! That's already messed up, so now he must correct the mishap or he'll disappear before he can get back to 1985.Every element of Back to the Future works to create the coolest comedy of its decade. The comic situations that result from Marty trying to play matchmaker to his own parents are very well-played. Of course the best fun comes in when we get to experience (and in some cases, re-experience) the '50s from an '80s perspective. All these good times are helped along by having the easily likable Michael J Fox in the lead and the incomparable Christopher Lloyd as the hyperactive Doc -- a role he was born to play. Unflagging, quotable dialog powers the plot wonderfully.Back to the Future is the kind of movie that can appeal to anybody from ages 10 to 100. When I saw this in the theater in '85 it was an instant hit across all cliques from the nerds to the jocks -- my generation's primer on time travel movies. I remember laughing right along with my mom and my little sisters. Not that many films manage to pull off that kind of magic, then or now.


                
Time travel movies never disappoint that is because the concept of time travel is a very interesting one which most people must have thought about at one time or another."Back to The Future" to this day is still a timeless treasure that I notice more and more is becoming art of a newer generation. This film works so well because of the great story and the humor is great. The whole cast works together and makes a terrific film that will be looks back on thirty years from now and still be considered cool.This film is just fantastic, awesome and flawless. The action and suspense of this film still excites to this day.


                
Back to the Future (1985): Dir: Robert Zemeckis / Cast: Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Crispin Glover, Lea Thompson, Thomas F. Wilson: Inventive science fiction comedy about regret and change. It involves a time machine car that can propel into the future once it hits a certain speed. This is all explained through the crazed rants of Doc Brown before he is gunned down. Michael J. Fox stars as Marty McFly, a regular high school senior who dreams of success as a musician. At home he frowns on the fact that his father, George is constantly bullied by his high school rival Biff. Central plot regards Marty transporting back to 1955 to locate Doc and then reintroduce his future parents in a method that allows his father to sustain some dignity. The problem is that his future mother falls for him. Creative and charming with grand humour to boot. Director Robert Zemeckis gives it a nice appeal in the same vein as the famous Frank Capra classics. Fox brings a great innocence and desperation in his securing his parents as well as his own future. Christopher Lloyd as Doc, frizzy gray hair and all steals the film in his attempts to conquer time travel. Crispin Glover and Lea Thompson play the McFly folks in need of heavy reparation. Thomas F. Wilson provides much humour as the ruthless yet brainless school bully. It brings light to the fact that our parents were indeed teenagers once. Score: 9 / 10
I love this movie. Although aimed primarily at a younger audience on account of its high-school-aged hero, there's really something for everyone.It's got adventure. It's got excitement. It's got danger. It's got great comedy. And it's got so much more.Released in 1985, its special-effects are minimal, and thankfully predate the now-obligatory CGI, requiring some practical imagination to make the thing seem plausible. Basically; everything's in the DeLorean sports car. After that, what is needed is an authentic representation of the 1950's. I'm no expert, but the period seems believable to me.Camera-work, lighting, and sound-effects are top-drawer. There are some wonderfully realised ambiences. Music - both incidental and theme are well chosen. Huey Lewis And The News supply the anthem 'Power Of Love' in fine, thumping riff, whilst additional pieces give a tremendous sense of urgency. It really is spot-on.This movie brought the unfortunate Micheal J Fox into deserved prominence. His acting skills and comic timing are excellent, here. It's so sad that incurable illness has blighted such a promising career. He and Christopher Lloyd make excellent foils. They are naturals as a comic duo.Young McFly goes back in time to find his young father as a bullied wimp, a failed writer, and a peeping-tom. He also accidentally upstages his father in his mother's eyes and risks a dose of temporal incest. Somehow he has to put things right before going back to the future. He does - but some details get overlooked, with funny and happy consequences. Relationships are handled with a light and deft touch. It never plods. It never becomes maudlin or lachrymose or excessively sentimental.There are several plot-holes in the story. And if you get hung-up on the stuff about time-travel and paradox crap, you're missing the point. You're not supposed to take it seriously. It's a fun movie! And it delivers in spades.Some have described this as the best time-travel movie and I'm inclined to agree. If you can't find something to laugh at then you're a lost cause.Being so successful, two sequels followed. But the surprise was gone and the humour grew progressively stale. they paled by comparison.Check-out the original. It's a collectors item and a truly great feel-good experience. I ought to give it 10 stars.
This film is classic, and has stuck with me from childhood, and i am guaranteed to watch it again and again. The story line is tight, the idea original and the performance from all is amazing. Ranging from the stereotypical bully played by Thomas Wilson, to Marty and the similarities between him and his dad, played by Michael J Fox who at times, sums up a teenager precisely, but most of all the manic facial expressions and insane dialogue from Christohe Lloyd, who plays the mad Doc "Einstein" character with such vigour it just makes me smile when he's in the shot, let alone doing something. A great performance by Lloyd capped this film off for me as being one of the best i've seen.But the film itself is great stuff too...!


                
HAve you ever had a movie experience from years before(let's use as an arbitrary number,five years or more)that was so vivid,so exhilarating that you could recall what day,time and even things as seemingly easy to forget as the smell and tastes of the popcorn and soda you had at the movie?For me,that was this movie,and I recall seeing it on a Sunday afternoon in July,1985. The noise and visuals were so electric that I enjoyed this film immensely. My only regret about the experience was that I didn't get a chance to redeem the "Free Pepsi with purchase of large popcorn"discount coupons they were giving out that day!In a pleasant,average California suburb,ordinary teenager MArty McFly(Michael J.Fox,who was a youngish 24 when he filmed this) dreams of being a rock guitarist as he works his way through school,helping out brilliant-but-fringe local scientist Dr.Emmitt Brown(Christopher Lloyd,adding to his wide range of characters). When an unforeseen crisis interrupts Doc Brown's breakthrough time-machine revelation,MArty is thrust into the machine and becomes the unwitting first participant in time-travel. As if that weren't harrowing enough,he's just found a way to break up his younger parents BEFORE they met and now he has to feverishly find some way to get them back together,lest he and his sibs will never be born.If you can suspend some level of disbelief while watching this(and,really,when SHOULDN'T you suspend some disbelief when watching Spielberg/Lucas/Zemekis style of sci-fi films?),this film is as smooth as silk and one fun ride! Besides Fox and Lloyd,Crispin Glover(lovably strange and pathetic as Marty's once and future dad,George),Lea Thompson(cute and vapid as once and future mom Lorraine)and Thomas Wilson(thick-headed bully Biff,who is a lost treasure here,too) are excellent in fleshing out the characters that stick in one's mind regarding this film. Heck,Old MAn Peabody,Goldie Wilson,Jennifer PArker,MArvin Berry(cousin of Chuck)and the persistently bald and serious-as-heart-attack high school principal all add their own flairs in this movies persona. Robert Zemekis parlayed his "Romancing the Stone" success to create an even larger-than-life action-fantasy-comedy,with help from plenty of sight and sound FX and a hugely energetic soundtrack anchored by Huey Lewis and the News(remember them?). This film isn't just a renter,this is a keeper! Most people with a sense of fun who long for the eighties movies that accented style over dark or haunting substance should definitely buy this one,tape or DVD.


                
I can rarely ever watching anything twice, let a lot three times and I'll watch this movie at least once a year. It's just such a great feel good movie and the casting of all the characters is just so perfect. Also I'm not a fan of sequels but its different for this. It feels more like one long story spread out across three movies then the typical "revival" of a film.I would recommend this film to just about anybody! It doesn't matter if your a kid or retired, you'll probably enjoy and appreciate how advanced this movie was for its time.


                
I should be kicking myself for not watching this movie much earlier.It was amazing to watch ,The Jokes,References,Performance e.t.c. were spot on .I would highly recommend to anyone who is looking to watch an adventure/comedy movie.This fits the bill.Michael j.Fox was so good and so was Christopher Lloyd.Some of the jokes really crack you up.For a 1980's movie it is pretty awesome and the best thing about the movie that anyone can enjoy this movie regardless of their personal tastes .It is like one of those iconic movies like Star Wars,Indiana Jones which are pure classics .Some Scenes were funny and awkward at the same time but you can forgive the awkwardness for the master piece that this movie is.It is a Cult Classic .The references in this movie are so funny it and the humour really works pretty well.The chemistry between Micheal J.Fox and Christopher Lloyd is great .Michael J.fox as Marty Mcfly owns the movie with his charisma and raw energy.I would strongly recommend this to anyone who is even considering to watch this movie.


                
Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) is a typical teenager growing up in the 80s. He hopes to make a man out of his milquetoast father, the middle-aged George McFly (a deliciously funny sad sack as played by 20-year-old Crispin Glover) who is still groveling at the feet of his former high school classmate, a perpetual bully named Biff. Marty's prim mother Lorraine (Lea Thompson) appears to be drowning her frustrations in vodka. The movie does not really catch fire until, when testing out a souped-up DeLorean as a time machine with his eccentric, wide-eyed, wild-haired stork of a mad scientist friend Dr. Emmett "Doc" Brown (played by the hilariously frazzled Christopher Lloyd), Marty is whisked back to 1955. Here, he comes face to face with his nerdy teenage dad and also his unrecognizably gorgeous mom. After inadvertently causing his own mother to become infatuated with him – who finds him an absolute dreamboat, it is left up to Marty to repair the course of time and ensure that she falls in love with his future father, George or face being erased out of existence altogether. To do so, he gets in touch with a young Doc, who is as much a fish out of water in the past as he is in the present, and persuades him to send him back to 1985. Can he put things right and return to the future before it's too late?Director Robert Zemeckis' Back to the Future represents that rare perfect matrimony of everything a film needs to succeed, from the adroit direction, the immaculately styled performances and the scintillating visual effects that never swamp the film. The constituent elements would not operate without the film's biggest triumph – its screenplay – which is among the most economic and brilliantly composed, for there are no disposable lines of dialogue; everything spoken is either cuttingly funny and heartfelt (check Doc excitedly describing the forthcoming high-school dance as "a rhythmic ceremonial ritual"), or employed to foreshadow a temporal event later in the film.Anchoring it all is Fox's stumbling charm. The boyishly good-looking Fox is charming as the lead, exuding cocksure – yet never arrogant – buoyancy. Lloyd, meanwhile, nails his Einstein-on-acid role perfectly, never venturing too far into caricature, yet spinning the archetypal mad scientist role with a wink and a nod, making it unquestionably his signature performance. Together, they make an idiosyncratic couple, for sure, but a perfect one at that.In Back to the Future, there is an effervescence to the filmmaking, a bubbling, giddy effortlessness that's almost addictive. It's ingenuity, time-traveling twist ups and wonderfully vibrant characters resonate in ways few films ever achieve. It is an unadulterated cinematic experience!


                
Marty McFly, an aspiring musician and teenager living in Hill Valley California in the year 1985, takes a trip back to the 1950's using a Time Machine invented by his close friend Doc Brown. While there, he encounters his parents young selves, thus changing the futures events, Marty has to then insure that his parents fall in love to remove the damage he himself has caused to the past.Directed by Robert Zemeckis, who is often associated with 1994's Forrest Gump which he won an Oscar for Best Director. Made his mark in Hollywood with 1985's comic science fiction Back to the Future, which became the most successful film of the year and received critical acclaim. However, it could all have been different. This is due to the fact that Robert Zemeckis was four weeks into shooting the movie itself, with a lead actor who did not make the final cut. Originally, Eric Stoltz was cast as Marty McFly. Michael J. Fox, then the star of TV sitcom Family Ties, was disallowed time off to work on a film as he was Zemeckis' first choice to take the Lead Role of Marty McFly. Meaning that Zemeckis looked elsewhere, specifically at Ralph Macchio and Eric Stoltz. Macchio declined the role, before Eric Stoltz took it on. However, Zemeckis decided that Stoltz had been miscast. Michael J. Fox was eventually cast and it proved to be a success. Michael J. Fox is now completely type-casted and identified as Marty McFly and no other. This shows that even though Robert Zemeckis did end up, going three million dollars over budget due to re shooting. His original idea of casting Michael J. Fox was the correct one. This is due to the fact that Fox found his portrayal to be very personal because within High School, he skateboarded, chased girls and played in bands. Very much like the character of Marty McFly. Michael J. Fox himself excels in this role, cementing his status in Hollywood, before going on to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2002. Now in the spotlight due to his battle with Parkinsons, in the 1980s Fox established himself as one of the most promising and charming actors in Hollywood. Other actors include Christopher Lloyd who previously collaborated with Zemeckis in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, which is now regarded as one of the greatest films what combine both animation and live action, continues his formidable work in a role he is most recognised for, that of Doctor Emmett Brown, which he should of received more critical acclaim for than he did. In regard to this, the casting of every character involved is perfect and all performances are of the highest standard. Personally, Back to the Future is one of my favourite movies of all time. This is due to its inventive and compelling storytelling as well as the tremendous talent it shows from Actors, Actresses and those who were involved in both Editing and Special Effects. Back to the Future is like no other and in comparison to its sequels, it is a whole level above them. The Original Song "The Power of Love" by Huey Lewis and the News is superb as a whole and all though it does not reveal what the movie is about, the end credits song "Back in Time" does. I also love the use of Chuck Berry's "Johnny. B Goode" and how it is portrayed in the movie. It also think it is very creative, that Zemeckis shows that Berry himself got the idea of the song and his sound, from this very song as it was released in 1958, where the movie is set in 1955. Of course this is not the case, however I think it is a very inventive way to produce light comedy out of a scene. As well as Marty being named Calvin Klein for a good part of the movie.The only problem I have with the movie itself, is that there is one major plot hole. Surely, George and Lorraine would recognise their child as Calvin Klein or Marty in the years to come? Or does Lorraine think that it is coincidence that her crush and the main reason why herself and George are brought together, looks exactly like her son? Nevertheless, um sure Zemeckis knows the true answer and simply decided not to bother including it in the Script. After all, it is a movie.I would recommend all ages to watch Back to the Future, especially those who have an interest in Time Travel or just simply movies at all. If you dislike the movie itself, I find it hard to believe that like movies at all. This adventure, comedy, sci-fi is great for families, children and even adults. Even though the Special Effects may be a little dated, it doesn't suggest that you should not watch the movie as they are not the major selling point of the film itself. Other than that, I would recommend that you should watch Back to The Future and it should definitely be included on your bucket list and/or watch list.
My brother is to blame for my love of this film he used to watch it none stop on VHS back in the day and you get dragged into it just simply by being in the room. I think I have now watched this movie over 50 times if not more and it still keeps it's appeal even now as a young adult I still enjoy watching it and I don't get tied of watching it! The other 2 movies are also well worth watching but you can't beat the original. I love the story line and you get to know each character quickly and you can relate to each one of them especially Marty played by Fox, I understand he was working on family ties and back to the future all at the same time wow he must have been tired.I would like to point out how cleaver this movie is because of the time travel element this is not easy to pull off but they do it so well. This is one of my all time favorite movies and I am sure I will still be watching it when my grand kids are around.


                
So I guess I'm not the first person to say this, lmao, but I love this movie! It's such a gem. It has a really sweet sense of humor, and romance, and adventure to it that you don't get in movies that much anymore. Well maybe that isn't totally fair, but you know what I mean.And for a Time Travel movie, it doesn't really mess up too badly in terms of continuity or paradoxes. The movie handles it all pretty much in stride. I can get kind of nitpicky about stuff, and I never felt betrayed or hornswaggled by the filmmakers on this one.I will always suggest this to friends, and if you haven't seen it then put it on your list!


                
Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) is an average teen from a lower middle class family. His friend Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd) has invented a time traveling DeLorean. Dr Brown is about to travel back in time when the Libyans attack. Marty only escapes by using the DeLorean to go back to 1955. He changes history and must change it back before he disappears all together.Robert Zemeckis has woven together a wonderful charming story. It's perfectly constructed time loop. It certainly is one of the best feel good movie. Michael J Fox is the perfect guy to play the boy next door character. His interaction with his mother Lea Thompson in the past is wonderfully hilarious and Christopher Lloyd is perfect as the oddball scientist.


                
I first watched this film when I was young, it having been recommended to me by my mother, and it remains a favourite still today. The storyline is, of course, a favourite to many, and I just loved it. The idea of time travel and the 'butterfly effect' is portrayed extremely well throughout the film, and Marty's difficulties sticking to the rules of time travel (not helped by certain characters he encounters) never fails to entertain me. The links between the people he meets in 1955 and the people in his life in 1985 are shown so well, and the comedy about the differences in technology always makes me laugh. The film was great, and I thoroughly enjoyed it when I was younger, as well as later on in my life.


                
