Rented the DVD to see if I still found this movie to be as disjunct and trite as I thought it was in '83- it's worse than I remember. It does however warn us that the next two installments will hold together like a flimsy umbrella in a typhoon.As everyone agrees- the cute little animals (Ewoks) really get under your skin and lower this action/sci-fi to Muppets in Space territory. Little did we know that we'd be begging for the Ewoks after meeting Jar Jar Binks in Episode 1 and 2. The plot of the trilogy begins to convolute during this movie, and the "Days of our Lives come back from the dead" device is exploited like a bad Vegas stripper.


                
I love the first two Star Wars movies of the original trilogy but I'm not a fan of Return Of The Jedi. One of the reasons why Empire Strikes Back is so great was because of how complex and deep with characters and story. Story and characters take a backseat in Return Of The Jedi to action and Ewoks which seem like a heavy handed attempt to capitalize on the younger audience and toy sales. It has some great ideas that are not properly executed. The action and special effects as well as practical effects are very good, and how Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader's story arcs were completed is the best part of the film. But it had potential to be more.
It really does suck getting old sometimes...you end up doing things like re-watching 'Return of the Jedi' and realizing, "Wow, this movie kinda sucks." Actually, it's pretty damn terrible. Han Solo is completely different - pure comic relief, only not funny at all. I'm a little bummed actually. I loved this movie when it came out back in '83 and was very excited to revisit it. As I sat here watching it my heart just kept sinking lower and lower. Is this the same movie I saw in the theatres?? What's up with all the cutesiness? And the myriad issues extend far beyond the infamous and very problematic Ewoks. The whole thing is just cheeseball bad. It's very poorly put together - poorly edited throughout, Boba Fett's demise is cartoonishly out of place, did I mention Han Solo is a complete waste of space? I could go on and on and on. I mean wow, George Lucas jumped the shark 30 years ago! The Phantom Menace was simply a continuation of the already declining quality. I'm sitting here in a state of quiet, disappointed shock.


                
Say what you want about Star Wars this in my view was the worst of them all. I was a huge fan up till this movie came out. I know people thought the Ewoks were all cute and everything but come on folks!! I know its just science fiction but there still has to be a sense of some realism. There is no way with the fire power the Empire had that it could have been defeated by the Ewoks on the planet. Sure the rebels were there to help but the Ewoks could have been blown off the planet, and towards the end of the battle I was cheering for the Empire to crush the furry little pests.I am burned out with Star Wars. George Lucas needs to start directing other different types of films. Why he has not is beyond me. Maybe its because he has already made his money with Star Wars.


                
Star Wars: A New Hope was a refreshing & adventurous movie with a rather simple story about good verses evil. The Empire Strikes Back was more of the same with more aliens until we arrive at Return Of The Jedi. By this installment, the story takes a backseat to the action & humor. In fact, the whole movie is played for laughs. The problem is the laughs involve the interaction of increasingly ridiculous aliens with increasingly ridiculous military machines. (Didn't they learn their lesson in the first movie to NOT build military transport vehicles with long legs? No, because they're back again, this time with a model sporting silly rabbit legs.) The special effects are shockingly cheesy involving a lot of blue screen, bad stop action animation on par with the Godzilla of the 30's, and Muppets. The story has dissolved into a soap opera with Vader turning out to be Luke's father & Luke actually believing that Darth Vader has some empathy in him, when Vader is supposed to be the epitome of evil, and the discovery of long lost family ties that are never explained. (Let's just say it's a good thing Luke never lay'd Leia in the first 2 flicks.) Just when you think the rebellion is finished (what with only Luke & the Princess remaining), all of the sudden, at the end, they have a huge fleet of fighters again. Where did they get the recruits? Where did they get the financing? Who the hell is in charge?? And always, there are those stupid white-armored troops running around shooting everything who are so inept, they only manage to wing Princess Leia by the 3rd movie. Their amour couldn't stop a spit ball. By the end of the movie, you'll be wishing the new Death Star will hurry up & blow up OR the Empire will finally beat down the rebellion once & for all & make Leia Darth Vader's sex slave or something. And c'mon: a showdown with the supreme bad guy who can kill a person with psychic energy shooting out of his fingers? That's so B-movie clichéd. The dude's psychic energy turned out not to be very strong when he is killed just be being thrown down an elevator shaft by Mr. Vader himself. A real eye-rolling moment.At least it's better than the 4th, er, that is, 1st episode (whatever) which is sleep inducing.


                
What a piece of crap. Thank you to the nther reviewers tha gave it four or less and explained well the film's short comings - I didn't want to admit that I had watched as much as I did. Editing was lousy, the dialogue was lousy, the storyline was lousy - teddy bears taking on stormtroopers? Pincess Leila strangling Jabba with what would be no more than a licorice necklace to him.I enjoyed the first two episodes but was in Africa when this trash was releashed and shouldn't have watched it on TV.


                
