Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi (1983) is a third sequel in the original Star Wars trilogy it is flawed, yet very entertaining solid third sequel and an epic conclusion to the original Star Wars trilogy. Honestly in my opinion Return of the Jedi is far way better film than The Force Awakens, that movie was a disaster and it sucked, I rather watch this movie any time. It is not my favorite film in the series and I don't love this movie that much like I love the first two movies, but I like it and it think it is very good at some points. The film has a lot of problems, that hurts the movie. I still have enjoyed this movie and I had a lot of fun. Return of the Jedi (1983) is directed this time from Richard Marquand a different director than it was directed from Irvin Kershner and George Lucas. This movie was released on the same year that I was born in 1983. The film is pretty good on it is own way, but on the other thing it suffers from problems and flaws.Things I like in this movie: The first hour is set back on planet Tatooine which is a rescue mission which I like, the story is set where the first movie begins and ends here.Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca, Lando Calrissian, Princess Leia Organa, C-3PO, and R2-D2 return to Tatooine to rescue Han Solo (who was encased in carbonite at the end of Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back) from the gangster Jabba the Hutt (voice: Larry Ward).A battle on ship, with Luke steadily taking the fight to Jabba's men. During the battle, Leia strangles Jabba to death with the chain around her neck and with R2-D2's help escapes from her bonds. The heroes destroy the ship, kills the bad guys and save Han solo. I love the explosion, the rescue and than they are all save.I love that we find out from ghost of Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi (Alec Guinness) that Leia (Carrie Fisher) is the sister of Luke ( Mark Hamill). I love that Luke revels to Leia that she is his sister.I like the battle on the Endor, Leia, Han, Chewbacca, C-3PO, R2-D2 and Ewoks are battling Stormtroopers to destroying the shield generator for the second Death Star and they do the destroy it. Lando and his assault team destroys the deaths tar on the end.Luke face Darth Vader and the evil Emperor and fights both of them, while they where both trying to bring him on a dark side of the force to join them.I love when Vader toys with the notion of turning Leia to the dark side, Luke gives in to his rage and furiously gains the upper hand in the battle, slicing off Vader's right robotic hand in a rage in one swift cut, and makes his father succumb to defeat at the mercy of his son's blade.Realizing that Luke cannot be turned, the Emperor uses Force lightning against him to torture and attempt to kill him. Deeply affected by the sight of his son dying before him, Vader repents and turns on the Emperor, throwing him down a reactor shaft to his death.Luke try's to save Anakin but he dies before he could save him.I feel that Luke's transition from a teenager to calm and collected warrior of the Force feels very authentic. His conflict between Darth Vader and the Emperor contains some of the best scenes in the entire saga.Things I don't like: The film has a few problems that are really unnecessary and I really hate it: This movie's biggest flaw is the pacing, the Ewoks and their role in the film. Star Wars been in a forest, aren't Star Wars suppose to set in the Galaxy and not in the forest? Personally I don't mind the Ewoks, but their introduction causes the movie comes to a screeching halt. Another fault of this movie is its attempts at humor. It feels often unnatural and forced a lot of the time. The Phantom Menace has been notorious for having this problem as well, but they most likely originated here.Master Yoda dies in this film! Why? Watching Yoda in the prequels I have really enjoyed him much more than I have watching him in the last two movies. Little guy grove up in to my heart. So I disagree about him dying.I am giving this movie an 8, I watch A New Hope and Retun of the Jedi on TV as a kid I don't remember watching The Empire Strikes Back, but I have saw those tow movies and still I like Return of the Jedi a lot.
I thought this was a typical film ending for the 80's, the good guy always wins.But I thought the beginning seemed rather badly written if I'm honest.
Here Luke and Leia plan to rescue Han from Jabba on Tatooine.
Despite freeing Han the plan fails and is Leia captured, and when Luke appears he too is captured (and dropped into the Rancor pit to die) predictably Luke survives and kills the Rancor, then they are all sentenced to death at the Sarlac pit.
This however was all part of their plan as Lando, Chewbacca, C-3PO and R2-D2 were already in place to help them and turn their execution into an escape.
What kind of a rescue plan is expected to fail from the start?
I can understand having a plan b just in case, but everything about this shows they knew exactly how events would unfold, why else would they place Lando, Chewbacca, C-3PO and R2-D2 in Jabba's palace. How would they get them out if Han's rescue had been successful?Now a little controvential opinion, Ewoks.Han and his team go to destroy the shield generator on Endor in order to destroy the second Death Star, however before they can set charges to destroy the base an Imperial army then ambushed them and fight against the Rebels.
The fight soon turns to the Imperials advantage however the Ewoks then join the fight; using primitive catapults, trip ropes and stones they somehow defeat the Imperials and enable Han to destroy the shield generator.
The Ewoks seem like they were only placed in the film as a means of ensuring victory for the Rebels, the Imperials would have defeated the outnumbered Rebels were it not for them, and the idea that such primitive weapons could defeat the Imperial troops seemed a stretch anyway.Prior to this Luke left Hans team and allowed himself to be captured and taken to the Death Star to confront Palpatine and Vader where he is forced to fight Vader, Luke bests the Sith Lord however his compassion for Vader (after he revealed himself as his father) stops Luke from killing him. Instead he throws down his weapon and faces Palpatine unarmed.
Palpatine attacks Luke with his Force lightning however before he can kill Luke, Vader switchesd allegiance.
Driven by love for his son Vader lifts Palpatine and throws him down a chute into space and kills him, this act however damages his life support suit and soon after he too dies.
Vader seems like a very selfish man and an unreliable ally, having already turned on the Jedi in Episode III when he saw an opportunity to help himself (to save Padme) he again switches sides to save Luke.The Death Star is then destroyed, typically just as Luke escapes with Vaders body.
Luke then holds a private Jedi funeral on Endor attended by ghost Obi-Wan and ghost Yoda (the ghost of an old man then appears and is presumably Anakin) meanwhile everyone else has a pre-fight party in the Ewok village.
The remastered version is good how the head of the old man ghost is replaced with the head of Hayden Christiensen (who playes Anakin in the Prequel series, as this presumably depicts Anakin the last time he was a Jedi) But where is Qui-Gon who was hinted at being able to appear as a ghost to Obi-Wan while in hiding on Tatooine between the two trilogies?
In the remastered version they also show clips of worlds across the universe celebrating the destruction of the Emperor, which is odd since word cannot have spread that fast?
When it comes to creating a universe George Lucas is the undisputed master and his final Star Wars film is very, very good (and more appropriately rated in comparison to the two previous films in the original saga). Having recently seen Revenge of the Sith really puts this movie in perspective. The final battle seems even more climactic knowing what Anakin Skywalker went through at the manipulative hands of the Emperor. It also makes the final battle between Luke and Vader more bitter considering the love he felt for Padmé and the love she felt for her children. Actually while the new films (especially Episode II) are inferior to the original films they are good for one reason only. They make the old films seem even better.Mark Hamill does an exceptional job in this movie. He really brings the changes Luke has gone through seem real. In all fairness I believe that he should have become a big actor based on these films because he really does a great job. Harrison Ford is still good. However, you can feel that he has done Raiders and Blade Runner in between the two final chapters of Star Wars because he seems to have grown quite a bit. He adds more comedy (obviously inspired from Raiders) to the character which works brilliantly. In short Han Solo is better than ever. Carrie Fisher was never really a good actress but she does a decent job and is certainly passable. Ian McDiarmid appears in this film and having seen Episode III I can safely say that he is one of the most accomplished villains ever. James Earl Jones still provides the voice for Vader and he is still very, very good.In terms of how the movie looks its pretty safe to say that the Star Wars universe looks better than in either of the previous (two) movies but this was always Lucas' forté so that is really to be expected. The final battle over Endor is very well made both in terms of the general effects and tension wise. It was also a nice touch that Lucas decided to have three battles take place at the same time as it added to the overall tension of the climax. The only thing I feel is dragging the movie down from an otherwise deserved 9 are the Ewoks. These little creatures are so annoying they almost ruin every scene they are in. Besides I find it to be a little to kiddy when a group of teddy bears with bows and arrows can defeat a squadron of Storm Troopers with laser guns and mighty machinery.All in all Return of the Jedi is a very good movie but the fact that Richard Marquand is a less accomplished director than Irvin Kershner does that the overall feel of the movie is less than brilliant. Also George Lucas' stupid decision to add the Ewoks to the universe does that the film falls short of brilliance.8/10


                
This one isn't quite as good as Empire, but close.  It shows how cruel Jabba really is, shows Leia in a skimpy outfit and shows the climatic space battle at the end of the movie.  Sure the Ewoks might be cheesy, but go ahead and watch Phantom Menace and tell me who's less annoying - Jar Jar or the Ewoks.Ten out of ten.  I'd give it like a 9.5, but IMDB doesn't get that accurate.


                
`Star Wars' ended with Luke Skywalker's assault on the Death Star.  We followed Luke and Luke alone.  `The Empire Strikes Back' split the action at the end into two streams: we saw Leia and Han fighting for their freedom, and Luke Skywalker confronting Vader.  `Return of the Jedi' split things three ways: Endor, Death Star, rebel fleet.  And what do you know, `The Phantom Menace' divides the final action into FOUR streams.  If this trend continues things will start to get silly.  They already have.It's tempting to view `Return of the Jedi' as a sour omen of things to come. Lucas hired Richard `"whatever you say, George"' Marquand to direct his third Star Wars movie, which accounts for the general sluggishness.  He threw in pointlessly cuddly Ewoks.  Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher abandon the more adult romance of the previous film in order to play unconvincing second fiddles to all these furry things.  While John Williams's score retains its power, his source music is pretty weak.  Compared to the first two movies the dialogue is bland.  (It would get much blander come 1999.)  The story is an unimaginative re-hash of earlier work, except for Lucas's idea that bigger is better.  If the rebels have to do THREE things at once to travel INSIDE the EVEN BIGGER, DEADLIER Death Star with MORE SHIPS THAN EVER BEFORE in order to achieve an EVEN GREATER victory, it will surely make things more exciting - right?  Whatever you say, George.Special effects are particularly disappointing.  They're actually weaker than in the first two movies, with unbelievable - and I mean, literally unbelievable - muppets strewn all over the landscape.  (The blue vinyl elephant thing in Jabba's court gets my vote for most ridiculous alien.) Oddly enough the digital adjustments of 1997 only made matters worse.  The computer-generated pop singer Lucas created looks every bit as fake as that stupid animal with the big lips it replaced - it merely looks fake in a different way; and, furthermore, the presence of the computer creatures makes the puppets look more fake than they would otherwise look, and vice versa.  Perhaps it doesn't matter very much.  The special effects, creature effects, costumes AND art direction, had all deteriorated, with or without digital vandalism.Yet despite all this the release of `The Phantom Menace' makes `Return of the Jedi' look better than ever.  The chief difference between the two is that the latter, unlike the former, has a reason for being made in the first place.  The story begun in the first two movies needed a conclusion.  It DIDN'T need a prologue.  If the conclusion stumbles a bit, well, we must take the rough with the smooth: obviously the story had to end SOME way.  In any event, `Return of the Jedi' isn't a bad movie.  It coasts on the energy of the early movies, but it gets where it's going.  If you've just watched the earlier films this one still brings a lump to the throat.  Yes, it could have been much better.  Be thankful it wasn't worse.


                
The third parts of trilogies tend to be inferior to their predecessors. This applies to "Alien," "Back to the Future," "The Matrix," "Austin Powers," "Lethal Weapon," "Mad Max" and other film series. Then there are the few that come along -- such as "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" -- that are actually the best of all three.Unfortunately "Star Wars: Episode VI - The Return of the Jedi" fits into the former category -- it is far inferior to its predecessors. I've always enjoyed "The Empire Strikes Back" the most of all three, and "Return of the Jedi" the least. It is arguably one of the earliest signs of things to come for writer George Lucas, who employs a band of child-friendly (and marketable) "Eewoks" to join Luke Skywalker on his quest against the Empire in this installment. After "Return of the Jedi," Lucas never really got back on track, and particularly with the recent "Star Wars" prequels it is apparent he has sold out and lost grasp of how to make a good film. The Eewoks aren't very far off from Jar-Jar Binks.That's not to say "Return of the Jedi" is a bad film -- in fact it's very good. But we all remember, "May the force be with you" from "Star Wars," and "I am your father!" from "The Empire Strikes Back." There's nothing particularly memorable here -- it is not one of the greatest films ever made, just a very satisfying (if occasionally goofy) conclusion to the trilogy. It is not as bad as "The Matrix Revolutions," for sure.Han Solo (Harrison Ford), now cryogenically frozen by Jabba the Hutt, is being held captive. Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) both try to rescue Han, to no avail, and Luke -- now a Jedi -- ends up being thrown into the pit of a dangerous beast, which he defeats to the surprise of Jabba. Jabba then decides to have all of them murdered, but Luke and co. make a daring escape with the help of all his pals -- C-3PO, R2-D2, Leia and Chewbacca -- and eventually end up on a faraway planet where they arrive under the car of the friendly Eewoks, who help them with their attack against The Empire's new and improved Death Star. Luke uncovers a startling secret about Leia, revisits the dying Yoda, and eventually comes face-to-face with Vader, where he is faced with a bit of a moral dilemma after the Emperor decides that Luke would be a worthy addition to their army.It's pointless divulging into the plot in-depth basically because everyone has already seen these movies. What can be discussed are the special effects, performances, and general plot of the film, as that is what most people will take from this film -- those looking for meaningful dialogue should look elsewhere. Released in 1983, six years after the original, special effects had evolved even more -- with a larger budget to expand upon director Richard Marquand tops off both prior films in terms of SF/X. There's an exciting chase sequence, lots of hyper-speed battles, space ship exteriors and "lightsaber" fights -- enough to wet the appetite of anyone looking for mere action.Unfortunately what "Return of the Jedi" lacks is originality -- "Star Wars" was unique when it came out, recycling old storytelling clichés in a modern update; the sequel was very dark and impressive with arguably the best performances of all three films; the only thing to look for here is Luke's sudden evolution from Jedi trainee to Jedi master. Oh, and the final showdown, which is still impressive, even by today's efforts.All in all, "Return of the Jedi" is not on the same level as its predecessors but it is an exciting movie that manages to satisfyingly end the series on a high note. About those prequels...well, they're just unfortunate.


                
The continuation of Luke Skywalker's adventure is adventurous and fun, but is it better then the previous installments?I'll start of by talking about something that have always bothered me; Return of the Jedi's cinematography and directing, it has just always felt a bit off, even since I was a kid, back when I didn't even have cinematography in my vocabulary. A lot of wasted shots, the director seemed to struggle to shoot conversations and other scenes, they come off as weird and awkward. There are a few good looking shots, but many gets wasted because of poorly lighted sets, but just a few. It had a very old-fashioned and assembly-line approach to its cinematography. ROTJ has a strong feel of the old coverage system: establishing shot, master of the whole scene and then the closeups at the end. ROTJ just seems to be riddled with scenes photographed in that same old formula with very little fresh ideas or risk-taking.John Williams' score; it's just brilliant, in my opinion the best of the saga. it's highly underrated. Williams composes emotions, creating the feelings throughout the scenes, I get goosebumps every time the music swells, or raises the slightest.Its special effects has aged poorly, even compared to the older installments of the saga; The Empire Strikes Back and A New Hope has aged well in comparison. The famous space battle is still epic, and still holds up, they are still worth watching on repeat and still feels energetic.Acting-wise; there aren't really any standout performances, other than a few of the characters being more developed since The Empire Strikes Back, they still got the charm intact.ROTJ's has got far from the most intelligent ideas, it's silly and stupid at times, other times the ideas work. A few of the ideas got massive potential, that gets wasted, but I'm here to judge it on what it is, not what it could have been. It's written adventurous and fun, but it's far from innovative and smart.The movie has got decent pacing from start to finish. Enjoyable tempo, with not really any specially boring scenes, making it really re-watchable. It's far from a masterpiece like the previous installments, but Star Wars was never meant to be a masterpiece, this movie succeed in being fun and adventurous. It's not near the greatest movies ever, but it's one of the most memorable and fun, adventure, fantasy movies ever. It's also a worthy ending for the original trilogy.


                
The final installation in the original Star Wars trilogy and a culmination of an epic story about galaxy in peril, about the battle between two ancient factions, about the battle between good and evil, control and passion.Personally, I think it's a significant step backwards from the previous two movies. The story doesn't flow as smoothly, the ending climax isn't as exciting as the two previous ones (we have to blow the Death Star again?), the characters are not as good as they used to be and the new stuff, which there is still a lot of, to the film's credit, is not as good as in the previous one. In this film we see for the first time the signs and phenomena that would come to haunt us in the prequel trilogy.To go over a few of the highlights, we have the ewoks. Now, apparently they were supposed to be wookies, which would have been amazing. Chewbacca is a fan favourite, and we would have gotten to see his people, his culture, more laser crossbows, all that good stuff. Instead we have the elite troops of the Galactic Empire being beaten back by an army of teddy bears. I'm not the only one seeing the problem here, right?Plus, the characters. Luke, Han and Vader are still very good and especially Vader has some his best moments in this film, especially near the end. But Leia, for example, has been relocated to a complete support role, to the point that she really has no point in being in this film. She's a far cry from the nail hard, snarky, blaster-toting space princess she was in the first film. Not quite on the Padmé-level of chickification, but heading in the same direction. Ian McDiarmid also has his screen debut as the Emperor in this film, and while he is amazing and will pretty much carry the prequel films alone with his charisma, here his over the topness is a bit unsettling because you're already wary and looking for flaws because of the ewoks.Then again, the effects are still amazing, the battle scenes are exciting, the final confrontation with Luke, Vader and the Emperor is one of cinema's finest for a reason, the space battle of Endor is a good one and the story is by no means bad one. It just isn't as good as the two previous ones, which are two of the best adventure stories ever put on film. So go ahead and see the film if you've liked the trilogy so far. It's not as good, if you ask me, but it's still a fitting conclusion to the saga.


                
Return of the Jedi is the third film in the Star Wars series, and the last of the original trilogy. It is sometimes seen as the weakest of the three. The reason? Ewoks, ewoks, ewoks. These furry aliens have been deemed too cute for Star Wars, too much for kids, too much for merchandising. But personally, I don't loathe the ewoks like some do. I actually think it was neat to see how such primitive weapons could beat the Empire, which after all was Lucas' intent. Nevertheless, I agree this is the weakest film of the original trilogy. It is, however, a sufficient conclusion.What's good about it to make it an adequate conclusion to the film series? A few things. This is where we first see the gangster Jabba the Hutt (not counting a bad new scene inserted into the first film). He has become a famous movie villain in his own right. The best part about this is that we see Princess Leia half-naked when Jabba puts her in a golden bikini (though, arguably, she's *still* wearing too much). And, some of the scenes with Darth Vader and the Emperor, complete with the famous music associated with them, recaptures some of the feel of The Empire Strikes Back. There's emotion when Luke finally fights Vader, especially when Vader brings up Leia, and the music in this scene works well.On the down side, we have some fake-looking puppets here. Granted the 1977 original had some fake-looking aliens too, but Return of the Jedi came out only a year before Gremlins and that movie shows Hollywood could have done better. Also in Return of the Jedi, we have a death star blown up, and that had already been done in the original. I don't think the conflict Luke felt about his father was intense enough; the idea that Vader was good after all was unconvincing. If this film could have been darker like Empire Strikes Back, instead of having questionable compassion for Vader, Luke could have felt self-loathing, a kind of guilt for being the offspring of a monster. Luke's compassion could have perhaps shown up only at the end. Still, even if Return of the Jedi isn't great, it's a must-see to get closure on the first two classic films.
"And now, young Skywalker... you will die."In my opinion, the best one.8/10


                
This review contains spoilers.The Return of the Jedi is episode six of the Star Wars saga. This movie is the sequel to 1980's The Empire Strikes Back and marks the concluding movie to the original trilogy. The movie picks up one year after the events of The Empire Strikes Back. Luke Skywalker has completed his Jedi training. The remaining rebels have banded together in an attempt to destroy the Empire once and for all.The Return of the Jedi is a weak entry in the Star Wars original trilogy. This is still a good movie and conclusion to the original trilogy. The movie fully realizes the conclusion to Luke Skywalker's character arc by having him redeem his father in Lord Vader. This character arc can be strange to watch as Luke seemingly abandons any logic in an attempt to save his father from the dark side. I still liked this story and its conclusion.All the familiar characters from, the previous two movies return here. Like Luke they have satisfying conclusions to their characters. Han Solo's romance with Princess Leia reaches its conclusion. The main focus is still on Luke Skywalker's story arc.The movie itself is shot well, with the overall cinematography at a good standard. The sound design is at a high standard here. The soundtrack is nice with the highlight being Luke Skywalker's duel with Darth Vader.There are elements of the story that do not make sense. I enjoyed the character of the emperor but his creation of a second Death Star is a horrible rehash of the first part of the original trilogy. The entire movie leads up to the confrontation on the second Death Star and Endor. It is the confrontation that leaves much to be desired. The movie could have been more creative.Even with the minor flaws, I still recommend Star Wars: Episode VI - The Return of the Jedi.Four stars out of four stars.
One of the best of all parts this part has much in it. Luke's turning as a Jedi; disclosure of relationship between Leia and Luke and most interesting of all the turning of Vader to light to save his son.
The action fight of Luke with Vader was interesting and so was Vader's throwing off the Supreme Leader. On the creative part entry of the Ewok; their support for the cause and above all 3 PO as a deity :) nothing more comical than that.
Chewei has always been an entertainer and more in this when he and Ewok control the war machine to strike enemies down. 
The most heart touching was the arrival of souls of Obi-Wan, Yoda and 'Anikan' during the celebration after defeat of the dark force. Loved watching it.
This is a very good movie and worthy successor to the legendary A New Jope and and magnificent triumph of The Empire Strikes Back. However, it is not quite as good as its predecessors, even though it is inconceivable that one could watch and enjoy those two films and then not see Return of the Jedi.The good:1. Jabba the Hutt. Yes, he's obese, slimy, nasty and gross. But he also helps to flesh out the Star Wars universe (no pun intended) by showing us that there is more than one type of evil here, and the Sith and Imperials aren't the only bad guys our heroes have to contend with.2. Boba Fett. I wrote a review of The Empire Strikes back and forgot to mention this fan favourite. Shame on me. However, there is more of Mr. Fett in this movie. He appears to meet an ignominious end, but I have it on good authority he escaped.3. Obi-Wan is a liar? I won't give away the spoiler even here, but certainly in this movie we begin to realize that while the Jedi are on the side of good, they are not saints and are not above deception to achieve their goals. And that is certainly true of Obi-Wan himself. This actually sets us up to find the events of the Prequel Trilogy less shocking but more palatable than they otherwise might have been. 4. The Battle of Endor in space: tremendously exciting and suspenseful. It is all practical special effects and frankly they are superior to the CGI effects of the Prequel Trilogy space battles.5. The Emperor: a stunning and chilling performance, which reveals the bigger bad and ultimate evil behind Darth Vader all along. "Do not underestimate the Emperor, or suffer your father's fate you will." Luke ignores this advice of Yoda, and soon comes to regret it.6. Darth Vader's redemption; one of the most dramatic and suspenseful moments in cinematic history, and ultimately one of the most emotionally rewarding.The indifferent:1. Luke and Leia are twins. I would say this is cool except...one can't help but think of that one scene in The Empire Strikes Back. "I guess you don't know everything about women yet." And then...ewww...only now do we realize the ewww factor between Luke and Leia ever after.The bad:7. The Ewoks. OK, as a kid I loved the Ewoks. Watching again as an adult, I still think they are cute. But for them to go from just assisting the Rebels in their infiltration of the Imperial base on Endor, to actually defeating an entire legion of the Emperor's finest elite Stormtroopers using stone age technology? Oh dear...I'm afraid that's just completely silly, to the point that I almost feel like Graham Chapman's colonel from Monty Python's Flying Circus should march into the battle and say "Stop that! This whole scene is completely silly!" (Bonus points if you get that reference.)In conclusion - overall this is a worthy conclusion to the Original Trilogy, and certainly emotionally satisfying, but it doesn't quite hit the high points of its predecessors.
Star Wars Episode VI Return of the Jedi is the third movie in the original trilogy.The film was not as good as it's predecessor but it's still an amazing film that gave a satisfying conclusion to one of the best trilogies of cinema's history.The characters in the film are damaged by the events of the previous film and are changed by them.So the characters are developed and emotionally complex. The protagonists that we know and love are also dealing with new problems and the antagonist is more lovable and three dimensional than before.The tone is lighter than the previous film,the plot has some problems (there is a big subplot about the second Death Star that is similar to the first Star Wars film) and it doesn't take risks so it feels less mature but it is still very enjoyable.It goes without saying that the practical effects are mind blowing and the music score by John Williams is iconic.The performances are good especially by Harrison Ford and James Earl Jones(fun fact: besides doing the voice for Darth Vader in all of the three films he was only credited in Return of the Jedi)In a nutshell,Return of the Jedi is a great film(rated #75 best film of all time by IMDb) with great characters,amazing visuals,incredible music and unforgivable moments that gives a satisfying conclusion to the trilogy despite being the worst in it(I don't say that it is a bad film I just say that it is not as good as the other two films in the trilogy).If you haven't seen it you really should but I am sure that you saw it a billion times.


                
Han Solo is locked in Carbonite imprisoned in Jabba the Hutt's palace on Tatooine. Luke Skywalker is now a Jedi master. The group has a daring plan to rescue Han. The empire is building a new Death Star. The rebellion plans to destroy it by taking down the shield generators on the moon of Endor. There they are aided by the diminutive native Ewoks. Meanwhile, the Emperor is trying to lure Luke to the dark side.I first saw this in the theater but lineups made us late. We were stuck in the front row. I've seen it many times since. The Jabba the Hutt section is terrific. Slave Leia taking control of the deck gun is amazing. Almost everything is perfect. The speeder bike sequences are terrific action and the space battle is great. The allure of the dark side is powerfully shown. The only drawback are the Ewoks. They simply look too much like teddy bears and speaks to Lucas' need to play to the kids. Some at-st destruction seems too unlikely. It's like a kid imagining fun silly ways to destroy his toy at-st. Those are minor problems. As for the Special Edition changes, most are fine and unnecessary. There is one glaring, horrifying change. The song and dance at Jabba the Hutt's palace is undeniably bad. It is one of the worst things ever in Star Wars. I can excuse Jar-Jar but I cannot excuse that.


                
Though it is considered by many to be the weakest of the original three (as do I) it is still a very good movie...and a lot better than the first two of the new trilogy.  The best part of this flick is clearly the rescue of Han Solo from Jaba the Hut.  These desert scenes are great and the flick is at its best here.  We also learn of the empire, which is constructing a new Death Star.  Then the movie gets to the weaker part of the film where they go to Endor which just looks like any North American woods rather than any alien world.  And we are introduced to the ewoks who are nowhere near the pain that Jar Jar would later become.  There is also a cool space battle with Lando in command while Han leads a team to destroy a shield generator on the planet.  Luke goes and confronts Vader as well.  I like the way it looks like the good guys are losing on all three fronts, but all of them get their act together.


                
"Return of the Jedi" loves the Star Wars franchise so much, it even decided to bring the Death Star back for a second go-around. That's how much Episode VI is truly a smörgåsbord of all things Star Wars. We get new spaceships in the rebel fleet, a slew of new and bizarre creature/characters, better special effects and the climax of our hero, Luke Skywalker, on his journey toward his destiny.In the third installment, a new-look demi-jedi Luke and the crew save Han from Jabba the Hutt and then offer their services to the rebellion's plan to stop the construction of the second Death Star. All this time, Luke is aware he will have to confront Darth Vader, his father.Luke's maturity reaches an apex in "Jedi" that we got a sense of at the end of "The Empire Strikes Back." Only this time, he's not only confident, but got the skills to prove it. He becomes the true hero of the series, taking that cool guy spotlight away from Han Solo entirely. This is a film about him above all else and the way it unfolds does his story justice. The idea that we are to identify and transform as Luke does in the trilogy unfolds beautifully in the final showdown with Darth Vader and the Emperor.Visually, "Jedi" blows away the previous two films. The space scenes in particular are much more stunning. Other than that, there's not much of a difference. "Jedi" prides itself on continuing to add to and expand the Star Wars universe as well as your imagination.Whether "Jedi" is the best Star Wars film is simply a matter of which part of the saga resonates most with you. A lot of it will depend on your opinion of Ewoks, the fuzzy midget bear creatures that inhabit the moon of Endor. If you find them cute and entertaining, "Jedi" is probably your favorite of the saga. If you find them annoying and just a bunch of small, furry jokes for characters, "Empire" is probably your favorite film.A lot of it is also about what aspect of Star Wars lore appeals to you. If you're more into the Han and Leia subplot, "Empire" is better. If you're about the evolution of Luke and are riveted by his confrontation with the Dark Side, "Jedi" is about as good as it gets. Either way, you can't really complain with "Jedi" because it offers a lot to be entertained by.


                
Aburrido, lo mismo de siempre, androides, futurista, copia de juliuo verne
Though failing to reach the cinematic heights of its predecessors, Return of the Jedi remains an entertaining sci-fi adventure and a fitting end to the classic trilogy


                
Many people say this was the worst of the three, but that makes little to no sense because they were all brilliant in their own right. Yes, Empire Strikes Back was probably a monster of a movie, but that doesn't mean i.e. Return of the Jedi was bad. It was still a very good film, but just not as good as the previous one, but really, that's just a matter of opinion. Personally, I enjoyed Return of the Jedi right till the end, and enjoyed the final third of the movie the most. Really enjoyed another battle between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader. The conclusion was spot on, and it couldn't have gone any wrong. I think Return of the Jedi was almost as good as Empire Strikes Back, so I don't understand the negative reviews Return of the Jedi receives. The first one, though good, was the least favourite of mine, but I enjoyed all three of them regardless, and as my title suggests, it completes an epic trilogy!!!


                
Not as brilliant as Star Wars or The Empire Strikes Back, Return Of The Jedi is still a classic film and a fitting ending to the original trilogy.Alongside our returning hero's and villains, we have new characters such as Jabba The Hutt, The Ewoks and the Emperor himself joining as well.This movie does have a lot to offer and see. From the scenes and battle at Jabba's Palace, from the chases and battle on the Forest Moon of Endor, the battle between Luke, Vader and The Emperor, to the space battle to destroy the second Death Star. There is a lot to see and take in.The revelation between two of the characters in the movie could have had a better explanation besides 'Somehow I've always known'. Yeah ok lol. I will take that I guess lol.The Ewoks are not as annoying as a lot of people claim. Though I do agree with many about how a primitive race could take on the mighty forces of The Empire. But anyhow, that's just one small gripe.As I said the movie is a fitting end to the original saga and it is a must see if you are a Star Wars fan


                
"Return of the Jedi" is an underrated series from "Star Wars" franchise and disliked for some people. Some people also love it but it didn't change the fact that this is the worst of all. Well, anything that people compared is better than "The Last Jedi" which people assume that most of them said it. For me, "Return of the Jedi" seems to have a fatal drop from the story and the plot. This is more of a cartoonish where maybe some people complained about the previous series because of their children. Honestly, "Return of the Jedi" is one of my most favorite series of franchises. No matter people say of "The Empire Strikes Back" or anything that people agree that is the best "Star Wars," this one is my favorites both when I first watched it and when I watched for the second times.The first opening scene opened with a battleship shot scene same as in the original, "A New Hope." A long short story, "Return of the Jedi" was set after Han Solo was captured by a bounty hunter Boba Fett and sold into the black market in Tatooine, Jabba the Hutt. The first opening scene opened with the second death star where Darth Vader as the first introduction along with John Williams' The Imperial March, Darth Vader's powerfully theme as if Darth Vader had become one of the huge Empire of the army and the whole planets are afraid of its existence. This is the slowest introduction to Luke Skywalker which seems like it's forced when Princess Leia and Chewbacca meet again with Han Solo. This scene wants to jump directly into the conclusions and therefore, viewers would be immediately introduced by the main spotlight, Luke Skywalker. Now, Luke is no longer a child who always lets his emotions or innocent children who didn't really understand knowledge but Luke is one of the most badass Jedi. The scene where Boba Fett, which he is one of my favorite characters when I playing video games, feels ridiculous and it instantly turned off. In fact, Boba Fett is one of the characters most appreciated by everyone, both fans of "Star Wars" and casual ones.The film is also more focused on an emotional conflict between Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker, how he had to persuade him to turn into the light side. The film will also introduce Palpatine as the person behind everything. When I first watched this film, I didn't feel that Darth Vader was even bowing to Palpatine which it was certainly stronger than Darth Vader. Keep in mind, this movie was directed by Richard Marquand along with Lawrence Kasdan and George Lucas as the writers. There are a lot of staff changes which it undergoes renewals. Although's like that, "Return of the Jedi" combines two narrative styles from its previous series so that a red wire you should need to understand the previous series before watching this movie. Unlike "Revenge of the Sith," this is a finale which determines how the "Star Wars" universe would come to "The Force Awakens" and "The Last Jedi.""Return of the Jedi" feels they lower its tone in this episode. This is more like a classic story of a great war which it makes that as the main point. In addition to some epic saga such as space battles and lightsabers, I just wonder why many people hate Ewok. Jar Jar Binks being hated for several reasons, but Ewoks? I only saw a bunch of teddy bears who were so happy to do their own party just for fun. However, this is also what makes "Star Wars" feel different from others. The battle on the Endor planet between Ewoks and Stormtrooper feels like a cartoon. These Ewoks are so easily beat the Stormtrooper using any natural things such as rocks, logs, and other classic traps. This also seems to me that the climax scene when Luke Skywalker opened the Darth Vader's mask who was dying. It just felt broken and emotionless. Maybe because some parents who complained, it finally degraded the circumstances to be more humorous and brighter than in "The Empire Strikes Back" dark and psychological atmosphere.The lightsaber final one on one fight between Luke and Vader isn't really interesting and looks natural, with a normal choreography. More precisely, there is no choreography. But, their emotions are so teary and became a magnificent cover from the battle between the light and dark side. The film also wants to raise a nostalgia or intertextuality feeling in this movie such as a friendly encounter between Han Solo, Leia, and Chewbacca as it seems to be charming. Looking back at the desert land from the Tatooine planet is also one of the ways to start the "Star Wars" saga and it 's like a hometown after a long misadventure. The story confession also feels like it has no impact on the previous series in terms of emotion without a strong intensity. Although like that, this film still gives a beautiful visual effect such as one of my favorite is the chasing scene at the Endor planet and the last mission destroying the second death star. Admiral Ackbar's "it's a trap" quote is one of the reasons why this movie is so memorable even many thoughts are made into a pop culture in it. Take the example of "Family Guy.""Return of the Jedi" seems to come out from a pretty disappointing for the storytelling style which seems like childish and cartoonish. Unlike the previous series, Richard Marquand as a director also added one that made this film more interesting in terms of cinematography and visual effects. With the conclusion that connects a line from the previous two series, "Return of the Jedi" is like a happy ending movie which isn't too pretentious but can be one of the main conclusions. The John Williams 'score is amazing in this movie especially when the Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker's theme songs are put together into a single score. However, "Return of the Jedi" became one of my most favorite of all series, no matter what people said, this one takes the whole cakes.


                
The highlight of this movie is of course, Lukes battle with Vader. It shows how the young Jedi has grown, as well as the point where he could destroy what's left of his father, and doesn't. Palpatine is quite evil and easy to not like, and the space battles are as usual, brilliant. The Ewoks show Lucas fear of technology and he uses them to show that nature wins over technology. (Reminds me of Tolkien who also feared technology). A fun movie I only wish the scene where Luke builds his new lightsaber was left in.


                
This for me was the weakest chapter of the original trilogy but it did what it set out to do. I have some friends who say it's their favorite; one of whom says he likes the space battle between the Rebels and the Empire. I used to like the space battle and used to watch those parts while fast-forwarding the other parts of the final battle while watching the movie. But now that I'm older I enjoy the lightsaber duels more. That for me is what Star Wars is truly about, and not just the space battles and the ground battles (like in Empire).The film gets a bad rap by many fans due to the Ewoks, while some say it's a ripoff of the first Star Wars. The latter seems a little unfair though sometimes the third chapter of a trilogy tends to mirror the first one. I used to like the Ewoks when I was younger and while I'm now a little older (and wiser) and I think they're a little silly, they're not as bad as the Gungans (see The Phantom Menace). But all in all, it's not a bad way to end the saga of the Skywalkers. There are still some better third chapters to trilogies out there (such as Toy Story 3 and Return of the King), so you might want to check those respective film sagas.


                
This movie is mostly good. It is the least good of the first trilogy of Star Wars films (which I would rank as: #1) The Empire Strikes Back (later called episode 5), #2) Star Wars (renamed episode 4) then this one, #3) Return of the Jedi. But it is still way better than any of the prequel films, the only one of which I liked at all being the third film (episode #3, The Revenge of the Sith).It gives great closure to all of the story lines they started in the first two films, with Luke and his father as well as the rebellion vs. the emperor and his empire, and Han Solo and Princess Leia. It's a fun movie with all of the action and comedy you would expect from the first two films and some new and very cute characters. Still it's not as good as the first two films but that has more to do with the fact that the first two films were so fantastic. There's just a couple stupid or silly parts and little plot holes that take away from this movie's score but nothing as bad as the prequels, which are awful.


                
