In show business, there is probably an Eve Harrington born every day. Someone who butters up to a performer of note, acting innocently, revealing none of the coldhearted ambition they really have.  Anne Baxter plays this type of person to a tee.  She looks like a baby-faced fan, but little do we know, there is a fame machine at work in her mind.  Bette Davis, as Margo Channing, star of the stage, is a veteran who has seen it all.  She is quite the egotist.  Margo is a brilliant actress and she knows it.  Eve discovers her blind spot and moves in on her like a quiet storm.  This is the premise of ALL ABOUT EVE, Joseph L. Mankiewicz's masterpiece of sly wit and subtle manipulation.  Mankiewicz also wrote the picture (winner of the Best Picture Oscar of 1950) with such skill, the talented cast need only to memorize the lines and deliver them with the proper technique.The performances are great, regardless, especially by Bette Davis and the always detested George Sanders, one of my favorite actors of the Golden Age of Hollywood.  The film is narrated initially by Sanders, who plays a ruthless swine of a theatre critic, then by Celeste Holm, the wife of Eve and Margo's playwrighter, then Bette Davis in the performance of a lifetime. The movie is about 90% dialogue, much like a play.  The words are so crisp and sharp, you never sway or lose interest.  These characters are just too interesting.  Bette Davis has a cavalcade of unforgettable dialogue. "Fasten your seatbelts.  Its going to be a bumpy night!"  This is the one everyone remembers, but I would be remiss to get into any others.The picture runs well over 2 hours, but it doesn't seem like enough. Mankiewicz could've held a seminar of screenwriting by showing this.  George Sanders is the only actor of the roster to bring home an Academy Award, and rumor has it Davis and Baxter, who was just 27 at the time, were feuding during much of the shoot and lusted the Oscar.  Time has been very good to the film as well.  1950 was a wonderful year for movies and ALL ABOUT EVE's artistic equal that year was the equally well-written SUNSET BOULEVARD, which took us behind the scenes of a tainted Hollywood.  EVE takes on theatre and treats Hollywood like an afterthought.  There are many references to the film industry, usually involving the scenes with Margo Channing's boyfriend, who is attempting to make a career on the silver screen.The movie is highly unpredictable, especially the last scenes which tie the ideas of the story up.  There is an Eve everywhere and each character gets what he or she deserves. Fasten the belts and listen up.  This is screenwriting at its finest.


                
As close to perfection as they come. A film than can be viewed again and again without ever getting tired. Bette Davis's Margo Channing is a film icon of major proportions. A point of reference. Her fear of the abyss is as human as it is at the center of this selfish, insecure, sacred cow. She is surrounded by some other sensational women. Thelma Ritter, Celeste Holm, Anne Baxter and in a tiny but telling part, Marilyn Monroe - a graduate from the Copacabana school of dramatic art. Wittily prophetic. George Sanders is another piece of extraordinary casting and writing. "I'm essential to the theater" Indeed. And here is a film that has become essential to anyone who loves movies"


                
What a genius Joseph L Manckiewicz was. A literary script that is totally accessible. A melodrama for the thinking man. A film that is as engrossing and entertaining every time you see it. Bette Davis touches all the raw nerves of her mythological career. Anne Baxter never went this far. Thelma Ritter became a sort of icon. Marilyn Monroe gives us a preview of forthcoming attractions as a graduated from the "Copacabana" academy of dramatic arts. Celeste Holm represents us, all of us and George Sanders creates a prototype for a cultured monster that is immediately recognizable. I don't recall another film in which the nature of selfishness is so wittily dissected. A total triumph.


                
You will see yourself in every character in this very intelligent, entrancing movie. Though set in "the theatre," the story could just as easily have been told in a small town, a corporation <U+0096> even a religious organization. Being set in the "glamorous" world of entertainment <U+0096> its seems all the more timely in these days of fame, fortune and the insufficiency (almost shame) of being ordinary. The theatre setting also underscores the reality that the world is a stage, and all its people, players.So much to study in this movie: the genuine, trusting (and romantic) human; the streetwise, good, hardworking human, who's seen it all and doesn't embrace it; the jaded, heart-hardened, deceitful loser with power, who admires the same and disdains human goodness; the ambitious sociopath who fools so many; the unsuspecting onlookers who see only the façade of success; the inescapable fact that supreme achievement has been had by very low characters; the painful passage of an aging woman into the light of knowing she's loved for being beautiful beyond her appearance, for being HER; the touching portrayal of her lover who remembers his love for her as he passes on a much younger, beautiful, talented actress; the sorrow of a (betraying) friend who discovers the frightened and lonely heart of her successful friend <U+0085> The dialogue is sharp and clever, barked and growled, smarmy and tender<U+0085> A truly human movie about being human. Go <U+0096> find yourself in everyone!


                
THE definitive saga of backstage brouhaha ever dished out by Hollywood.  A triumph of screen-writing, never will one see such ripe, acrid dialogue spewed out like this again -- every indelible scene gloriously stained with classic one-liners.  An actress wanna-be looking for her big break carefully worms her way into the glamorous life of a legendary Broadway star, then tries to supplant her privately and professionally.A sterling, incandescent cast provides the fire and music to this concerto of theatre attitude.  Bette Davis knew she was handed a dream role when she was cast as Margo Channing, the indomitable diva caught up in the throes of mid-life crisis both on- and off-stage.  Not willing at all to deal with it tactfully, she makes life a living hell for anyone within knife-throwing distance.  This juicy, once-in-a-lifetime part turned Davis' own flagging middle-aged career back on its feet, especially coming on the heels of one of her biggest "dumps" ever, "Beyond the Forest."  Remarkable as it may seem, Bette was not the first choice here, replacing an injured Claudette Colbert.  With all due respect to Colbert, Bette Davis was BORN to play Margo Channing.  A mauling lioness one minute, a coy, declawed pussycat the next, Davis relishes every wickedly bitchy scene she gets to tear into. Yet in her more introspective moments, she evokes real sympathy for Margo (as only a true star can) especially when her character missteps.  It's a resounding victory for the Queen Bee in every way, shape and form.Her "supporting cast" also manage to create a buzz of excitement.  Gary Merrill and Hugh Marlowe, known for their relative blandness, are splendid here in their respective roles as queen bee's lover and playwright.  While Merrill's Bill Sampson tames Margo the woman with gutsy directness and virile passion, Marlowe's Lloyd Richards appeases Margo the star with flattery, great dialogue and a calm resolve.  Worth watching, then, are their fireworks scenes with Margo when intelligence and restraint no longer work.  Debonair George Sanders gives customary snob appeal and dry cynicism to his waspish, ultimately loathsome columnist Addison DeWitt, who swarms around Broadway's elite knowledgeable in the fact his lack of heart and poison pen yield exclusive rights and power.  The most sensitive and sensible one in the collective bunch, the one lacking a true stinger, is Karen Richards (played wonderfully by Celeste Holm), Margo's best friend and confidante, who finds herself caught between the queen and a hard place when she accidentally makes a pact with the devil.  Thelma Ritter couldn't be overlooked if she tried.  An inveterate scene-stealer, she weathers strong competition this time in a movie crammed with clever conversation and pungent zingers.  As coarse but well-meaning Birdie Coonan, a brash ex-vaudevillian now the queen's ever-loyal "drone", Ritter's character properly handles her boss's antics with amusing grit and backbone.  On the periphery of this Broadway beehive is mop-faced Gregory Ratoff as an edgy, gullible, thick-accented producer, Marilyn Monroe as a hopelessly vacuous starlet, and Barbara Bates, as a novice schemer with a very bright future, all making their few scenes count -- especially Bates, who is forever enshrined in the film's stunning final shot.The chief thorn in Margo's (and everybody's) side, and the other real star of this picture, is the queen's titular lady-in-waiting, Eve Harrington. As played by Anne Baxter, this role is probably the most delicate and difficult of all for the weight and believability of this drama falls squarely on her shoulders.  Unfairly overlooked all these years by the flashier posturings of Davis, Baxter does a beautiful job of drawing initial pathos then panic as she slowly unveils her own lethal stinger.  By film's end, Baxter is directly on par with her scenery-chewing co-star.  Killer to killer. Champion to champion.Six Oscars including Best Picture, Best Director (Joseph L. Mankiewicz), Best Screenplay (also Mankiewicz) and Supporting Actor (George Sanders) went to this cinematic bon mot.  Had Bette Davis and Anne Baxter not competed as Best Actress (Baxter refused to place herself in the Supporting Actress category), it would have drummed up two more awards to be sure.Developing a faithful cult following over the years, this film deserves to be on everybody's "top ten" list.


                
Brilliantly acted and cleverly characterized, with sparkling dialogue that mercilessly parries the gloss from the New York theater world's highly sophisticated veneer, "All About Eve" is a scintillating comedy of manners that compels rapt attention for the whole of its 2¼ hours. We like George Sanders, pointing out Gregory Ratoff to his escort, Marilyn Monroe (whom the script describes as "a member of the Copacabana school of acting"), with the words: "There's a real live producer, honey! Go and do yourself some good!" And the final scene, in which Sanders asks Barbara Bates, "Do you want some day to have an award like that of your own?" — "More than anything else in the world!" she answers. "Then you must ask Miss Harrington how to get one", he replies. "Miss Harrington knows all about it!"It is often complained of Mankiewicz's work that it is too stagey and too talkative, that there is not sufficient movement. There is some justice in this charge in the consideration of such films as Five Fingers, The Quiet American, House of Strangers, and Dragonwyck; certainly Mankiewicz's two spectacles, Guys and Dolls and Cleopatra, are much improved by sharp editing. But in his best films, The Late George Apley, A Letter to Three Wives, All About Eve, People Will Talk (which I regard as his masterpiece — it was too off-beat, unfortunately, for contemporary audiences or critics to appreciate), and The Barefoot Contessa, any trace of over- talkativeness is more than offset by the range and variety, the unusualness of the characters. Moreover, it is the characters themselves that determine the plot — not the fate or some external force.Thus, in All About Eve, Margo Channing is the victim of her egocentricity, Sampson the victim of his own cynicism and Richards, the victim of his own ingenuousness. Eve Harrington is cunning and ruthless enough to exploit these traits in her climb to stardom. Besides Mankiewicz's two awards, All About Eve also won statuettes for Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor (George Sanders), Best Costumes and Best Sound Recording. Also, producer Darryl Zanuck won the Thalberg Memorial Award for consistent high-quality production over the previous three years.The film also won the New York Film Critics' Citation for Best Picture, Best Direction and Best Actress (Bette Davis). Actually, I thought that Miss Davis' performance, fine as it was, was overshadowed by Anne Baxter's interpretation of the scheming Eve. To cover with a winning veneer of innocence a character that would not stop at blackmail or adultery to win stardom, cannot have been an easy assignment for a young actress; yet Miss Baxter brought it off flawlessly.OTHER VIEWS: I'd had the general idea for All About Eve in mind for a long time. But I never had a middle, a second act. Then our New York office submitted a short story by Mary Orr called "The Wisdom of Eve" — later a radio script — and I had my second act. Incidentally, Zanuck deserves some credit for what happened. He was the only studio head in town with the courage and intelligence to try new things. I don't think I could have made this picture on any other lot but 20th Century- Fox. -- J.L.M.
The ambitious Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter) gets close to the great and temperamental stage artist Margo Channing (Bette Davis) and her friends Karen Richards (Celeste Holm) and her husband, the play-writer Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe); her boyfriend and director Bill Sampson (Gary Marrow); and the producer Max Fabian (Gregory Ratoff). Everybody, except the cynical critic Addison DeWitt (George Sanders), believe that Eve is only a naive, humble and simple obsessed fan of Margo and they try to help her. However, Eve is indeed a cynical and manipulative snake that uses the lives of Margo and her friends to reach her objectives in the theater business."All About Eve" is a magnificent timeless tale of ambition, manipulation and betrayal, and certainly one of the best classics ever. Everything perfectly works in this movie: the direction is very precise and tight; dialogs are very acid and intelligent; Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders and Celeste Holm have awesome performances in very powerful characters; the dramatic story is amazingly good, showing what an evil person can plot to reach fame and success. I believe this movie will always be among my ten favorite movies ever. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "A Malvada" ("The Wicked")


                
**************this might contain spoilers**********************The movie Perfect Stranger opened today and as many critic noted the script was not up to standard. But then again one is always reading how today's script's just don't cut it. And one wonders why? Surly today's directors can draw upon previous movie scripts if no more than to see how well they are constructed. And no script was more in it's craft that Joseph L. Mankiewicz's All About Eve. I could also point out Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity and a few others but All About Eve is one one Mankiewicz's best, along with A Letter to Three Wives and the charming People Will Talk. But, as many a poster knows All About Eve garnered 14 academy award nominations, winning 6. Bette Davis was robbed! Sure, Gloria Swanson was dazzling in Sunset Boulevard but she didn't have the competition Miss Davis had in All About Eve. There was Anne Baxter reprising a similar role she played in the 1944 film Guest in the House. And George Sanders playing a variation of his role in The Picture of Dorian Gray. I think the academy members gave him his award for his magnificent body of work. His award was well deserved. But miss Baxter couldn't hold a candle to Miss Davis who essayed her role in 14 days. And out of sequence. The first scene filmed for the movie was Miss Davis encountering Addison De Witt in the lobby of the theatre. The producers could only get the theatre for a certain time not on it's schedule so did what it had to do. Film that scene. The interior of the theatre scene was filmed at a later date. Many people don't know that Hollywood is a very small town. And the academy award members is not a large body at all, maybe a little over two thousand. But at that time the members had long memories and since Miss Davis was no longer Queen of Hollywood let alone under a contract to a major studio they knew they had no allegiance to her. She had stepped on too many academy members toes, and some still felt the sting. Gloria Swanson, well, she just came out of retirement for this one film and so they felt no allegiance to her, either. Neither studio backed the two stars. And the award went to Judy Holliday for a very boring movie called Born Yesterday. A role that Miss Holliday had performed on Broadway many many time. It's hard to watch Born Yesterday today and you really wonder why the members didn't give the academy award to Miss Davis. All About Eve is a timeless movie, a classic and a gem and the towering performance in the entire film is by Bette Davis. To go further in the case of vendetta, the members did give Katherine Hepburn an award for her unforgettable performance in The Lion in Winter but to make sure Davis couldn't catch Hepburn she got another award for the insipid Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, a role not worthy of an academy award. Still, Miss Davis somehow comes out a true winner when all one has to do is to watch All About Eve. We are her academy award.
All About Eve is an excellent film in every aspect. The 14 Oscar nominations, and six wins, testify to this. For 47 years EVE held the record for most nominations -- in 1997 Titanic matched the 14 nominations. Bette Davis was awarded the New York Critics Award once in her 58 year career -- and it was for this film. Marilyn Monroe, Thelma Ritter and Celeste Holms gave terrific supporting performances while Anne Baxter kept up with the great Bette every frame of the way. It was Bette's eighth nomination, and sixth loss; Judy Holiday won for Born Yesterday, beating two legends -- Gloria Swanson was also nominated that year for Sunset Blvd. All About Eve was the first film to be released after Bette ended her 18 years with Warner Brothers. For a moment she was back on top of the world, only to find disappointment throughout the 50's with choices and offerings in Hollywood. The writing by Mankiewicz and supporting performance by George Saunders would alone make the film worth viewing -- A NEAR PEFECT FILM!


                
They say that talk is cheap but you wouldn't believe it listening to the pearls that drip from the mouths of the characters in this, the greatest of all the dialogue-driven comedies to have come out of Hollywood, (at the time it was nominated for a then record 14 Oscar nominations and won 6). It opens with a monologue that introduces all the leading players that is at once literate and cinematic at the same time and you know instantly that his is, above all, a movie to listen to. (What film-buff doesn't quote its screenplay ad-nauseum; gay men, at least according to "The Boys in the Band", are said to know the script by heart). And while drag queens the world over have always based their Bette Davis imitations on the character of Margo Channing, (Davis' greatest role and her greatest performance), the film is never merely camp. The acerbic wit that runs through the film always has a ring of truth to it; the characters, overblown as they are, are always recognizably human.The acting alone is to die for. Can you believe that other actresses were once considered for the role of Margo? (Claudette Colbert?). Davis makes it her own not by acting Margo but by being Margo. I can't think of another role more indelibly suited to an actress than this. In a lesser film she might have swamped her co-stars but Mankiewicz, who wrote and directed, gives everyone equal credence.Anne Baxter was never better than as the poisonous Eve; Celeste Holm, wonderful as the clipped, sophisticated Karen; George Sanders oozing epigrams as if from every pore as the screen's most famous critic, Addison DeWitt, (what a name!). These were career-best performances and in smaller parts, Thelma Ritter's cynical, wise-cracking Dresser, Birdie, and Marilyn Monroe's vacuous Miss Caswell, ('a graduate of the Copocobana school of dramatic art'), are just as unforgettable. In the seventies someone had the, not very bright, idea of turning it into a Broadway musical called 'Applause'. While not half-bad you still came away feeling you had seen a karaoke version of "All About Eve".


                
This is not a movie geared for those who would stand in line for the latest cinemeplexific car chase head banging rock music special effect buster of blocks.  This movie is all about adults.  And the main focus is (SHOCK!) and adult woman!!  Who is hitting 40!!Bette Davis' Margo Channing is successful and self-involved and loving and generous and jealous and human.  Ann Bancroft's Eve has such a sincere and melifluous voice. Thelma Ritter's character is a fast talking dame, Celeste Holm's is a more contemplative one and Marilyn is a hoot. Watch Margo get applause, get drunk, get duped, get a clue, get her man. "Glory Hallelujah!"The men in the film, nameless here but wonderful on screen,  are not spineless tools for the women.  Okay, maybe Celeste's husband is easily manipulated as is the producer - but Margo's man "When I want something, I go after it, I don't want it to come after me" and Sanders' critic "who do you think you are fooling?" are manly men right off the rugged individualist rack (okay, it's a long rack . . .)Great story, well told, great cast, well done!If anyone thinks that any of these people are not *perfect* in this movie - George Sanders? Thelma Ritter? Marilyn Monroe? Celeste Holm? Bette Davis? Ann Bancroft? - I would like to take issue with you - behind the cineplex at high noon.


                
Along with "Sunset Boulevard" and "The bad and the beautiful" this is the best film about Hollywood behind the masks and all the glamor of theater and film. Extremely stagy, but Bette Davis was never better, and George Sanders is as always deliciously slimy and arrogant to the max; only Baxter is not quite convincing as the star to be. But it does not really matter because the direction is great, and the dialog is amazing all the way. A real roller-coaster of a movie that contains both bundles of laughter, and some truly terrifying moments as well. Davis has the line of a lifetime that expresses the essence of the film: "Fasten your seat belts! It's gonna be a bumpy night!"


                
Joseph L. Mankiewicz was a genius and this is his masterpiece, without a doubt! Mr. Mankiewicz's timeless tale for this film was something that paralleled the great writing of another author that knew the inside of the human race: Honore de Balzac.In this story about the theater, all the elements come together to weave a perfect movie, one that will endure the passage of time. Mr. Mankiewicz's screen play is about blind ambition and to what extremes does a person goes in order to realize that goal. The writer seems to be telling us that to Eve Harrington, her end justified the means by which she arrived at getting where she got.The cast assembled for the movie was the perfect blend of styles and acting ability. This film is dominated by Eve Harrington, who, Anne Baxter plays to perfection. We first see her as the adoring fan to Margo Channing, the star of the hit play on Broadway. She will do anything to get to where Margo Channing is. In a way, Eve is a user of the worst kind. She used Karen Richards, Margo's best friend in order to get in the theater world where she finally makes a splash.In that theatrical world, we encounter all kinds of sub species that tend to gravitate toward the limelight where others are shining brighter. They will do anything in their power in order to 'belong' to the glamour and all the things that go hand in hand in that circle.Anne Baxter was an amazing Eve Harrington. She was a young actress then, who showed a lot of talent and was perfectly cast for that role. Bette Davis makes Margo Channing come alive. Ms. Davis shows us what is to be at the top of her class and suddenly see her world begin to crumble, which in a way, it's the way of the theater. The theater and the movies are cruel to the stars that dare to age in front of our eyes. There will always be prettier and younger actresses to bask in their moment of glory in front of the adoring public, but watch out, never get old!George Sanders as the bitchy Addison Dewitt, is the maker and breaker of many a career. He has the power to destroy anyone that doesn't play by his rules. Mr. Sanders was excellent by being the cynic in a make believe land. In a way, the writer is telling us that even then, there was something rotten in theater critics that will ruin a play by just disliking it in the press. Celeste Holm is also effective as Karen Richards, a friend indeed, until she is used to give Eve her big break. Thelma Ritter is a delight to watch as Birdie, the wise maid that sees right through a phony when she sees one. Gary Merrill, George Ratoff, Hugh Marlowe and a young and fresh Marilyn Monroe complete the cast.Never before did a movie packed such an impact to reveal so much about the human comedy, as in this one. After all, that comedy, or call it tragedy, has existed since the beginning of time. All this because a brilliant Joseph L. Mankiewicz brought to the screen to dazzle audiences forever.


                
As story of a young "fan" who manipulates her way to supplant her idol, Eve is a funny take on show business and its ageism. Yet the satire runs deeper and more personal than that as Eve (the character) is not content to merely supplant Margo professionally but tries to be a homewrecker. It speaks to the way powerful men dispose of women if they which a certain age. And how unfair that is too everyone. It is not just the men who come out looking awful. Eve is an unscrupulous witch. Margo, the brilliantly self-parody of Davis, is a flighty devil who settles for scraps. Karen, the nicest of the bunch, commits the greatest wrong. Birdie is ultimately a coward. None of the characters look good, but they are fully human.A lot of this is due to Mankiewic's smart screenplay and polished direction. Filled with irony, great one liners the screenplay deftly handles everyone's agendas. It also makes sure that everyone gets their just desserts. Likewise, the uniform excellent of the acting and how memorable the big scenes are are testament to Mankiewic's direction.One last thing Addison DeWitt, the acid tongue critic is one of the great characters in history. It is so perfect that he outsmarts Eve and pretty much ever thing out of his month is comedic gold. George Sanders is just perfect in this. One of the great antagonists of cinema.


                
A truly masterpiece, perfect acting and breathtaking plot.


                
Film Review: "All About Eve" (1950)One-hundred-thirty-eight minutes of black & white cinematic splendor, up in smoke and booze as medicine of choice, produced by Hollywood's Golden Era prime producer Darryl F. Zanuck at 20th Century Fox in season 1949/1950 engages Director Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1909-1993), who writes and directs for the pace of a beating vulnerable heart in business that like no other needs to cope with rise and fall of individuals in the shortest amount of time. Here it is the character of Eve Harrington, portrayed by actress Anne Baxter (1923-1985), who so famously gives life to a small town girl entering the New York society of theater production company, led by the star of the ensemble Margot, with ease and experience of a true Hollywood star playing actress Bette Davis (1908-1989) and her Director-husband Bill. The tactics of Eve to become the Star covers lies, pitch-perfect servant-work for Margot as the inner company scheming of betrayal and love-interest cheat-outs reach such sophistications that only the equally ruthless critic Addison DeWitt, performed with style and dignity by actor George Sanders (1906-1972), is left to come close enough to walls-building character of Eve in a climatic hotel room scene at running time 1h 57min 00sec, where from "killer-to-killer" the future role delegation gets sorted out in a game of power for the ultimate social recognition by award, before so-called friends realize that the award is the substitute for a heart.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Each scene just flows seamlessly into the next - what a script! And what casting! IF I had been an Academy voter that year, it would have been tough - Bette Davis in this, or Gloria Swanson. Some great lines that live on and on. My only minor quibble - Birdie (the great GREAT Thelma Ritter!)( is never seen or mentioned again after the party scene - what happened?


                
Among the greatest dramas ever written, this brilliant film elevates an outstanding script with extraordinary acting.  It received 14 Oscar Nominations in 12 categories and won 6 including Best Picture and Director. However, it is much better than that.Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter) is a waif that is constantly seen waiting outside the theater for her idol Margo Channing (Bette Davis).  When Margo's best friend Karen Richards (Celeste Holm) invites her in to meet Margo it begins a relationship that is destined to turn into a typhoon.  Margo is taken in by Eve's hard luck story and her obsequious deference, and she decides to employ her as her personal secretary.  With duplicitous and cunning ambition, Eve maneuvers her way into becoming Margo's understudy. Just turning 40, Margo begins to become self conscious about her age and sees Eve as a threat to her career and her relationship with Bill, who is eight years her junior.  The resulting tension between Margo and Eve is electric, with power plays, blackmail and conniving at every turn.John Mankiewicz was one of the most prolific and gifted auteurs of the studio era.  He won back-to-back double Oscars for directing and screenplay in 1949 and 1950 for `Letters to Three Wives' and `All About Eve'.  His accomplishment in this film is gargantuan, with a powerful script and forceful direction of a talented cast.  The dialogue is fantastic, with snide humor and barbed innuendo that cuts like a stiletto.  The scene between Eve and pompous theater critic Addison Dewitt (George Sanders) where he confronts her about her past is like a mating of snakes.The acting is stupendous.  Bette Davis appeared in over 100 films in her 58 year career, nominated for 11 Best Acting Oscars and winning two.  This was one of her very best performances and it escapes me why she did not win the award that year.  Davis is a whirlwind of dramatic power in a riveting portrayal of the tempestuous Margo.  She imbues Margo with a gigantic ego and equally enormous insecurity, which yields some of the best and most bitter tantrum spewing ever been put on celluloid.  Anne Baxter is deliciously evil as Eve.  Her sweet helplessness veils a cold, calculating serpent waiting for her opportunity to strike.The supporting actors were also superb.  George Sanders won a best supporting Oscar for his haughty performance as Addison De Witt.  Celeste Holm was nominated for a supporting Oscar and was terrific as Margo's well meaning, but meddling friend.  One of my favorites was Thelma Ritter (also nominated for Best Supporting Actress) as Birdie, an unrefined and blunt woman with extraordinary perceptiveness about Eve's true nature.This is one of the best dramas ever made and among my favorite films of all time.  It was rated number 16 on AFI's top 100 of the century.  I rated it a 10/10.  They don't make them like this any more.  It is required viewing for classic film buffs.


                
It doesen't get any better than ALL ABOUT EVE. The most incredibly talented cast in the history of cinema. One of the best directors ever, and flawless producers. To think that All about Eve was only a small story in the newspaper, makes it even better! This is Bette Davis at her best, but honestly I don't think she can do no wrong. Anne Baxter, Celeste Holm, and Gary Merril were absolutely wonderful. The true powerhouses of this film are Bette, George Sanders, and Thelma Ritter. With every movement,word, and smile you are completely wrapped up in this classic. Less we forget that this small movie received a whopping 11 Academy Awards nominations. ALL About Eve is number one!!!!


                
The story of an actress in decline, past her prime, offered at the last moment to an actress who herself was in decline and past her prime. The parallels between fiction and reality could not have been more blurred as they were during the creation of what has been considered to be one of the greatest movies about the theater and one of Bette Davis' most indelible performances. Starting from the link between Davis and Elisabeth Bergner via a remake Davis acted in 1946 called A STOLEN LIFE -- itself a version previously performed by Bergner, and snowballing into the anecdote that Bergner herself had been the apparent victim of an unusual admiration by a young female actress of whose identity and life little is known (unless you read Sam Stagg's book "All About All About Eve"), ALL ABOUT EVE is as interesting -- and at times, even more so -- as to its backstory to what was presented on screen as the final result.By 1949 Bette Davis was strictly on the way out. She had been in a 4-year slump with movies that were failing commercially even when they still got fair to good reviews, with the notable exception of BEYOND THE FOREST in which Davis played a woman much too young for her age and donned a black wig that made her look even older. Many of the roles Davis (later) admitted as to wanting to have played while she was still at Warner Bros. were going to her professional rival Joan Crawford; indeed, Crawford, relegated to second fiddle at MGM with hand-me-down roles Norma Shearer rejected, and coming out of her strong debut at Warner's with MILDRED PIERCE, a role Davis herself rejected and one that gave Crawford her only Oscar win, was now getting the better pictures at Warner's. From MILDRED PIERCE to FLAMINGO ROAD, Crawford was back on top, if at least temporarily so.Such a thing must have made Davis mad. Seeing that the camel's back had been broken with the failure of BEYOND THE FOREST, she was now a free agent, but needed work. PAYMENT ON DEMAND was a mostly forgotten film she'd made which did not receive a release until the 1951, and was so far the only job offer she was getting. The notorious story as to how she got the role of Margo Channing -- where Claudette Colbert sprained her back -- is the stuff of Hollywood legend, but it ensured Davis one more chance to assume a major role in a major movie. What she possibly didn't know was that this would be the one that would define her as a screen icon -- forever she'd be quipped with her most quoted line from this film: "Fasten your seatbelts -- it's gonna be a bumpy night." And she couldn't have foreseen that on set of ALL ABOUT EVE she'd also meet and marry the man who played her lover on screen: Gary Merrill.There is so much that can be spoken about this timeless classic. It's such an iconic movie, a thing of elegant beauty that hasn't been repeated since and one of the most quotable movies of all time. Again, highly recommended and a must-read is Sam Stagg's book which tells everything, down from the casting list for each role (at one point Gertrude Lawrence and Joan Crawford were up for Margo Channing), wardrobe, stories as told by the actors themselves, Celeste Holm's resentment of Davis on the set -- a thing that was probably Davis' fault, since she wasn't known for being social and Holm from then on took great offense and to this day remains offended. And on and on. Snippets of dialog that never made it into the film is presented in the book, and it's understandable: it would have bogged down the story a bit much. (Would it that Mankiewicz had done the same thing with his dialog in CLEOPATRA!) A fascinating book.And a fascinating movie that over a half a century later can still be seen for what it is: a scathing portrayal of backstabbing, backstage, and a complex study of a professional and social climber and what she will do to ensure success. Full of in-jokes that have to be heard to be believed, and one of the oddest pairings of a male-female dynamic in Anne Baxter and George Sanders who play a game of cat and mouse throughout with a terrific, sadistic denouement, it's one of the essentials, a movie that has to be studied in order to admire movies, not because of its visuals -- if anything, ALL ABOUT EVE fails in presenting ground-breaking visuals and opts for a play-like feel -- but for its entirety. Razor-sharp performances from everyone -- ranging from the film's major parts, played by Davis herself, Anne Baxter, Celeste Holm, Thelma Ritter, George Sanders, Gary Merrill, Gregory Ratoff, Hugh Marlowe, to the minor players -- Marilyn Monroe, Barbara Bates, and Randy Stuart (or THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN fame).


                
This film has a legendary reputation and it certainly lives up to it.  All the catfights, the backstabbing, the blackmailing...  What an exhilirating film!  The cast is beyond superb and the ending is eerie, but sublime. George Sanders alone is worth the price of admission.  Those heavenly voice-overs keep changing the point of view, but it is always done so perfectly.  It is truly a cinematic masterpiece that hasn't aged a bit and still revels in all its glory.  Set in the world of the theater, we listen to all the various characters talk about Eve, and not surprisingly, there is no shortage of things to mention.  There's a reason why that "bumpy night" is still being talked about!


                
After so many years of denying the fact that I would ever rent any of these, as I put it then, 'old chick flicks', I finally swallowed my pride and got myself "All About Eve" among others, and I have to say, I'm extremely glad I did.I was transfixed throughout this whole movie; it's listed as a drama but I found myself laughing all the way through it, not because all the lines were amusing but simply because it was just so enjoyable. I described it after I had watched it as like "a Walt Disney version of a Patricia Highsmith novel". The characters are just as enjoyable and the plot, almost a farce, really, is just as beautifully set up and makes you want to clap your hands at every twist.Bette Davis is stunning as the melodramatic Margo Channing, I loved every moment of her performance, I have to say. Anne Baxter was also brilliant as Eve, and George Sanders in his Oscar-winning role actually really surprised me, considering I'd never heard of him until I saw this (obviously more my fault than his).And the dialogue is to die for. Every scene is almost like an Abbott and Costello routine, with snappy remarks followed immediately afterwards by equally snappy comebacks, just thrown from one character to another as quickly as you please, and the result is brilliant. You really begin to love all of the characters and writer/director Mankiewicz especially. It's an ingenious film, thoroughly entertaining from start to finish. Five stars out of five.


                
Even though i watched it last year for the first time, i think All About Eve is timeless. Better than a lot of movies of 2000s. Brilliant writing, great directing, outstanding Bette Davis. Don't boggle because it's black and white.I always think old Hollywood movies are all the same: a man and a woman who's in love and can't re-unite, but this movie change my idea for good. Bette Davis's acting is phenomenal i can't describe her. As the title character Eve, Anne Baxter is also great. Don't get me started with the dialogs and Margo's monologue. You have see this. It won the Academy Award for the Best Picture. 9.6/10.


                
A weekly Facebook-based film club for fans of all things antique and vintage, we chose to start our year's movie schedule with this 1950 release, All About Eve, starring Bette Davis as actress Margo Channing, alongside George Sanders and more. The film also features Marilyn Monroe in one of her earlier roles.Nominated for 14 Academy Awards, All About Eve remains the only film to have received 4 female acting nominations, among them Anne Baxter for her portrayal of the titular character Eve, and of course, Bette Davis herself. In the end, it won 6 Oscars, including that of Best Costume Design for a Black and White film.


                
All About Eve is a great classic drama movie that I would recommend to anyone. The movie focuses on theatre and the problems that occur. One of the main themes is age and how it is seen in the theatre and how it is dealt with. Everybody ages and everybody feels the effects of how society treats them differently. In the theatre, the pressure is even greater. This movie does a great job at covering this topic in a way that will pull at the heartstrings of everyone who watches.


                
