Perhaps because I was never a big Bette Davis fan, I failed to see this much-acclaimed movie when it came out and didn't bother in the intervening years. Our daughter wanted to see it, however, and so 60 years after it first hit the screen, three of us watched it. I really didn't know what to expect. It had won so many awards, and, even though she wasn't a favorite of mine, Bette Davis did have a considerable reputation in her day, and this was often cited as her best role. To my surprise, when the film ended, I learned that all three of us thought it was terrible. George Sanders in his patented role as an arrogant stinker and the young Marilyn Monroe who appears on his arm in a party scene were the only two characters we found interesting -- and MM is only interesting, of course, because of her later stardom. Ms. Davis chews the scenery as was her wont in her role as an "aging" (40) actress still playing roles meant for actresses in their 20s. Nearly every other actor in the film indistinguishes himself or herself. I hope not to remember this movie for very long.


                
Positive1. Excellent storytelling2. High production quality3. Like most classic films, the dialog is perfectly clear to understand.Negative1. The film's fundamental premise - a stalker immediately accepted into a theater star's inner circle - is completely unbelievable. My god, then the film concocts the same premise a second time!?#@ The entire film is more contrived than an O. Henry short story.2. Actors portraying actors feels so self-indulgent.Additional Notes1. Interesting to see Marilyn Monroe in a minor role
All the lists of the bests include All About Eve and it seems that all the people who are interested in black and white classics love the film. And it is in the IMDb Top 250 too. I believe that this movie is seen as a masterpiece because of the messages it has about the world of theater, the world of the players (like Sunset Boulevard, but I will explain why I love that movie and hate this movie) All About Eve, yes, criticizes fame, there is sarcasm. However, as an audience who is interested in cinematic elements (is it strange?), All About Eve cannot be masterpiece. The way of story telling was not impressive at all and this causes the movie to be uninteresting most of the time. In other words, can I say that it was not dramatically powerful? There is not any sound scene except the final and the scene which Marilyn Monroe appears was very nice. She added color into the film, she breaths life into the film. And as said, the alarming final was stunning. I love Sunset Boulevard, because cinematically (includes everything) it was great and impressive. And why I have compared All About Eve with Sunset Boulevard? because, they are alike in terms of the thematic element, probably, many people would agree with me at this point. Sunset criticizes the world of cinema industry, Eve criticizes theater industry. I know that All About Eve was not a blockbuster which you eat pop corn and drink cola and have a good time, but entertainment are important too and art is much more important though and I can't say that All About Eve is artistic. After I had watched All About Eve, I watched a Billy Wilder film and a Orson Welles film. It did good a lot.


                
I saw this movie for the Hype. Can't remember a movie that is as boring as this.The real travesty was, the movie got the Best Picture at the Oscars vs "Sunset Boulevard" which had some good acting by Gloria Swanson. This only shows the Oscars, were not fair even on the '50s. The movie is marvel in monotony. Betty Davis's acting was overrated by herself and few cronies who put her on a pedestal, since there was not many contenders in the acting field during that era. She was one arrogant and conceited actress off and on screen. The only thing in the movie worth was Anne Baxter. The script has been praised beyond comprehension. Next time I will see the Hate! Section before I watch any movie, since if you go by the best section, you will invariably end up with a bummer of a movie like this. As far as Script-Billy Wilder and Charles Brach were better contemporary script-writers than Joseph Mankewich. The essence of the movie is, nubile post menopausal women in long trench coats walk to and from the theater and doing so, attract few useful idiots. Then the movie is hyped by the critics who in their warped sense of cinema, pronounce the movie in the Top Ten column. Warren Beatty's "Bugsy" should be in the Top Ten movies of all times (along with "Good Fellas") but it is not even in the Top 100..just an example of the Hollywood Morons(Capitol M!) making suckers out of the public..the correct word is Unjust Enrichment!


                
