This has to go down with "Some Like It Hot" and "Gone With the Wind" as one of the MOST overrated movies of all time.  It has a so-so message (of which it's really proud of itself), with the exception of George Sanders' cynical triumph it has terrible acting (especially Anne Baxter's ridiculously unconvincing portrayal) and, most of all, it is SO melodramatic.  I have never seen a movie beat around the bush as much as this one does.  I it weren't for some very clever dialogue I would have given this movie a two or three.  The most frustrating thing is that it was not only voted to the AFI top 100 list, but also it was named best picture of 1950 over the likes of "Sunset Boulevard" and "The Third Man": two spectacular, unforgettable films.  I will never understand how people can say that this trash was anywhere near the level of those masterpieces.  What a convoluted mess!


                
All about eve is an American drama about an actress named Eve Harrington. I wasn't crazy about this movie, it had some cool parts with the lighting and camera-work but nothing that really stuck out to me that much. The title, All About Eve, is very fitting because the main character Eve Harrington is very selfish and only cares about herself most of the time. Eve begins to get close and befriend a famous Broadway actor named Margo Channing and her famous friends. Most of the friends believed that Margo was just an innocent fan of Margo who didn't want any trouble and wasn't trying to pull anything. However, that was not the case. Eve was only using Margo and her friends in the business to help get her known and to help get her connections in the industry. She was only hanging out with them to benefit herself which was her plan all along. I didn't think this movie was that interesting and I couldn't really get into it but I can see how some people would enjoy it. All About Eve had some interesting parts and effects in it at parts it just wasn't my favorite.


                
All About Eve is essentially a film about a bunch of unlikeable women who are able to grow even more unlikeable as the film progresses, and their pushover boyfriends. This concept alone proves it difficult to create a compelling story from, and it definitely did not happen here.It is a picture that consists of only dialogue, and has no other redeeming qualities. Some of the dialogue spoken has a certain level of depth i admit, yet this is one of the few things that keep this movie afloat on a quality basis. Almost all of the scenes are indoors and feature mediocre scenery that do not delight the eyes. Some critics have praised the acting in All About Eve, but Bette Davis's dead eyed lazy delivery of her lines, Anne Baxter's extremely forced mannerisms, George Sanders's wooden emotionless plank behaviour make it quite difficult to see what they are talking about. I would say Gary Merrill was alright, but even thats pushing it.We start off with Eve as a relatively likeable humble insecure celebrity fan ( The only likeable person in the film at that point ) yet halfway through this changes and she becomes just as unlikeable as all the other manipulative melodramatic women in this film. All the women's boyfriends seem to barely have anything to say in their respective relationships, capturing a biased feministic kind of look on reality. In the end this is a film that has no one to root for since every single character is unlikeable, but even worse they are also just not interesting. As stated earlier, the best parts about the film is the writing and dialogue, yet the acting is just so wooden and lazy ( by most of them ) that this barely matters at all. There is just no emotion, no passion in this film. Also it doesn't help that nothing significant ever happens in the film, but that isn't the actors fault. Just a bunch of pseudo intellectual dialogue and shot reverse shot techniques just isn't enough to convince me of its quality. While not a complete disaster due to some witty dialogue ( Yet still kind of pretentious ) it is still a mediocre film with little significance in the end.


                
