I find it hard to believe that anyone rates this film at all. Not one minute of this makes any sense. The animation is not as artistic as the fans of anime would have it. The story is ridiculous and the execution poor in the extreme. Anime is not my favourite form anyway but a good story is a good story especially if it is well executed. This garbage is neither a good story or well executed. It is as though some anime guy has just completed a bad LSD trip and committed it to film. There is no explanation of any happenings in the movie and all sorts of things happen surreal and otherwise and are just left to hang in the air. Pseuds would say that is the "art" in it. I say it's just daft and confusing for the viewer. There is little or no emotion in this endeavour either. Girl has parents turned to pigs-why? Maybe it makes more sense in the subtitled version than the dreadfully dubbed version but I doubt it very much. Another thing I hate about anime is the insistence in denying the "Japanese-ness" of the characters. They are drawn as westernised as any Pixar or Disney character. The only clue to its ethnic origin is the costume and backgrounds. All the kudos heaped on this tosh is a severe case of The Emperor's New Clothes. Avoid this rubbish , it is time you will never get back.
This film is what happens when you get a bunch of creepy Japanese animators with too much time on their hands.  This film is utterly pointless.  A girl wanders around a compound full of ghosts looking for her parents avoiding alot of gruemsome muck.  The main charachter has no character.  She goes from one weird place to another hardly commenting or expressing anything, outside of the stereotypical eye thing japanamation likes to do. It's full of monsters and ghosts doing vague and unusual things trying to be scary. I'm not for being spoon fed meaning in nice bite sized packages but this makes "Brazil" seem focused and straightforward. The film, like many of the charachters, just wanders and lingers around like an alztimer's patient trying to find his way out of a run down funhouse.  Visually it is pleasing, but so is my blender.  If you want to see a bunch of well illustrated weird stuff with no point whatsoever then this is the film for you.


                
I watched this movie at the recommendation of a trusted friend, but I am afraid I have to confess that this is one of the worst films I have yet come across. The animation technique is technically well executed, but the plot got spirited away in the process. At every instant new, completely unmotivated themes come up -- certainly "imaginative", but not "creative", as another friend put it very succinctly. The beginning is intriguing and raises high expectations, but I cannot help but think that the writer and director increasingly lost any sense of what the film should be about. Throughout most the second half, so-called evil 'stink spirits' run around vomiting non-stop (mildly amusing to watch), and towards the very end the film deteriorates into a sentimental, unoriginal story of true love and a misunderstood, wrongly resented witch. Oh my god, what a complete waste of time.


                
There are a handful of movies that many people seemed to like, but I hated. This is near the top of the list of movies I hated. I found it to be nothing more than a long episode of Pokémon, with fabricated characters, fabricated scenarios, and no sense of logic, morals, or plot.The animation is pretty good, and some of the creature/characters are visually interesting, but I found the plot, or lack thereof, to be just a progression through disjointed scenes with no story integrity.I purchased it on DVD and watched it with my children who were 5 and 8 at the time. At that age they would watch videos they liked over and over again. But they never wanted to watch spirited away for a second time.


                
Just me who was completely lost and confused? The artwork is pretty and it's amazing that it was all hand drawn, so on that I'd review it higher but the story line was just so garbage it doesn't deserve more than a 1, also can't help but mention how completely annoying/irritating the whining voice of Sen was. I was expecting big things seeing as the reviews from critics and viewers are so good, utterly stunned that it gets 8.7 on here and was voted number 4 for the 21st century? Maybe I'm missing something.For me it was one of the worst films I've ever seen. The story line was confusing and just bizarre, the start was slow and then a million and one different story lines and themes came about, the big babies, Haku being a dragon, the no- face, boiler room, pigs?Like what?


                
The Japanese version was EXCELLENT.  However, the English dubbed version of this film is beyond disappointing.  It's disgusting.  Haku sounds like a snob and Chihiro sounds like an annoying brat throughout the whole movie (even at the end when she's supposed to have GROWN UP!)  They made a terrible choice when selecting the voice over cast (ESPECIALLY FOR CHIHIRO) I must applaud Kamaji's voice over, who did a very nice job along with Yababa/Zeniba.  The french dub for Chihiro was WONDERFUL, once again, the English one was HORRIBLE!  Save yourself and stick to the subbed this one time (unless you know French;-D).


                
<Spoilers ahead>I had heard that this was a wonderful piece of animation and a truly creative and imaginative story, and in that regard this movie does not disappoint much, although I have little appreciation for anime. However, it seems to me the film is lacking in some of the basics of cinema. There is little plot or character development, serious lack of continuity, plotlines left dangling, situations resolved far too tidily, etc. At one point Kamajii tells Chihiro that, rather conveniently for her, he has been hanging on to some train tickets for 40 years. Why?? Where was he planning to go? Why didn't he use them in all that time? Why is he now so willing to hand them over to Chihiro without a moment's hesitation? There were countless examples of this sort of thing throughout the film. After experiencing No-Face's devastation of the bathhouse, Chihiro just walks out ahead of him and says matter-of-factly that he just got a little crazy in the bathhouse - reminded me of a scene in Monty Python's Holy Grail (except the scene in Holy Grail was funny). At the end of the film, Chihiro has little trouble determining that her parents are not among the pigs shown to her, although earlier in the film she could not pick them out in a dream. If you're going to put foreshadowing in a film, you ought to follow up on it and not just ignore it! Chihiro falls in love with Haku (vital to developments in the film) despite having spent only about 10 minutes with him (some of which he spent being nasty to her), despite the fact that she has been told that he is not to be trusted, and despite the fact that she has proof that he has stolen in the service of Yubaba. I know this is a movie, and a fantasy at that, but I need some reason to believe that she might have fallen in love with him, not just some other character stating that it is so. Haku, mortally wounded as a dragon and now back to being a boy, inexplicably recovers and is well enough to fly to Zeniba's house; again somewhat reminiscent of a scene from Holy Grail ("I got better"). I could go on with other criticisms of the film, but I could be here all night if I really got started.To me, this film was simply a collection of well-animated fantasy pieces strung together to fill out 2 hours. And, to be honest with you, while the backgrounds were incredibly drawn, I didn't think the movement was anything special. It wasn't particularly funny, exciting, or interesting. I spent most of the movie thinking that there must be a tremendous gap in my understanding of Japanese culture, theology, and mythology that would have helped me to better appreciate it. Upon reflection, however, I think that no amount of cultural sensitivity could have made up for what was simply poor film- making. I concede the posssibility that, as suggested by some at this site, the English dubbed version that I saw is far inferior to the Japanese version with subtitles. However, I am not willing to waste yet another 2 hours of my life that I will never get back to find out if that is the case.
****** Spoilers! ********This movie came highly recommended. The trailer looked interesting, too. However, I didn't like this movie at all. It's too shallow for adults, and for children it's too confusing and long, in my opinion.
The art work is excellent, but the story is, in my opinion, too shallow. But this is a problem I have with all anime (with the only exceptions of "Ghost In The Shell" and "Cowboy Bebop"). But not only was the story too thin but also it depicted a rather depressing line of events: A girl follows her curious parents, who want to explore an old building. They get lured in by ghosts who fill them up with food that turns them into pigs. The girl has to endure all kinds of insults and dangerous situations to free her parents. The girl basically had to suffer for something even her parents didn't do wrong, they just wanted to explore things. The end of this movie made it look like to me that wanting to explore things is generally a bad idea.People who love anime will still have a good time watching this movie for it's artistic value.
Many of the negative comments so far have already said what I want to say. That is, sure, the animation and the backgrounds are wonderful. But that almost makes the film even worse, it feels like a lost chance at making a very good film with both great animation *and* a good script. I found this film severely lacking in that last department. I can not understand why it is ranked so high on the top 250 (at the time of writing this around spot 40). None of the characters' actions seem motivated and they are very badly developed. It seems like the person responsible for the "story" here just throw a lot of 'cute' and weird characters in and made the whole thing an obvious reference to Alice in Wonderland and thought the rest would solve itself. It didn't. The end result is that you just don't care. The pace is very slow. A lot of things may happen but the film doesn't draw you in. I think that many of the problems with the film "Princess Mononoke" was repeated in this anime. I thought this was so bad it was provocative, I wanted to leave before I had seen half of it, but I sat in the middle of the row so I endured the rest and the movie never got any better. My rating: 1/10.


                
I didn't get it. A girl's parents turn into pigs, she goes to a world where birds have human heads, there are all these creatures scared of humans, a man with six arms tells bugs to throw coal, a massive baby threatens to kill people, a black spirit makes gold but eats people if they don't feed him, and many more odd things. Plus, the animation was terrible. This movie was dreadful to watch, and it is so weird that I don't even see any creativity. Many times during the film, I thought - "what?". My advice - do not see this movie ever. See a movie where no talking dancing frogs run away from giant white monsters called radishes.
* YES, IT DOES CONTAIN A FEW SPOILERSSpirited Away is a story about Chihiro, a smart young girl who - thanks to her parents stupidity -  end up getting lost in a sacred forbidden city where spirits come to bath and relax. But you already knew that before reading.I can tell you up front that the story is pretty much a copycat version of Alice in Wonderland, only with a much darker plot. For example, in the preview you don't get to see Chhiro's parents mutating into pigs after eating the forbidden food there. Nor is the fact mentioned that the guy who turns into a dragon does so because he sold his life to witchcraft. Or is even mentioned that part of the scary old women's pets is three decapitated heads rolling and jumping around. So think twice, about it if you want to bring kids to this movie ( then again Disney probably cut all that out, or adlibed it differently to change the story). My little cousin, from what I hear ran out of the theatre scared as hell... but then went back in later on because he was curious to see how it would end.
So how about good points?. Well, I can tell you that the animation is superb. I mean really good. It's a mileu - where you get to wonder in awe of the scenery , rather than concentrate on the story. The music is also very well orchestrated, giving a great overall feel to the movie.
Now the bad points. The plot stinks. I mean it, there are literally so many holes and details that if you're not paying attention to the whole thing, you'll get confused very soon. The question, as to whether or not Chirhio is able save her parents is pretty obvious and as to why you would care is another question that never gets answered. Overall, after seeing the movie you'll feel it's pretty pointless.  Oh yes, and they also dubbed it - another bad thing. I can tell by watching the preview that the dialogue has changed. I watched the chinese version - and there is a difference. So , should things not make sense , just blame the translators.So what's my judgement?  YES - go and see it. The movie, I think is worth seeing at least once, especially on the big screen, and no more afterwards.
What are you people smoking? The greatest movie ever made? What a colossal waste of three hours of my life. It was my son's turn to pick the movie for movie night and he had it waiting on the DVR for weeks. I have never seen such a mishmash of crap in my life. Where to begin?The animation was cheesy. The characters without any emotion...except the whiny little brat. The "plot" was all over the place. There were more holes in this plot than in SpongeBob's rear end.A 60 year old Popeye cartoon had superior animation and character development. NEWS FLASH! The Emperor has no clothes and this film sucks!-djfisher


                
I know that some people are really into this but I just didn't get it unfortunately


                
This movie is good only for a 10year old. The plot is very vague with some morals. She search for her parents, they never tell how she come with an answer like that I mean in the climax time. It's dumb to waste your time on it. Highly overrated and time waste. JApanese people know better dude, this was not at all at a mark.


                
Is this a traditional Japanese story?  That is the impression I got from the reviews.  This movie is not in a traditional setting, it is set in modern day Japan, I guess.  I was so upset at the crude animation that I quickly popped it out of the machine after seeing a few scenes.  A few things left a glaring impression.  The first thing that shook me up was the view of the father and mother of the child.  The father looked like some weird interpretation of an Italian or something.  I don't know, but it was too weird to see in a movie that is supposed to be Japanese.This "Anime" stuff is everywhere and it is just terrible.  Any 5 year old with a box of crayons and a flip book could easily do as well.  I remember laughing at Speed Racer, but we were laughing at their automobiles too. Their automobiles got better, why not "anime" too?


                
Quite frankly, I'm tired of people clamoring about this film.  As much fun pre-teen girl movies are, this one is not much different from the vast majority of simple kid films with no character development.  Liking Miyazaki right now is so sheik, I bet half of the people who've voted for this film haven't even seen it.Story of spoiled girl, whose parents are bad role models, who gets caught in some pretentious version of a spirit world, goes from being incredibly scared, to really stupid, to unusually headstrong, then right back to being stupid again.  Miyazaki should really ask for some help with character development and film tone from some of his fellow screenwriters at Ghibli.Quite frankly, everybody who sees these film should ask themselves this: Why did I waste the braincells?


                
The Concept: 'City of Lost Children' meets 'They Live' meets 'Beauty and the Beast'Spoiler Warning...If there's one good thing the insipid 'Harry Potter' series has done, it's helped marginally raise our understanding of magic.  Lynch tried explaining it with 'Dune'--the best attempt in a sci-fi setting.  None of that understanding is taken into account here, its only a lightshow.I am continuing my study of animation styles and this was one of several anime that I examined (the others being 'Vampire Hunter D', 'Akira', 'Golgo 13', and 'Mononoke Hime').  I noticed one consistent theme: the art styles are all the same.  Characters suffer from 'Pokemon' design.  One motif is interesting: giant, amorphous blobs.Here in America I've found at least four styles--the exaggeration method of Disney & Bluth, the CGI teams, the TV method of 'Heavy Metal' and its ilk, and the reality obsession of Bakshi.  It's taken us 80 years to reach this point.  Will the Japanese catch up?What really frustrates is the scant material in anime stories.  If a story leaves enough open ends for me to create another interpretation, I've just found my entertainment.  Example: 'Falling Down' is really a dream by Michael Douglas in the midst of a traffic jam.  Duvall is just a mental extension of himself that shoots him in the end.  Layman's terms: Douglas dreams of rampage, stalking and killing himself.  How good is that?We get no such opportunities here.  This isn't even 'Alice.'  Alice was about wordplay, integration of reality into fantasy, and surrealism.  Here we get some simple surrealism and nothing else, even the protagonist is sexless.The most interesting part is that Disney and Pixar managed the American release.  Since Disney's conventional team has quit, they are taking stock in anime in order to ride the popularity wave.  Disney should produce their own anime under Tony Scott or John Carpentar (since anime is identical to their styles).  The story would have the layering of 'eXistenZ' and the visual philosophy of 'Fight Club.'  Wouldn't that be cool?Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud
The worst animated movie I ever watched
.


                
This movie has achieved many things in the world of animation. All hand drawn, this movie is stunning but only because of how long and hard it must've been to make. I do not like the story line and find the monsters to be confusing. There is a blurred line between good and evil and I was not able to comprehend the meaning of having an evil spirit trapped in a good spirit's body. I saw this once as a young child and I have just watched it again. I do not think this movie is appropriate for fragile children who are easily scared of monsters. This movie is not worth watching unless you are a fan of awkward films that are not that good. I don't know how this won an Oscar. I will not be wasting my time again on this movie. Last word...horrible.


                
As one of the recipients writes, "he is better than Walt Disney": Well,unfortunately, this is true. But this is not hard.The film - in my opinion - is the anime version of a jump & run computer game, a poor want-to-be version of Alice In Wonderland.Strange drawings, disgusting animated things and creatures, really terrifying music, hardly any plot, just a horrifying sequence of weird scenes, deeply depressive atmosphere.Guess, I don't like that!Good animation to me is, e. g., Tom & Jerry, the old sequels, the ones by TEX AVERY. See: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn7Su0A-inAhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yeBsACB7NDA


                
This movie did not impress me at all. Unlike the other movies by this company, this one by far had to be the worst they ever made. I thought it to be very weird, and pointless. The characters were very weird, like for example, the parents turning into pigs. Like what is up with that? There is NO reason for them to turn into pigs, and they just do, out of nowhere.Hated the animation, worst of them all. Nasicaa is definitely better than this piece of crap. I know that many people will disagree with me on this, since it is a very popular movie and everyone likes it, but I am going to stick with my opinion on this one. I believe it to have no story and it's just about a random, weird 2 year old running around meeting the weirdest and most retarded people, no not people THINGS I have ever seen in my life. Like what is up with that old women. She's HUGE, and she has to be weirdest person a anime company has ever made, and she is the weirdest animated person ever. Also what is with that Prince guy? Talk about a transvestite! I seriously thought it was a girl when I first watched this, but I stopped 3 quarters of the way through because I couldn't take it anymore! It just bugged me and made me think that the company is crap because of that one movie. Like what kind of sick twisted mind can someone have to make these kind of people? Another weird person was the tall man that helps the little girl get a job. Now what the heck is that? Is that even human? No it's not because NOTHING is human in that world, not even the girl because she is definitely weird.1/10. Should get lower. I would give it a negative 100. Worst movie I have ever seen in my life, even worse than the village.


                
IT is so sad to see animated films that are just a waste of time. Might as well waste time watching new and dumpy cartoons on television. The director has gone crazy with this one, creating odd looking hags, vomiting freaks and a dumb protagonist. There was no point to the magical elements or even imagination that might have been in this movie because it was bloated with eccentricity.I wonder why, though, because his other film, Princess Mononoke is a wonderful film with a good theme, meaning and character development. It seems that if you want to see animated films, you should just skip over Spiritied Away and try the Triplets of Belleville - that is truly a fine film.


                
Call me old-fashioned but little things like plot and structure still mean something to me when I'm watching a movie.  Perhaps these minor little details simply got lost in the translation (perhaps they were spirited away... yuk, yuk, yuk). If so then I commend-albeit with heaps of skepticism- everyone who praised this movie for their cultural aptitude. If not, then shame on you for promoting this hapless drivel.   Yes, the animation was breath-taking, but am I the only one who didn't want to shoot cute little Chihiro (and everything else) after the first five minutes? Come on people! Who's with me? Am I the only one who wondered why Haku, the boy/dragon-dog/river/whatever, was almost killed by that flock of, what looked like, rabid confetti? And what was up with the bath tickets? And the giant monster baby?  Should I have gotten high before seeing this movie? I don't know, something tells me that it would have made the experience worse. Lilo and Stitch all the way baby!!!!!!!


                
First of all, this film is not for all ages. With so many frightening horror images and disgusting monster characters, it should be rated NC-17.Secondly, the plot lacks credibility. Haku, No-Face and Zeniba, especially Haku, are nice and helpful to Sen just for no reasons. Thirdly, there is no clear objective or aim throughout the film. Sen does not know how to return to the human world with her parents. It is not until the very end that Haku comes up with a solution. All in all, this is probably the most overrated film of all time, and Hayao Miyazaki is arguably the most undeserving director ever.


                
This is in no way a movie children should watch. It is messed up Japanese, violent behavior that in no way teaches children anything but fear, submission, inappropriate behavior and that it is OK to treat people badly. How horrible !!!! I can't believe it has so many good reviews . Such a twisted, sad story. I would not recommend this movie. Calling people names is not nice, telling people that they will be killed is not nice. Children should not live in fear, even if it is just a movie character. As soon as the movie started, I wanted to stop but I decided to give it another chance and I regret it so bad. I was really hoping it will be similar to Ponyo or Castle in the Sky, Kiki's delivery service, those were all fairly decent movies.
