How many people can sit through a 120-minute animated film? That's normally just too long for that genre. However, this one could meet that challenge. It only took me two sittings to make it all the way - that's very good, at least for me!The best part of the film was the color, stunning in parts, beautiful and with great detail. It also had some wild characters and a bit of humor here and there, which helped. Overall, a good mix of good and evil and a different kind of story.Being it's Japanese, you are going to get some different theology than you are accustomed to in the West ("the spirits of the wind and water have healed you," etc.) but it's not presented in a heavy-handed manner.I was concerned early on as the young girl - the main character in the film - had a shrill voice that was not pleasant but she calmed down after the first part of the film. Overall, entertaining and worth several looks.


                
'Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi' is a cute story from a little girl called Chihiro, who is moving with her parents to a new place in the suburbs. During the travel,her father decides to take a shortcut along a lonely road. After getting out of the car and walking along a path for a while, they look to an abandoned city and stop in an abandoned restaurant full of food. Chihiro's mother and dad don't think twice and start to eat the food there, what Chihiro refuses to do. The night falls and that abandoned city become full of strange beings and spirits, and when Chihiro runs to her parents to go out of that place she discovers that they become pigs. A mysterious boy called Haku helps her and explains the situation to her,saying that she needs to get a job in the spa hotel for spirits and gods from Japan. The work is hard, but Chihiro does well. The problem now is to find a way to break the spell of her parents and go out from that strange ghost city...This anime is very different from the animes I already watched. The story is very touching and truly unique, with another world inside the world we know. I would love to watch an anime series based in chihiro's life in the ghost's world. Hayao Miyazaki has my profound admiration, specially because ''Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi'''is not the only movie he did that I love: I also enjoy a lot ''My Neighbor Totoro ''. Of course that I think that this movie is totally worthy of the Oscar it received. By the way, the idea that Chihiro and Haku could forever stay in Yubaba's possession if they forget their real identities is very interesting to me,since it is a reality: if you loose your identity and forgets who you really are, your interests and your focus, you become lost in the world. The maturity of Chihiro is another easy thing to see, and adds another interesting understanding of the story.
Chihiro and her parents are driving to their new house. She's upset to leave her old friends and school. When her father gets them lost in the woods, they stumble across what appears to be an abandoned amusement park. Chihiro wanders off and is sucked into a bath-house in a new world, a world of spirits. Chihiro is guided by Haku, henchman of the witch who controls the bath-house. The two of them work hard together to help Chihiro escape and rescue her parents. The youngster proves herself to be as independent as any spirit and fights through many distractions and inconveniences to return to her own world. Even though she's scared and upset, she makes some close friends among the eccentric characters she meets.I've loved Miyazaki's work as long as I have known it but nothing compares to the experience of Spirited Away. I had not heard of the movie and had seen no trailers, so the unexpected animation was almost perfect. The characters were quite unique and no sane viewer would refuse the offer to follow the child in her enchanting adventure.For years, I've always thought that one of the most important factors of a good movie is the way the title is presented at the beginning and there is no better example to prove my point than in this film. The music is completely overwhelming, especially the attractive sequence displayed at the beginning and repeated throughout.There is very little criticism available, only that it's possible that the unique imagination of Hayou Miyazaki is not appreciated to the extent it should be by the viewers.I've read other reviews and think it's unfair to compare the work with Disney's as the last thing I would call this feature is a 'children's' movie. The two styles are aiming at different audiences and both succeed.


                
This film works well with children<U+0085>but works wonders with adults. Much like "Alice In Wonderland", it revolves around a world which appears to be extraordinary <U+0096> but at the same time reflects many aspects of our own society, and the human nature. Miyazaki's quality of animation is brilliant as usual, much like his vision to create something so creatively profound, entertaining and intensely symbolic. A perfect example of the latter is an appropriately named character called No-Face. To me he appeared to be a reference to the many socially insecure people out there, who stay in the shadows but secretly crave for friendship. When Chihiro behaves in a warm manner with him, he is so overwhelmed that he becomes desperate to seek her attention and to make her happy in any way possible. Another symbolic aspect I found towards the end of the movie, was when Haku strictly told Chihiro not to "look back", until she had come out of the cave. This instantly reminded me of a Greek myth I had read as a child, - whereby a man who had gone to depths of Hell to bring back his dead wife, was instructed to do the same, but failed to comply due to his doubtful nature. Perhaps Miyazaki wanted to imply that by "looking back", Chihiro would have unknowingly expressed a hint of regret and this might have enabled Yu-Baba to seize her back into the magical land. Of course, there is also the rather abrupt ending <U+0096> which I had found a bit weird at first but when I thought about it I realised that it was most probably done on purpose, to maintain an element of mystery in the viewer's mind, as to whether Chihiro and Haku were ever able to meet again or not. All said and done, I did have one complaint with the movie<U+0085>considering the story involved an extraordinary, magical land there was an enormous amount of scope and although I found the movie to be very intriguing <U+0096> I feel that it could have been even more adventurous and exciting. That's just me. On the whole though, I can't deny the fact that this is one of the most unique, enthralling animation experiences I've ever had. My Final Rating: 8.5/10.
If you are not Japanese, definitely see this movie with the Japanese soundtrack and subtitles, not dubbed. The sound will then go with the gestures and facial expressions. The story is a great introduction to themes in Japanese culture. The words "spirits" and "gods" which are used interchangeably in the movie are translations of "kami" (you can see the term in the title in Japanese), which is a Shinto concept of a spirit being, not god as thought of by Jews, Christians, and Muslims (who might be offended by a "stink god") . Many things in nature are filled with this kind of spiritual power--rivers, winds, rocks, etc. (For example, kamikaze means "divine wind" and it referred originally to the two great typhoons that destroyed the Mongol fleets when they tried to invade Japan in the 1200s). As other reviewers have pointed out, the story is about Chihiro's transformation from a whiny brat to a self-reliant, courteous, compassionate and aware individual. The viewer may see a resemblance to Memoirs of a Geisha in the heroine's maturation from a frightened little girl traumatically separated from her parents to a servant who must start at the bottom of the hierarchy and finally to a self-reliant and successful person. Another theme that is similar is the character of the greedy, powerful, witch-like owner of the establishment. Yubaba is contrasted to Zeniba; the former's home is "in bad taste" with a lot of imported ornate stuff (from chinoiserie to western-style furnishings) whereas Zeniba's cottage is very wabi-sabi (rustic-archaic) and simple, hearkening back to traditional Japanese design. Another thing I liked about the movie was its complete acceptance of a girl-protagonist (whereas girls are often treated as "second-best" in American movies). Japanese gender hierarchy and women's "submissiveness" are not as simple as some folks think. In early Japanese history, women were very powerful and autonomous figures--politically powerful, writers, etc. Originally the society was matrilocal and women had considerable say in their personal lives. The emperor is the descendant of the sun-goddess. Women's status declined in the samurai period and the Meiji Restoration, but there are still traces of their originally higher status and importance. So Spirited Away is not only fun entertainment but also a little introduction to themes and values of Japanese culture.


                
I had only experienced Japanese cartoons with the mildly entertaining but ultimately terrible Pokémon and Digimon, but I have to say, I was looking forward more to this good looking film from Studio Ghibli, dubbed into English, from director Hayao Miyazaki (Princess Mononoke). Basically ten-year old Chihiro (Lilo & Stitch's Daveigh Chase) is moving to a house in the suburbs with her mother (Dumb and Dumber's Lauren Holly) and father (The Shield's Michael Chiklis). They get out of the car to walk down a lonely dirt road, and end up in open country surroundings, and finding a café which the parents eat in. Chihiro wanders off, and briefly meets the mysterious Haku (Jason Marsden) who warns her to leave immediately, but she can't when she discovers her parents have become pigs, literally. Haku finds her and promises to help by by getting a job at the bathhouse working for Yubaba (Suzanne Pleshette), who has a nicer twin sister Zeniba (also Pleshette) and the thousands of God and spirit customers. Chihiro does as well as she can in this strange world, but she must find a way to break her parents spell and be able to return home. Also starring Hercules' Susan Egan as Lin, David Ogden Stiers as Kamajii and John Ratzenberger as Assistant Manager. The story is a little strange, but bare in mind it is Japanese, but with good dubbing voices and aspiring animation, you'll enjoy the experience. It won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature, and it won the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language. It was number 68 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and it was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Very good!
Miyazaki once again demonstrates his clear perception of the child psyche in this excellent, beautiful, and almost haunting masterpiece of the animated form.I first saw "Spirited Away" in Japanese, and then in English, dubbed by pixar, and i must say, both versions are excellent indeed.The film begins with the journey of a small child, dragged along by her parents, waiting and watching and being what small children are. Then, as her excitable (and foolish) father is attracted by a "theme park" in the middle of a mysterious wood, the entire world changes in more ways than the viewer would have easily imagined. The juxtaposition of expectation and result, fear and wonderment, awe and love... create an atmosphere, and a FEELING, that truly transcends any genre, stereotype, or precedent to the film. If you go into it expecting anime, expect the unexpected. If you go into it expecting horror, prepare to be swept away with the amazement of the "revelations" --if i may use the word tenuously-- which are at the center of this film's sweeping grandiosity. It is a wower indeed.As for a more specific definition, This is a film based mainly upon the legends of the "gods" and "spirits" of Japanese legend and lore. It takes place mainly in a "bathhouse of the gods" a place where the spirits of the world (in this movie) come to relax, cleanse themselves of dirt and grime, and fraternize with other inhuman beings.The entire experience is truly magical and not to be missed, so please, open your eyes, open your minds (at least a little), sit back, and enjoy the (marvelous) show.


                
I actually admire Disney's moves to bring Miyazaki to the US. Purists will inevitably defend the authenticity of the original presentations but you can tell that Disney has invested significant effort into bringing great films such as "Spirited Away" to our neck of the woods. The vocal talent is amazing. I would probably like the subtitled versions just as much but I also have to give props to Disney for caring enough to pair this and other Miyazaki classics with distinguished vocal actors such as Gillian Anderson, Michael Chilkis, Phil Hartman, Suzanne Pleshette, and Christian Bale, just to name a few. I don't have a problem with subtitles and I would gladly watch the Miyazaki films as they were originally released but I beg to differ with anyone who has any qualms about Disney's dubbing. Whereas Disney's own animated films, sans Pixar, have been utterly mediocre ("Lilo and Stitch" was probably its last best animated release), they seem to make up their failure through the incredibly successful importation of "Spirited Away" and its ilk.


                
This is considered one of the best (If not the best) Anime' films ever made and its cinematic storytelling at its finest. Not since "Akira" has an animated film made the impact like this. This was created by the Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki who is considered a god in terms of Anime' and its his wonderful stories and imagination that makes him so special. This is the story of a ten year old girl named Chihiro who is traveling with her parents to their new home and she is sad that they have to move. Her father takes what seems like a wrong turn and they come across a structure with a tunnel in the middle. They all get out and walk through to the other side and Chihiro's father recognizes it as an old park that has gone under over the years. They come across another structure with food set out and Chihiro's parents waste no time in helping themselves to as much food as they can eat. Chihiro discovers to her horror that her mother and father have turned into pigs and she runs off to try and find help. She encounters a boy named Haku that takes her into the strange world where spirits and witches habitat and he tells her to find someone named Kamaji and ask for a job. She is looked down on as a human but she manages to find Kamaji who has eight legs like a spider and he gets her a job. Chihiro works with Lin who is an older female and she shows her what to do and where to sleep. Chihiro helps out cleaning and delivering but at night she sneaks out to talk with Haku who is helping her get her parents back and to be able to go home.Miyazaki has such a broad sense of imagination and this is reflected in his other films like "Princess Mononoke" and "Kiki's Delivery Service" and this film is probably even greater than those two. This film won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature and it certainly deserved it. One of the joys of watching Miyazaki's films is that you have no idea what so ever has to what will happen next. The characters and events take the viewer on a strange and fantastic voyage that has never been seen before. Yubaba the witch has a giant baby named Boh, Haku turns into a flying dragon and Kamaji has these dustball/spider things carry lumps of coal to a furnace that heats everything. One of the big highlights of this film is the "Stink Spirit" that is this giant glob of river mud and Chihiro helps it get clean. While she does this she helps pull out all the junk (Bicycles, assorted metal, etc..) until we see what this spirit really looks like. This is the type of animated feature that children should view and this is not to knock American animated films but the Japanese concern themselves more with the stories. Children should view films that will enhance they're imagination but unfortunately most of the crap they are forced to watch is usually something that they can guess as to what will happen next. Miyazaki had no plans to make another film but happily he is working on another one! This is a great animated film and it should be recommended viewing for children although adults will love this also.


                
I got Spirited Away on DVD and have watched it twice now.  I am absolutely disgusted by what the English voice actors and Disney have done to this beautiful and creative animation by coming up with their own screenplay (as if the people chosen to do the English voice acting weren't bad enough). Wile watching the Japanese version I accidentally, and fortunately, found out that there are two different subtitles: one is what Disney has come up with, and the other is the original (Miyazaki's) screenplay.  I'm not exaggerating when I say that Disney has changed about %90 of the lines that Miyazaki had come up with for the characters.  It seems that it has become a trademark for Disney to add a certain level of stupidity to anything that that they are involved with, including master story teller and animator, Hayao Miyazaki's projects.  Give yourself a big favor and watch the Japanese version with English subtitles (make sure you choose the ORIGINAL translated subtitles. My DVD player has a "English sub. 1" and "English sub 2", yours might be different). I liked Spirited Away even though it was a bit different than other Miyazaki's projects.English version 5/10, Original Version 8/10


                
Bizarre yet appropriate, this film did a fantastic job at presenting other culture and the storys that come with. A bucket list film for any movie fanatic.


                
First anime experience, and I really liked it. The directing was done perfectly, as well as the animation, beautiful colors and backgrounds, and an interesting story. The first 15 minutes are my favorite, the built is really great. Also the music is awesome, one of my favorite soundtracks of all time. On the other side, I don't really like some secondary characters design, and at times I felt the story a little slow. But I definetly recommend it to anyone who wants to watch something different to the Disney classics. This movie teaches a lot more than them and it's appropiate to people all ages.


                
I love Miyazaki's work, simply because of the sheer escapism involved in watching it. His films take you away from the cinema to somewhere completely different, which is something I love films to do to me. Spirited Away was no exception, and although I didn't find it as incredibly moving or as enchanting as Mononoke Hime, it's still easily one of the best films I've seen in cinemas this year.Anyone can enjoy this film, no matter what background they're from or what genres of film they favour, it's a brilliant story and beautiful artwork. I'd love to see Spirited Away again, and can't wait until it's released on Region 2 DVD. You must see this film, whether you're a fan of anime, fantasy or not.


                
Looking at this film as an outsider, someone who knows very little about Miyazaki's films or ANY anime film for that matter, I've got to say that I found it to be a real breath of fresh air, and a welcome break from Disney films. It encourages me to go out and seek more anime films, but I also fear that I might be disappointed by those films if they aren't as great as this one.Most of the film is set in a hotel for spirits which is ruled over by an evil witch and is staffed by a variety of extremely weird, but certainly original, monsters. A young girl named Chihiro (or Sen) finds herself trapped here after her parents trespass on the property, and must work there until she can find a way to escape with them. With it's cultural sensibilities, the film at times has a harsher edge than you would expect to find in your average American cartoon, but in the end it is also extremely heart-warming.As I'm not really familiar with Anime, the closest Western parallel I can think of would be pixar's Monsters Inc., which was similarly interesting and original. Whether or not children will understand or enjoy this film I don't know, but adults will certainly find it interesting. It's worth noting that though I've only seen the subtitled version, there is an English dubbed version also available if you do want to show it to your kids.


                
To design and think of all the characters in this film is sheerly masterfull.  Each spirit has a unique aspect reflecting what they are and how they are different from those around them.  Even the bath house workers, who are more or less one of two races of spirits, have qualities that make them individual from their peers.  This is one of Hayao's greatest creations and a must see even for non-anime lovers.


                
Wow, what a charming & heartwarming film this one is.  Great family entertainment.  Good to see old fashioned hand drawn animation still in use.You really develop an attachment to Sen & all of the other odd characters. Characters that you thought were bad turn out to be good & the good characters are just good!  Funny & well done, a must see 8/10.


                
"Spirited Away" is a great film, but not great in the way that most Americans will think of movies. This film is an adventure unlike anything the western hemisphere has ever seen (unless of course you belong(ed) to your high school anime club). It's a story about simple, pure and true values, not a story about life's deepest questions and that's what separates it from the dominant form of "Western" films.The story is about a young girl named Chihiro who is moving with her parents to a new town when a stop along the way leads them to what appears to be an abandoned carnival. You get the feeling things aren't that simple and before Chihiro knows what hit her, she is in a spirit world and her parents have been transformed into pigs for gluttonously infringing on the spirit world. To return to her normal life and get her parents back, Chihiro must work at a spirit bathhouse led by a cruel witch named Yubaba.There is no explanation of what this world is in relation/comparison to the real world that the characters were in in the beginning, but once you get past that, it's all about the creatures, characters and bizarre events that happen. The world is unbelievably imaginative, combining both elements of conventional fantasy and ideas that are completely fresh. Whether it is the odd, but powerful creature named No Face, the multi-legged old boiler operator Kamajii or the bug-eyed, insane Yubaba, "Spirited Away" boasts an intriguing cast of characters.Most importantly, the film is about the values of love, friendship and helping others. We watch Chihiro, a sort of passive, ignorant girl learn (in some of the oddest ways) what it means to be selfless and giving and the film is her transformation into a better person. That's it. No deep criticism of humanity (other than don't be selfish), no questions about life, just a reinforcement of ideas that so often are either overlooked or expressed in uncreative, unoriginal ways. A children's film could have gotten the same ideas across, but "Spirited Away" shows that there are different ways to think about why those values are important.


                
i love this movie its awesome i gave it ten stars cause i like animations a lot. this the best animation i am not saying it for nothing it is Hayao Miyazaki is the best animation director in the whole world.this movie should be seen by adults and children cause its really heart warming movie. Its is about love not my favorite type. but with this movie i just can't describe it.the cgi is cool and the dubbing is good as well.you wont see anything any better animation than this movie. you would watch it over and over again. i just loved it. ten stars ********** 10


                
From some of the reviews I was reading I was expecting something very trippy, but very well made. In many ways, that's exactly what I got, but if you bear in mind that this is a fantasy tale it's really not as weird as many people make it out to be. Some of the ideas and the imagery are bizarre - in fact most of them are, it must be said - but nothing feels like it was thrown in there purely to be different. It all feels like it has a place all of its own.It's sometimes hard for animated films to draw you in and make you feel involved with the characters, but Spirited Away does this brilliantly. Even some of the stranger ones - you find yourself becoming deeply involved in their little sub-stories. The end result of all this is that it becomes a joy to watch, from beginning to end.I would recommend this to virtually anybody who appreciates good movies, because it is so well crafted that if you approach it with an open mind and simply allow yourself to be swept along with it, you cannot help but enjoy it.


                
In Spirited Away, Hayao Miyazaki creates a color-saturated world filled with interesting characters, magical creatures. The colors in the movie are stunning in their variety. The movie's animator has an interesting way of showing light and shadow, making it seem more cinematic than cartoonish, and Miyasaki shows a great attention to detail in every image he creates. The movie centers on Chihiro, who is a whiny, sullen girl whose family is moving. Chihiro does not want to move, and she makes her opinions well-known. Her whining does not stop when her father decides to take a shortcut to their new home and encounters what he believes to be an abandoned theme park, which is really a bathhouse for spirits to get away to. Chihiro is essentially orphaned in the spirit world when her parents partake of some food that's been left out in preparation for the ghostly guests, and the parents' greed turns them, quite literally, into pigs. It is interesting that Chihiro is the one who warns her family to not go into this seemingly abandoned place and to not eat the food because the viewer believes that Chihiro is just being surly and childish, when really it appears that she has had some special insight (another image of the child as seer). She has not been turned into a pig, and it is her quick thinking and the help of a stranger that just might help her family get out of the mess they have fallen into. Chihiro must then grow up quickly, start becoming more courageous, showing strength and determination. The movie seems to be imparting some very specific lessons to its viewers. Indeed, there is a big focus on manners, "Aren't' you even going to knock? You're the most pathetic girl I've ever seen" is one of the lines uttered, and "Anyone can see you are a lazy, spoiled brat with no manners," is another telling piece of dialogue. Chihiro is constantly being reminded to say "yes, ma'am" and "no, ma'am." Additionally, Chihiro's gluttonous parents get turned into pigs for their mistakes. Also, greedy people get eaten by the dark spirit that crashes the bath house. The movie, however, does seem to send somewhat of a mixed message because Chihiro appears to be bratty when she complains that her parents shouldn't stop when they do, and yet she is right that they shouldn't have trespassed and that they should have stayed away from food that wasn't meant for them. On the other hand, through her experiences in the spirit world, she matures, becoming more self-sufficient, empathetic, and responsible. She is only able to achieve these great human characteristics because her parents have failed to follow the very codes the movie seems to be promoting, like respect and restraint.


                
Another great film by Miyazaki. Good for the whole family. Great animation, great story, great characters. The main character is a sissy little girl, but you realy feel with her as she is swept away on a great adventure. the characters are diverse and interesting. A modern classic. Average 9.5(10)


                
This Japanese film, which I saw under the title "Spirited Away," has glorious animation. However, I found it somewhat long and often repetitive.  It probably makes better cultural sense in Japan, without dubbing, but the basic concepts of loyalty, truth, bravery, and sacrifice transcend cultural differences.The main character, Sen, is totally believable as a young girl in a bizarre setting, who learns to adapt to new people, new customs, and new emergencies.  When Sen sets her jaw and follows through on a plan, I felt like saying, "Yes!  Go for it, Sen."Warning:  I would hesitate to take young children to this film. It has many frightening scenes, and could be the source of nightmares or worse, even in today's kids who have "seen it all."


                
The story revolves around a young girl named "Chihiro" who tries to rescue her parents and escape from the spirit world. The entire movie is a conglomeration of chaotic episodes, but the beauty of it is how well it all settles towards the end leaving you feeling all fuzzy and contented. While the individual episodes itself bear no meaning whatsoever, the movie cleverly touches upon several ideas like love, kindness, friendship and letting go. The characters in the story are widely diverse with no background at all much like bottomless pits. The cons of taking such a path is that the characters are severely disconnected from the viewers. On the brighter side of the spectrum, this idea allows the story to twist and turn in ways unimaginable or rather in ways that are only limited by the director's imagination. This approach has the characteristic of leaving the audience engaged and at the edge of their seats. Overall, it is an exquisite and enthralling experience. Definitely worth a watch for movie lovers who appreciate animation and a unique storytelling.


                
One of the more annoying things about working nights is that during Christmas, all the decent films are shown when I'm either at work or sleeping (I work nights, you see). So imagine my joy when I discovered BBC2 showing this and "The Nightmare Before Christmas", something I've been wanting to watch for ages. However, what really took me by surprise was how captivated, enthralled and entertained I was whilst watching this glorious anime, the first I've seen since "Ghost In The Shell" way back in 1995. So enchanted that I didn't watch Tim Burton's Gothic holiday outing - guess that will have to wait until next year.Chihiro (played in the English dub by Daveigh Chase) is a little girl in the middle of moving house with her mother and father (Lauren Holly & Michael Chiklis respectively). After uncovering a mysterious tunnel through to what looks like an abandoned theme park, Chihrio's parents tuck into some food while Chihiro is too afraid to. But as night falls, her parents turn into pigs and the area is filled with strange shadowy spirits, demons and monsters. Befriended by a young boy called Haku (Jason Marsden), Chihiro finds herself plunged into an adventure far beyond anything her imagination could conceive...Like a lot of anime I've seen over the years, "Spirited Away" would probably benefit from being viewed with subtitles rather than the English dub. It is also extremely bizarre - like "Alice In Wonderland" on acid - and my advice is just to watch it and take it for what it is. And it is truly beautiful, shaming a lot of Disney's recent output like "The Princess And The Frog" and looking like art at times. But then, this is what you expect from the wonderful mind of Hayao Miyazaki - each frame is detailed and crafted, you can feel the effort and time which has gone into this picture. Plot-wise it may be a touch odd but it is also much darker than I expected. It's no "Akira" or "Ghost In The Shell" but for younger viewers, there may be the odd scene worth hiding behind the sofa for.Maybe it's the time of year because despite not being completely bowled over by "Spirited Away", I have no hesitation in recommending it. It is different and worthy of your attention, even if you consider animated movies as little more than jumped-up cartoons (and you know who you are!). In a weird way, it felt like the current "Doctor Who" TV series - something family-friendly but with enough of a twist to keep adults entertained as well. In animated terms, the only company I can think of who consistently manage this difficult balancing act are Pixar and there are enough nods in "Spirited Away" to their computer-based cousins in California. If you love your anime then this is fabulous entertainment but even if you don't then "Spirited Away" will be a real eye-opener for those who think "Kung-Fu Panda" is the height of animated movies. This is more "Up" than anything Dreamworks can produce and to be honest, that's all good as far as I'm concerned.


                
This is a nice fantasy story. The high point here is creativity. The main plot's elements don't make much sense, but they are coherent between themselves. It's like a dream, where things obey the dream logic, but don't obey real-world logic. This also highlights the human characteristics of the main character.Like many Japanese stories, this movie contains a lot of story for just 2 hours. It's not a boring movie; it has a long, complete story. The adventures of Chihiro are told in a good pace, we can follow it without getting bored. The personality of the various supporting characters are revealed as time passes, and Chihiro is an open-minded child, whose lack of prejudice makes her see the characters as they are, and therefore help the world she is in.Technically, this film is very good. Full of colours, they vary according to each moment's mood, adding to the storytelling. The soundtrack also agrees with the scenes. The drawing is very good, like all Miyazakis.One of the greatest accomplishments of this movie is that it appeals to most audiences, from the most thought-demanding to the less. When you analyze it, you can see many messages and information; on the other hand, if you're not like that, you can just sit back and enjoy the little nice fantastic story.


                
