Vintage Noir Film with gritty interpretation , atmospheric settings , crackling dialogue throughout and powerhouse filmmaking . This Billy Wilder's first thriller is one of the finest Noir film ever made . A scheming wife (Barbara Stanwyck) lures an insurance salesman (Fred MacMurray , though Alan Ladd, George Raft, Brian Donlevy, James Cagney, Spencer Tracy, Gregory Peck, and Fredric March were all up for the leading role) into helping murder her husband and then declare it an accident . Both of whom concoct a twisted scheme to collect the benefits of a insurance policy . As the hubby's policy contains a clause that states that if the husband's death caused by a moving train the policy pays double face value . The investigator's boss (Edward G. Robinson) , not knowing his colleague is involved in it , suspects murder and sets out to prove it .This first-rate and entertaining American classic Noir film draws its riveting tale and power from the interaction of finely drawn roles as well as drama , emotion and moody atmosphere . This classic mystery thriller follows James M Cain's book fairly closely otherwise . Twisted film Noir about murder , troubled relationships , treason , dark secrets , including an unforgettable dialog ; being based on the James M Cain's novel , which in turn was based on the true story of Ruth Snyder, the subject of a notorious 1920s murder trial , being screen-written by the prestigious Raymond Chandler and the same Billy Wilder . However , Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler did not get along well while writing this film's script, a process that was apparently filled with arguments . As Billy Wilder didn't really get on with the famous novelist whose constant drinking irritated the director . It packs a good realization , an original script , haunting atmosphere , intriguing events ; for that reason madness and murder prevail . Fred MacMurray is superb as insurance salesman coerced into murder plot and Barbara Stanwick as predatory and alluring Femme Fatale is magnificent . Here his colleague Edward G Robinson is extraordinary and as cool as ever ; he plays as the astute and stubborn investigator , his scenes with Fred MacMurray are awesome and at their best . But Edward G. Robinson's initial reluctance to sign on largely stemmed from the fact he wasn't keen on being demoted to third lead . Good support cast formed by notorious secondaries such as Porter Hall , Tom Powers , Jean Heather , Byron Barr and Fortunio Bonanova . And Raymond Chandler's cameo , this marks the only film appearance of screenwriter and novelist Raymond Chandler .Exciting as well as complex film , possessing a mysterious and fascinating blend of gripping thriller , serenity , baroque suspense in which especially stands out the portentous performances , evocative cinematography in black and white by John F. Seitz and thrilling musical score by the classic Miklos Rozsa . The motion picture was stunningly directed by the great Billy Wilder , as the American Film Institute ranked this as the #29 Greatest Movie of All Time . The film was nominated for 7 Academy Awards but lost out on the night to Going my way (1944) by Leo McCarey. It got a deep inspiration for other films , it is particularly obvious for ¨Body heat¨ by Lawrence Kasdan with William Hurt , Kathleen Turner and Richard Crenna . Remade for TV in 1954 by Buzz Kulik with Frank Lovejoy , Ray Collins and Laraine Day , and 1973 TV remake of the 1940s classic by Jack Smight with Richard Crenna , Samantha Eggar , and Robert Webber .


                
This film noir classic may be the best murder mystery of all time in this storied Hollywood genre. Fred MacMurray and Edward G. Robinson are excellent but it is Barbara Stanwyck who really makes the picture come together as a woman without a moral compass. Stanwyck set the standard for tough, calculating, shady women who exploit men without shame or remorse and her masterful manipulation of MacMurray is the movie's central theme. The film's imagery is filled with shadows and low lighting, accompanied by a tense, brooding music score. Stanwyck spins her web of ensnarement like a black widow with her victim seemingly unaware of the danger that enfolds him. MacMurray provides the narrative of the film which is told in flashback and delivers a cryptic account of the events in a confession to a boss who trusted him completely. Robinson is on target as the skeptical and suspicious boss who has a sixth sense about phony insurance claims. A nice supporting cast contributes to this thriller, namely Richard Gaines and Porter Hall.


                
There were some superb thrillers coming out of Hollywood in the forties which did not rely on the private eye conventions <U+0096> but somehow the best of them were spread throughout by the same cynicism, the same realism, the same ruthless suspense<U+0085> Best of all was Wilder's "Double Identity." It was based on a real-life assassination in New York in 1927, when a wife and her lover killed the husband for his insurance money<U+0085> In the film, a near-breaking-point tension was reached and sustained in the passion of an insurance salesman and a passionately sensual femme fatale <U+0096> an intense desire for each other and for money; in the murder of the poor husband; and in their useless attempts to escape the ability of a fast-talking investigator<U+0085>


                
From the first time he sees that ankle bracelet, Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray) is a doomed man. As Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck) descends her California home's spiral staircase, we are as enraptured as Neff. And it takes little time to figure out that being enraptured by this femme fatale is a very dangerous position to find oneself in. Is it accidental that the bracelet is worn around her ankle, as opposed to the more traditional wrist? Is it accidental that the sunlight streaming through the windows cast shadows not unlike bars across the living room? I suspect it's about as accidental as Mr. Dietrichson (Tom Powers) eventually ending up dead along the railroad tracks. We must remember that Billy Wilder is doing more than evoking noir here, he's inventing it. And how brave he is! Beginning the film by all but divulging the ending is hardly the route most directors choose to go when directing a thriller. But as he's well aware, the audience doesn't care half as much about where they end up as they do about the thrill of the ride it takes to get them there. The structure of the film is familiar to anyone who has seen "Body Heat," or any other knockoff. "Double Indemnity" is the original however, and it's intricate plot revels in its complexities nearly as much as Walter and Phyllis do in their convoluted plot to dispose of an unwanted husband. The audience learns only a minimum about the relationship between Mr. and Mrs. Dietrichson, but we easily surmise that their union was not out of love. If the marriage was one of convenience, than the murder certainly is. It seems unlikely Phyllis is after the freedom to continue her heady tryst with Walter, and even the money provided by the double indemnity clause of Mr. Dietrichson's life insurance policy seems more like a bonus than a motivation. In other words, Phyllis just wants her husband dead. And Neff obliges. Several times while watching "Double Indemnity," I felt my pulse physically quicken. These scenes were most notably the ones in which it looked as though Walter and Phyllis' trolley car had finally reached the end of its line, and discovery of their crime was inevitable. The scene where Phyllis is forced to hide behind a door, knowing that incrimination awaits if the person on the other side sees her, is unrelenting in its suspense. After all, we want this reprehensible act to go off without a hitch every bit as much as they do. That is the sign of a good film. It also stands to reason, seeing as how we were there when the elaborate scheme was being plotted. That makes us accessories. And if they get caught, God help us, so do we.
Author James M. Cain virtually created a new genre with his extra-tough, sin-blackened, and sex-drenched novels--and they were so successful with the public that not even 1940s Hollywood could resist. The result was three of the most famous films of that decade: MILDRED PIERCE, THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, and DOUBLE INDEMNITY. Although POSTMAN is probably the better film, INDEMNITY is the most famous--possibly due to the story's truly psychotic edge, which is given full life by Barbara Stanwyck in one of her most celebrated performances.Like POSTMAN, INDEMNITY offers the story of a married woman who plots with her lover to murder her husband. Given MacMurray's typically "good guy" image, I didn't expect to believe him in the role of Walter Neff in the role of skirt-hungry Walter Neff--but MacMurray's performance is exceptionally good here, and all the more effective because it so completely unexpected. But while MacMurray has most of the screen time, it is really Stanwyck and Edward G. Robinson who dominate the film. Stanwyck is truly memorable here, and gives us a woman who seems at once sexed-up and completely frigid, at once completely natural and absolutely artificial. It is a remarkable and often disturbing effect. Robinson, who endured decades of type-casting, is equally good as the blustery, slightly comic, and absolutely honest insurance man whose job it is to ferret out suspicious claims; it is largely due to his performance, which gives the film a moral center, that we are able to buy into the otherwise off-beat performances that drive the action.This was one of director Billy Wilder's first major hits, and he deserves considerable credit for making the weird elements of the story work as a whole, keeping the film smartly paced, and heaping it up with atmosphere. So influential that its impact would be difficult to over-estimate, DOUBLE INDEMNITY is a touchstone for the entire film noir genre. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
When we think of film noir, we think of a corrupt and glamorous world of gangsters, cigarettes and femme fatals. We think of shadows of venetian blinds and wide angle close ups. Double Indemnity is one of the best and most known examples of this genre. Billy Wilder is an absolute genius, his stories always unfolding at the right pace, and his way of bringing them to the screen barely ever impeccable.This is the forties cinema. A story of love and betrayal, of manipulation and big money. The story of femme fatal Barbra Stanwick luring poor insurance salesman Walter Niff to kill her husband so they can be together. Stanwick has what it takes to make her character look sexually dangerous and desirable. Niff has the ways and traits to make his character look like a stylish fool. But as far as acting is concerned, both are surpassed by the wonderful Edward G. Robinson, who is extraordinary delivering lines faster than MacMurray can say "shut up, baby".This sort of cinema will never age. It will always find a point of relation to today's society. And when it's directed in such a beautiful way, it's little wonder that the noir is so loved and remembered. The mise sn scene is beautiful. MacMurray's and Stanwyck's character are never really portrayed close. Even when they kiss, they are always shot at an awkward angle. When they are in the same frame, Wilder always makes sure that there's something in the way, whether it's a mother and a child in a supermarket, or a fish tank in the study room of the man whose murder is being secretly plotted. This murder plot reaches its height of tension when MacMurray lures Stanwyck's husband to sign a life insurance, as he thinks he is signing an ordinary car one. He is in fact signing his life away.As in too many noirs, though, it pitfalls into the use of voice over. That is forgiven because from the start we know that he is telling Edward G. Robinson the story, speaking into the voice recorder, confessing his crime of passion. It is a film of which we know the ending already. In fact, one of the most interesting things about the film is the way we observe the main character, and the way that we back him up sometimes, only to change our minds other times. Almost every scene is necessary to make up our minds, when really the only good guy is Robinson in the whole movie.WATCH FOR THE MOMENT - When the murder plot is put in act, from the arrival to the station, to when the car won't start...


                
What many call the ultimate film noir, the murder mystery that is spoiled at the start, setting the stage for a retelling by our protagonist of the perfect crime, is unraveled before our eyes. Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity revolves around an insurance fraud murder that appears foolproof until the seams start to tear. Walter Neff, the top salesman two months in a row, falls in love with the young wife of an oilman, a woman looking for a way to leave her troubled marriage. Who better to get away with the perfect crime then a man that sees false claims avenged everyday? Their tracks must be covered and their guilt assuaged. However, being as our first scene shows Walter confessing to everything, we know the well-laid plans were unsuccessful. The trick to the film becomes how it all went down, how the puzzle pieces fell into place, and the power of a conscience, eating away at you until you can't stand the pressure any longer.It is not giving away anything to say that the two complete the task of killing Mr. Dietrichson, a businessman with a temper. The deed is orchestrated to look like he fell off a train, a venue for accidental death that comes with a special double indemnity clause, one that pays twice the cost of his recently purchased insurance of $50,000. That money is the impetus that pushes Neff over the top to help his new mistress. Phyllis Dietrichson is the damsel in distress, the nurse of her husband's first wife that was naïve and heartbroken for her boss after his loss. She says it compelled her to stay with him in a union that never held any love. The chance arrival of Neff not only opens her eyes to the possibility of a clean break without any strings and actually some cash to boot, but also to a man she can spend time and possibly settle down with. It is a strange coincidence that the Dietrichson's auto insurance was allowed to lapse, creating a house call, and a happy accident that the man called to visit was one as immoral as Walter. Right from the start he flirts and makes advances towards the woman he knows is married to his client. It's not until the end that you start to consider whether none of it was by chance at all, but instead carefully planned out and manipulated from the first second.Neff is played by Fred MacMurray<U+0097>a perfect fit for the role of a shady salesman, unafraid to get his hands dirty. The confidence and swagger allow us to believe he can win over the girl as easily as he does. He is the kind of guy that can fool the world into thinking he is on the level, a man of intelligence and pride. His boss, Barton Keyes and he have a very close relationship, one based on mutual respect and admiration. Neff has them all fooled into believing he is a man of character, one Keyes would personally vouch for, and his initial balk at the offer to help kill Dietrichson shows that maybe he is. Maybe there is some semblance of humanity behind the quick-witted banter and devious smile, a moral compass that won't allow him to cross the line. But greed and lust can tempt even a saint, let alone a guy like Neff, and it doesn't take long for him to begin the blueprints for what will be the perfect crime; one that not even Keyes and his keen lie detector can spot. It is that question of virtue that will ultimately undo him, though, as the strong stomach he thought he had might not be indestructible.The story revolves around MacMurray and as a result he is on screen almost the entire time. He is our narrator and our entrance point into the proceedings. However, it is not a role that we necessarily relate to, nor even begin to feel sorry for to hope he gets away with the crime. Instead, knowing about his confession from the beginning, we sit down to watch his hubris shred his world to pieces. Each person is a cog to the tale at hand; it is the plotting of the film that takes center stage and top billing. The pieces are moved and we follow them through the twists and turns and revelations that change our preconceptions of each. No one is truly as they seem and they all have an ulterior motive just below the surface, propelling their actions and attempts for survival whether the other does or not. Our two criminals are selfish at heart, but until you watch the entire journey, you won't know just how much.While the acting is definitely dated and a product of its time, it doesn't mean that it's not good. Barbara Stanwyck plays MacMurray's partner-in-crime Phyllis with equal panache. She holds her own in every situation, whether with her sharp tongue in some very funny back and forths or in her steely disposition when things get rough, it's a part that needs to be strong and is. Barton Keyes is the role that sticks with you, though. Edward G. Robinson is fantastic as the cocky claims agent, self-proclaimed as never being wrong when his gut says something isn't right. He delivers some of the best lines with such deadpan seriousness that you laugh even harder. The ego, cynicism, and attitude all add up to a man you have to respect, because under the tough exterior lies a man with heart. His dynamic with MacMurray is an interesting one, especially when seen through to the end. While they aren't completely fleshed out, each character is a detailed piece to the intricate web of deceit on display. Surrogates for the story to be shown to the audience, we watch them not for who they are, but for what they will do.


                
No need to recap the plot or echo consensus points.From the minute he sees her slinking down the stairs in that spangled ankle bracelet, he's hooked. Walter Neff's already boarded that long, lonely trolley down the one-way track. Yes indeed, sultry Phyllis appears to be just the ticket he's been looking for. Great noir classic. All in all, Neff should have paid attention to that other member of the oddball triangle. Old man Keyes may be a born cynic, but despite himself, he's a father figure looking for a son to take his place, and warning Neff about the "Margie's" of the world. What he doesn't know is that this "Margie" definitely doesn't drink out of a bottle. What's more, Neff's already chosen to ride with the flashy crowd, get out of that dumpy apartment, and get into Phyllis's vicious little insurance swindle. As Keyes tellingly remarks, "You're not smarter than the rest, Walter, just a little taller." I like to think that Walter finally realizes his folly in that brilliant final scene, even if it is too late. Still, the film's cynical veneer is misleading. Because beneath all the deceits, betrayals, and ironies, lies a lighted match and one of the odder father-son relationships in Hollywood annals.


                
If you are a fan of the classics, and have not seen this movie, WHY NOT? This truly is one of the great ones. I enjoyed the "old school" language in the movie. I think one of my biggest enjoyments was seeing Fred MacMurray as a bad guy. I have seen this guy in many shows and movies as the good guy for many years. The best one in the flick (in my opinion) has got to be Edward G. Robinson, classic, classic indeed.


                
This is the film that many, including myself, considered should have won the Best Picture award in 1944 over Going My Way, and one of the greatest film noir. After watching it again last week I'd have to agree with many reviewers that the film is still good but is now badly dated, notwithstanding the revolutionary villain/hero narrator technique, as many other noir films of that decade are, while others (Maltese Falcon,Out of the Past, Big Sleep, Mildred Pierce, Lady from Shanghai, The Killers, just to name a few) have not faded as bad. Wilder's 1945 "The Lost Weekend" in particular is as harrowing and relevant today as it was in 1945, and deservedly won the Oscar for Best Picture. Stanwyck, who I found very sexy in other movies (Ball of Fire, e.g) doesn't do a thing for me in this film, not the least because of the ridiculous blonde wig or whatever she had on her head. The scenes in the supermarket and in the back of the train where MacMurray never faces the stranger who offers to get a pack of cigarettes, are very clumsily done. The side stories of the daughter and her boyfriend also don't help. The ending, however, is still very effective today,as are many scenes, most of them involving Edward G. Robinson, who's excellent. Also, the music by Miklos Rosza, who would score many of Wilder's films, is memorable.
Billy Wilder's earlier vintage work, DOUBLE INDEMNITY is an unapologetically thrilling film- noir, without any fluffy fillers, this morally shocking murder tale has justified itself as a textbook exemplar of how cinema is able to be a heavyweight platform to narrate a story, apart from all those auxiliary foils (both visually and sonically), the marrow here is a neat but impeccable script (by Wilder and Raymond Chandler).The impending tragedy has been explicitly unraveled since the very beginning, the storyline starts as a flash-back, our protagonist, Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray), suffering from a bullet wound in his shoulder, has stated that he neither got the money nor the woman after executed a ruthless murder, then the film jumps to the overture to delve into the details of Walter's fated encounter with Phyllis Dietrichson (a gracefully confident Barbara Stanwyck to portray a standard femme-fatale character), as an insurance rep, Walter is smitten with her and assists her to murder her wealthy husband so as to get the so-called "double indemnity" insurance compensation. The murder scheme certainly is not the most difficult part, the real challenge is after the evil conduct, in one hand, Walter's super-acute superior Keyes (a bona- fide scene-stealer Edward G. Robinson) who gradually detects the real motive after the presuming accident death; on the other hand, the more devilish past of Phyllis suggests that there is an even bigger conspiracy is under the way.One could never argue that the script is prodigiously witty and most notably is Keyes' eloquence in harnessing his professional intuition ("the little man inside") to find out the loophole behind any ostensibly qualified insurance cases. It's quite unimaginable that Robinson had been snubbed for a supporting acting nomination while the film has acquired 7, including BEST PICTURE, DIRECTOR and LEADING ACTRESS (without win though); while MacMurray, had been eluded by the Academy throughout his wholesome career, potentially had delivered his best work in depicting an ambiguous figure with all he had; Stanwyck's role is a tad feeble due to her not-too-copious presence but she is just marvelous to watch with each gesture and expression entangled with her own breed of complexity, but the final convolution of her heartlessness-turns-soft tactic is a self-conscious compromise, woman falls prey of a man's world is just an illusionary chimera, which has been haunting us until this moment and will thrive on and on.


                
After watching The Maltese Falcon, another famous film noir, and being hugely disappointed by it you can imagine the trepidation with which I approached Double Indemnity. However, within a few minutes my fears disappeared as I knew I would thoroughly enjoy this film.Everything about this movie was great, from having the ending at the beginning, the voice-over, the cinematography, the plot, the twists, the tension. Even though Walter and Phyllis have done something wrong you still care about them and actually want them to succeed to be together. Note the high use of blind shadows which could be interpreted as prison bars to tell us that they wont get away with it, justice will prevail.Although this is a great example of film noir I still think Sunset Boulevard, another of Billy Wilder's films, is the classic version.
This a true classic, directed by Billy Wilder and staring Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwyck and the giant of the silver screen, Edward G. Robinson. ''Double Indemnity'' is based on a novel by James M. Cain who also wrote the script of the movie with one of the legends of American hard-boiled crime fiction, Raymond Chandler. The film has all the necessary ingredients of a classic noir story, a damsel in distress, Philys who plots her husband's murder along with Walter, an insurance salesman who convinces her to commit the murder in a way that will make them also rich by taking the accidental death insurance money from Walter's firm. But they are not in luck as the claims man of the firm, Keys, is a brilliant investigator with a killer-hunch who soon becomes suspicious of the incident and manages to finally work it out. The plotline is reminiscent of another J. M. Caine's novel which was also adapted for the big screen, ''The Postman Always Rings Twice'' and keeps the viewer glued to the screen. The acting is impeccable with E. G. Robinson in the role of Poirot-like claims man with an abundance of active grey cells who always finds out the truth behind dubious incidents. If you still haven't seen this masterpiece, it is time to take a seat and devour one of the legendary films of the genre.


                
Walter Neff, an insurance salesman (Fred MacMurray) and Phyllis Dietrichson, an unhappy wife (Barbara Stanwyck) set up a (near) perfect insurance scam in this genre classic. The story by director Billy Wilder and crime-novelist Raymond Chandler is clever, with a well thought-out and executed plan with just enough weaknesses to ignite suspicions in Walter's boss, insurance investigator Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson). MacMurray (a boomer icon in "My Three Sons" (1960)) plays against type as weak-willed but cunning and duplicitous Neff, infatuated with Stanwyck's peroxide blond temptress. The film was an award winner despite being considered sordid by some critics and was famously boycotted by singer Kate Smith. Unmissable by noir fans and a good evening's entertainment for anyone else.


                
Double Indemnity is a prime example of classic film noir. Plus, for those of us raised on live-action Disney movies, it's fun to see Fred MacMurray play a role so dramatically different from what we're used to. I love the quick and stylized dialogue. Who knew that a story about an insurance salesman could be so dark and gritty?


                
When I started watching Double Indemnity I thought it was okay. It was an okay build-up, and I felt fairly interested in what was going to happen next. It seemed like an okay detective story.And just like the case was with Walter Neff, I got dragged further and further in. It just got more and more exciting! Such a story! Smooth, slick, cool Walter. Always keeping his mask, doing exactly what was needed all the way to keep suspicion out of his way. I know I would never have suspected Walter, the man who light matches with nothing but his fingers.But then you have Keyes. The genius with the incredible eye for details. Walter had him fooled for quite some time, but Keyes got closer and closer, and it was just a matter of time before it would all fall apart. And so it did.I won't spoil any more of this of the story, all I can say is that this is film-noir good as anything; it has the atmosphere, the characters, the thrill and so many clever twists in an excellent story. It is exciting, cool, smart and it doesn't let you go before the end. This leaves you wanting more at the end. (And when you do, try "The Apartment" with Fred MacMurray as the villain. Even better!)Recommended. 7/10
Single man falls in love with a woman but doesn't realize that this woman has other plans. Fred MacMurray as salesman Walter Neff, alias single man is perfect as the man used. Barbara Stanwyck as Phyllis Dietrichson, unhappy married woman with unloving husband plays the part expertly. The acting abilities of MacMurray are displayed as he plays a killer and a womanizer is so different from his "Steven Douglas" character of his TV show "My Three Sons." He smokes, lites matches with his finger, and simply enjoys his flirting with Phyllis. He constantly reminds her of "his plan" to free her of her husband, with 100k as a reward unaware that the whole time it is "she" that has pulled him into her trap, much like a spider to the fly. Edward G. Robinson as Barton Keyes, the man trying to prove a murder with the help of his "little man" is really great. As with all perfect plans, there are little problems that can destroy the plans but this movie ends with the problem walking around with two legs, wearing an ankle bracelet. Poor Fred, taken in by a woman. Wonderful movie to watch.


                
The movie is widely regarded as a great American classic because of its film noir atmosphere and sharp dialogue, but I don't think it holds up so well.It makes a big deal on solving a murder case plotted by Stanwyck and MacMurray. Actually the case is quite simple, I wonder why the police concludes it as accidental death, because the train was only running fifteen miles an hour when Barbara's husband presumably fell off by himself. If they just investigate the cause of death of the body and the fingerprints on his crutches, they'd easily find out the truth. There's no need for Robinson to use his brain so hard!


                
The plan is devious, but a simple one. In an effort to rid herself of her allegedly abusive ex-husband, a woman strikes up a romance with an insurance salesman who just happens upon her doorstep with some auto insurance renewals. Since it's not enough to get out of her marriage without financial security, she enlists the salesman to not only commit fraud by having the cuckolded husband sign a life insurance policy with a double indemnity clause without any knowledge of doing so, but also to help her bump off her husband by making it look like an accident. Unfortunately, paranoia and conscience tends to get in the way in situations like these, and even something that seems to be a "perfect murder" can go sour, fast. This is the plot of Billy Wilder's celebrated 1944 noir masterpiece, "Double Indemnity", in which Phyllis Dietrichson (Stanwyck) and Walter Neff (MacMurray) find themselves embroiled in a situation that at the time, seemed like a good one, until they end up way over their heads; mainly due to their lack of trust in each other. Rounding out the cast is Edward G. Robinson, who plays Barton Keyes, Walter's friend and co-worker at the insurance company, a man who is on the trail of the murder plot due to his position as the manager of claims."Double Indemnity" has been hailed as one of the best, if not the best, of the film noir genre. It is such a dark film, both in plot and aesthetically, that it is sometimes easy to forget that Billy Wilder didn't just direct romantic comedies like "Some Like it Hot", "The Seven Year Itch" and "Sabrina". Particularly in his earlier filmography, we see wonderful dark films mixed in with the fanciful, like this one and "The Lost Weekend". Dimly lit, with wonderful shadows and people hiding behind dark glasses and behind doors and corners, "Double Indemnity", while not the first film in the noir genre, certainly is one that defines it. Wilder's direction is brilliant, particularly the machine-gun pacing of both the action and the dialogue. The screenplay in particular is inspired, as the rapid-fire dialogue between characters is spewed as fast as one can process it. Lines like, "Do I laugh now, or wait until it gets funny?" or "How could I have known that murder could sometimes smell like honeysuckle?" or my personal favorite exchange between Phyllis and Walter: Phyllis: "I wonder if I know what you mean?" Walter: "I wonder if you wonder" are so deliciously classic that it's difficult not to enjoy every one of them.I cannot picture any other actors in their roles than MacMurray, Stanwyck and Robinson. Stanwyck, at this point a legend in cinema already, had previously worked with Wilder on the screwball comedy "Ball of Fire" with Gary Cooper, but despite their comedic history, Wilder had the foresight to cast her. Fred MacMurray is so typecast as Steve Douglas in the television show "My Three Sons" and as the "Absent-Minded Professor" in a series of Disney films, that no matter how prepared one is to see him in this film, personally I can't help but chuckle the first time he is on screen. His casting was certainly inspired though; a quick glance through his filmography does not show any kind of break out role prior to this one. The heat between the two of them is very present, but more importantly, they are able to convey the more subtle emotions of paranoia and fear of one another with one single glance. Edward G. Robinson, always a great actor, is superb as Keyes. One thing that he has always managed to do, despite (or maybe because of) his less than matinée-idol looks, is to play a strong character that still comes across as emotional and human. Even after he eventually figures out that his protégée may not be what he thought he was, he still exhibits an almost fatherly concern for Walter.Personally, of all the many films I have seen in the film noir genre, "Double Indemnity" is not my favorite; Otto Preminger's "Laura", released the same year, is superior, in my opinion. However, the beauty of "Double Indemnity" is that it is so thoroughly compelling, so entertaining and so well made that despite its miniscule shortcomings (like Stanwyck's terrible wig) it is a film that, although it is one of several hundred films of its kind, it contains the mainstream appeal to define the genre. If somehow you have not seen this film - maybe you've been under a rock, perhaps you see a black and white film and instead of it creating a Pavlovian response of salivating like it does for me, you run screaming <U+0096> whatever the reason, check it out; you're missing a great film. 8/10 --Shelly


                
Wilder has proved time and time again his versatility and style.  His first major hit, Double Indeminty, was a precursor to a career which includes heavy drama (The Lost Weekend) to comedy (Some Like it Hot). 
  The film noir, featuring incredible sex appeal between MacMurray and Stanwyck(who deserved an Oscar).  From seeing the anklet, to when he brutally kisses her, to her icy stare, she is  one of the sexiest females on film.  The story has been done many times since (Body Heat, The Last Seduction), but Double Indemnity stands head and shoulders above the rest.


                
Double Indemnity is a solid movie.The acting is good. The plot is well thought out. But to top things off the entire way the movie is portrayed is excellent (the use of the narrator).Recommended to anyone and everyone. Warning the movie is not action filled and might seem slow to some at times.


                
Sorry, but I have a problem taking the Absent Minded Professor/The Shaggy D.A. seriously. I think Fred is not a very good actor. I saw this in a film noir class, and I think that this was probably the least good of all the films we watched (though I would still give it an 8/10). There are many better noirs, especially The Maltese Falcon, Out of the Past, and Kiss Me Deadly. Plus, the novella on which this film is based is much, much more complex and just plain better. I read it before I saw the film. I was blown away by the novella, but only moderately impressed (mostly at Barbara Stanwyck) with the film.


                
I didn't expect the movie to be as good as it was, Double Indemnity encapsulates what I feel a murder mystery should be.The story was just about Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck's trying to get away with murder. It goes over the whole planning process, how the executed it, and what the result were. The story contained suspense and truly made me wonder what was going to happen around each corner.The acting was great from everyone, I never felt like anyone was over acting or underacting. These were characters on the screen and they did a good job.The camera work was by far the best part though. The cinematography was amazing, there were really nice shots in almost every scene. The noir feel of the film was even passed over through the camera with the dark shadows and serious characters.This movie was the perfect murder mystery to me. I was others would take from this formula because it was done right. The characters weren't stupid, they planned it like anyone else would.


                
I have seen this film before, but tonight I saw a remastered version in theater as part of TCM's series. I felt that the quality of sound was uneven, but otherwise it was very satisfying.Like Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard", most of the action is related via flashback. Fred McMurray plays an insurance salesman, Walter Neff, who dictates the story into a machine for his claims manager, Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson). The story revolves around Neff's relationship with a client's wife, Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck)--a shady lady who is unhappy in her marriage.This film is considered one of the best examples of film noir and is routinely on best films lists. The B&W photography certainly supports that claim and it is an excellent film, but it has a shortfall.Fred McMurray was generally regarded as a film good guy. Wilder convinced him that he could play Neff, an unsavory character. He was right, of course, and he would do it again for Wilder in the film "The Apartment". But the tough-guy lingo that comes from McMurray's lips, especially in the early part of the film, seems out of place--not because it's McMurray saying it, but because his character is an insurance salesman. Such Chandleresque dialogue feels natural coming from Bogart's private dick in "The Maltese Falcon" or from John Garfield's drifter in "The Postman Always Rings Twice", but not here.We might also ask if Barbara Stanwyck is convincing as a woman who could drive Neff to obsession or moral abandon. Perhaps, but it's debatable. I don't think there would be a debate if the actress was Lana Turner ("Postman") or Kathleen Turner ("Body Heat").It is interesting they way Wilder gets the viewer to identify with Neff. When there are threats to Neff's nefarious plan, the viewer feels his anxiety. That adds to the film's feeling of suspense, even though the viewer has an idea where the story is going.Edward G. Robinson is brilliant as the corporate crime solver with a nose for fraud. He is the moral compass of the film. In this film, Wilder provides a glimpse of the genius that would produce so many masterpieces to come.


                
I caught this film as a TCM Classic film event on the big screen recently at a theater in Knoxville. I had heard of this film, but knew nothing of it other than its name: and I'm ashamed to say that I didn't know what the word "Indemnity" meant before seeing the movie.It turns out that this is a great example of a classic film noir movie. The plot is engaging, with quite a few twists and turns. The acting is good, including the supporting cast, and the story that is told is enjoyable, even if it is "dark".I'm going to say 8/10 stars for "Double Indemnity". There are movies I'd rather spend my time on, but this one is certainly worth seeing at least once.


                
