I've now seen this movie 14 times in 25 years, at all times of the year, in all moods, sober or not etc - but always at night. I recorded my copy off TV in 1987 so I can only imagine what a remaster would do for it. With an atmosphere thick enough to cut with a knife it never fails to engross and enchant me, and although it's been dated for 40 years or more still seems relevant and watchable today. TV, answer phones, recordable CD/DVD, memory sticks and the internet have all come between us and yet I can still watch Fred MacMurray speaking into a Dictaphone without a qualm. Who wears a hat in California nowadays? Who buys beer whilst driving! Lift attendants have gone but I can still believe in Charlie working and laughing away in the garage past 11 at night.Woman and man agree to murder woman's husband but on the way to the cemetery they face grilling by insurance company. I think everything has been said before on the IMDb - by those who think it's one of the best films ever made! To those who simply think the main problem is that it's dated I wish you could see the TV commercials that dug into DI back in '87 - what a hoot - and compare. I've just noticed the print TCM UK is showing in 2005 is lip-synced out, very wobbly Rosza music track, fading and ageing fast - worse than my 1987 video tape (maybe logically). They're supposed to be encouraging people to enjoy the classics but they won't do that with such inferior screening copies. Dear TCM UK, this is an impressive iconic film - it deserves a billion dollar remaster authorised by the Library of Congress, not repeatedly trotting out unimpressive cheap worn dupes to fill those 2 hour slots.Everything about DI from the acting, production, direction, and music is superbly dignified and is as "close to perfection" as human beings are probably allowed to get with this form of Art - especially with the more limited technology at their disposal in '44. When most films from now are long forgotten and dated DI will still be getting re-runs on TV and art-house cinemas - God and remasters willing - that is the fact of it.Fortunia Bonanova certainly was fortunate to have appeared in bit parts in 2 of the best films ever made - Citizen Kane the other.


                
If you are a noir fan then this film is an absolute must see. The screenplay itself is a work of art in its charater construction, plot structure and dialogue which is delievered by an ensemble of first class actors divying up first class performances. Barbra Stanwyck as the deadly, smouldering, scheming Phyllis Dietrichson turns in a performance that is right up there with Mary Astor's Brigid O'Shaughnessy. Fred McMurray delievers a performance of a smart but desperately lovelorn patsy and Edward G. Robinson is perfect in the role of Barton Keyes and just about steals the moment every time he appears on screen.I personally love a good Noir film and this is right up there with the best of them. Billy Wilder should be proud of this work eventhough the Academy didn't see it fit to reward him for his efforts, however I personally think this film is an absolute winner.


                
This film is great fun. Sxity years later, it's as taut and engaging and beautiful as any contemporary story.It simmers, it sizzles, the tension between Neff and Dietrichson is positively palpable. But, as the tension between Neff and Dietrichson fizzles, the tension between Neff and Keyes heats up.It's as pure a sample of classic film noir as there is, and it does it with unparalleled style.This is what movie-making is all about. It's not a labrynth of characters and trick endings and gimmicks. In fact, the movie starts with our tragic hero admitting he's the who whodunit...what are we left with?The story of how and why he dunit, of how he was intoxicated and bewitched, yet came to his senses, not soon enough to save him legally, but at least to come to terms with his own failure.
For years, I was entertained by film-noir homages/parodies like Garrison Keillor's "Guy Noir, Private Eye" and the Coens' "The Man Who Wasn't There," but I'd never seen an authentic noir. I finally got my chance with "Double Indemnity," which helped establish the genre as we know it. The expected elements are all here: Shadow-filled black-and-white cinematography. An ordinary man (Walter Neff, played by Fred MacMurray) who becomes an amoral criminal under the influence of a femme fatale (Phyllis Dietrichson, played by Barbara Stanwyck). Abundant cynicism, pessimism, and fatalism. Tough, stylized dialogue, including voice-over narration with a kind of hard-edged poetry to it.However, because in the 21st century we see film noir parodies more frequently than the real thing, we've been conditioned to laugh at some of the excesses of the genre--especially this sort of narration. Thus, lines like "How could I know that murder could sometimes smell like honeysuckle?" or "I got to thinking about what cemeteries are for--they're for putting dead people in!" strike us as much funnier than they were probably intended to be. Instead of helping create a dark, gritty atmosphere, they actually jolt us out of the movie by prompting our scoffing laughter.In short, "Double Indemnity" does a great job of establishing the rules of the world in which the story takes place, but we now have trouble accepting that world on its own terms. And I do believe that this movie was intended to have some humor to it--but of the grimly ironic kind, not the "isn't this a little ridiculous?" humor we find in it today.Still, there is much to admire about "Double Indemnity." It has a very strong plot--simply but elegantly constructed, and even though its general outlines get revealed within the first five minutes, the movie always remains interesting. The relationship between Walter and Phyllis is intriguingly ambiguous--it's not clear whether they are motivated by lust, greed, or something else entirely. (Roger Ebert's Great Movies essay has some noteworthy theories about this, and made me realize that this ambiguity is an asset, not a flaw.) Most impressive and unexpected is the character of insurance-claims investigator Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson). Though Keyes functions like a detective, his role doesn't indulge in any "film-noir detective" clichés. Instead, he's the most real-seeming person in the movie: rumpled, gruff, blustering, detail-obsessed, highly conscientious, and very funny. And gradually, the film reveals that the relationship between Walter and Keyes is even more complex and interesting than that between Walter and Phyllis."Double Indemnity" will always be watched because of its role in establishing the conventions of film noir, but more importantly, it's still an entertaining movie--even if, sixty years later, it's sometimes entertaining for reasons the filmmakers never intended.


                
I'm not sure I can think of any new original praise for this film. All I can say is that the suspenseful twists and turns of the the classic film-noir plot and the moral ambiguity of Walter and Phyliss brought to life by truly memorable performances by MacMurray and Stanwyck (and Robinson in his key supporting role as Keys) left an indelible mark on my cinema mad mind even before I had become aware of the film's deserved legendary reputation. When I think of this film, I think of Proverbs 5:3-5 For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil. But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.


                
Spoilers hereinDouble Indemnity is another piece of classic film noir with all the classic elements of mystery, plotting, femme fatales and snappy dialogue. I just finished watching it and I have to say it's possibly the best I've seen.Not only is it a beautifully and craftily worked noir story but also a complex fable about greed and revenge, remorse and regret. From the moment it starts you know it's going to hit you, and it certainly does.Fred MacMurray plays insurance salesman Walter Neff, who relates the story to us by leaving a memo for his claims manager Keyes, played by Edward G Robinson. His intermittent voiceovers take the guise not only of the narrator but also of Neff's conscience as he retells the story of his involvement in the murder of his client Dietrichson after he plotted with Dietrichson's wife. They thought it would be the perfect murder, but as Keyes so rightly points out, no murder is perfect. It comes undone sooner or later, and when there's two people involved, usually sooner. Particularly in this case as Mrs Dietrichson and Neff begin to plot against each other. It becomes less about claiming the insurance money and more about which one, if either, gets away with the murder.As you can tell from my clearly blithering attempt to ruin the plot, it's a fantastic film. You come away from it and you want to ruin the ending for someone else because it's just so exciting. Billy Wilder directs with absolute precision, he blends perfectly the romance, frequent suspense, and dramatic irony dispersed throughout the film in absolute drones. The fact that Neff is present in all but one of the scenes in the film is a constant reminder of the irony of the story, the fact that he is involved on all sides and in all facets of the plot.Barbara Stanwyck also plays one of the best femme fatales I've ever seen on screen, it's not only a masterful performance but a masterful character in itself. The success of this film owes a lot to both her performance and the way the script works her in. Fred MacMurray is occasionally overly winsome at the start of the film, however, he definitely pulls his performance together at the end and it is not enough to detract entirely from the overall effect.A crafty, enjoyable and suspenseful film noir filled with anti-heroes, mystery, morals, and just good all-round entertainment. Not quite perfect but about as close as it can come. ****1/2 / *****
"Double Indemnity" is a great movie with many great attributes but foremost among these must be its scintillating screenplay which combines wit, intelligence, razor sharp remarks and double entendres in such an effective way that, as well as being immensely entertaining, it also contributes strongly to driving the pace of the story. The quick fire dialogue and superb repartee are so engaging that they command the attention of the audience right from the start and also provide added impetus to all the action that follows. Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler collaborated in adapting James M Cain's story for the movie and the end result was nothing short of brilliant and was understandably nominated for the Academy Award for Best Writing, Screenplay in 1945.The characters featured in this evil tale are very memorable and in the case of the two main protagonists are also very immoral. Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray) is a fast talking insurance salesman who goes to visit a client and in his absence meets his wife Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck). Their first encounter during which Dietrichson appears dressed only in a bath towel, leads to some flirting and their relationship develops further when Dietrichson eventually convinces Neff to take part in a scheme to sell her husband an accident policy (unknown to Mr Dietrichson) and then to murder him so that the couple can collect the insurance money and enjoy a future together.Neff advises that the policy will pay out double if the fatal accident occurs on a train and so, when Mr Dietrichson is due to go on a business trip, arrangements are made for him to travel by train. Neff carries out the murder and dressed like Mr Dietrichson (complete with crutches) takes his place on the train journey before the couple place the body on the tracks to give the impression that Mr Dietrichson died as the result of an accidental fall from the observation car of the train.After having carried out their plan successfully, the events that follow conspire to introduce a series of complications which lead to the couple losing their trust in each other and also to the movie's dramatic conclusion.Fred MacMurray is perfect in his role as the very self assured Neff who's corrupted by lust and a greed for wealth. His portrayal of someone who thinks he knows all the angles but whose confidence is gradually eroded as things start to go wrong is very convincing and Barbara Stanwyck is also excellent as the cold, manipulative seductress who is utterly ruthless and seemingly devoid of any human feelings. Edward G Robinson appears in the role of Barton Keyes, a claims investigator who works for the same firm as Neff. Barton is very experienced and incredibly good at his job and possesses a strong instinct which enables him to sense immediately if a claim is likely to be fraudulent. He and Neff enjoy a longstanding friendship which involves a good deal of warmth and mutual respect. Robinson's performance is outstanding as he delivers some super-fast speeches and conveys the nature of his character's idiosyncrasies with great panache.In typical film noir style, the story is told in flashback with Neff's narration providing a particularly matter-of-fact account of what happened. When he says "I killed him for money and for a woman. I didn't get the money and I didn't get the woman", there's an inherent poignancy in his words but the delivery is completely lacking in any sentimentality or self pity. The same can be said for his remark that "we did it so that we could be together, but it's tearing us apart"."Double Indemnity" is a dark thriller which became the prototype for many later movies which told similar stories but rarely with the same style and impact as the original. Billy Wilder's direction is superb and especially successful in contributing to the high levels of suspense that are generated at various junctures throughout the action. This is a film of rare quality and one that, because of its subject matter, will undoubtedly continue to be a source of great entertainment and fascination for movie lovers for many years to come.
I can't think of a director that got so many great movies in the different genres as Billy Wilder. In comedy he made the excellent "Some Like It Hot" and "Irma la Douce"; he also made the romantic "Sabrina"; "Sunset Boulevard", "The Apartment" and "The Lost Week-End" were his contributions to drama; "Stalag 17" is a war film; "Witness for the Prosecution" is a great mystery thriller; all memorable products in the history of Hollywood.With "Double Indemnity" he obtained what is probably the ultimate Film Noir. There's not much to add about this extraordinary movie to what I¨ve red here in other comments. Just that I never was a fan of Fred MacMurray and yet I have to admit he does a very good job in this one (perhaps his best ever along with his treacherous and false navy officer in "The Caine Mutiny").Billy Wilder was indeed a very talented man as a movie maker and also had an undeniable skill for recognizing a good story when it came his way. One of the great directors ever, no doubt.


                
The classic "Double Indemnity" is one of the greatest of all "film noir" movies, and it has everything you could ask for: great acting, interesting characters, an imaginative plot, and lots of tension.  Put all this under the direction of the incomparable Billy Wilder, and it's one of the best films of all time.The three lead actors all give terrific performances.  Fred MacMurray is at the center of everything, as an insurance salesman tempted in more than one way by an alluring customer (Barbara Stanwyck).  MacMurray's character is torn between what Stanwyck offers, and his close relationship with his company's claims manager, played by Edward G. Robinson.  MacMurray is excellent in portraying his struggle between his desire to grab the illicit pleasures offered by Stanwyck, and his deep admiration for Robinson as a person and as an example.  Stanwyck in turn is perfect in her role as a woman who uses everything she has to get what she wants.  Robinson's performance may be the best of all in bringing his character to life - a straight-arrow, perceptive and diligent worker who also comes across as a thoroughly enjoyable character.The three leads are so good that the film gets away with some occasionally dated (overly "hard-boiled") dialogue in some of the voice-overs and confrontation scenes.  The actors were in such good form, though, that they were able to make any line sound pretty good.The rest of the cast all have much smaller parts, but they all fulfill their functions well, especially Porter Hall in one of his many fine character roles, and Richard Gaines, who is perfect as a clueless insurance company executive.Wilder uses his skilled touch to complete the atmosphere of intrigue and suspense.  The overall result is a great film noir whose characters and tensions are as alive today as they were in the 40's.  It is worth watching over and over.


                
This is a good film noir movie that is compelling to watch and leaves you thinking. I watched this film first in my film studies class at college and i thought when it came on "oh no" black and white its going to be boring but the fact is that it wasn't, the incredible storyline alone is so interesting the actors especially Fred Mac Murray are excellent picking Mac Murray out in particular a slick cool insurance salesman who is a bit of a womanizer!!.I did however think that they would have got away with that kind of murder, i really think it would have been hard to find out the exact details of that case and then find the murderer or murderers. The film on a whole reminds me of The Godfather or an old classic murder drama, the dark rooms the fast New York accent talk and the fascinating dress sense (not to mention the way Neff can light a match like that so slick)!! Overall a very enjoyable film for anyone of any age, it will not offend anyone and is one classic that must be seen9/10


                
There have been, to date, a whopping 350 user reviews of this classic and much imitated "film noir" production, so I am tempted to critique at least some of these many attempts at analysis rather than the film itself, but I won't. A film that inspires so much of an impassioned response is exceptional for that reason alone.If the script is "silly and laughable", as one recent reviewer seriously contends, then the laugh is on the reviewer because some of the dialogue was written deliberately to be comical in places, especially when lines begin with the word "suppose..." or when they repeat the term "straight down the line". To the contrary, I found the script, written by the director himself and Raymond Chandler, to be very snappy, especially when it was so adeptly brought to life by three of the best actors of their time, Stanwyck, Robinson, and MacMurray, in no special order. I especially enjoyed Mr. Robinson's pontificating soliloquies that boasted of his character's extensive knowledge of the risks of the insurance business. Who else but EGR could have succeeded as well in this amusing exercise, and so far beyond the gangster profile that he has established so indelibly in our minds? Beyond his familiar "well tailored, sophisticated thug" image, the fact is that Mr. Robinson excelled in every role that he ever undertook, gangster or otherwise. I could list them all here, but I won't.As much as I enjoyed the three wonderful lead actors, I also appreciated all of the meticulous details of the director, Billy Wilder, including minor but memorable characters such as the talkative elevator man ("They wouldn't sell me a policy..."), Netty, the Dietrichsons' disheveled maid ("They keep the liquor closet locked up," and who could blame Netty for needing a good, occasional nip while employed by this miserable pair? ), Mr. Jackson, the witness ("I'm a Medford Man--Medford, Oregon, that is!"), and Nino Zachetti, the angry young man who bitterly resents how he has been cheated by society but walks away without appreciating just how lucky a fellow he actually is. Even the scenes in the food market allowed us an authentic glimpse of everyday life in wartime 1944 Los Angeles, revealing, among other tidbits, that farina packages haven't changed very much in 74 years.The film unfolds as a series of flashbacks with periodic breaks in "present time", including the beginning and the end. As Barton Keyes (Robinson)suggests at one point, the film itself is very neatly "wrapped up in tissue paper...pink ribbons on it." Unlike many other movies of its "noir" genre, it is relatively easy to follow without distracting us with unnecessarily convoluted plots that we didn't have to struggle to understand in the first place.Neff's questionable character is revealed from the start as he has no qualms about destroying a marriage and a family until Lola, Dietrichson's daughter, pops up to challenge his conscience. His fatherly relationship with Lola and then his compassionate assistance to Zachetti, her boyfriend, demonstrates that Neff isn't completely morally depraved as much as he is weak in the face of temptation. Regardless of how disagreeable Dietrichson, his victim, is, Neff can't redeem himself from his crime by being nice to Lola and Zachetti. It is not an even exchange. This exercise in portraying a morally flawed but repentant weakling is refined by the actor a decade later in MacMurray's role of Lt. Tom Keefer in "The Caine Mutiny". Then, six years later, MacMurray takes immorality to a new level in "The Apartment"' as the shamelessly dishonest Jeff Sheldrake, who is totally void of introspection. For those who only know MacMurray as the understanding father in the television series "My Three Sons", you ain't seen nothin' yet!Although I was fully absorbed in the action, Neff's ability under extraordinary pressure to get Jackson out of the observation car just in the nick of time seemed improbable to me. Didn't he and Phyllis consider the possibility that someone would be out there who was unwilling or even incapable of leaving on time? And wouldn't the coroner have established early that Dietrichson was the victim of strangulation rather than an accidental death? I'll leave it to you to decide. And did Phyllis actually undergo a "change of heart" just before she was able to fire a second shot? Should it make a difference to us by then? I think not. Nothing could ever redeem this despicable woman--or that wig.
Words will not define the things that I achieved by viewing this film. The fascinating part that comes into my mind before going further is the extraordinary narrative that binds you physically as well as mentally. The film follows the journey of a sales person of an insurance company who gets into a number of events which made the whole film. It is a mix of attraction, cheating and surprises.PROS:Without a fascinating story, the film would not have been this better, so most of the credit I would give to it. Then I liked the narration which was because of the actor's firm voice. The acting is superb by all the actors. The story starts with a very fast pace from the starting itself and maintained this till the end which was beautiful. The different instances in the film are shown so properly that you would not feel that it is from the forties.CONS:Found the film absolutely perfect.MESSAGE: "You can't escape longer."VERDICT: "A must watch for anyone."


                
Double Indemnity's storyline has probably been played over thousands of times since insurance claimants have existed. Rotten relationship, money at the end of the tunnel and scrupules vanish like snow in the spring...this movie covers its bases admirably, however.Barbara Stanwyck captivates at the black widow drawing Neff into her web. Could he interest her in some Accident Insurance? What if they split the claim? Hubby is so heartless and cold...could he help at all? It's easy for us in front of the big HDTV screen to mock Walter but the truth of the matter is, emotion and passion rule the day at times.Fred MacMurray is spot on as the hapless insurance salesman caught between his otherworldly clairvoyant boss Barton Keyes, the sultry Phyllis Dietrichson and his own principles. Phyllis' husband is murdered in a plan so intricate that it should, nay will, fool the claims investigators. That is, until the big boss considers it fishy and Barton gnaws at the case's inconsistencies like a rat on a piece of rotten flesh. Eventually Neff confronts Phyllis, who has had enough and tries to dispose of him (as she has her husband's ex-wife, told through her daughter) and her statement that she is utterly empty inside before succumbing to gunshot wounds in a close quarters fight with Neff is chilling, to say the least.Simply can't say enough about this one folks. If you want to catch a taut murder-mystery, put Double Indemnity at the top of your list!
Double Indemnity (1944)Double Crossing True LoveThe are a million reasons to love this movie and a million people who have already said what they are: tight filming, great plot, fabulous acting, and the beginning of a new, truly American genre of movies: the film noir.This isn't the first crime film with noir qualities, but it has two key ingredients: a man with a morally sound core led astray, and a woman (the femme-fatale) leading him astray. I suppose you could interpret this in sexist ways, or as an extension of Adam and Eve dynamics into our century. Not that Adam killed Eve in the end, as far as we know.As an example of classic, early noir this is notable for coming before the war had ended, and it lacks the most common thread of the man coming from some unknown past (life as a G.I. or just life somewhere unspecified), but in a way Fred MacMurray's main character, who leads the whole film, is comparably adrift. Maybe he represents that man left home during wartime, feeling out of place for the simple reason of not being over there, somewhere. And maybe living in a separate morality.MacMurray is cast perfectly, even if he was a second choice by director Billy Wilder. His bumbling intelligence, his compromised morality, his giving in so easily (if easily is the word after the murder) all make sense, and they might not with a Mitchum type of stronger character. Even his inner morality, and his ability to say "I love you" at the end, to the character who he clear does love, are convincing. And a movie with this many fast twists has to be convincing as much as it is dramatic. Barbara Stanwyck? Cold and deceptive at her best, making Mrs. Dietrichson truly horrid. But highest kudos goes to the insurance investigator, the third main character, Edward G. Robinson. The screen bristles and bursts whenever he comes on, and he seems overdoing it and yet not a bit overacting. It's just a scintillating performance. John F. Seitz is brilliant behind the camera (proven here, absolutely, but also in Sunset Blvd and many other films, see the listings for the late 1940s for the classics). Music, editing, and most of all, smart, snappy direction make the film tight and truly great. The only small thing that might hold it back from that top edge of the most moving films is some weird sense of skimming the surface of all these emotions and conflicts. They are issues of plot more than character. Yes, we hear Neff with the voice-over recasting the events from his plaintive and regretful tone, and that works brilliantly. But Stanwyck, especially, comes across as simply cold. We never quite feel why she's the way she is, we just accept it. The daughter strangely makes more sense than the mother, though her role, and her impact on the film, are both small. Finally, relating all of this together, I don't ever buy into their passionate love--of course hers is fake all along, but Neff is supposed to throw everything away for the Mrs. Dietrichson, and we swallow that, too, without tasting why.But quibbles, quibbles. One measure, for me, of a great movie is if I can watch it again even when I know the plot. And this one I can, I did, and you should.
Wow--this movie had the absolute snappiest dialog of any Film Noir movie in Hollywood history. For dialog alone and Fred MacMurray's voice-overs, this must rank as one of the best Noir films of all time. The words they say are all so carefully chosen and magnificent--the writers really did their work well. And, the acting and direction are excellent as well. About the only reason I don't score it a 10 (and it sure came very close) was that, for Film Noir, there wasn't a whole lot of action or even suspense in the movie--considering you KNOW that MacMurray is making a confession so he isn't going to get away with the murder plot. Still, these are VERY minor complaints--the film is simply great. I suggest after seeing this film you watch an episode of MY THREE SONS and see the two extremes in Fred's work--the absolute apex and the absolute nadir (if you don't know what those words mean, look 'em up yourself, ya mug).


                
Double Indemnity is a classic story that shows what happens when lust meets greed. Fred MacMurray, as Walter Neff an insurance salesman, meets Barbara Stanwyck. Stanwyck wants her husband out of the way so she can get his money. MacMurray wants the husband out of the way so he can get Stanwyck. They hatch a clever plot to get rid of the husband. Edward G. Robinson plays MacMurray's boss Barton Keyes. Keyes is like a tenacious terrier who once he picks up a scent won't give up until he finds the source. He smells something is wrong with the insurance claim and spends the rest of the movie trying to find out the truth.Billy Wilder chose a clever way to tell the story. He starts the film with MacMurray shot in his office dictating the story which is told in flashbacks. So from the beginning you know parts of the story but not everything.Robinson was known for his gangster roles but in this film he plays a good guy. If you want to know why Robinson was a screen legend just see him in this film.MacMurray's character is interesting because you wonder why a likable guy like him would ever get involved with a spider like Stanwyck.Stanwyck plays the conniving wife for everything she's got.Double Indemnity is a classic of film noir and is ranked #38 on the American Film Institute's top 100 movie list. The screenplay was by Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler from the novel by James M. Cain.


                
Walter Neff is an insurance salesman for Pacific All Risk Insurance Company. He falls for Phyllis Dietrichson, the wife of a client of his, and is drawn into a plan to kill Mr. Dietrichson and pocket the insurance money. Between the two of them they come up with the perfect murder, so good it not only looks like an accident, but ensures that the insurance pays out double the usual sum insured - double indemnity. Between them and the money stands Barton Keyes, Pacific Insurance's Head of Claims. Experienced, wily and possessing a sixth sense for claims fraud he is a formidable adversary...Brilliant crime drama - a film-noir classic. Written by Raymond Chandler book and directed by master-director Billy Wilder, this is great on so many levels: the clever plot (especially the murder plan, which is so good you almost want them to succeed); the snappy, often funny, dialogue and the excellent, engaging performances. Moreover, there's a smoothness and coolness about this, a hallmark of film noir.Only things missing from making this one of the greatest movies of all times is a good twist and possibly less predictability. The use of flashbacks to tell the story sort of gives away the direction the plot is taking.Good work by Fred MacMurray as Neff, Barbara Stanwyck as Phyllis and Edward G Robinson as Keyes. In hindsight, Humphrey Bogart would have made a better Neff, but then you could say that about any 1940s role requiring a cool, tough, smooth-talking, wise-cracking male lead. Fred MacMurray does well and doesn't really put a foot wrong, but I kept thinking "Imagine Bogie in the role...".Barbara Stanwyck got a well-deserved Best Leading Actress Oscar nomination for playing Phyllis.The film itself garnered seven Oscar nominations but no wins, losing out on Best Picture to Going My Way, the so-so musical starring Bing Crosby. Billy Wilder got his first Best Director nomination and fourth writing nomination for Double Indemnity. He would have to wait for his next movie, The Lost Weekend, for his first win.


                
All of the elements of a great noir drama are here: the scheming woman who snares a weakling man in her web. The dark, tightly composed shots of people in fear - fear of being caught, exposed. Inky blotches of darkness intruding from the edge of almost every scene like an organic presence. The nervous, gloomy atmosphere of doomed characters being hounded and chased. The cast is marvelous, especially Stanwyck, usually typed in reliable roles, but here cast against type as a femme fatale. And the crackling 40s-style hard-boiled dialogue was co-written by none other than Raymond Chandler and adapted from the work of master storyteller James M. Cain. A remarkable achievement by a top collection of talent.


                
Another of my dad's favourite films and was he ever right. Along with that other celebrated James M Cain adaptation "The Postman Always Rings Twice", this particular cocktail of sex, murder and intrigue becomes the cinematic equivalent of a page-turning thriller as workaday insurance salesman Fred McMurray falls hard for Barbara Stanwyck's anklet and soon afterwards the rest of her so that before he knows it he's ankle-deep in a murderous plot that will have catastrophic consequences for them both.Of course the film could hardly go wrong with Wilder himself and Chandler adapting Cain's novel, Wilder behind the camera and Edward G and Ms Stanwyck in lead roles but it's Mr Family Guy McMurray who's the real revelation, giving the performance of his life as the wise-guy sucker taken for a ride by femme-fatale Stanwyck.There's constant exposition in the screenplay as McMurray's Walter Neff flashbacks us through the preceding events and Robinson exercises his "little man inside" to crack the case in progress, but you hardly notice it, you're so gripped by the plot. The dialogue is sharper than a buzz-saw, particularly the first encounter between McMurray and Stanwyck where you can almost see the flames crackling into life between them while Wilder's direction keeps up the suspense from first to last and yet is never unnecessarily hurried.As to which is the better movie between this and "Postman" it's the difference between a twenty and two tens. Essential Golden Age Hollywood film-making, murderously good.


                
For many people this is the ultimate film Noir,it is certainly one of the greatest thrillers ever made.It's based on the novel by James M.Cain, directed by Billy Wilder and all the ingredients for a successful Noir are present,a beautiful and deadly Femme Fatale,shadows,murder and a doomed love affair that can only end in tears.Several actors including George Raft were considered for the lead role which eventually went to Fred MacMurray,an actor who usually played all round nice guys,the change resulted in one of the best performances of his career.Los Angeles,July 16th 1938, injured Insurance man Walter Neff(Fred MacMurray)records a memo for his close friend and fellow Insurance man, Claims Manager Barton Keyes(Edward G.Robinson)confessing to a murder.In flashback we learn his story several months earlier he drove out to the mansion of Mr and Mrs Dietrichson to renew their Insurance policy on the car.He meets the wife Phyllis(Barbara Stanwyck)every inch the seductress who convinces him to get her husband Accident Insurance Policy and help her kill him so they can collect the cash.Neff strangles him to the delight of an obviously aroused Phyllis and they drop his body on the tracks,with Phyllis claiming he fell off the train.Everyone except the persistent Keyes buys the story and Keyes becomes convinced that Phyllis murdered her husband with the help of another man.Yet his blind devotion to Neff,leads him to overlook what is staring him right in the face.It all leads to a shootout and a confession of love between a heartbroken Keyes and Neff.The three leads especially Robinson are excellent and in Neff we have one of the genres most pitiable victims of the most iconic Femme Fatale Phyllis,eating himself up with fear and disgust knowing it's all going to end badly yet not having the strength to get away from her.Wilder did film a much grimmer ending with a heartbroken Keyes watching Neff die in the Gas chamber but decided the ending at the Insurance company was more fitting and that was a good call on his part.Impressive and stylish with a gripping and unforgettable story of murder,love and deception Double Indemnity is a must see.
This is a classic movie that is made by its story. It has a great deep murder-plot, with normal characters being put in not so normal circumstances. Within its genre this is simply one fine movie, that with all of its ingredients embodies the crime/film-noir genre of the '40's.Like all of these movies it begins all rather simple, with a good thought out murder-plot but of course soon things start to go from bad to worse. This is what I like mostly about this type of movies. Characterers change throughout the movie and the plot thickens fast. It's really a movie that gets better by the minute and besides also features plenty of nice twists and developments. A real fine constructed movie.It's of course also being made great by it's atmosphere, that I don't consider typically film-noir like, cinematography and directing by Billy Wilder, who handled a lot of different genres successfully throughout his career, film-noir being just one of them. He also helped to write the screenplay for this movie. His directing and writing both earned him an Oscar nomination for this movie. The movie got nominated for a total of 7 Oscar's, including best picture but it won none however. Nevertheless the movie has grown out to be more of a classic than the movies that did won an Oscar over "Double Indemnity" that year.Fred MacMurray isn't really the best known actor but he suits his role in this movie just fine. He really fits in well within the genre. I wasn't too happy about Barbara Stanwyck though, who has played far better roles throughout her career. She also looked quite ridicules with her blond wig. Ironically enough she still got nominated for an Oscar for her role in this movie. It was great to see Edward G. Robinson in this. It was the first time ever he appeared in a film-noir and prior to this he was mostly known for his tough roles in gangster-movies.A must-see for the fans of the genre.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
So very rarely do you get such a film that withstands the test of time without being too innovative. Films such as Citizen Kane, Casablanca and 2001: A Space Odyssey are all fantastic examples of what film can be and how a single film of however long can innovate, entertain and spellbind at the same time but something so simple and so straightforward as Double Indemnity can also prove to be of equal quality.Double Indemnity is not a film that is particularly visual, it's not a film that relies on standout performances or lines of dialogue that you hear quoted and see spoofed in other films years later; but where the genius and I must emphasise 'genius' lies is in its camera control and emphases on character and plot. The way the camera is used as an actual 'tool' rather than something to just point and shoot, the way the character of Phyllis (Stanwyck) is glamorised but at the same time presented in a dangerous way and of course, the break-neck pace in which the film moves along all culminate in a film experience that is truly entertaining and that gives us an education; not only in film but in morality.I mentioned the script has no standout lines but the way the characters communicate to one another is funny and so realistic, it's like being in the rooms with them. The way Walter (MacMurray) talks to his work colleague Barton (Robinson) about the case once its been carried out is not only fascinating because we know the truth but also just merely entertaining. There is no "Here's looking at you kid" or "Open the pod bay doors" but instead a series of humorous lines, witty put downs and amusing anecdotes; my favourite being when Walter's talking about insurance to a semi naked Phyllis and he states that he'd hate the household not to be "fully covered". I also liked the way the narration puts you in the film <U+0096> Walter describes just about everything he does and everywhere he goes. He tells us what he's feeling and even what he smells: Honeysuckle in the air, last nights party cigars in the hosting room. We find out how he feels as we centre around him; I ask you: how many films are there that attach us to a character so much that we feel what he's feeling because he's telling us what it's actually like? Once all the classic flirting between Walter and Phyllis as well as the now iconic way in which she is glamorised through the camera as it moves with her, focuses on certain body parts and has her wear what it is she chooses to wear, the film beds down into the actual act of crime in sets up so well. The tension and atmosphere during the second third and beyond is tense enough but when little things pop up such as the injuring of Phyllis' husband's leg as well as suspicions in the office scene that includes a company chief suspecting foul play whilst Walter and Phyllis herself stand and sit waiting the outcome is brilliant as it's unpredictable. Barton's persistence in the office scene just involving Walter is fantastic as is when he turns up at Walter's flat when we are all expecting Phyllis any moment.Few other films get more and more intense as the plot carries on <U+0096> it's like the scene of the crime as the detective tries to find clues only the scene is one massive world of evidence, witnesses, murder and suspects and the twist is that our protagonist is the guy who's got to pray nobody cracks the case. As an example of film noir, Double Indemnity is as good as it gets; as an example of story telling Double Indemnity is again, as good as it gets. In fact whatever things Double Indemnity does do in a minor and unspectacular fashion, it still manages to pull off as either mere entertainment or as tension wrought twists of the knife.


                
I have watched DOUBLE INDEMNITY probably no less than 10 times. It entertains me each and every time.I think the movie is cast perfectly. Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwyck & Edward G. Robinson are all excellent. They played it out to perfection.Fred MacMurray was only known to me as the father on "My Three Sons" the first time I saw this movie. I loved him as Walter Neff. He played it so well - very believable.And Barbra Stanwyck as Phillis Dietrichson... Oh my gosh! She has been one of my favorites for a while. She, as usual, plays "the bad woman" so well. She makes you believe she could get a man do anything she wants. I will say, I very much dislike her hair in this movie. It is very unflattering.Edward G. Robinson is so funny & odd to me. I love to see him in movies. He balanced out the cast perfectly.


                
A classic of the film noir genre. The old story of Eve seducing Adam and leading him down the path of evil and ultimate destruction. Stanwyck smolders in the role of the disaffected housewife who sees MacMurray as a means of ridding herself of a husband and reaping the financial rewards. EG Robinson shines as the insurance investigator but it is MacMurray who steals the movie. One has no trouble in believing him in the role of an opportunistic killer. Who would have thought that the doting father of My Three Sons could be so sinister. MacMurray should have won the Oscar for his coruscating performance. Hollywood should have a category for posthumous awards rectifying past mistakes.
It is almost unbelievable that this film is nearly 60 years old. The sophistication of style and structure makes it seem almost contemporary. The film flits from frenzied the mind of Neff, to the machinations of femme fatale Dietrichson to the corkscrew mind of Robinson's character.A triumph!


                
