I really enjoy QI. It has what most 'quiz' show's lack. It never takes itself seriously, the guests are always witty and have fun making the show.Back in 2005 I was lucky to watch them record an episode at the London Studios. What a great night's entertainment. The stuff that they leave out is just as funny so although it takes them over 2 hours to record a show the time flies. Stephen Fry is such a clever man , the best bits are always when the other guests take the pee out of Stephen for being too posh.GREAT ENTERTAINMENT!


                
With lots of references to British culture, lifestyle and history, it is a difficult-to-translate show. But if you watch it in English and with a British mindset, there is nothing like it: smart, interesting, truly funny (and not prudish at all).Davies and Fry are a lovely couple of hosts to watch, and the panelists are also quite funny (I like Hall and Jupitus very much).It is a very entertaining show, with lots of interesting pieces of information which are simply funny (though probably extracted from a questionable use of sources and statistics, but it really doesn't matter because the whole show is hilarious).I happened to watch it at a friends' and I didn't expect it to make me «laugh», just to entertain me with interesting stuff. However, to my surprise, it was funnier and wittier than many comedy shows. I laughed my heart out! Warning: It is not a «family show» unless you openly talk to your children about adult matters. References to sexuality, gay life and double entendres abound, but always in a subtle, witty way which does not strike as vulgar in general.Kudos to Q.I.! Do not miss this program if you can!


                
I love Stephen Fry and have never found him to be smug and up himself! He often has the p*ss taken out of him on QI and obviously enjoys it as much as we do. He is a real genius and his mimicry (particularly of Robert Robinson) is brilliant. He is always at pains to point out that he does not know everything and his "helper elves" are supplying him with the facts. Alan Davies plays the idiot to SF's brainiac wonderfully too and the programme works because of their relationship. Other panellists worthy of note have been Jo Brand, Andy Hamilton ,Sean Lock, Jimmy Carr, Rich Hall, Bill Bailey and just about every guest that has taken part. It must be quite daunting to be witty and funny among the talent that turns up time and again for this show. My wife and I watch QI as often as we can when it is on and still enjoy the ones we have already seen over and over again. I always feel I have been educated, amused and thoroughly entertained and informed. As a lover of trivia this programme suits me down to the ground- it's almost perfect in every way. I am always amazed at how quickly the 30 minutes go by and cannot wait for the next one. It should run and run for ever. Kudos to the one who devised this great piece of TV.


                
Since the beginning of QI me and my partner watched these series and loved Stephen Fry and his guests. The wit, the knowledge, the humor of most of the guests but certainly of Mr. Fry; they all gives us reason for at least smiling, but very often laughing our socks off. Please do not stop. We need at least another 10 series. And bring the actress Emma Thompson, back. She was especially funny and knows Mr. Fry very well and with her the show is even better. Also we love the role Mr. Alan Davies plays. Always thanking the people for their applause. He accepts the scores gracefully. We also like to see Jo Brand; we find her replies very funny. Lots of comedians came as guests and we liked most of them.
I love QI, it has something for everybody. Steven Fry is very intelligent and has helped make the programme very entertaining and educational. It also has Alan Davies who stops the show becoming too high brow.The wonder of having Stephen Fry and Alan Davies is they are complete opposites. The banter between them is great, the best bit of the show in my opinion.They have a good mix of guest panellists with very different comedic styles, which helps keep the show fresh.I went to see a recording of a show from the seres E (currently being broadcast on BBC). The recording lasted 2 hours and was incredibly funny throughout. I also had the honour of witnessing Alan Davies win with a score of +13.Another great thing about this programme is that it doesn't draw inspiration from the news. Shows like Mock the Week and Have I got News for you are not quite as funny when repeated because you forget the new items. QI avoids this trap.
Never un-entertaining, sometimes whimsical,often hilarious (I seriously can't believe another reviewer said 'never hilarious')and occasionally side-splittingly, pant-wettingly funny, I can honestly say I don't think there has been one episode of QI in which I didn't laugh and I didn't learn some obscure (or not so obscure) fact about something in the world. Who would ever suspect that the great naturalist Charles Darwin once skipped cataloging a species, because he (and indeed everyone who came upon it) ATE the darn things almost into extinction. Who would imagine that rabbits weren't introduced into England until the 1300s and then remained penned up in enclosures for about 600 years before escaping into the wild (heck I didn't know they weren't native). This is a wonderful panel game (possibly an oxymoron?) and Stephen Fry, so beloved of the British public (and I think the Americans also, although perhaps lesser known here, but youtube is a great way to watch these if you can't get them on TV) makes a wonderful host; sometimes unable to contain the rambunctiousness of his comedic panel guests(which is just as entertaining as when he does manage to keep them in line). Watch it. Learn. Laugh.
** Spoilers included - well sort of **I've been a long term fan of QI, I've watched it from the start and always tune in even to the repeats on UKTVG2 (Satellite channel in the UK). I've decided to put in a review as Series 1 has now finally been released on DVD.Stephen Fry is perfect in the role of QI Master asking lots of general knowledge trivia questions that we, the audience and the panelists think we know the answers to, but are usually wrong (How many moons does the Earth have?, not it's not just the one, as we all thought). Alan Davies plays the regular stooge to Fry's Oxbridge smarty pants and usually looses. Joining Alan and Stephen are three other contestants who change each week and comprise of comedians, TV presenters, actors and assorted celebs.Each series has a letter as the common thread, series 1 was A, 2 was B and so on, this means a possible 26 series (I wish). Each question can be rewarded with 5 points for an incorrect but interesting answer or anecdote, 10 points for a correct answer and -10 points for the answer we think is the obvious but always incorrect (accompanied buy a loud siren and the answer flashing up on the screen), other amounts of points are sometimes awarded such as 1 million for recognising the chemical formula for a custard explosion. Also always fun to look out for a lovvie award given to anyone who mentions someone famous in an anecdote.The BBC produces great quiz shows with Never Mind The Buzzcocks, Mock The Week and Have I Got News For You, but for me QI is the best of the bunch.
Learning and laughing. My favorite show. I watch it all the time.


                
Jonathon Ross is either incredibly wise or very, very, very well briefed. He was absolutely superb in this episode. Poor old Stephen was sometimes lost for words!!!! Jonathan kept coming up with trivia fact after trivia fact that seemed endlessly linked together in a stream of knowledge. It makes such a difference when intelligence is celebrated on TV. Alan was great. I did see an episode in the last series where he actually won! Even then he didn't know how!Congratulations to everyone involved in this show, I would recommend it to anyone. THE BEST OF A FANTASTIC SERIES!


                
