I agree with the other reviewer that this movie showcases human beings in their vilest form. From sinister perversion to masochistic torture. In the end, it is not worth watching. This is not something I want to remember or have in my head. If you think about it, why would you want to live a dark and tortuous life like that and why would anyone want to create a film to encourage people to bring such a thing to reality. Just because it's "artistic" does not make it okay.


                
Really ??? that is the masterpiece that critics and IMDb viewers have been talking about? it seems that the following conversation had been made in the studio: Director: Lest make a movie about revenge studio employee: But you have been making movies about revenge don't you think that its time to move on ? Director: No, you see this one is different its special it has lesbian soft cor porn in it , and all the men in it are vile , gross things. Studio employee: but ... but we are not a porn making studio people will laugh at us. Director: No they wont, sex sells and also its about female empowering. Studio employee( he is sweating and is nervous ): what female empowering ? these two girls are liars they were willing to con each other and commit one another in mad house. And besides why should human depravity be shown as only sexual depravity , i mean people can be celibate and still be very gross . Director: shut up sex sells and we need money . Studio employee : OK whatever you say sir ( silently wishing he had studied law instead of film making)
If you are not in to pornography, you should definitely not watch this movie. Even if you do like porn this movie will still probably flop for you. The entire plot seems designed to set up elaborate and frankly quite disturbing sex scenes. Mercifully, it wasn't interesting enough to keep me awake and I fell asleep about half way through. Perhaps the parts I missed were better, but even if the second half was literally the perfect film, that would not redeem the parts that I was unfortunate enough to watch.


                
Do not waste your time ! Biggest mistake of my life and now all i want is to forget it as fast as possible. I think i'm not watching korean movies for a period after this. The problem i never knew from the description that it will be porn but also torture, rape and the worst storyline of my life


                
