This is hands down the most perfect film I have seen so far this year. I gave a score of 5/5 to movies like The Revenant, Spotlight and The Songs We Sang. But even with these excellent films I can always find a spot that doesn't quite sit right with me. With The Handmaiden, it is perfect; every frame handcrafted to perfection. Even with 4min of explicit sex taken away by my country's dumb censors, this is still perfect every way I see it. Auteur Park Chan-Wook's The Handmaiden is a superb exercise in form, structure and tone. With the latter, Park (Oldboy & Joint Security Area) has achieved something extraordinary. If any scene were to linger a few seconds longer or he had decided to focus on a certain issue, the film would have veered off to a different territory. As it is, and with all the major characters' kooky off-kilter portrayals, I can't pinpoint whether I was watching something real or abstract. I was also kept in awe by the intricate and resplendent set- design which suggests something dark and Gothic is working the undercurrents. There are of course some serious girl on girl action but that never encroaches into the spine of the story. Adapting Sarah Waters' Fingersmith, a Victorian tale awash with all manner of Dickensian motifs, Park spins an engrossing tale that ebbs and flows with a Hitchcockian suspense; it withholds as much as it discloses; it is an erotic tale that beats with raw fervour. It is at once a love story but also a menagerie showcasing human beings in their vilest forms. Park's finger hovers over all the buttons, teasing us gleefully but it is with the ultimate restraint that he never descends down to the usual tropes. The story is divided into three chapters; each told from a different character's perspective. The structure is Rashomon-esque but Park puts his own stamp on it. The film may be nearly 2.5 hours but I hardly moved in my seat; my senses kept spellbound as each twist hits me hard. When it ended I couldn't believe 2.5 hours have whizzed by. The plot is pulsating and it never lets up. There is even an octopus in it! This is definitely the most perfect film I have seen this year. You may not agree with me but for me this is cinema of the masterclass level. It's sexy time!


                
I consider Park Chan-Wook to be among the greats of cinema, alongside Scorsese, Tarantino, Fellini, Truffaut, Coppola, Tarkovsky and Nolan. So I had huge expectations going in, and boy, they were met. TheHandmaiden is a masterpiece in pretty much every sense. It is visually exquisite, Costumes, production design, cinematography, music, all combine to create a lush vision of Japan-occupied Korea in the 1930s. Park Chan-Wook is a visually meticulous filmmaker and no film so far of his has showcased his knack for visual storytelling better than the Handmaiden. I went into this film totally blind, which I honestly recommend all people doing, because the plot itself unfolds in such a beautifully engineered fashion. My best description of the film is a Rebecca-like Hitchcockian thriller with the extremity and depravity of films like Oldboy and Battle Royale, and the humanistic sexuality of Blue is the Warmest Colour. All actors are stunning in this film. The two women share an honest, tender romance that is both passionate and moving, with a refreshing candour about the nature of sexuality that is almost never seen in Hollywood productions. The Count is an incredibly charismatic performer who remains appealing despite his many despicable acts. But as always with a Park Chan-Wook film, the real star is the director himself. The way in which this story is crafted is nothing short of engrossing. The outrageous, depraved, sexy, fascinating plot is crafted through multiple perspectives, dashing across back and forth in time, to masterfully reveal key plot points across a never less than spellbinding two hour run time. Some would say the film is slow, but I felt as though the extended running time worked in the film's favour, in order to build character to the extent that the finale for the film feels momentously epic, a real feat considering the movie showcases only four key characters. I was utterly engrossed by this beautifully made film.


                
"The Handmaiden" is a crazily imaginative and beautiful movie by Chan-wook Park, who is at the top of his game in this story of a pickpocket that tries to steal the fortune of a naive, innocent rich woman that has been secluded in a mansion in the middle of nowhere. Of course, things will start to get complicated soon enough.Chan-wook Park has done a great job in adapting the original novel by Sarah Waters, and mixing it with the history of the Japanese invasion of Korea at the beginning of the twentieth century. The plot is a little bit silly sometimes, but Chan-wook Park makes it all tight and fast-paced, and even the most silly moment becomes a moment of beauty and fun. From the first moment, the viewer will be enthralled by the story of these two women and their relationship, and every plot development will just add fun to the whole.If the plot and the direction weren't amazing enough, the movie is as beautiful as they come. From the darkest moment, the most violent, to the most intimate, beauty transpires in every frame, and every scene comes to life and threatens to pop and break free from the screen. This is helped by the amazing work of all the cast, who does an incredible job in bringing this tale to life (it could be criticized, though, some of the heavily accented Japanese, for characters that are supposed to be able to pass as them).All in all, "The Handmaiden" is proof that a movie can have a plot, amazing direction, acting, scenery, craziness and the most beautiful package possible. And even if it is almost two hours and a half long, it feels like a breeze.You will fall in love with this movie. Just plain great.


                
The controversial film from Korean master Chan-wook Park evokes the sexiness of Abdellatif Kechiche's "Blue is the Warmest Colour" and Park's own signature violence and thrills. Set in the 1930s Japanese occupied Korea, it's a story of a young female pickpocket (Kim Tae-ri) who becomes a handmaiden to a beautiful Japanese heiress (Min-hee Kim). However, she must manage to convince the heiress to marry a conman (Jung-woo Ha) who poses as a count, for which she will get a chance for a better life. She gets into a moral dilemma when she starts developing feelings for the heiress.The Handmaiden is a triumph on every level. The film is divided into three chapters, all giving different perspective. This way, the story is perfectly structured to give more and more insight as the film progresses, but at the same time, keep the viewers guessing. It offers a few surprises along the way as well. Visually, it's a feast for the eyes. The term "every frame a painting" gets overused, but it really fits here. I'm not only talking about cinematography, which offered plenty of memorable shots and beautiful scenery, but the costume and set design. The three leads all gave terrific performances. Musical score by Yeong-wook evokes, or better said, amplifies the emotions and the suspenseful tone. Despite the run time of 2 hours and 24 minutes, it never gets dull, it's very evenly paced throughout. I couldn't look away for a second.One thing needs to be addressed, the film is quite explicit. That being said, it never gets vulgar, the sex scenes are done in perfect taste, they never feel out of place and they're not there just for the sake of it. The relationship between the characters and the physical presentation of it are integral to the film. It's a film about passion, abuse, jealousy, betrayal and deception, but most of all, it's an atypical love story, which will make one love and hate the protagonists at the same time. It's original and daring work of art that will stick with viewers long after it's finished.Whenever Chan-wook Park makes a film, it must undoubtedly be compared to his masterpiece, "Oldboy". I don't think that "The Handmaiden" surpasses it, but it comes very close. With this film, he proved himself to be one of the greatest working directors today. It's the best film I've seen this year, one that I can't wait to revisit. It's not to be missed.


                
Park goes back to the origins, with its cinema full of mystery, brutal but mostly exuberant. In his new film, Park, brings surely one of his best works, the plot is set in Korea in the thirties, in a time of Japanese occupation, and focuses on four main characters, Hideko, a Japanese heiress who lives isolated in the camp with Kouzuki, his domineering uncle, Sook-Hee, a newly hired maid, and a con artist who presents himself as Count Fujiwara to teach painting to Hideko. Being divided into 3 parts of lies and betrayals, the film has a huge camera work, abusing well-designed plans and space, both indoors and out, traveling through a mixture of English and Japanese architecture, the film is a breeze in the eyes of so beautiful, from the very accurate track, immersion in the beauty of Japanese erotic literature, the film explores well-developed characters, and of course, returns plot twist on plot twist, as the director knows well how to do, no doubt one of the best films of the year.


                
The Handmaiden was an outstanding masterpiece, a pure work of art. It covered the whole spectrum of human emotion: Lust, love, hate, vicious moral decay, and all matters of perversion. And all presented in such a raw and passionate intensity, always keeping you on your toes. And I haven't even stared gushing about the cinematography - simply breathtaking, from start to finish. I quite liked Stoker, but not as much as Oldboy, which was fantastic. But Handmaiden has been my favorite work from visionary director Park Chank-Wook so far. Cannot wait to see what he will baffle us with next.


                
Not to mention beautifully and cleverly directed.This is the first of Chan-wook Park's films I've seen and if the others are half as good as "The Handmaiden" I'm going to see them all. Min-hee Kim stars as Lady Hikeko, a young Japanese woman of wealth and beauty living in an isolated estate with her sadistic uncle in Japanese-occupied Korea in the 1930s. A gaggle of Korean thieves and con artists dream up a scheme to separate Hikeko from her fortune. The idea is for one of them to pose as a Count Fujiwara, seduce Hikeko and then marry her. Aiding this scheme is a pretty little pickpocket named Sook-Hee (played with great skill and charm by Tae-ri Kim).That's all I can tell you about the plot. Rest assured it is fascinating with some very surprising twists and turns. This is also one of the sexiest movies I've ever seen. It is billed as a crime thriller but actually it is the story of a beautiful love affair. Again I will not elaborate since any more information might spoil the film for many viewers.Bottom line: I plan on seeing this again and I seldom watch films more than once, only the great ones.--Dennis Littrell, author of the movie review book, "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote"


                
"The Handmaiden" is a fiercely original bit of erotica that changes the setting of the novel on which it is based from England to 1930s Korea. In an example of narrative sleight of hand that would make Quentin Tarantino proud, director Chan-wook Park tells his story in three parts, each one upending the perspective of the one before and forcing his audience to re-process everything it has just seen.The first part tells the story of a young pickpocket, Sook-Hee, who is roped into a scheme concocted by a sleazy thief posing as a rich count to rob a rich heiress, lady Hideko, of her fortune. The second part tells things from the heiress's point of view, and we find out that she and the "count" are actually in cahoots and it's Sook-Hee who's the dupe. Then the third part details the efforts of the two women, who have fallen in love, to double cross everyone and escape to make a life together. "The Handmaiden" is largely about what happens when women tire of playing the role assigned to them by men and decide to write their own narrative. Storytelling is a running theme in the film, but the stories being told are all about women being sexually used by men at best but almost always suffering in some way, either physically or emotionally, at their hands. When Sook-Hee and Lady Hideko decide they don't like the parts written for them and take matters into their own hands, it's like watching a weary character in a book jump out of the pages and run away from the reader. The women are liberated, and the viewer likewise feels liberated watching them, enjoying the rare film where women are about more than what men do to them.Grade: A+


                
Like many North American films fans, I discovered Park Chan-Wook's work through his 2003 breakout Oldboy. He has continued to make great films like Thirst, I'm A Cyborg (But That's OK), and his American film debut Stoker, but I have felt that known of his films have packed the same punch as JSA and the Vengeance Trilogy until 2016's the Handmaiden.The Handmaiden is adapted from the novel the Fingersmith by Sarah Waters, and tells the story of a woman named Sook-hee, who takes up an offer from her employer Count Fujiwara to become the titular handmaiden for the very rich Lady Hideko, so that the Count can get into Hideko's good graces, and eventually marry Hideko in place of her uncle usurp her fortune, and have her committed. What he does not anticipate is that the two ladies will fall in love, and eventually plot against him.The film has what could be a simple period set story told in a deeply complex way. The story is split into 3 acts told from each of the 3 main characters perspectives so that certain segments are repeated from the perspective of each character, so they are understood in different ways. Chan-wook has created a lush, gorgeous atmosphere to set his story in, and even in the film's slower moments (in the late 2nd act for example), the film is stunning to behold. The performances from the main cast, are always deep from the written to the physical.This brings me to the sex scenes which like Blue is the Warmest Color have taken on a note of notoriety for their explicit nature. They certainly are explicit for a film that could qualify for a sort of mainstream film, but they do feel central to the plot, as both characters come from positions where they have been dominated by men their entire existence, and are using these moments not just as sexual expression, but as moments where they are able to take control of their own existence.
''The Handmaiden'' is a mesmerizing period drama that convinces with a twisted story, gloomy settings, an atmospheric score, precise cinematography, profound characters and incredible acting performances. It consists of three parts, the first two leading to clever twists and the last one to a satisfactory conclusion that leaves no questions unanswered if you watch carefully. The story is set in Japanese-occupied Korea and tells the story of a thief's daughter who is collaborating with a clever crook in order to steal the inheritance of a rich Japanese lady living in seclusion with her perverted uncle. Telling you anything more would take away from the movie's brilliant storytelling.The movie has a slow pace but develops a melancholic atmosphere right from the start with the very first scene until the final freeze frame. Despite a few necessary repetitions in the story due to a few shifts in perspective, the movie passed surprisingly quickly despite a running time of nearly two and a half hours.The story is clever and emotional with its twists and turns. Some twists are hard to predict while others are easier to figure out and others again aren't directly revealed throughout the movie but they are all told carefully, elegantly and profoundly. This movie doesn't only stimulate your genitals and your heart but also your brain.The film should only be watched by mature adults since it includes a lot of eroticism. The movie carefully contrasts cold sexual abuse and passionate romance in a balanced way. This isn't only done by performing credible sexual intercourse in front of the camera. This is also told through facial expressions, quotes from erotic novels and appropriate settings. While more conservative minds could be shocked, one should note that every single scene adds to the clever story and the depth of the characters. This movie doesn't include any sexual innuendo and no pornographic movie could even slightly achieve what this movie does. This is truly a lesson in eroticism performed by highly skilled actors and actresses and this combination makes this movie stand out.In the end, the combination of intense emotions, profound eroticism and an intelligent story in a movie involving outstanding actors and actresses and directed by one of the world's best directors makes this one of the very best period dramas ever made in the history of cinema. Not only genre fans will adore this movie but any adult with a genuine interest in cinema should watch this contemporary masterpiece.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."The Handmaiden" (2016) was without the doubt one of the best movies from 2016 I've seen. This is a multi-layered story which involves - love, sex, cons, mystery and a little bit of violence. Before seeing this movie i kinda thought it would be slow paces story which will probably involve all above mentioned things, but boy oh boy surely i wasn't prepared for how this movie is great. If anything else, this movie isn't slow paced - at running time 2 h 15 min. it is a brilliantly crafted highly involving story. Directing, writing, cinematography were first rate as well as acting and set design. The story itself was very intriguing, but its the brilliant movie craftsmanship that made "The Handmaiden" into one of the best movies I've seen whole year (2016).Overall, "The Handmaiden" is definitely a movie that should be seen by everyone who enjoys great films (but not for the youngest ones as it shows some explicit sex scenes). It is a very beautifully filmed story, not predictable or boring for a second (!) and a highly involving one. Brilliant picture.


                
I cannot remember the last time I watched a movie that completely sucked me into the plot. Time just flew by, and once it was done I just sat there in awe. The way this movie portrays human degeneracy, greed, compassion and love is just mindbogglingly genius. This movie single handedly made me realise how bad Hollywood productions have gotten. This reminded me on how good movies can be. No super heroes, no nonsense, jut a pure raw story to tell. Magnificent.


                
I don't have the eloquence needed to describe this film!!! From the first scene it grabbed me and gobbled me up. Some of the scenes were so intensely beautiful that my skin was like a live wire just waiting to spark at the touch. I will say that some of the sex scenes made me squirm a bit and that doesn't happen to me...like NEVER!!! But what captivated me were the scenes that didn't appear sexual in nature, but the aching and longing between Lady Hideko and Sook-Hee elicited feelings as close to sexual as they come. The story is well played out. The three parts were brilliant and I was pleasantly surprised to find out that the two women came together to not only burn Count Fujiwara but also Lady Hideko's captor, abuser, tormentor (is that enough??) Uncle Kouzuki. What I like about "Asian" films is that they aren't afraid to make criminals the heroes or make them win in the end.
I'll keep this brief as I think if you really want to enjoy this movie you should go into it knowing as little as possible. This movie is amazing; I like it even more than Oldboy, and I LOVE Oldboy. The story of this movie is so well done and it gets even better as you re-watch it and notice new details as it unfolds. It isn't just that though, the performances, cinematography, the music, everything is impeccable. This is one of my new favorite movies, PLEASE go watch it.


                
It's expected that your mind will be blown when you are watching a Park Chan Wook. But boy did this movie blew me away. Am I still in awe of it. With lots of twists sometimes movies become boring and feels that the writer is trying too hard but no not this one. Everything falls in it's place perfectly. The style of story telling with non-linear narrative lends it a fitting way to convey the story. All the actors are stupendous, couldn't have played their part any better. Specially the Handmaiden, for me it was love at the first sight. Her innocence, beauty and smile took my heart away. Similarly the Lady Hideko played her part with utmost perfection . The Villains also come out and deliver a perfect performance. Talking about cinematography ; it is picture perfect, the color combination sometimes remind one of Wes Anderson . The Music too is crafted in a suitable manner and makes it more emotionally charged and gives it a strong feel. I usually don't just praise a movie but point out what I thought was missing but sorry this time there is nothing I think about. If you want to see a sensual, dramatic, unpredictable movie this is perfect treat for you. They don't make it like this anymore.


                
THE HANDMAIDEN is a great film. It seems to glow with creativity and beauty with each new scene, and during the entirety of its over 2 hour run time I found myself entranced by a slow-churning mystery that left me once again excited by the craft a good movie can make appear so easy.The film is a South Korean production helmed by director Chan-wook Park, known mostly in America as the director of 'Oldboy.' People often say that foreign films demonstrate a higher quality in comparison to the stuff of Hollywood; that stories are daring and the craft is not as pressured by executives who would rather turn a profit than make something truly substantial. Did they ever get it right.The movie is a period piece that is lush in costumes and sets. Each new shot paints a picture on the screen that simply pulls one into the world of South Korea in the 1930's. The cinematography, a lush landscape of vibrant hues and meticulous staging, keeps us engaged as though by hypnotism. The story follows three people, each scheming in their own right, telling the audience information that might only be a passing thought in their mind. In the simplest form, the story is of a conman who hopes to rob a wealthy woman (Lady Hideko) of her inheritance by feigning love with her and posing as a Count. Once married, he will find her mentally unsound and throw her in a mental institution, leaving him to bask in a newfound fortune. In order to make the most of his plan, he sends a maid (another con artist named Sook-Hee) to infiltrate the Lady's home and gain information and insight into the mind of the woman.The film opens with a scene of forgers and thieves who meet to hear the "Count's" plan. He runs a business of sorts, forging money, legal papers, and jewelry. He promises them a cut of the fortune assuming they can help pass himself off as a man of means. Sook- Hee, for her troubles, is promised $50,000 and a new wardrobe once Hideko is institutionalized. She is a simple girl, illiterate, but the prospects are insatiable.In the night, she takes a car ride down the coastline to the estate of Lady Hideko, a grand estate built in two parts: one half designed as though an English mansion, and another half in traditional Japanese style. It's truly East meets West, and the blatant metaphor of clashing cultures and ideas only becomes more potent as the story progresses.Lady Hideko lives on the estate with her elderly uncle, a man who uses an ink pen so fervently that his tongue is stained black. He is a collector of antique literature and texts which are entirely erotic in nature, and uses Hideko to recite the texts to potential buyers who frequent the mansion in hopes of bidding on what is essentially pornography. We learn about her past, raised by her Uncle in a disciplinarian manner, losing her aunt to a suicide as a child, and an eternal fear of ever leaving the confines of the estate. For Sook- Hee, the innocent maid come to spy on her, it might already seem like a mental institute is not too far off.As these two women begin to know each other, they become friendly, with Hideko using Sook-Yee to model her clothes and confine dark secrets in the privacy of her room. Sook- Yee, who sees the potential wealth she will soon inherit, seems hypnotized by the beauty of her boss, and in some of the most beautiful moments of glances and gestures, we can see a dark romance forming between the two women.The story is broken up into three parts, and to venture in even discussing the array of twists and turns would do no favors to the structure of the story, so expertly-written and brilliant that at any one time we may have flashbacks within flashbacks told simply to act as footnote to a line of dialogue or interpret the actions of a character. Never are we lost or in over our heads; this is a masterpiece of story and style. In fact, Part 2 nearly replays the entire first act of the film but through the perspective of an entirely different character. Scenes are repeated in their entirety and yet the insight we gain only leads towards understanding of the next moment, and the next...The movie is based on an English crime novel called "Fingersmith," and we can see how this story could easily be (at first glance) a serial crime novel with a predictable plot. The story is tense at times and deeply erotic at others, showing these two women in moments of ultimate vulnerability and strength, sometimes in the same instance. I would expect many audience members to be offput by the graphic nature of several scenes, and yet I can do nothing but praise the artistic endeavors to use sex on film as a means to tell an emotional story.The Academy Awards have created a shortlist of potential nominees for Best Foreign Film, a list that does not include 'The Handmaiden' (South Korea instead nominated a film called 'The Age of Shadows'). It's a shame that a movie as wonderful as this could be looked over, even if by technicality that a country needs to pick one film only to represent it. The soundtrack is haunting, the story compelling, the look is heavenly. I know I will see many more films as the Fall rolls along, and yet I know that when I come to make a list of my favorite films of the year, this is now the one to beat.


                
The Handmaiden succeeds as a mesmerizing piece of cinema thanks to a rich story full of twists and turns that you won't see coming, excellent camera work, superb directing, excellent costume design, and unforgettable performances by its ensemble cast. I won't reveal what the story is about as that is something you must see for yourself, but take my word for it, its worth a watch.


                
The Handmaiden contains multitudes: It's a sumptuous romantic period piece, as well as a sexy spy thriller, replete with secret identities and triple-crosses. It's an extended commentary on Japan's occupation of Korea in the 1930s, and it's an intense piece of psychological horror from one of the masters of the genre, Park Chan-wook. But more than anything, The Handmaiden is just pure cinema, a dizzying, disturbing fable of love and betrayal that piles on luxurious imagery, while never losing track of its story's human core. For Park, the Korean director of crossover genre hits like Old Boy and Thirst, the movie feels like an evolutionary leap forward in an already brilliant career.


                
In this movie, the Director has used the word SEX like a TRUMP card while playing POKER.
The movie is full of sensual twists and turns, but the idea of SEX adds momentum to normal stuff.
I loved this movie and it shall have a SEXY place in my heart.


                
Just wow!!!... What should i say... Just mind blowing.. I couldn't find any flaw... A must watch movie.. Kudos to PARK CHAN WOOK.. u r the boss!!!... Simply supercalifragilisticexpialidocious..!!!


                
Chan Wook Park RomanceA conman hires a bootlegger's daughter to help him convince a wealthy woman to marry him. As the woman and her maid come closer and closer the lines get blurred who's conning who ..P.S. :: There are graphic nude scenes, Japanese erotic-folklore--- "This is a movie for the perverted mind." - David Fincher10/10


                
I try not to use that word, it's rather overused for films that just aren't masterpieces. But when a film is so gorgeous that it imitates art, so multi-dimensional that it transcends the majority of narratives and so daring that it tests the limitations of film itself...I can't help but call it a masterpiece. A rich Japanese lady recruits a handmaiden who soon turns out to be a swindler, tasked with falsifying a wedding in order to steal her money. Twists and turns soon reveal many secrets that question the legitimacy of the new handmaiden's undercover task. Immediately I was hypnotised. Park Chan-Wook has such an eye for detail, every frame is lovingly crafted and resembles a jewel on a glistening necklace. Cinematography rarely looks this gorgeous, honestly. The visceral imagery conveys multiple themes of lust, greed, jealousy...in fact, nearly all the seven deadly sins are thematically interwoven in this complex narrative. Chan-Wook played me like a puppet. Manipulating my mind with every unexpected twist. It's a story of how powerful love is. An emotion so overwhelming that people are moulded by its presence. The lead characters all experience this, whether it be falsifying love or truly experiencing it for the first time. How motivations for money and power can be blurred by love. It's just a work of art. It truly is. Deceive me once? I applaud you. Deceive me twice? I'm jumping up and down the room like a lunatic. Tiny intricacies that are soon explained within the narrative's three parts, these revelations blew my mind. With an everlasting haunting undertone, it just made the story all the more resonating. Even the musical score was stunning, replicating orchestral symphonies with traditional Asian instruments. I will say it's an 18 for a reason, the sexual nature is extremely explicit yet it doesn't detract from the seamless story. Asian cinema has yet again proven that it's better than Hollywood. The Handmaiden, easily, acquires the perfect rating.


                
You may have heard Park Chan-wook's "Ah-gah-si" ("The Handmaiden" in English) called an erotic psychological thriller. That's true, but the movie is more. It addresses relationships and abuse. Very well, I might add. I'm not sure how much of it I can describe without giving a lot away. I can just say that you have probably never seen anything like this. There's plenty of sex, but none of it gratuitous.The only other Park movie that I've seen is the bland "Stoker", so I'm impressed. I would definitely like to see the rest of his movies. Moreover, I would like to see more movies set in Korea under Japanese colonial rule (a part of history too often overlooked). Not a masterpiece, but one that I recommend.


                
It's the 1930s. Korea is occupied by Japan. A clever rascal named Fujiwara plans a conspiracy to con the Japanese Lady Hideko out of all her money. His idea: The lady shall fall in love with him, and after the marriage he will put her in an asylum. The pickpocket Sook-hee, disguised as a handmaiden, is meant to influence Hideko. Fujiwara, Hideko and Sook-hee entangle themselves in a web of liaisons and intrigues ..."The Handmaiden" by Park Chan-wook is the riveting tale of a love triangle, where nothing is as it seems. It's disturbing, humorous, erotic, suspenseful and cryptic - a treat for everyone enjoying weird and original cinema. Park Chan-wook is well known for his movies dealing with themes such as violence, perversion and insanity. "The Handmaiden" might be his most excellent effort to date, even surpassing the powerful revenge thriller "Oldboy" (2003), which is a bit too erratic and over the top. This movie however has a clear vision and a much more subtle approach, masterfully playing with the expectations of its audience and twisting the story several times.This movie is about men forcing their sexual fantasies on women: Hideko is forced to read grubby texts to a male audience and to perform strange BDSM aerobatics. The only way she can escape this perverted world is through lesbian love, which culminates in one of the most awe-inspiring sex scenes I've ever seen. Park's depiction of sexuality is subversive, as there seems to be no escape from male fantasies no matter what. (And not just because Park is a male director.) There's some really interesting subtext going on here, but that doesn't mean that "The Handmaiden" is just pretentious gibberish. No, it tells an entertaining and engaging story as well, all while looking gorgeous. The humour is pretty great, too: There are many laugh out loud scenes. (Yeah, there might be some penis jokes in this.)With "The Handmaiden", Park Chan-wook proves that he's still one of the most exciting directors in contemporary cinema. His vision is artistic and daring, light-footed and sexy, captivating and beautiful. It's a brutal thriller, a sentimental drama and an erotic romance all at once. A truly original movie. Don't miss it.


                
The Handmaiden is a Korean movie based on the English novel Fingersmith. I've always understood a fingersmith to be a Dickensian pickpocket or someone else similarly light-fingered, but, apparently, the term is also a popular one with the LGBTQ community. You could use your imagination to figure out why but the movie saves you the trouble.This is a double cross of a double cross, with the 'fingersmiths' of the title attempting to pull a con on the young, naïve, and fabulously rich Lady Hideko (played by Min-Hee Kim who is oh-my-God beautiful), whose uncle wants to marry her. What? Yes, the oh-my-God horrid Uncle Kouzuki (played by  Jin-woong Jo) intends to wed the Lady, his niece, in order to inherit her fortune, which he needs in order to pursue rare 14th Century Japanese pornography texts. What? Yes, 14th Century Japanese pornography. Quite rare. Quite explicit, and quite priceless to a small but very degenerate group of Japanese businessmen in occupied Korea during the early 20th Century.The fingersmiths, local Koreans, hatch a plot for a fake member of Japanese nobility named Count Fujiwara (played by Jung-woo Ha) to sweep in and offer the Lady a chance to escape by eloping with the good Count to Japan, taking her fortune with her, naturally. After about a week of marriage, commit her to a nuthouse, make off with the cash, life is good<U+0085>so how's a Korean going to pull off Japanese nobility? Eh. Not at issue, because the uncle is a Korean, too, who is turning Japanese oh yes he's turning Japanese I really think so. It's a thing.So, in order to pull this improbable plot off, the Count gets a member of his fingersmith gang to pose as the Lady's handmaiden of the title and urge the Lady to accept the Count's suit. But the handmaiden, Sook-Hee (played by Tae-Ri Kim. No relation. I think) is not only a fingersmith of the Dickensian connotation but also of the LGBTQ one (figured it out yet?) and falls head over heels with the Lady, which I can understand because she is oh-my-God beautiful and so innocent and pure and naïve and<U+0085>No she ain't.And this is where the double cross of the double cross comes in, which I don't want to say very much more on because it is dee- lightful. In more ways than one, especially when bells are ringing.What?Go see for yourself.And be prepared. Because, hoo boy, you'll be treated to some excellent exhibitions of 14th Century Japanese pornographic techniques not once, not twice, but at least five times. In detail. And bordering just this side of an X-rating. You'll wish the director, Chan-wook Park of Old Boy fame, had added six or seven more examples. But I guess you'll just have to watch the movie again. And again. And again<U+0085>
