It's pornography (including sadism) interwoven with an intricate, silly plot--if this intrigues you, fine! I had trouble with the absurd set-up to the film, which is (and feels) way too long because the graphic sex scenes are virtually endless. There are three points-of-view, and the film invariably slips out of POV from time to time. That said, the settings, costumes and cinematography. are absolutely gorgeous, as are the female actors. Except for a twist or two, the film goes nowhere and is about nothing. The Korean and Japanese dialogue (as translated) often sounds like a cross between what one would find in a romance novel and hard-core pornography--breathless, over-the-top, no pretense of being remotely realistic. Nevertheless, the reviews have been extremely positive and the people in the audience when I attended seemed really to like this film--I am hard-pressed to understand why. While the characters in the movie are lusting for each other, and making an all-out effort to titillate viewers, I hunger for a story that has character development and a journey worth traveling.


                
It it preposterous that, at the time of this review, The Handmaiden had an 8.1 rating on IMDb which would make it the equal of such films as: The Wizard of Oz, The Grapes of Wrath, the Best Years of our Lives and Annie Hall. And that would rank it higher than Shane, The African Queen, The Searchers, and Sophie's Choice. All of the aforementioned films are among the top 100 films of all time, according to the AFI. Nor was this movie overrated by one demographic group.This movie did not have an MPAA rating but would certainly have deserved an X rating with the number of explicit sexual scenes. None of this would matter if the sexuality needed to be so explicit to advance the plot. It didn't.There are movies which are fundamentally about a sexual relationship, and are honest about it, such as The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover or the Last Tango in Paris. One should expect THESE films to be quite explicit. The Handmaiden is NOT such a film. There IS a story being told and EVEN THOUGH the father is quite depraved it is not necessary to exploit this in telling the story. In fact, it is a diversion from the telling of the main story line.So why was the story told in this way? The answer is clear: sex sells. It even sold a substantial number of those who reviewed the film at IMDb. Amazon appears to have mastered the use of the sensational. Now it is true that there is some excellent cinematography, but that cannot redeem this film.Clearly, a film goer cannot depend on IMDb or even on the combined ratings of the critics to find worthy entertainment. More caution is required.


                
Chan-wook Park used to be such a great director, being the man behind the success of the fantastic 'Revenge trilogy' and most notably Oldboy (2003) as his ultimate masterpiece. Unfortunately The Handmaiden is not a masterpiece, just a bunch of blatant in your face social commentary.The problem lies not in the cinematography, which is top notch the entire film. It is visually beautiful, with great use of color and indoor cultural Asian scenery, and some fantastic costume design. The music is also a very good emotional piece as is usual in a Park film. However, the best parts end here. You could say that the complex multi layered non linear storyline is well structured narrative, but i disagree. It basically shows the same events two times from different angles and with a couple of scenes added to it that would otherwise have been a spoiler. The story is constantly twisting because of things that we couldn't see but there is not an ounce of refinement in it. ( That person wants to sell that one out for their own gain, now another person wants to sell that one out for their own gain, now two persons pair against another to sell that one out for their own gain ). This entire immoral construct never ends as there is little to none character development.All our four main characters are rotten to the core and this never changes throughout the film, yet somehow Park decides the two women are the good ones and the two guys are the bad ones? Such an incredibly lazy political message which is something that i would never have suspected from an artist such as Park, but it happened. The 'Count' ends up being the fall guy, for being dumb enough to not realize he is being deceived, which is hardly a surprise since men do not seem to realize anything at all in this film. The uncle is just a disgusting sadistic psychopath who also sees his downfall because of his own plain stupidity. The two women are not very likeable either, albeit in a more subtle way since their unlikeable nature is due to the fact that they only seem to care about money but all the while not showing their sadistic sides. The way the final events unfold is not a very subtle way of creating a kind of feministic statement that they cannot be pushed around by men.The erotic part of this film is absolutely utterly useless. There are numerous graphic sex scenes between the two women which do not enhance anything in this pretentious story but only seem to serve as a bunch of pornographic material good enough to get into the minds of those feeble minded and blind enough to like this film. Disgusting sexually oriented pictures and disgusting dialogue are constantly thrown at the viewer in order to gain the thumbs up only because of this pathetic form of pornographic flattery. It is a motion picture, which is supposed to be an artform, yet this is a mere disguise for the mindless pornographic nature of this film. I am fortunate enough to have a brain smart enough to not take the bait.It sure is pretty to look at, and might entertain those who want to see female nudity and simulated sex scenes between females, but for those smarter among us, this really is a poor excuse for a motion picture that is supposed to open our minds or make us better understand the human condition.
Holy Boredom, Batman! What have you bestowed upon me? I watched this pretentious three-hour long flick with the hope I'd see some of Chan Wook Park's signature violence. Yeah, it was there - near the very end, and it wasn't revealing at all. Instead, what I forced myself to sit through was one long and boring, albeit beautifully photographed, soap opera set in turn of the century Korea and Japan.Is this movie a must see? Not at all. If romance is your thing, then yeah, maybe you'd get a kick out of this tedious nonsense. I'm angry because, so far, Chan Wook Park has never made a "miss" in his directorial life. This is a first. Hopefully, it'll be his last.


                
Really not worth watching. Just long, slow and dull. Plot stolen from some classic 40s noirs, but not nearly as well executed. Looks nice, but doesn't entertain. Don't understand what all the critical acclaim is about.


                
