I saw this tonight at London Film Festival and Park Chan Wook was there, to answer Q&A. A very special moment to me.I would advise anyone new to Park Chan-Wook's filmography to first explore his vampire flick 'Thirst' which has a similar style. 'Oldboy' is a cult classic, but more of an opium-filled, octopus eating thrill-ride, which this film is NOT, so be advised. I also think having SOME knowledge of Japanese rule in Korea is essential for understanding this film, or it will be above your head. Do some surface-level research on Japanese annexation of Korea and specifically the infamous 'comfort women'.Completed that? OK now you're ready for this journey.Now let's focus on the best part. The villain. This IS the best villain in recent memory. Seriously as far back as Hannibal Lecter. Uncle Kouzuki, is more creepy than Burton's Penguin. Compulsory viewing. I cannot mention anymore out of fear for spoiling the intricate plot. Highly recommended.


                
My opinion-.I can already say that the production of this film by Park Chan-Wook known for his famous trilogy on the revenge of the years 2000 is nevertheless a brilliant director, but here I found images and sublime decors, it is this which left me the best impressions. For the rest, I found the film far too long with all these flashbacks, there is a time when I got lost in the story, so what bothered me the most and without being a prude, It was all these scenes more than erotic and quasi pornographic that irritated me, there was way to make a film simply erotic without being saturated by all these scenes far too daring that for me have spoiled the film, i am sure many have enjoyed these lesbian scenes, if i had wanted to see a porn, i would have tapped a believe me and i saw with the years, so the choice is not that the scenes shocked me in As such, was that they did not have to be so daring, in short, as their opinions are said to each one. I can nevertheless also point out that the actors were very good in their respective roles. In conclusion, a superb realization, beautiful scenery and beautiful pictures, which make me put a 7/10 nevertheless ..


                
Watching The Handmaiden is an interesting, evocative experience similar to the director's other work, even though it does not reach the heights of Oldboy (2003), it is highly entertaining. The story is really captivating, leading you on until it is ready to reveal what is actually underneath the film's skirt. As with most films that are separated into parts, there is a slightly weaker one in the middle, as the movie slows down and back tracks for you to catch up. However, overall this was a really interesting script that suited the new setting (Korea under Japanese colonial rule) well.Similar with Park Chan-Wook's other films that I have seen, Oldboy (2003) and Stoker (2013), this is a gorgeous movie. Beautifully shot sets that look incredible, and the estate on which most of the film takes place is an incredible location. The beautiful costumes replicating the early 20th century time period make this film quite visually stunning. The performances by the three main stars Kim Min- hee, Ha Jung-woo and Kim Tae-ri were all exceptional. One of the film's strengths is its ability to seamlessly incorporate comedic elements into what could have been quite a serious movie. In a movie that involves themes such as suicide and fraud, it is hard to believe how many times it made the audience laugh out loud. Although the tone does get darker at times, the lighter moments make it just a really fun movie as well. Although the music wasn't as amazing as the song used in the international trailer, it does serve its purpose effectively. There are also minor details like the use of color in the subtitles to distinguish between Korean and Japanese which I really appreciated. The film also involves a high level of debauchery that leads to it being very sexually graphic in many parts of the film. Although the director has done similar things in the past, I felt like in those earlier films it served more of a purpose whereas in this film, while there are some moments that do develop characters and the story, there is an abundance of gratuitous sex scenes that elongate the movie a little too much. I found The Handmaiden to be a really enjoyable film that didn't disappoint my expectations of the director. It was a really intriguing story that is complimented by the great craftsmanship of all those involved. The film does show some unjustified sex scenes that may be off putting to some viewers but some may also enjoy it.


                
Had this remained a revenge movie with a twist I would have appreciated it a lot better. But then it enters lesbian soft porn territory and the movie takes on an entirely different tone. I can just imagine what theater movie goers must have gone through when the love scenes between Lady Hideko (Min-hee Kim) and Sook-hee (Tae-ri Kim) took center stage. When you're not ready or prepared for it, the sex scenes can inadvertently turn a promising night out into a virtual catastrophe. The story could have been told without the explicit sex and perhaps might have been more enthralling if the affair between the Japanese heir and her Korean handmaiden been more nuanced and suggestive. I didn't particularly care for director Chan-wook Park's "Oldboy" either. He has a visually captivating style but his choice of subject matter ought to come with a viewer discretion warning.
Korea, 1930s. Sook-Hee, a young Korean woman, goes to work as a handmaiden for Lady Hideko, a young Japanese woman who the heiress to a fortune. Sook-Hee's motives are rather nefarious - she, in league with the charming but unscrupulous Count Fujiwara, a con man, intend to defraud Lady Hideko of her fortune. However, Sook-Hee soon develops a fondness for Lady Hideko and this could potentially jeopardise the plan.Intriguing drama, directed by Chan-wook Park of Oldboy, Lady Vengeance and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance fame. First half is brilliant, with good scene-setting, plot development and an amazing twist.If the focus and momentum of the first half were kept up we were heading for masterpiece territory. However, the second half is less compelling and plausible, with a few plot developments that don't make sense and some twists that seem there for twists sake. Momentum is lost as we have a new round of backstory, and this seems overwrought and overly long, and much of it seems unnecessary. There are one or two surprises towards the end but the resolution of the main plot is pretty predictable from a point.Ultimately, an interesting and reasonably absorbing story but could have been brilliant.


                
Very explicit sexual content with plenty of story twists. A plethora of foreshadowing and hidden details. Brilliant editing and direction.My main problems are the length and the choice to have every bit of plot element clearly explained, as if served on a silver platter. The last maybe half an hour deviates from the overall tone of the movie by quite a bit. I think the glut of story ideas should be pared down a little bit, for I feel like the film is too obsessed with surprises. Aside from that, the film is very perfectly executed, its highlight being the strong characters.


                
About halfway through watching this this film, I kept thinking of "Blue in the Warmest Color" (2013) and that's not a good sign, in my opinion. A good film is supposed to keep its audience engaged, not have the audience thinking about something else, let alone another film. And I guess that's one of the reasons I was reluctant to give it a higher score. I also found myself struggling to enjoy the film within the first 30 minutes. Actually, I was dozing off, yet another not-so-good indicator. The acting of both female leads (or co-leads)was top notch. I couldn't say the same for the 2 male characters, Jung-woo Ha and Jin-woong Jo. I've seen both of them in other films, where they gave much better performances, so I guess it was a question of chemistry or miscasting. Or maybe I was just subconsciously biased because of the intense female sexuality in the plot. Either way, I wasn't convinced by the male characters. On a positive note, the production was impeccable (almost too perfect) and the twist in the story definitely resuscitated my attention halfway through. All in all, based on my rating, this is not a bad film, but I guess I would tell anyone who wanted to see this to make sure they lower their expectations; that way, they'll definitely enjoy it more than I did!


                
In Japanese occupied Korea, Sook-hee is brought in as a maid to Count Fujiwara and as a handmaiden to Lady Hideko. Fujiwara is actually Korean. He intends to marry the Japanese heiress Hideko stealing her family fortune and turning himself into Japanese nobility. Sook-hee is an illiterate simpleton, illiterate both in Japanese and Korean. In reality, she comes from a 'family' of thieves hired by Fujiwara in a scheme to send Hideko into an asylum after marrying her.There is a shocking twist at the end of Part 1 which left me a little confused. One spends the rest of them movie trying to make sense of that turn of event. Honestly, I don't think it answers my questions fully to my satisfaction. I can't accept that it's the best escape plan for anybody. It's a scheme that can't be examined too deeply. It would be more definitive to fake her death. It leaves me feeling a little scammed especially since none of the characters can be believed at face value. They're all lying and I couldn't grab onto the truth. I'd rather they play it straight sending Hideko into the asylum and the Count double-crossing Sook-hee along with everybody else. She could return to rescue Hideko and fall in love. This one does feel a little constructed to shock. Honestly, my only reason to see this is that it's on the top 250 list. It's rare to have a pulpy twisty erotic thriller on the list. This one is beautiful and shot like an art piece. This is a real artistic endeavor from the nude erotica to the complex story construction. It is highly ambitious although I remain unconvinced by the twist.
This is a film about deceit. In fact, each of the three characters are double-crossing one of the others in one way or another. What do you get when the double-crossers are double-crossing each other? Triple-crossing? Then that's what it is.The film is set in Korea during the Japanese occupation. Two women and a man are engaged in complicated shenanigans, involving gender, sexual preference, social class, nationality and even language. Each character is pretending, in order to deceive the others.In each of the three parts, a new level of deceit is shown. Sometimes parts of the story are repeated from another angle, to show how things are slightly different from how you think they were. Confused? Don't bother to understand. It'll all become clear when you see the film.Visually, this movie is absolutely great. Each scene, even if it lasts for only a few seconds, is beautiful. The lighting, the camera angles, the costumes, the scenery, the make-up - everything is picture perfect.The flip side is that the visual perfection takes away much spontaneity. The film is extremely stylish, perhaps even a bit too much so. But the visual bravado is not empty. There's a lot going on at each moment, and the imagery is always in line with the story itself. Only the explicit lesbian sex scenes seem to go on longer than strictly necessary - but who am I to complain?


                
Up front, you should know that "The Handmaiden" is a crazy film, the work of an immensely talented -- and seriously depraved -- artist. That artist would be Park Chan-wook, the Korean director of the already- classic "Oldboy," as well as the recent English-language "Stoker."Park Chan-wook seems to enjoy peeling back the layers of normal people and recognizable situations until, layer by layer, things turn darker, kinkier, and infinitely more surreal than we could have imagined at the film's outset. He's very good at this. His films are tense but often funny affairs, with the pacing of thrillers. His camera lingers on beautiful images but also on acts of graphic violence, as if to juxtapose the two. He lures us in with stories which feature a simple, seductive setup -- and then reveals that nothing is what it seems.I'm not the guy's biggest fan, but I've grown to admire his films over the years. He is quite a visual artist, and his movies are often so singular -- at once immeasurably accomplished and completely inexplicable -- that their very uniqueness justifies their existence."The Handmaiden" is a Gothic-romance and an erotic thriller, set in 1930s Japan-occupied Korea. A beautiful young pickpocket, Sooki, is hired by a fake Count, Fujiwara, to become the handmaiden of his rich benefactor's niece, Hideko. The rich benefactor, who is Hideko's uncle by marriage, expects to marry her soon, in order to claim her inheritance as his own -- after which, he plans to send her away to a madhouse. Fujiwara enlists Sooki to help him win Hideko's affections, so that he can essentially do the same. Nobody is who they seem to be, everybody has a hidden agenda, and when Sooki and Hideko actually seem to be falling in love, we have to wonder whether it's true, or whether they're both acting for the other's benefit?The film is neatly divided into 3 parts. Part 1 has us thinking we've figured things out, until Part 2 revisits the same story from a different perspective, and has us questioning everything we learned in Part 1. Part 3 resolves the film.It's a strange, twisted, beautiful ride. I honestly feel like I need to watch it a second time, in order to better understand everything that happened. It's so densely-plotted that I fear I only understand the basic outline. I'm guessing that a second time through would increase my appreciation of the film's artistry, as it did for "Oldboy." Certainly worthwhile, especially for fans of Park Chan-wook's other films, and for fans of Korean cinema in general. I can't say it connected with me on much of an emotional level, but I found many scenes darkly amusing, and the intricate plot rather fascinating.


                
What got me hyped to watch this movie was because it was directed by Park Chan-wook. He is basically the Quentin Tarantino of Korea, where he creates artistic movies that the mainstream audiences can enjoy. I personally thought it was lacking when it came to substance compared to his previous films. I thought that it would delve more into humanity and psychological elements. It does have those elements in this but it didn't intrigue me like it did compared to his previous work. I will say it's different from his previous work. This time around it tries to go in that old fashion film-making style. Now Park Chan-wook's signature brutality, gruesome violence but a bit of black humor is still intact. What drives this movie isn't the subconscious of the human mind and humanity. But it really does uses the cinematography to drive the story forward. The imagery is vivid, vibrant and very detailed. When it comes to Korean cinematography this film is topnotch in that department. It's one of the main factors that kept me focused throughout the whole thing. Park Chan-wook really did master his craft when it comes to shooting his films. Also this is one of the few films I have seen where the sexual innuendos actually moves the story forward. Instead of it just being used to arouse the audiences.7.9/10
Because of Oldboy, I had very high expectations... So maybe that explains why the experience fell a little flat. I think it is to do with the fact that I was expecting a suspense full of tension. First of all, I would classify it as a dramedy of sorts. Why people relate this to any Hitchcock is beyond me. I didn't find it even remotely tense -- we can easily predict what is going to happen in each of the three parts, and there is no element of fear. All along we know that everything is going to turn out fine. The character of the uncle, for instance: I kept waiting for him to show his true colours in a much worse way. The conman is stupid and goofy. And the female characters are beautiful and fun to watch, but superficial and silly as well. I did find it funny at times and even laughed out loud with one or two scenes. The characters and the plot are kind of childish, and perhaps would have benefited from being a little sharper, thus turning the experience into a more Almodóvar-like one. But overall it is quite entertaining. Scenery and costumes are kitsch enough, and the fast pace and kookiness remind us of Tarantino.
It's not hard to guess what is gonna happen, i expected a more suprising end.


                
A con artist (Ha Jung-woo) courts a wealthy heiress (Kim Min-hee) with the intention of marrying her and stealing her fortune. He enlists the help of a pickpocket (Kim Tae-ri) to act as the heiress' handmaiden. Unbeknownst to him, the women fall for each other. Another barrier is the heiress' evil uncle (Cho Jin-woong) who has dominated her for many years. The film is based on the novel "Fingersmith" by Sarah Waters and updates the story from Victorian England to Japanese-occupied Korea in the early 20thcentury.There are various plot twists to keep this movie intriguing throughout. The first two (of three) parts are the same narrative while the second is more of a revision of the first with a different perspective. These are the best parts of the film.The third part wraps things up well enough but with some difficult violent scenes. Also, at the risk of giving away a spoiler, the story has too many resemblances to the superb American indie film / lesbian love story "Bound" (1996).In addition to "Bound", "The Handmaiden" takes cues from another more recent lesbian love story "Blue is the Warmest Colour" from France. Both films had sex scenes between two women that began as erotic but ended by being (or at least bordering on) pornographic. The less-is-more approach would have been more effective.Overall though, director Park Chan-wook has crafted a fine film with a fine mix of great performances and stunning photography, settings, and music. The two and a half hours go by with the viewer's full attention.


                
After his excursion into English-speaking fields in cinema with "Stoker" (2013), South-Korean Director Chan-wook Park returns to his roots with an art-house competing picture "The Handmaiden" at Cannes Film Festival 2016. Set on the island of Japan in Pre-war 1930s tells the story of two women, grown up with different backgrounds, falling in and out of love at an aristocratic mansion sight.Collaborating with long-time script-writing partner Seo-kyeong Joeng, the director builds on over-written screen-story, which transcends most of times the the extraordinary visual-translation skills of its director. Cinematography gets handled in shot connecting fashion, by utilizing the camera with horizontal and vertical motions in a pitch-perfect production design ambie4nce.Director Chan-wook Park keeps a clear vision with his female cast, conditioning them to free themselves from restraints by building a sensual lesbian relationship, defying all surrounding male cast in games of intrigue and double-crossing betrayals, only to come the conclusion that men are swines, exploiting women where there can for their entertainment and splendor and ending their lives in an windowless, suffocating cellar space while the female couple sails the world seas in love and pleasure.Nevertheless "The Handmaiden" (2016) stays a sophisticated motion picture, triggering the spectator's mind to follow a web of layered story lines and flashbacks. The film has been divided in three parts. Part I with running time of approximately 1 hour presents the arrival of character Sook-Hee, played by newcomer South-Korean actress Tae-ri Kim, at the English / Japanese architectural-inspired mansion of an older man, who made an fortune of letting an enslaved girl reading pornographic stories to the rich.Part II, approximately 45 minutes in running time, follows a further-outgoing experimental filmmaking approach. The director has been gathered ideas and inspirations from English literature, manga graphic novels and French filmmakers as Abdellatif Kechiche to work on his scenes as microcosms with focusing each at a time. The connectivity into sequences gets mostly neglected. Chan-wook Park entirely trusts his visual story-telling and well-conditioned cast, mainly leading actress Min-hee Kim, who performs as Lady Hideko. Not always he is able to get out of logical jams with slowly fading away sub-story as happening with the theme of a maiden's skill of pick-pocketing jewelry.Despite all the editorial jump cutting and time shifting, Part III, running roundabout 30 minutes long, gets some calamity into the messing story-line of "The Handmaiden" by letting the now-coupled characters of Lady Hideko and her servant Sook-hee destroy the life's work of patriarch Uncle Kouziko, played by actor Jin-woong Jo, before breaking free from oppression and escape the mansion into freedom.Director Chan-wook Park does not concludes his picture with a mind-blowing twist as in his earlier works, reminiscencing the notorious picture from 2003 "Oldboy", which had its international breakthrough a year later by getting invited to the Cannes Film Festival 2004. Times passes. Experiences get made. So the South-Korean director takes his fate back into his own hands after a bumpy, yet emotional journey in U.S. independent filmmaking in season 2011/2012. "The Handmaiden" has not become the fulfilling motion picture for a director, who needs to continue challenging himself in order find his proper razor-sharp premising master-shot.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (for Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)
In one of my intermittent conversations with IMDb legend Bob The Moo he recommended a 2016 South Korean film THE HANDMAIDEN. Having total faith in Bob I did make a mental note of getting round to seeing it when I had some spare time. As with any recommendation I also made a mental note of not looking up the recommendation for obvious reasons. After all I did look up a couple of early online reviews of THE MUMMY earlier today and let's just say they let the cat out of the bag. It's hardly a surprise when a film is ruined because surprise is given away. The only thing I knew in advance before seeing THE HANDMAIDEN was that the director was Park Chan-wook who made the overrated OLDBOY which reminded of something else - Bob also once recommended me THE FOUNTAIN , a film I thought was pretentious rubbish Park is something of an auteur. Revenge is a theme that intrigues him as a film maker but not in the way Hollywood would develop a revenge thriller where Bruce , Arnie , Sly or Chuck would wreak revenge on creeps via an arsenal of firearms and explosives and I'm not entirely sure if that's a compliment. By the same token it's not necessarily a complaint either but I did feel the narrative execution could have been developed better. There might be a problem in that the original source novel was set in Victorian Britain rather than 1930s Korea but I don't think it's that. What I found annoying was the constant need for characters explaining what is happening which is usually obvious and why it's happening when it's not obvious at the time but becomes obvious later on. It's certainly a complex film where objects that seem meaningless make reappearances as plot turns. Also as with OLDBOY there's a somewhat sleazy story which the audience will find divisive One thing that will never , ever shake my faith in Bob The Moo is that he knows a great looking film when he sees one. I might have hated the fractured storyline of THE FOUNTAIN but at least Aronofsky understands what cinematography is, even if he takes it to excess. With THE HANDMAIDEN director Park and cinematographer Chung Chung-hoon have made a stunning looking film which while I was sitting in front of a laptop in a smoky Edinburgh flat made me think I was either walking around rural Japan or stuck in a Japanese mansion with a bunch of deviants, Another good aspect is the editing which gives the film a pace that can't be faulted especially compared to the average Hollywood movie. There is one technical aspect I found irritating and that was the intrusive music but again this is very subjective It's certainly the visuals that impressed me with this movie , the story less so. Or should I say how the story is executed. As I said the story itself is rather complex but the constant need to spell things out shows a painful lack of confidence


                
A con story gone wild, that's another way to summarize what The Handmaiden is about. In between these two short formulas, there's a story no description would be able to do proper justice. It would defy your expectations and keep you puzzled about what's actually going on and what's to happen next. This ability to surprise is The Handmaiden's most undeniable quality, and that alone makes this film worth watching.There's, however, a certain "anime" flavor to this story. No, not in the sense that the characters have disproportionately big eyes or hyperbolized emotions. The characters' emotions here are pretty well-explained, but the events that cause them are often contrived beyond any rational explanation. Especially when it comes to people's greed, violence and perversion. As if the film tries to take us aback by flummoxing and mesmerizing us with its explicit and graphic nature, so that we obediently submit ourselves to its cinematographic will.But while the entourage of this story, taking place in Korea during the Japanese occupation, is indeed captivating and colorful, there's a certain "modern replica" feeling about it. And not just because it is inspired by a book released in 2002 but whose events take place in Victorian Era England. It's the whole concept of womanly love that can be vicious and cruel to conquer all, something that our society found a taste for only recently. This concept has everything in it to haunt our minds and become a true icon of our generation, but with The Handmaiden it felt neither entirely fresh nor entirely genuine. The world already has Blue is the Warmest Color and Gone Girl. If not for them, The Handmaiden might have been groundbreaking. But now, it feels too much like those two stories intermixed, with an octopus added for a graphic effect. To a stimulated bidder, this book could still be sold high. But it still doesn't make up for a difference between an original and an artfully crafted fake.


                
I have only seen one previous Chan-wook Park film ('Oldboy') and it just so happened it was one of the finest films I have ever seen. I've always planned to see more of his work, but sometimes find it hard to get motivated to watch foreign language films. However, when I saw he had released a film in 2016 which was getting a positive response I decided I had to check it out. 'The Handmaiden' is quite a different tale to 'Oldboy', yet it's told with equal measures of class. Park makes terrific looking films with amazing attention to detail and has an incredible ability to intrigue and fascinate an audience with the complex and intricate stories he tells.'The Handmaiden' is mostly a love story, partly a mystery and partly a violent thriller. The story is told in three parts. We are told a story, then asked to question everything we have seen, and then given an explanation of sorts. Throughout all of this we are being treated to some wonderful acting, direction and writing. It truly is a wonderfully put together film.In some ways this film may alienate a portion of its audience. People who like romances and love stories don't often tend to enjoy high levels of violence. Conversely, those who do enjoy high levels of violence and a mystery/thriller element to their films, don't often have the patience or desire to sit through what is at its heart a love story. This is the only problem I can see this film having. As long as you're able to get past that side of things, you're going to have a good time with this one.


                
The Japanese/Korean film Ah-ga-ssi was shown in the U.S. with the title The Handmaiden (2016). It was directed by Park Chan-wook.This movie has been described as an erotic thriller. This is accurate, but it doesn't convey the richness and complexity of the plot. The actor Min-hee Kim plays Lady Hideko, and Tae-ri Kim portrays Sook-Hee, her new servant (handmaiden). We learn at the beginning of the film that Sook-Hee is a petty thief. She has been hired by the deceitful Count Fujiwara (Jung-woo Ha), himself a fraud, to betray Lady Hideko and encourage her to marry the count. The film has many positive aspects--the two women actors are beautiful, the 1930's costumes are glorious, the settings and cinematography are superb. I had trouble with the plot, however. The movie is divided into three parts. Apparently, parts one and two convey the same story, but from different perspectives. Part three brings the plot to its conclusion. (I didn't understand this when I saw the movie--I learned it from reading what was written by other reviewers.)The movie would be rated R in the U.S. Lots of sexuality and flesh, but nothing that would earn it an X. Some reviewers found the sexual scenes gratuitous, but I thought that they were important, and well integrated into the film.As I write this review, The Handmaiden has an incredible 8.1 IMDb rating. I believe that the film is worth seeing, but I don't think it's quite at that level. We saw the movie at Rochester's wonderful Little Theatre. On one weekend in mid-December 2016, there were three films with IMDb ratings over 8 showing on The Little's five screens! If you live in Upstate New York, The Little is worth a special trip. For example, we saw The Handmaiden and Manchester by the Sea as a matinée double feature. It's an hour drive for us, but I would drive two hours if necessary to see such excellent movies at the same theater. Think about it.


                
