When going into a movie by one of your favorite directors, it is easy to set high expectations. Rarely does the film fully meet those expectations, but when it does it is something special. Such is the case with Park Chan-wook's The Handmaiden (Mademoiselle). He has crafted an intricately woven tale of love and betrayal that highlights everything he can do so well from heightened sexual tension to gorgeous imagery. The film, which is an adaptation of the novel The Fingersmith, revolves around a woman who is hired as a handmaiden to a Japanese heiress. This is the very basic summary to a film that has a lot of depth underneath the surface and requires the audience's attention throughout the film. And as the plot goes on we discover the newly hired handmaiden may have some ulterior motives along with many of the other characters. Nothing is revealed too quickly and the film is split into a three-part structure that slowly pieces things together through flashbacks. It also uses a storytelling device that is typically owned by Tarantino where the same scene is shown from multiple perspectives and each adds a new layer to the story. All of these devices are used to full effect and create surprising twists on par with Park Chan-wook's Oldboy.What is immediately apparent from the start of the film is how well Park Chan-wook's aesthetic fits into the time period. His eye for gorgeous shots and camera angles makes the house in the film look like a work of art. The grounds around the house are also highlighted so well. Wide shots and lingering camera movements let you appreciate every little detail on screen and marvel at the beauty of it all. The score also fits in perfectly with the time period. It is never bombastic and always subtle, and perfectly captures the mood and feeling of each scene. Whether an intimate moment between the two women or a heated exchange between characters it's hard to realize how great the score is because of how organic it feels. Framing is also a very important addition to the story. Through the use of mirrors and reflections, Park Chan-wook suggests the double-sided nature of the characters. Also, he often obstructs part of the frame with an object and hides characters behind walls or glass to suggest we may not really see everything that is going on before us. This aspect of the film in particular I feel will only get better with subsequent viewing when you can understand all of characters motivations and desires. One thing that Park Chan-wook did so well with Stoker was creating a palpable feeling of sexual tension without using nudity or anything overtly sexual. In this film he succeeds with that throughout the entire film. Every look and every glance the two woman share conveys a longing and desire that permeates the whole film. In this film however, he continues that passion past suggestion into full on sex. There are multiple scenes with extended nudity but they are all filmed so artfully and sympathetically it always feels warranted. The scenes never feel awkward or exploitative and always are tasteful and almost poetic. Somehow despite what I was watching I still found myself admiring the camera-work and beautiful cinematography. One thing that surprised me in the film and I have not seen in Park Chan-wook's other work is the humor. It was never slapstick and usually more circumstantial, but the whole audience laughed out loud on numerous occasions. He showed a surprisingly great understanding of timing and every joke landed. One scene in particular dealt with suicide and could have come across as insensitive or callous. Due to the perfect timing, it was hilarious and even further developed the relationship between the characters. During the last act of the film, it does get unusually violent. There is a torture scene that seems out of place with the rest of the film. Though effective in its own right and thoroughly thrilling, it didn't sit right with me due to how subtle the rest of the film had been. This is a film that really stays with you and will take multiple viewing to really appreciate the complex story. The first film I have seen in a long time where I continued to think about it throughout the day and had multiple conversations about all aspects of the film. With The Handmaiden, Park Chan-wook has crafted a film that fully displays the craft and technical prowess he can show and it includes a story that that only gets better the more you think about it.The Handmaiden (2016) Directed by: Park Chan-wook Screenplay by: Seo-Kyung Chung, Park Chan-wook Starring: Jung-woo Ha, Min-hee Kim, Jin-woong Jo, Tae Ri Kim Run Time: 2 hour 25 minutes


                
Sex. One of the most overused element in cinema and often mis-used and unnecessary. I was concerned when this movie is announced, a mis-used sex scene could make the movie feels cheap. This movie did manage to get it quite right.There were scenes of sexual attractions in many parts of the movie but it did not take away all other elements that were done well in the movie.Thematically beautiful, the mansion itself is split half between a western and Japanese. The costume design and cinematography are perfect. The west : grand and luxury; The Japanese : Clean, simple elegant design.The story can be summed up as a hero saving a princess and is split into 3 parts. I loved the first two parts, the third part was the only disappointing part where the plot was predictable and not as interesting and it being the last part makes the movie fell short.The music is perfect. Just like Old Boy, music is more crucial than other movies. Old Boy is a movie that would make you think of a modernized hero revenge movie that is both realistic and unbelievable. The music have strong presence to help build up that world. Same goes with this movie as it is also a very realistic setting (you know the period of time it is based upon, the characters motives are clear and their actions are) yet with some very unbelievable events when you add everything together.It isn't a perfect movie, I saw some editing that could be improved here and there. The last part was also a small disappointment for myself. But it is a damn unique movie that you have to watch.


                
Not the craziest film content wise, that award goes to The Neon Demon, but definitely the craziest film storytelling wise. Park Chan-Wook's The Handmaiden is almost as good as the film that put him on the map, Oldboy, and brings such ferocity and energy that it will be one of the most unforgettable films of 2016. Think of The Handmaiden as The Duke of Burgundy F'd Up Edition. This film is pretty twisted in the most unexpected ways from the cinematography that is very reminiscent of Possession in that it always keeps moving, eroticism that is reminiscent of Blue is the Warmest Color, performances as spellbinding as Carol, and the insanity of Park Chan- Wook as expected. The cinematography is some of the most entrancing of the year. Shots that look like they came out of The Master. It's shots like these that make me wonder how was this even possible? It looks so damn cool!The performances are perfect in sucking you into this world of erotica, selfishness, and trickery. Both female leads were fantastic. Min-hee Kim and Kim Tae-ri are amazing with sharing their sexual tension with the audience watching. It's films like these that are the most memorable. Making you feel how ther characters are feeling. Jung-woo Ha and Jin- woong Jo were great as these sexually and financially repressed men who do the most screwed up things to feel the pleasure they so desire. Nothing wrong with the cast at all. Of course Park Chank-Wook hits it out of the part with directing. How else would this immaculate vision be done without him niche for detail. He always knows exactly what to do to get an emotion out of his audience and I applaud him for that. The only negative is that during the middle briefly the pacing slows down a lot and it became really unbearable because I wanted to know exactly what was going to happen next. Thankfully it doesn't last that long and it's really minor that probably won't affect others viewings. If you have any interest in The Handmaiden or you've just heard about it for the first time I strongly suggest checking this out as soon as it comes out. I'll definitely re watch it when it releases in theaters. Easily one of the best films of the year and one I hope to re watch soon.


                
Stunning cinematography, a clever plot with many twists, and a cast that pulls you into the story. This is the best movie I have seen in 2017 and one of the best movies ever.I read a lot of reviews and noticed that while some reviewers where disturbed by female sexuality and pleasure, calling this movie pornographic, nobody even mentions being offended by the torture scene which for me was the one part of the movie I had to look away from. (it is very brief and important to the story so you can just hide your eyes as I did if these things disturb you) Most of all this is a story about love. The two scenes that stood out for me had nothing to do with sex or violence. One is a simple scene that happens on a road where you see two souls connect. Another happens in a library where you see one character express and liberate another character from so much pain and degradation. Simply a beautiful film in every way and a must see.
Park Chan Wook's adaptation of Sarah Water's historical crime novel is beautiful. This is no surprise as all of Park Chan Wook's films are beautiful. Chung Chung-hoon (Park's cinematographer since Oldboy) has once again delivered one of the more visually stunning films of the year. Vivid colours are used provocatively to invoke a fanciful vision of occupied Korea. What is a relief is that the film contains the compelling characters and deep insight that Park's last film, Stoker, unfortunately lacked. Park has returned to the theme of female sexuality that he previously explored in Stoker and Thirst, this time focusing on a burgeoning relationship between a young heiress and her handmaiden. However as you'd expect from a work adapted from a crime story, there are a great many twists in the story. What sets this apart from other erotic crime fiction (aside from the technical prowess) is our emotional engagement with the story. This can be attributed to the excellent performances, especially Kim Tae-ri as Sook-Hee who is at times subtly hilarious and deeply heart-breaking. Ha Jung-woo is wonderful as the conman who attempts to manipulate both women. There is the same potential problem with this film as Blue is the Warmest Colour, namely that this is a film about female sexuality as written and directed by a man (admittedly in both cases adapted from works by female authors). Just as with that film I feel there is more going on here. The film concerns itself with the excitement of new love and its ability to liberate us from seemingly inescapable circumstances. However with this film, I believe that Park may have anticipated this issue. One of the more interesting themes of the film is sexual exploration. At the screening of the film I attended Park Chan-wook mentioned that his fans in Tokyo have nicknamed him the "intellectual pervert". As we explore the household of The Handmaiden we realise that some very niche sexual practices are being explored, tantalisingly hinted at by a pair of brass balls found in a drawer early in the film. Around the midpoint of the film we are presented with a room full of men watching a woman tell an erotic story. We see her tell multiple stories involving tentacle beasts, asphyxiation and object sexuality. The men are entranced by this erotic display, whilst the film presents it as a lurid and rather cold affair. The woman is being exploited.This is contrasted by the incredibly warm and intimate filming of the love scene between Sook-Hee and Hideko. The scene is actually visited twice during the film from different perspectives. The scene is very erotic and exciting, not least because we know these characters and understand what this experience means to them. I believe we are to contrast these scenes. One is titillation derived from imagined scenarios, the other is the genuine eroticism of seeing two characters we care about connect physically. Yet perhaps we can allow this opportunity to contemplate our voyeurism. Even though we understand their situation better, are the character still being exploited for our benefit? Relocating the film from Victorian Britain to 1930s Japan has an interesting effect on the story. Whereas the recent film "When Marnie Was There" (a studio Ghibli production of an Irish novel) moves the action to Japan with only some aesthetic nods to its original setting, Park uses this as an opportunity to comment on the period and place. The film is set during the Japanese occupation of Korea. Early in the film it is mentioned that Kouzuki, the man who built the house, combined eastern and western traditions. This contrast of designs is evident throughout and creates a dynamic impression of a country transforming. Ultimately this is Park Chan-Wook's most engaging and entertaining film since Thirst. His trademark dark humour, startling violence and kinky eroticism are all in full effect. If some of those elements put off certain people, then that's just all the more reason to cherish the film. I look forward to seeing it again when the film is generally released next year, as I'm sure there is much more to see.


                
'THE HANDMAIDEN': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Another South Korean critically acclaimed erotic thriller, from filmmaker Park Chan-wook (who's also helmed such beloved South Korean hits as 'OLD BOY' and 'THIRST'). Chan-wook directed and co- wrote the movie, with Jeong Seo-kyeong (a frequent writing collaborator of his). The script is loosely based on the novel 'Fingersmith', by Sarah Waters, with the Victorian era setting changed to Japanese-occupied Korea. It tells the story of a conman that hires a pickpocket, to pose as a handmaiden for a depressed Japanese heiress, in order to rob her (through an elaborate plot). The movie stars Kim Min-hee, Kim Tae-ri and Ha Jung-woo. It's received nearly unanimous positive reviews from critics, and it's also won, or been nominated for, several prestigious awards. I enjoyed it.The story is set in Korea, at the time it was under Japanese colonial rule. A conman, going by the name of Count Fujiwara (Jung- woo), hires a pickpocket, named Sook-hee (Tae-ri), to pose as a handmaiden for a severely depressed Japanese heiress, named Lady Hideko (Min-hee). Fujiwara plots to marry Hideko, and then have her committed to an insane asylum; in order to steal her fortune. He enlists Sook-hee to help him. Sook-hee agrees to the plan, but then she develops feelings for the heiress. Things only become more complicated from there!The film is a great female empowerment love story, it's also (once again) beautifully shot, and masterfully edited, by Chan-wook (I love his visual style). The screenplay is also brilliant; and although it starts out slow, it becomes really involving. It's also full of really passionate, and quite erotic, sex scenes. If that's your thing, it's full of them; but it is all part of the story (and rich character development). It's also one of the highest rated movies of 2016, by many critics, and I can see why.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/_SLO5GYrmps


                
This film is pretty insane. First it is a subversion of the characters' social classes. The maid is wise and supportive, and the handsome gentleman frees the naive and beautiful queen from her boring and superficial life. In its first part the film subverts this formula, then the second part of the film reveals a new layer of the first part, and each characters' motivations begin to unfold into a complex and involving romantic thriller with thematic depth.Visually, the film is incredible. Every shot feels meticulously controlled by Park Chan-wook. The color palette consistently matches the tone of the scene and the camera flows through each scene perfectly. There is a lot of sex in this film, but it's done tastefully and the cinematography in these scenes accurately depicts the passion of the characters.The music enhances every scene. The music in this film is amazing and gives the film the feel of an epic. The film builds slowly to start, but once it picks up it doesn't let up. The film is tightly written and involves several complex and intriguing characters participating in complex interpersonal relationships. The performances are fantastic across the board, and although I've only seen the film once I can tell it may be even better on repeat viewings.


                
"The Handmaiden" (2016 release from South Korea; 145 min.) brings the tale of a young maid in in Japan-occupied Korea, As the movie opens, we see Sook-hee leave her family behind to start working as the maid to rich and beautiful Lady Hideko. It's not long before we understand that in fact Sook-hee is there by design, as part of a plot involving a (fake) Fujiwara. Sook-hee must convince Lady Hideko to like and marry Fujiwara. But are things really what they look to be? At this point we're not even 15 minutes into the movie but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from Korean director Park Chan-wook, who has previously brought us films like "Oldboy" and most recently "Stoker". Here he brings us a complex story (based on/transposed from British novelist Sarah Waters "Fingersmith") of deception and greed, set in a sexually charged environment. Like the book, the film consists of three parts. If you can count on one thing of director Park, it is that he brings is movies is a very stylish way, sometimes at the cost of substance (see: Stoker). But let me comfort you right away: while here also the movie is very stylish, it never does so at the expense of the substance. It took me quite a while to figure out who is who, and what exactly is happening, as we see a number of scenes more than once, but from different perspectives. Very helpful (and crucial to understanding the movie) is that at the beginning we are informed that yellow subtitles indicate Japanese is spoke, and white subtitles indicate Korean. BEWARE: there are a number of explicit sex scenes in the movie, reminiscent of "Blue Is the Warmest Color" (and causing the movie to be rated the equivalent of NC-17 in a number of countries). The two leading ladies, Kim Min-hee as Lady Hideko and Kim Tae-ri as Sook-hee, are nothing short of outstanding. At one point, when someone is relaying a particular story about Lady Hideko, someone interrupts and says: "give more details! A story is all about the journey!", and it is a perfect metaphor for this movie: yes, it is quite long (2 1/2 hrs.) but the journey is so worth it."The Handmaiden" premiered at the Cannes Film Festival earlier this year, and finally opened at my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati this weekend. I couldn't wait to see it. The Sunday early evening screening where I saw this at was attended quite nicely, given the time of the weekend and the length of the movie. Even if this doesn't play very long in theaters, this is the type of movie that hopefully will find a larger audience on Amazon Instant Video and eventually also on DVD/Blu-ray. "The Handmaiden" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!


                
Sweet turns sour and sour turns sweet in this erotic thriller set in 1930s Korea. Sookee, a pretty petty thief, is picked to be the handmaiden at the estate that Japanese heiress Hideko shares with her manipulative uncle. Sookee is part of a plot to steal Hideko's inheritance. She doubts she can carry through with the plan however, once she discovers feelings for her vulnerable and beautiful mistress. Yet no one is as vulnerable as they appear.The Handmaiden is riveting, surprising, complex, beautiful and oh so passionate. The story is full of unexpected twists and turns that are delightful as well as eerie. I felt I knew where the story and characters were going, yet things took surprisingly different turns. The cinematography, sets, clothing and actors are entrancing in their splendor. There is substantial depth to the dialogue, characters, scenes, themes and schemes. The passion expressed in the film is felt like a pulse of electricity in each touch, scent, expression of empathy, sight of red lips, and more. Korean and Japanese sub-titles helpfully appear in different colors for those who have a hard time distinguishing between the languages.


                
Park Chan-wook is a master of blending multiple themes in his films. His newest film, The Handmaiden, further proves his mastery of balancing and wrapping every element together in an enjoyable way. The Handmaiden is many things at once; sexual, thrilling, violent, and dramatic. Brilliant directing along with excellent performances make this one of the best films in recent memory. The film is set in Japanese occupied Korea during the 1930s. Sook-He is a poor Korean nursing girl that must use her skills as a pickpocket to get by. Her con artist skills get her involved in a plot by Count Fujiwara (a fake persona used by a fellow poor Korean con artist) to steal the fortune from a rich Japanese book collector by marrying his naive niece. Sook-He is sent to the book collector's vast estate as a handmaiden for the niece, Lady Hideko, who is also the inheritor of the fortune. At first, Sook-He and the Hideko don't get along, but after some time they begin to get closer and more intimate. A romance and alliance forms, one that changes Sook-He's original plan. The Count soon arrives and immediately tries to win over Hideko. From this point, the film becomes a twisted game of cat and mouse between the four main characters. You never know who's on what side and who's conning who.Chan-wook presents the film in three equal chapters. Each part focuses on a central character from their point of view. The first follows Sook-He and Lady Hideko and how they initially act around each other. The second goes back in time to reveal Hideko's childhood and how it was devilishly mangled by her uncle. The third follows the Count and Hideko as they play a game of cat and mouse with each other.Each chapter intersects with another, creating a timeline where the sequence of events is presented out of order. Actions at the beginning of the film are revisited later at different angles and from different points of view, which reveal new information that is key to the structuring of the plot. This technique beautifully creates characters and events that complex and memorable. Layers upon layers of storytelling are given to us through different mediums. It keeps thing fresh as we are constantly piecing the timeline in our heads. One could knock Chan-wook for his overuse of gratuitous sex in a few scenes. The romance between Sook-He and Hideko results in intercourse, which ultimately lasts close to ten minutes and ends up feeling like softcore porn. However, the actual sequence is integral to the main story and is done with such care that it barely hinders the overall quality.Chan-wook is known for his outlandish films that are filled with deep storytelling and rich visuals. Here he has outdone himself as the plot gets more interesting as time passes and the grandiose visuals are candy to the eyes. He uses the Korean and Japanese languages as an element of his story as each brings its own symbolism and meaning. Characters flip between languages constantly and each shift is for a specific purpose. As we are the watching the film, we get a sense that the main theme revolves around female empowerment. At the start of the film, both Sook-He and Hideko are servants under powerful men. Their similar circumstances lead them to form their own destiny together, one that is without a master.The cinematography is gorgeous as we are treated to some of the most elaborate and pleasing shots in recent memory. Chung Chung-hoon uses his full arsenal to create a brilliant sense of atmosphere inside the convoluted mansion. Zoom, pan, and crane shots are used with a clear purpose. They frame the scenes perfectly, giving each actor the right amount of space for their performance. The acting, like the rest of the film, is wonderfully done. The standout performance comes from Kim Min-Hie as Lady Hideko. Her ability to immediately switch from a naive schoolgirl to a vengeful enchantress creates an aura of mystery around her. Kim Tae-Ri as the young Sook-He is amazing as well. She brings a sense of youth and acts as our guide for most of the film. We see most things through her eyes and her reactions and facial expressions are tied to ours as well. Finally, Ha Jung-woo as the Count and Cho Jin-woong as the uncle are a creepy pair of power-hungry men. Their methods may differ, but their results are the same. Jung-woo is confident and cool while Jin-woong is cold and menacing. Both share some great scenes with the lead women and have great chemistry.The Handmaiden is a film that carries multiple themes and things it's trying to do. It exceeds in every area possible, keeping right on track as Chan-wook delivers a story that is both challenging and pleasing. The Handmaiden is n feat in cinema that should be seen by all who want to witness a master at his best.
This is quite an exceptional film. With two and a half hours of intense, rapid-fire betrayal, unpredictability and purely psychotic thrills, The Handmaiden is an intoxicating watch from start to finish. Directed stupendously by Park Chan-wook, and featuring three amazing central performances, it's a film that will grab you with its unbelievable levels of insanity and darkness, but will thrill you again and again with a sumptuous and confident execution of an enthralling story.Let's first establish what on earth this film really is, and why that makes it so brilliant. On the one hand, this works on its own as a period thriller, with the setting of Korea under Japanese colonial rule allowing for some insight into the time period of the 1920s-30s, as well as some beautiful costume and production design, all of which plays a big role in making the film as elegant as it is.On the other hand, the story is an incredibly intense affair featuring twists and turns the likes of which you've never seen. The film is directed by Park Chan-wook, who also made the legendarily messed-up thriller Oldboy, a fact that's even more disturbing when you realise that The Handmaiden is in more ways than one even more psychotic and terrifying than that movie.The story is one of deception, betrayal and love from start to finish, and in that, it's very reminiscent of two classic thrillers. The style of its story, featuring three acts based around three enormous but totally unpredictable twists, is much like how David Fincher's Gone Girl plays out, whilst the content of the story, involving two characters secretly working together to get one over on someone they have befriended is hugely reminiscent of Diabolique, a film so effective in its thrills that it actually influenced the success of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho.Anyway, it's a plot that's difficult to talk about without giving away any spoilers, but it is one that is utterly thrilling at every moment. Not just an unpredictable mystery, but a story so full of depth and emotional intrigue, allowing its characters to flourish in the most unorthodox of ways as the plot snowballs towards breaking point.However, the plot alone isn't what makes this film so amazing. Above all, Park Chan-wook's direction plays a huge role in that. As we know, Park is a director with the ability to not just weird you out, but chill you to the bone with some pretty demented stories.Here, he doesn't hold back even for a second when it comes to portraying the sheer brutality of the lead trio. The story that unfolds effectively takes the form of a love triangle, but Park makes sure to emphasise the darker side of that sort of conflict by filling the film with some incredibly frank and unbelievably graphic sex.Now, many films go too far on this front and become completely gratuitous, but that's not the case with The Handmaiden. Although there are two scenes that are almost unwatchable given their graphic nature, the sex scenes play an incredibly powerful and central role to the entire story, and without being portrayed in such a frank and carnal manner, the intensity of the story and the betrayals that come about as a result would never have been so strong.Another reason that the film is so intense is simply because it just doesn't stop. It may run for almost two and a half hours, but believe me, that time feels no more than ten minutes thanks to the unbelievable pace of the movie. Split up into three perfect parts whose structure messes with your perceptions of the story as much as anything else in this movie, the story moves along at an almost relentless pace, continuing to snowball as things get far darker, and far, far more disturbing, but it makes for an incredible viewing experience that leaves you completely intoxicated from the very first scene to the very last.Finally, we can't forget the performances, which are just as brilliant as everything else in the movie. The leading trio are exceptional to watch, and they work amazingly on screen with one another, with just enough chemistry to make their cordial relationships convincing, and yet enough alarm in their individual turns to keep everything on a knife edge.Kim Min-hee is amazing as the Japanese heiress, and is able to throw you way off scent when it comes to really figuring out what her character is all about. Then Kim Tae-ri is just as brilliant as the handmaiden herself, and shows an incredible level of intensity as what at first seems like the film's most orthodox character. And finally, Ha Jung-woo excels as the Korean man disguising himself as a Japanese count to win the heiress' affections (and fortune), with a strong, and often even frightening performance bringing total unpredictability to proceedings.On the whole, I was absolutely blown away by The Handmaiden. It's an intense and at times jaw-dropping piece of work that will have your eyes glued to the screen at almost every second. Directed beautifully by Park Chan-wook, it's an elegant period drama crossed with one of the most intense and demented thrillers you'll ever see, and its incredibly graphic sex will have you cowering away while being simultaneously stunned by the dramatic power on display. Its two and a half hours pass by in an instant, but its intensity and purely psychotic nature will stay with you long afterwards.


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I can't remember the last time i was riveted by a film in this way. I have to watch 'Old Boy' again to figure out which one was better.I love films set in the 20s-30s and and all the actors did a fine job.I hope we get to see more of those actresses.


                
A masterwork of precision craftsmanship, The Handmaiden is an exquisite blend of high-quality direction, clever writing, sumptuous production design, impeccable camera-work, tight editing & mesmerising score that finds the revered filmmaker in sublime form, and is all the more uplifted by his sweeping cinematic vision to cement its spot amongst the finest films of 2016.Set in Japanese-occupied Korea, the story of The Handmaiden follows a pickpocket who's hired by a conman to assist him in seducing a Japanese heiress, who lives a secluded life in a countryside mansion with her uncle, in order to steal her inheritance but finds herself attracted to her beauty & innocence and after an unexpected encounter, starts having second thoughts about going with the original plan.Co-written, co-produced & directed by Park Chan-wook (best known for Oldboy, Joint Security Area & Stoker), this sexually-charged erotic thriller finds the esteemed filmmaker returning to his roots after his stint at Hollywood and makes splendid use of all his trademarks, including his own touch of dark comedy, bizarre elements & graphic violence, and is possibly the most refined & beautiful film he's made to date.The ornamental set pieces & lush locations provide its tale a setting that's as steeped in mystery as it is in beauty, which is further enhanced by its arresting cinematography that makes excellent use of fluid camera movements, fitting colour tones & perfect lighting to radiate a sense of warmth & an undercurrent of ambiguity. The narrative employs a three-part structure and is tightly edited while its evocative score infuses flavours of its own into the final print.Coming to the performances, The Handmaiden features an interesting cast in Kim Min-hee, Kim Tae-ri, Ha Jung-woo & Cho Jin-woong, with the two ladies impressing the most. While Min-hee illustrates the fragility & mysteriousness of the heiress with finesse, Tae-ri does a fabulous job at expressing the maidservant's shifting allegiance and the sexual tension between them is the core ingredient that drives this film and Chan-wook captures it with genuine intimacy & tenderness.On an overall scale, The Handmaiden finds the visionary filmmaker in complete control of his craft, and is an erotic thriller for the ages. As accomplished in technical scale as it is proficient in the storytelling department, it balances all its aspect with remarkable flair and makes them work in near-perfect harmony from start to finish. All in all, The Handmaiden is another dark, twisted & deliciously thrilling cinema from an assured artist and is possibly his finest directional effort since Oldboy. Strongly recommended.


                
In 2016, the band Radiohead published "A Moon Shaped Pool", although it wasn't a bad record I can't help but dislike it when I think it came from the same creators of "Kid A". Expectatives are a double-sided weapon. I watched the film, because I like "Oldboy" and they shared directors. How did them (the expectatives) played for this film? Surprisingly well, in my opinion! Everything (except the action) that shone in "Oldboy" is done fantasticly well in "The Handmaiden".The motion picture is a very erotic and sensual story from the get-go, however this is only another tool for counting and beautify the already excelent story. There is a strong focus on beauty and sex, although the actions of the characters seem uninterested in such details are precisely those who shape the final a result: a movie with a fantastic photography, shimmering due to its color use, that draw a very traditional atmosphere that captivates anyone that watches it. The scenes are so overwhelmingly orchestrated that they stick long after they've been seen. Don't let the runtime depress you, if you're an erotism lover you'll surely be charmed by this piece


                
My impression of this film prior to watching it was 'Lesbian Period Drama'. I was pleased to see that 'The Handmaiden' is not just that.'The Handmaiden' is a movie about con men and it unwraps itself as one. The viewer feels conned as layers of the story are further removed. We are given just the right amount of information not to be confused, without revealing the plot. The thing people anticipated the most about this film were the sex scenes and, given the very nature and story of the film, they couldn't be missing. They were nicely done; just the right amount of erotic without making it a porno. In fact, although the movie includes one (I guess two?) pretty graphic sex scenes, the camera strays from the characters' pubic area. The only genitals shown in the movie are pictures or props. As a period drama lover, I was delighted by the film's aesthetics. It creates a nice mixture between the east and the west of that time. Most importantly, it looked authentic.
The most positive film i have seen in a while. Totally worth watching even for seeing the other side of the world where happy endings exist. Drawing on tobacco paper is v cool also. There is an octopus. There is the idea of the marginalized winning in the world emphasized. Kind of like fight club, possible but utopian. Still puts a smile on my face on the ending.
The movie starts with a young Korean girl leaving her family to go to be a servant in a Japanese household. The visuals, the language, the mood, they are all so Asian. The eroticism is so pronounced even from the start, so different from the sanitized Anglo-Saxon media, too. So I was quite amazed to hear that this is an adaptation of a British Novel called Fingersmith. The adaptation is great, though. I can't say much about the story without spoiling it, but it is split into three parts, each from a different viewpoint, showing you that things are far from straightforward. It's basically a thriller noir, only set in 1930's Japanese occupied Korea. I liked the acting, the sets, the story, but what put them all into perspective was the way it was all presented. The non linear way of storytelling really made this a fresh and interesting film. Bottom line: a very beautiful Asian adaptation of a British novel that should be easily accessible to both Eastern and Western audiences.


                
Another very impressive film from Chan-wook Park who manages to draw his audience in from the very start. The opening scenes seem very quick and it appears it may be too difficult to keep up for the fairly long running time but it turns out to be a breeze. The pace slows and we are rewarded for our early concentration as so much makes so much sense so soon. Not always so with Asian movies, for western audiences, it seems to me. Park has such a wonderful sense of framing and is not afraid to move his cameras in unconventional ways. The sumptuous interiors and exteriors may have the appearance of the equivalent of an English historic romance but here the cameras offer us views and movement more akin to a full on action movie. Split into three parts, I found myself slightly bewildered at the start of the second section but soon caught up with the audaciousness of Mr Park and his co-writer. Beautiful, explicit, daring and rewarding, this is top notch film making.


                
After the success of Oldboy, Park Chan-Wook made fine but not as great movies in his stylish way of filmmaking; i always described as Tarantino if he was Asian and would understand their culture and weirdness. Don't get me wrong i really like 'Lady Vengeance', 'Thirst' and 'Stoker' but in comparison they felt flat. Now Chan-Wook slightly changed his style and made a more accessible movie for the general audience, but at the same time a great movie.'The Handmaiden' is clever, well constructed, full of great characters and in a strange but understandable way erotic. Especially, the two female characters showed a great range of emotions and acting skill in this movie. I most admit after the first big turn in the story of the movie, i expected the way the story would play out in the end. But this didn't stop the stylish and nice way the story was told.Even if you are not familiar wit Oldboy or Asian cinema, go watch this movie you will at least like it.


                
Consider the octopus. Moist and squirming, this extra-terrestrial creature stalks the ocean's calm depths before merging into the scenery. It spots an unsuspecting fish passing by. Before the prey can understand why this familiar patch of seabed now seems so unsettling, it feels a clammy tentacle coil around its torso.The octopus is an ingenious hunter and has long been a sexual symbol, a tradition which director Park Chan-Wook has followed to highlight suppressed and perverted desire. The mollusc performs this role in his most notorious work Oldboy, when Choi Min-Sik devours it alive after his release from captivity. It appears again in The Handmaiden, encapsulating the film's strange mixture of predication and passion.Based on Sarah Walter's book Fingersmith, Victorian England is traded for colonial Korea – a country writhing under Japanese oppression. The new masters have absorbed the superior and modern culture of the West, using it to carve out its own imperial hegemony in the East.Mimicry of the masters is essential to advance up their ladders of power. Some, such as Uncle Kouzuki (Jo Jin-Woong), have discarded their base Korean identities in the struggle to attain a Japanese one, even going so far as to adopt a new name.This Uncle Kouzuki, in aiding the Japanese in their subjugation of the peninsula, has acquired a literal gold mine. Using this wealth, he buys his way into the circles of Japanese nobility and builds a vast gated compound in the local woods.In this estate, he lives with his niece, the Lady Hideko (Kim Min- Hee) and their servants. His own wife, a Japanese noble, is dead and Kouzuki hopes to marry his niece to secure access to her vast inheritance and lineage.However, he is not the only man with his eye on Hideko's assets. A lowly Korean forger posing as Count Fujiwara (Ha Jung-woo) aims to seduce her, enlisting the help of Nam Sook-Hee (Kim Tae-Ri) posing as her handmaiden. Their plan is to defraud Lady Hideko by marrying her to Fujiwara, then sending her to an asylum.The story is co-written between Park and Chung Seo-Kyung who borrow elements from its novelised base. They break the narrative into three parts which are carefully stripped away, each section revealing more truth than the last.Flowing through the narrative's entirety are two main plots – one a tale of romance, the other of revenge. These address the film's main themes of the struggle to reclaim love and beauty in the face of separation and predication.The film contains excellent dialogue delivered superbly by strong performances from the main cast. Each actor has been carefully selected for their role, from the horrifically impassive face of Kim Hae-Sook as butler-madame Sasaki to Kim Min-Hee's doll like features, fragile and unnerving. Their physical attributes match exactly with the personalities of their characters.The main issue some may have with this film is that it perhaps places the female leads on something of a pedestal. Their relationship is one of abiding faith and harmony. The perversion is all on the part of the males. Instead, their idolised moments of lovemaking are depicted with an attention some might find excessive.Whatever your opinions in this regard, The Handmaiden undoubtedly reinforces Park's strong reputation as a director. His direction allows for a stunning range of emotions to be weaved into this story, with an exquisite set design that would make the BBC blush. It makes for a deceptive charm many will find difficult to escape.
We didn't much care for Park's Eng.-lang. debut, "Stoker," a formula Gothic creeper with some showy cinematography, borderline overacting and a pretty lame script. He's on much firmer ground here with a Korean cast and setting—the latter shifted from the source novel's Victorian England to Japanese-ruled Korea, c. 1930. The crusher plot line was "inspired by 'Fingersmith,'" one of Sarah Waters's tales of the lesbian demimonde, and the film kicks off with some vintage romance-novel shtick —a scoundrel's plotting to elope with an heiress, Lady Hideko, and relieve her of her fortune. He installs an accomplice, a skilled female pickpocket (that's what a "fingersmith" is, apparently), as Hideko's lady's maid to help him win her over, and the intense relationship that develops between the lady and the lady's maid is what saves "The Handmaiden" from being just another forgettable genre film like "Stoker." There's some pervy Sadean stuff involving a hanging tree and forged pornographic MSS and such, but the two heroines' tale is so compelling and the plot ticks over so smoothly—despite an amazing WTF?! moment at the end of part one—that you'll barely notice. Great performances, fascinating background (esp. the Koreans' cultural cringe toward their depraved Japanese rulers); those who have problems with what a know-it-all Netflix reviewer called "tribadic" sex scenes—not even sure that's the right word—should probably look elsewhere, however<U+0085>


                
It is a breath taking work. Probably it is a break through of Korean movie. The two actresses did a fabulous performance from the very beginning to the end. No unnatural behavior. I was completely convinced by their acting. The pace, the tense, the emotion and the atmosphere are all perfect en every chapter. From the story to screen play, everything make sense at the end. All details are part of the big puzzle. Also, the film has a spirit of the Korean and Japanese culture. The clash between the two. A story about man and woman, business and love, rational and emotional, oppress and resist. Again it reveals the power of woman. It is definitely the best Asian movie I have ever seen this year.


                
Park Chan-Wook was a promising, almost over rated, director at the beginning of his career after having signed the fantastic OldBoy and Sympathy for Mr Vengeance. He then suffered a huge period of "meh" movies...... and is back in form with what may very well be his best movie.The Handmaiden is a display of a director who now controls all the codes of movie making. The photography is beautiful and carries you to the Japanese controlled Korea of the 30s. The sets are gorgeous and the shots even more.The editing also makes the movie. Park plays with his viewers with smart editing, going through the same story in three passes. And it just works, builds empathy and hate for the same three characters across the movie. It's smart and the strength of the movie. The topic is what might disturb some and, without spoiling, it is a little R Rated and saphic. If that doesn't disturb you - go for it, it's such a great movie!


                
The latest effort from this acclaimed South Korean filmmaker takes place during 1930's Japan where a woman is hired to be the handmaiden to a rich heiress in an effort to con her out of her high fortunes. And in typical Park Chan-Wook fashion, a lot of twists, turns, and revelations come to fruition and ends up creating one of the most mesmerizing cinematic experiences I've had in 2016. Seriously, this man knows his craft and manages to mix intricate plot with some of his stylish filmmaking techniques in order to flesh out every scene in awe-sparring fashion.Its a near perfect blend of style and substance that lends itself in giving you a fascinating story along with beautifully crafted shots, angles, and transitions to boost it's already well-made plot. The acting from everyone is simply phenomenal. From the main to the supporting cast, there is not a single weak performance in this film. Plus, it contains a gorgeous score that complements every scene taking place and its one of the best I've heard all year. As for the sexy, erotic elements that the film had to offer, well, all I can say is that they don't hold back anything and Chan-Wook is very direct and to the point with the subject matter at hand.In the end, "The Handmaiden" is hands down of the best movies I've seen in 2016. Just leave it to one of the greatest South Korean directors to show us the true artistry that cinema has to offer. Its definitely a film that you should seek out immediately if its playing in your area and its one that'll leave me thinking for quite some time. And if you haven't seen Oldboy yet, GO SEE IT RIGHT NOW.


                
Loved the movie.When you start watching it, you have no idea what you are going to find. I love this director but this film has nothing to do with previous ones.The performance of the main actresses is absolutely brilliant. Really loved the environment, dressing... Very well done.Also the landscape, it makes you dream of going to Korea and Japan if you haven't been there yet. Then the plot, it changes so many times that in the end, you don't even know, what is the actual story, who are the good and the bad guys. Sex, Sado, it is a provocative movie, but not ordinary. It is just how is meant to be. It's a long movie, and not very active, but Really worth watching.


                
