I took a chance with this one based on the reviews. I am sad to say that it was a complete waste of my time. The series is trying to ride the high created by the original Karate Kid movie with references and flashbacks to the original every 5mins or so. With cliched unrealistic(read fake) drama and mediocre/uneven acting performances, this reboot is a huge let down. I kept waiting and waiting for it to get better, but unfortunately, it never did. Miyagi would agree!


                
I legitimately consider "The Karate Kid" to be one of my favorite films of all-time. In all honesty, oddly enough, that is largely the reason why I dislike "Cobra Kai", as it takes a film (and film series, really) with a very dramatic tone and turns it into primarily a Disney channel-esque family comedy.The basic setup here is that Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka), the Cobra Kai antagonist from the original film, is now grown up and pretty much a loser. He's an alcoholic, has no connection with his wife or son, and seems to have no purpose. Well, perhaps no purpose except hating Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Maccio), who is the picture of success owning a large car dealership. With seemingly nowhere else to turn, Johnny decides to open a Cobra Kai gym dojo once again, much to the obvious chagrin of Daniel.Truth be told, I like the basic framework of this series, and I thought the pilot episode was above-average (featuring flashbacks to the original film). The concept of these characters interacting with each other later in life is intriguing, and it is an especially good choice to focus on Johnny more often than not. In short, this has the makings of a very interesting, nostalgia-fueled experience for those who love "The Karate Kid".What's the problem, then? Instead of anything close to real drama or character development (past that first episode), we get a structure that more closely remembers a family comedy than anything else, pulling from any and all tropes and themes to try and make itself relevant. For really hard-core "Karate Kid" fans (like myself), this will likely be unforgivable, as those original films (while ironically dealing with similar messages) didn't beat you over the head with them like this one does. The scenes involving high school children (of which there are quite a few) contain dialogue and actions that are closer to Disney channel daytime fare than anything even mildly authentic in terms of drama.I understand the reason for making "Cobra Kai" the way it is (appeal to younger viewers, or the type of viewers who likely have YouTube TV/Red at this point), but that doesn't mean this fan has to like it. Simply put, the original just means too much for me to watch this little series clumsily stumble along.


                
SPOILERS AHEADThis was a thoroughly enjoyable show that felt like it's own entity yet still rewarded the fans of the trilogy with many wonderful little nods.I really enjoyed how it came at the story from the angle of Johnny and allowed us to see his and Miguel's characters grow and bond. The relationship between Sam and Miguel was also really nicely handled and then bang! the last couple of episodes and they decide to make Miguel out to be a douche bag, the Cobra Kai's to be bad and Robby the saviour of the day.They have Miguel acting out of character and self absorbed Sam not giving Miguel a second chance when he was clearly suffering from his first experience of alcohol and jealousy so that she can make all dooey eyes at Robby who was suddenly the hero of the hour.What were the writers thinking? They spend all that time crafting Miguel and his fellow Cobra Kai 'losers' and then just throw them under the bus for the pretty boy Robby and to allow Sam to be a strong independent woman who won't take any nonsense from toxic masculinity.Sam asks for a second chance from her former female friend and gets it but won't offer the same to Miguel who is left being the bad guy?From being a show that was a welcome snub in the face of the PC virtue signalling, lecturing disease that is affecting so much material we have to end with this dose of Sam is the victim, Robby is the wounded hero and Miguel is the bad guy.From such a wonderful entertaining high, this show ended on a dismal woefully written flat that left a really bad taste in the mouth and makes me not want to see the next series if I'm going to have to endure such out of character writing just to create a cut out bad guy.Loved this right up until the end when it then dropped the ball spectacularly
I'm not a hard-core fan of karate kid, but this show is just a cheap shot to milk some money out of classic.
I don't really like how the character are in this show compared to film.
It's basically daniel and Johnny switched role, and I can pretty much guess what's gonna happen in the.future episodes.
Which is why I don't bother to watch it now.


                
It's a little cheesy and unnecessarily vulgar. They could have done a better job of bringing CK back to life.


                
Really, not a whole lot different than the plot from Gangs of New York. I dont know why, but I kept thinking of Rocky 3 and 4 throughout the series.
However, Daniel-sons wife was MAJOR annoying. Did no one else notice how she made Daniel look like a weenie in almost every scene?...especially near the end. Sorry, but Daniel-son "the man" is too weak to carry the role that is needed here.


                
I knew after seeing the trailer of this show it wasn't going to be anything special. I watched the first 4 episodes with low expectations and found myself bored, except for the ending scenes which were awesome. I don't know why things took so long to happen.


                
My children watched The Jackie Chan version of the Karate Kid and hoped to get them on this version since they never saw the original movies. But I had to prevent them from watching this series because the incredible amount of bad language and sex references. What were the producers thinking??? The original movies did not have this much of profanity.


                
