Was a big fan of the original movie (like most kids growing up in the 80s). Didn't expect much going into this, but was pleasantly surprised. Good acting, great characters, humor, nostalgia (but not over the top) & decent story. Really good continuation of the Karate Kid movies and retained the components of what made the original so great, keeping it relevant for today's world. Only criticism I have is Danielsons fat, rude, pointless slob of a kid that I couldn't see him let happen, considering the lessons he had growing up. Apart from that bring on the next series... well done YouTube.


                
I have to admit as excited I was about this I didn't have high expectations but man was this series cool. The story is very well written and not as predictable as I thought it would be. The acting is pretty solid as well. A must see for any 80's kid or a Karate Kid fan.


                
It is during the very first episode that we see the script has flipped for our karate contenders. Anticipation builds throughout the series and when we finally see dojos unite for the 50th annual All Valley Karate Tournament, we are on the edge of our seats. Does the good guy win? Who IS the good guy? Is the story over? Well, you'll just have to watch and see... no mercy!


                
As someone who grew up with the original, when I heard about a Karate Kid sequel series, I knew I had to check it out. Wow! I was not expecting it to be this great! Honestly one of my favorite shows of all time now. Binged it all in one day and I'll probably rewatch it on multiple occasions. So great!


                
I am the type of person who always wants to leave some classics as they are because i think the bar is already set too high and they'll ruin the legacy if they do sequels.
but let me tell you..if you are someone like me , I'll hundred percent recommend this one.At first I was mad that they made a series with the same cast.I was thinking how on earth they agreed to ruin this great creation? So to find that answer I decided to give it a shot.It was incredible.I loved how they picked up after so many years.I loved how they portrayed johnny and also gave us a glimpse of his childhood.Everything literally makes much more sense now.
Every karate kid fan should watch it... way way better than what I expected you to be.Thanks to the writers, directors and the whole cast and crew behind cobra kai for not ruining this classic and honoring the legacy like this.I couldn't be happier.Looking forward to season 2 .Its a bummer that I have to wait so long,still I'll be happy to wait as long as I get an amazing season 02.


                
When I first heard about this project I thought it was a stupid idea. It sounded like just another cheesy remake. (remember ghostbusters)
But, It's not. The script is really brilliant. The way the characters are written and they way the story plays out is just PERFECT. 
It's intelligent. 
It's respectful to the source-material. 
It doesn't take itself to serious and there are some light-hearten comedy just like the original, but you also have some very tense dramatically moments. It even manages to keep some of the natural beauty of the original film. This is a masterclass.
Anybody thinking about doing a remake or adopting anything to the screen, must watch this and learn.


                
So Nostalgic,it's painful :) I was in highschool when I watched karade kid ! Very nicely done,I loved how the "bad" guy describing the events of karate kid,from his side of view !


                
I will admit that when i heard of the eminent arrival of this show, i thought it was a joke. I thought it best to let sleeping dog's lie but it turns out i was wrong. Other than the cheesy fight scenes and the goody, goody role of Ralph, i found this reboot amazingly entertaining. I actually watched all the episodes in one day, and I'm thirsty for more. I'm my opinion, Johnny Lawrence steals the show by being tormented by his past. The show was cleverly written and has a few laughs as well. Though Daniel is goody, goody, the rest of the cast isn't and that's what adds spice to the show. I'm looking forward to next season for the end of the last episode, makes you wonder the fate of Cobra Kai.
When I first heard about 'Cobra Kai' I had to admit the little boy in me yelled out a great 'Oh yes!', almost immediately followed by the thought 'I hope they don't mess this up!'... because as with most nostalgically great movies and series, when they try to revamp something like that it usually doesn't turn out great... but I'm very glad they didn't mess this one up.This first season is great; I like the story and the angle they're taking, great characters and acting and also the production value is on point. I would love to go into some details but I'm afraid I couldn't without spoilers. It definitely does the original movies justice, it feels the same but yet it doesn't because of course is set 30 years later and the tone isn't as serious as before but it doesn't hurt it at all... they've done it right.Any 80's kid like me who when they were a 10 year old boy thought this was the coolest movie ever (and there's a LOT of us out there) is going to love this series. Can't wait for season 2!


                
I actually started watching this series more out of curiosity than real interest. I was a young girl when the original movie came out and I remember watching it over and over again: it felt good getting some justice against bullies. However, in this series you discover something really profound about the characters: they are human beings. Both Lawrence and LaRusso have vices and virtues and the line between good and evil gets blurred by human emotions with which anyone of us can easily identify with.In addition, in this series these two grown up men seem to learn from their mistakes and strive to become better people. This series is very well blended with action, emotions and drama so be sure that every member of the family will be satisfied. Very cleverly done, I can't wait to watch the second series!


                
The Reel Blog: Cobra Kai 
TV Review: episodes 1&2
By Nelson Nantanapibul
 34 years after the original hit film The Karate Kid was released in theatres Daniel Larusso (Ralph Macchio) and Johnny Lawrence (William Zabka) face off in this Youtube Red original series. Episode 1 is seen from Johnny's perspective and the path his life took after his loss to Daniel in the All Valley Karate tournament. He has not done well and does odd jobs to help pay the bills and leads an all around miserable existence. 
 On one of the worst days of his life he gets fired from his crumby job and gets arrested for helping out a kid who was getting the crap kicked out of him by a bunch of school bullies. Shades of the original film with a twist. Following his arrest his old and decrepit step dad offers to buy Johnny out of his life by writing him a big fat check which he initially declines but later rethinks this when he decides to reopen the Cobra Kai dojo.
 Johnny remembers how his life had purpose when he a part of that dojo which was the highlight of his young life. He and Larusso meet up again after all these years due to an incident which I won't spoil here but upon first meeting the tables have turned. Daniel comes off a bit full of himself and somewhat condescending towards Johnny and Johnny obviously feels feels jealous of Daniel's success and is resentful of it. 
 Johnny reopens the dojo and takes on as a student Miguel the kid who being harassed by the bullies outside of a convenience store. Johnny is still a dick but he is a 3 dimensional one who is now a father to an estranged son who has issues. Life has not been kind to him and he has struggled and this series is a story about his redemption and his search for meaning in his life.
 Daniel who despite having achieved great success in his life in business, love and family is still in some ways still stuck very much in the past. He still sees Johnny as the kid who bullied him in school and has a hard time seeing him as anything else. In a way Daniel has become the bully who will not allow Johnny to be anything more than who Daniel sees him as. This series will be the the struggle between two men who come to terms with their past and attempt to determine who they are in the present. 
 There are all these streaming services now Netflix, Hulu, Hbo and now Youtube has their own streaming service featuring original programming. I really enjoyed the first two episodes of Cobra Kai and this makes me want to subscribe to their service. The show is produced by Will Smith and Jada Pinkett as well as Ralph Macchio and William Zabka. I will not recommend for people to add a new for pay streaming service to their monthly bills. I will recommend for people to watch the first two episodes which are available for free on Youtube and maybe you will decide to subscribe to Youtube Red.
I never saw this based on the title but later did upon seeing reviews. Reviews are pretty accurate as the character development is interesting and the show puts a different spin on the original movie.
I tend to watch shows and then later abandon them as the characters never develop or learn from their mistakes. Or sometimes they develop in different ways all in the pursuit of plot development. These unrealistic characters are also a big turnoff and typical of the average show out there.
Cobra Kai at present does not have this and addresses real life issues. It has potential to become something bigger, even "Shane" like but I guess that depends on the production.
For once I would like to see real life character progression, Cobra Kai has the potential to become this.


                
My advice if you are reading this is "stay with it!" 
I was looking forward to this and have to admit the first 3 or so episodes had great moments but also lame moments too. 
It had an initial amateurish feel to it and William Zabka who plays Johnny Lawrence, the old arch-enemy to Ralph Macchio's Daniel LaRusso, comes across as a real annoying ass-hat.... but that's intended. The characters grow over the episodes and the actors obviously settle down and get in to the swing of things so as in my first line of advice here... "Stay with it". 
I nearly gave up but boy am I glad I didn't. The occasionally nostalgic clips from the original Karate Kid movies are perfectly done. I grew up on the original films, so I am not sure how this will sit with the "yoof of today" but for me, this was good, clean, family style TV with some great, great moments in it. Sure there are some really corny lines, some terrible lines and attitude/acting by William Zabka (Johnny) in places but I blame the script-writer/directors for that. 
But it really does FEEL like an extension of the movies, as an update 30 years later.... Some obvious things happen but it's all good. 
All-in-all, it's really well done and by the end I felt I wanted to shout at the TV screen and tell the main characters to wise-up and sort things out. 
A really good style 80s comeback and I genuinely felt for William Zabka's character Johnny.... first sympathising and the next hating! 
I think this has a way to go yet and if given the opportunity could grow into its concept really well. 
Again, I wonder if it will resonate with people who were not fans of the originals all those years ago, but for this old fan - really well done! 
Bravo! Really good nostalgia-fest


                
Great to see the classic karate kid story through Johnnys eyes. No real spoilers but it was all Daniels fault. Then last couple of episodes its all flipped on his head. Was hoping for Johnny and Daniel to make up and work together but maybe in season 2???
Shame really enjoyed until then...
Very impressed by youtube stepping up to the level of Netflix and HBO on this show. Great nostalgia moments for fans of the original, but a brand new story and a new hero as well as the old. I'm sure Pat Morita is somewhere up there smiling.


                
When I first learned that there was going to be a show in the shape of a spin off or whatever about the Karate Kid I was intrigued and thrilled, to say the least. Then I saw the trailer and I was looking forward to watching it, but somehow fearing it was going to be worse than the first two features. 
When I sat in front of my desktop with some cookies little did I know it was going to be a binge watch. This is a wonderful rekindle of a flawed but marvelous saga. 
The story is now about Johnny and then Daniel, just the other way around compared to the first movie. And now the drama becomes a comedy - or at least a dramedy. 
Pros: smart but not too over the top, suitable for kids and for adults who lived the 1980s, the main characters have more layers than the original film series (no one is the good or bad guy, everybody has a background story that justify their decisions), the jokes are subtle but very funny, it deals with the nowadays problems kids have but also deals with the classic topics... Can't say them all. 
Cons: it's a show, so the story is being developed within the 25 minutes time frame. 
Highly recommended - This is a nice treat! 
Can't wait for season 2!!!
The season begins by showing Daniel as a successful businessman who made his name off his reputation as a Karate Kid victory. He appear kind and polite to all even his workers yet he develops to show his true weakness, he cannot get over his high school bully even though he had the final victory in the tournament and in life up until tyhis point. 
Daniels and Johnny are reintroduced to each other because of fluke accidents and although Daniel's first reaction to seeing Johnny was rainbows and sunshines it turned into Daniel being the same annoying child he was in the movie reacting dumb instinct rather than seeing the situation . This time though they have traded places as Daniel has money and fame while Johnny is down and beaten giving Daniel the opportunity to kick him as often as possible.Johnny is obviously beaten not just by Danial but by the death of his mom and life. Johnny has been humbled by life and it shows through the episodes including when he does not stand up for who he wants to evolve into when his student who represents him, mouths off in the old Cobra Kai fashion of "no mercy" Johnny appears to be the old Cobra Kai in the Dojo but seems to want that left in battle not taken into the real world. When he says "no mercy" he does not convey to his students when that principle applies. He cannot reach his students as to where the No Mercy ends and honor begins. Johnny has turned his back on his son because he "knows" he would be a failure if he was a father to his kid due to the poor role model his stepfather is. They season shows the mental abuse he suffered from his mom choice to find a provided for the two of the over finding a good man who would care about them. 
Johnny is so beaten he lets his student yell at him near the end of the final match. Another role reversal as the student is tell the sensai he is going to "sweep the leg" and yelling no mercy while the teacher is given that shocked deer in the headlights look. All Johnny does is cower as his student turns and goes off to a tarnished victory. Hope the next season will unite Daniel and Johnny against the ghost who showed up at the end of this seasons final. Daniel is finally big enough to look beyond his one bad year of high school to see all the blessing he has. Daniel though more centered and less hyper still remains the most annoying character in movie and TV history .
Wonderful and delicious - if you like the first The Karate Kid (1984) movie. Top acting, good and interesting storytelling, some oldschool karate, some nice twists and adds to the original story. Luckily the writers know their stuff and don't try to make something total different of the original material but stay to the core of The Karate Kid movie and add here and there some new stuff which, o wonder, actually makes sense. Anyway, especially watching William Zabka and Ralph Macchio as adults holding up their grudge against each other is a great pleasure, and they act very good indeed. Cobra Kai - really good show that hit me out of nowhere and beats easy 90% of all currently aired shows.


                
It brought me back to my childhood. Very interesting how they have made it in the same style as back in the days. I think for the new generation without the reference of the movie this could be a time wasting drug. I enjoyed it very much !


                
Heck of a lot better than I thought it would be however it could have done with not as many easter eggs; save something for season two. But frankly, they should have just wrapped up the whole thing but whatever. Enjoyable regardless.


                
I wasn't sold at first, but WOW! I'm all in! I am on my 3rd time going through watching.


                
Started a little predictable and campy, but the story arc quickly starts surprising you. I put this on as background noise, but ended up binge watching the whole thing. How have I not heard about this show? Oh yeah, it's on Youtube TV.


                
Prior to Cobra Kai, it had been about 6 years since I've binged watched a show. When watching the first episode for free, I did not have very much high expectations due to the lack of quality the sequels had compared to the original film. Boy, was I blown away by this show! 
Set 34 years after the original Karate Kid, it recreates the magic that the first movie left. It shows heart, and rivalry. During the pilot, it shows Johnny Lawrence who is washed up and has never quite gotten over his high school glory days. Typical has-been, but it works well for the character. He meets Miguel a wimpy boy who is almost like Daniel, except he's a typical Generation Z baby, annoying and tries too hard at life. The kid has problems with bullies, and Johnny pulls a Miyagi/Jerry Maguire with the kid. Later on, Johnny crosses paths with arch nemesis Daniel Larusso, who seems to be over the whole rivalry, but Johnny is not.
As the series progresses, we see the bitter rivalry between Larusso and Lawrence reoccur. Larusso who should be a wise man due to Miyagi's teaching comes off as the same whiny little boy we saw in the original. For his character, it just doesn't work. He's a successful business man who too has not gotten over the events that happened in '84. As a result, Larusso teaches a young man Karate like Miyagi did with him.
Though this series really is good, there are many flaws from keeping it great. 
1. Johnny tries too hard to be like John Kreese as a Sensei. In this series it doesn't work, mainly because Johnny is the protagonist and doesn't really have the whole stern personality like his former sensei. I felt Johnny was a better leader and more aggressive as a teenager. 
2. Miguel's character sucks. I'm not sure if he is even supposed to be likable to begin with, but he's just a typical new comer actor who tries too hard to be wimpy, and tries too hard to be mean. It isn't believable at all. I feel they could have casted an actor who has both the good cop bad cop personality.
3. It's hard to believe that as much as Daniel has done with his life, he still hasn't gotten over the Cobra Kai gang from high school and Ali with an I from nearly 35 years ago. The man has an amazing house, great looking wife, a sucessful business, and a fit lifestyle. Why dwell on your teen years?
4. Daniel's boy. I get that the new generation Z kids are obnoxious and mostly overweight, but why does Larusso have to have a fat Kid for a son. As strict as Miyagi was with Daniel, I'm very surprised that Daniel isn't the same way with his kids.
5. This show really needs more than 10 episodes in a season. There could have at least been 20 episodes. While 30 minutes is an appropriate time run for a show like this, there needs to be more episodes for character development. For example, a character named Hawk. He was wimpy and shy one episode, the next he's confident and able to beat people up. To make it realistic, we should see their progress as students and as people. Another example is Miguel being so scrawny. The producers and director should have had this kid bulk up throughout production. You can't tell me you workout for 9 months (in the show) and show no results. Plus in the original Karate Kid, Johnny was a pretty toned kid, all of the Cobra Kai students were built. Hopefully we'll see a difference in some physical appearances in season 2.
While this show was good and I'm waiting for a second season, I give it a solid 8. If there weren't so many flaws, like the ones I pointed out, I would rate a 9, but I won't, yet. I don't give 10s because realistically, there has never been a fully well acted and flawless film/show that everyone can agree on. Hopefully this series learns from its' mistakes and comes off even better next season! You should give it a watch.
Ha ha. What a great series, although I think mainly as I was there fore the KK movies.Really great to root for the bad guys. There's always a couple of slick lines that make me LOL.Loving the flash backs and really glad they are using the original actors.Those moaning about the language can go watch some cartoons or something.Keep it as it is!


                
I just finished the 1st season of #CobraKai and I am really impressed. When the first trailer broke, I admit it looked a little contrived, silly and I was skeptical whether this was a good idea. Boy, was I wrong. As a fan of the original movie, this show is many things. Steeped in 80's nostalgia, it's a sequel, a reboot and an homage all told through a post-modern point of view. Characters from mostly the 1st film (all 3 films are referenced as easter eggs) are respectfully and lovingly expanded upon making you really see the different sides of those characters from what was originally two dimensionally presented in the 1984 film. You see a complete role reversal here. William Zabka is really great as Johnny, a man whose life seemingly ended after the events of the first movie as is Ralph Macchio as a successful businessman who allowed real life to make him lose sight of his true passions. The #KarateKid always seemed like Rocky's younger brother and there are many reasons why it kinda is. With that said, the writers appear to be willing to look at all of the themes and metaphors from the first movie and really give meaning to how those events affected the characters as well as the succeeding story thus continuing the cycle but in a fresh way. Something that Stallone doesn't seem to get now with his Rocky rehash of Creed II coming out in the fall. With twists at the end, I am eager to see where this goes in the 2nd season.


                
