I used to worship this show. Season one? As someone who loves 19th century literature, Sherlock Holmes in particular, I'm finding it hard to comprehend the season four finale. Don't get me wrong; season one and two were good. I loved the cases, the way they humanised John and Sherlock in a way lots of adaptations seem to forget to do. Season three went a little off the rails but it was alright because there was character development and something that seemed to be leading into a decisive, interesting plot. But no. Season four was one of the worst things I've ever seen. There were continuity errors, plot holes and even instances where cameras were visible in shots. The final episode was almost too bad for me to watch, I couldn't believe what I was seeing. A grenade on a drone? It all seemed like a joke. In retrospect, the show was nothing more than a clever crime drama with some fancy camera-work. It's constant use of gay people as punchlines (ie; queerbaiting) only got worse as the series progressed, not to mention the fact that almost all of the villains were queercoded, something I thought we'd left in the 90s.TL;DR: Don't waste your time. There are plenty of better adaptations out there.


                
I have long been a fan of Sherlock Holmes. The eighties version starring the late, great Jeremy Brett is definitive in my view. Whilst I fully understand that this is an ambitious 'different take', and that usually anything written and 'put on' by Mark Gatiss is well worth a view, I'll not be watching future episodes. Am I the only viewer out here who considers this a pile of incomprehensible, pretentious garbage? A case of the emperor's new clothes I fear.On a positive note, it's great to see Wanda Ventham again. Us blokes of a certain age will remember a series like UFO, with great fondness. It's just a shame about 'Sherlock'. Conan-Doyle fell out of love with his creation, but even he would spin in his grave over this travesty.


                
Is Holmes a brilliant detective or some arrogant, semi-alien persona who just needs to close his eyes in order to solve mysteries of the world? His eccentricity and intelligence have been replaced with shallow egocentricity and cheep special effects. Like anyone who is into detective and mystery stories would be satisfied with slow motion effects and bunch of mathematic formula flying across the TV screen. Ohh it is that bleeding formula again, and I was blaming the butler all the time! Is Holmes a detective or an action hero? What happened with complex and intriguing plots? Terrorist attack!? Really!? What happened with WHO, WHY, WHERE AND WHEN? Who cares, look Sherlock is riding a motorcycle! And the terrible Serbian accent in the beginning of 3x01 was just too much...this basically underlined the screaming dilettantism of the whole project.
Well, I liked the 2 first seasons apart from the Baskervilles episode. But since the 3rd season, I really find this show really annoying and utterly messy. The last episode of season 4 will be the last I will see from this series. The episode I just saw called "The Lying Detective" was particularly painful to watch! This has nothing to do with Benedict Cumberbatch who is a wonderful talented young actor and Martin Freeman does a good job too. Some other actors are not so good though. The show has became totally messy without any good linear story telling. You get quickly bored of all the mess, all the what Sherlock manage to guess without any explanations like if he was a supernatural being, the infernal rhythm, how fast he talks. It is only effects, effects, effects. I explain the high ratings with blind fanaticism. People are so "fan" of someone or something nowadays. It has the same roots as fanaticism in fact... No, I will stick to the good old series with Jeremy Brett or 2/3 movies with Basil Rathbone. The striking Billy Wilder's movie from 1970 or some great Russian adaptations from the director Igor Maslennikov in the 80's. Even the Guy Ritchie's movies are at least fun to watch. But as far as this "Sherlock" is concerned, I am through with it.


                
I don't know whether to laugh or cry knowing that dozens of adult human beings with cognitive capabilities must have invested hours and hours of their lives making this stuff.Episode 1 was contrived, had several plot holes and seemed overacted. So I left it there, until months later when a friend, whose opinion I respect, told me she actually watched the show and liked it.So I fired up episode 2 and half an hour later found myself staring at the screen in disbelief. I probably drooled a little as I think I was, for a while, completely mesmerised by the new standards for juvenile drivel that was being defined in front of me.The plot holes were piling up, building a mountain so tall nothing really made sense anymore. The realm of the surreal was opening up, and it wasn't pretty, I can tell you.The actions of the characters are utterly unrealistic. The clichés so bad they become a new sort of meta-clichés. The script and narrative so infantile and unbelievable my 7- year old daughter would find it necessary to turn her head away to not have her little feet curl up in shame. The acting ranging from forced to just purely bad.There is also very little Sherlock Holmes-style deduction going on here. This is Holmes for the ignoramus of the 21st century. And nothing makes any sense.And this has a rating of 9.2 of IMDb?! I mean, what? People, hey! Don't do this to me. Are you all smoking crack out there? Or is modern civilization truly in the pits?


                
I have never seen an episode of this series before, so maybe these series started off good, I have no idea, but this one is a fluke. First of all, the character of Sherlock starts the first 10 minutes as an annoying arrogant phone-zombie. But then, maybe that is how he is meant to be portrayed. Still, somewhat strange for being the protagonist. And the way he deducts and solves crimes is just not believable. He is saying at the start of the episode to a panel of officials, "I never guess". I will come back later to that. I can not find an explanation why he is asking about the 2 types of vinyl on the car seats. This becomes clear later, but only a clairvoyant could have known that. Then, when he explains how the son in the car died he says: "I can't be certain, of course, but I think Charlie must have suffered some sort of a seizure." So the genius crime solver, who claims he never guesses, just made an educated guess. For me, that was it, totally unbelievable. I have watched it for 10 more minutes, but had to stop. A good crime-series feeds you clues throughout the episode, so you can be part of the crime-solving. This is just drivel.
Conan Doyle would roll over in his grave if he saw this incarnation of his creation. His Holmes was clever, suave, sophisticated, classy, and , above all, a gentleman. This version of Holmes is arrogant, bitchy, impatient, and snotty. A more unlikeable Sherlock Holmes has never been portrayed. I have always liked Benedict Cumberbatch, and he is only doing what he is paid to do - to be the Holmes the writers and director want him to be. However, I am disappointed that he must feel the need to prostitute himself to be whatever his employers want him to be, even if it means to sacrilegiously disrespect one of the greatest literary figures in fiction.
This was one of the worst British series I ever saw. Trying to make Sherlock Holmes living in the modern times is a challenge, and if executed properly, it would be a great series. Unfortunately they missed the mark completely. I can't understand where so much high praise comes from, because the stories are overly complicated, and often they make absolutely no sense. The characters are dull, boring and the worst of them is Holmes. His home on Baker Street, simply does not have the feel of his home, and it is one of the essential parts that define his character. The tension build up is just non-existent, there is no character development, and the script is also dull. As for Moriarty, the worst choice of an actor to portray his character, he came out more as a paedophile, and not some kind of evil genius criminal.I gave it a shot, seen all 6 parts of first and second season, but it simply didn't do anything for me. I give it 1/10, simply for the effort.


                
I guess I am in the minority here but I miss Jeremy Brett . The "New" Jim Moriarty gives me indigestion. He looks like a gigolo from some of those 1920's movies that said the character had to be oily and greasy.There are some things that can't be modernized, like Shakespeare. Hope ACD doesn't see this from afar...he would not rest in peace. The HOUND of BASKERVILLE really was a disaster, they lost all the concept of the original story. I went to bed after the first 30 minutes. Basil Rathbone 's version is the classic all should be measured against. This series is trying too hard to be a hip, modern show. Next , Sherlock will have a girlfriend. YUK!


                
I was expecting so much from this show, but is awful. The dialogs are painful, full of quotes coming from a Schwarzenegger's movie. Also, poor choices of soundtracks. The acting seems forced in every scene, maybe because of the poor script trying so hard to present the characters and be funny, cool, clever..I only watched the pilot, and I going to stop there. The episode is a hour and a half long, but doesn't keeps your attention for that long. 1/10 for sure. But I suppose that I am the exception, because everybody love Sherlock. So, if you want to try, go ahead, but do not create expectations. I wanted to believe in it, but, unfortunately, I was not able to do so.


                
I can see why the fan base of this show mostly comprises of young adults teens and early 20's. Sherlock is a big baby who considers all others beneath them since ONLY HE CAN DEDUCE CR@P! WELL! What can he deduce exactly you ask? What ANY OTHER NORMAL PERSON CAN.Really? In the first ep he 'deduced' that a woman that was laying dead was from a certain place since her coat was wet....well is that not what the police do? INVESTIGATE! Wow, how insulting to all people. I get it young people get parking tickets, are told to break up their senseless 'party' (getting drunk and making out) at 4 am in a residential neighborhood. And boom they are seen as the enemy. Wow, you see cop cars doing patrols, yeah they are keeping idiots like you SAFE. And you have the NERVE to hate them, wow. Remember that the next time you dial 911 (or however you call the police in your country).THIS SHOW is a perfect amalgamation of EVERYTHING that is WRONG with with the world. In a word EGO. "I'm right and everyone else is wrong!" Sounds like a statement from a stubborn child yes? Yet this statement is said to come from a 'genious' grown man. What?During the first episode I solved the crime long before this so called 'genius' did. He said something like 'who passes unseen?'. I already had a plethora of answers. Yet this supposed 'GENIUS' had a mental block. Had a hard time figuring it out? Really? I said well taxi drivers, the homeless, residents of apt complexes, valets, janitors, teachers, I mean just about anyone that could move about unquestioned. A CEO of a company, a celebrity, etc... But from the way that the VICTIMS were OUTSIDE it was not hard to figure out, oh I mean 'deduce' *rolls eyes* that it was either taxi drivers or the homeless.Some of the eps are so silly that even the writer could not solve it! Some of the eps just go unexplained. What? That's called stupidity. Wow I feel so sorry for the generation of today. THIS is what they worship? Oh, also there is a fair bit of sexism in here. Molly, the girl so obviously desperately in love with Sherlock is used as a prop. He insults her and not only that manipulates ALL women. He proposed to a women in the show to get her to open some door for him. Some very SICK messages about women in here. That all women are emotional and so on...wow. Strange that this show has a strong female fanbase, being brainwashed to be OK with abuse. Very sick. They say it's OK if he abuses me 'he's cute'. He is an abusive man, those are horridly ugly. To be shallow, he is not even handsome...not sure what the attracting is there, other than being brainwashed to believe he is handsome. His face looks like a foot....Furthermore the character of Watson the doctor makes no sense. He still trusts a man that FAKED HIS OWN DEATH? Wtf? You are a DOCTOR! Again, the media just LOVES to insult science since they rely on anti-logic. ANYONE after all the abuse Sherlock has spewed would have just assumed that everything he says is a lie. He has lied to everyone. Why even take him seriously anymore? I mean really?
That's what happens when writers reach their own limitations.I liked season 2 the most. A Scandal in Belgravia was fun to watch and follow. And the The Reichenbach Fall kept interested most of the viewers about next season.But Season 3 was sub-par if not even worst. You cannot pretend to be clever. Not for long anyway and after The Reichenbach Fall it was obvious that the writers hit celling.What then? What happens when the writers don't know what to do? They jump the shark they swipe it under the rug. Become pretentious instead of innovative.For me: season 1: 7 season 2: 9 season 3: 2What's next? Season 4? Well...to tell you the truth I don't remember how season 3 was ended!!! Oh wait! In the finale season of 2 Holmes was presumed dead and he was alive. But Moriarty killed himself. Yes? Oh wait...Moriarty will return in season 4!The show not only jumped the shark, but is now searching to jump over the dolphins too!!
It all started quite good - first episode was really interested, second and third - not so much. Second season was much worse though. Typical for Moffat idiotic behaviour of main characters (like in his Doctor Who episodes), typical for Moffat overcomplicated plots that serve only showing his own ego, and typical for Moffat last episode which was a copy of Doctor Who storyline in last season of Doctor Who: 1. Say to the viewers main hero is dead. 2. Make a whole episode of nonsensical story line where villain is making elaborate and stupid plot to kill main hero, 3. Main hero "dies", it is shown with all detail, 4. Everyone mourns main hero., 5. Main hero is alive at the end of the episode because he faked his own death to hide himself from everyone.
I never really liked the prospect of an updated SH but I eventually, due to good reviews, gave it a go and watched the first episode of series 2. Within minutes Sherlock sat dispelling potential cases in a blatant rip off, sorry homage, to House and absolutely shadowed his method of sarcastic case selection. Faithful Mrs Hudson is no longer the face of old school stability as she can now withstand torture like a member of the SAS, the police are still incapable and pale faced English gent SH can physically infiltrate a Middle East terrorist cell undetected. Benedict Cumberbatch is too much! it is like watching Alan Rickman's over the top performances in Die Hard or Robin Hood; they worked brilliantly because the films lent themselves to a level of ridicule, Sherlock Holmes does not. Sorry this series is utter garbage.
If you want to make Sherlock Holmes, why not showing the original story. I am sure original story would have been awesome.. Again, you are a super genius writer/producer. Why not creating a new story with a new name? It's all about business! Using the famous Title, and twisting it in every possible way. Taking the main story from book then mocking it and changing it as they wish. The writer and producer should be treated for mental illness. It doesn't have any originality. It failed to follow the original series. Sherlock Holmes is a private detective, not a police. In book, He loves to solve complex cases.But, in this show, he is targeting Moriarty like a police chasing a criminal. I mean,almost every episode is connected to Moriarty!!! This show is a disgrace towards Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. They should have changed the name of this TV series..


                
This series is one of the most awful pieces of television i have ever come across. The best way i can describe it is that , it compares with the paintings that you might see on the walls of the science departments in Universities. There are so many intentional distractions; from continual irreverent 'quips', gestures, inappropriate dialogue and then a void of generosity, that i think this has to be an exercise to prove that film making is an illusion. 'Sherlock Holmes', as much a part of tradition as you could get, if someone had enough backing, then 'Sherlock' is the perfect vehicle for such an exercise. Either that or perhaps the majority of the public have had enough of being seduced by character acting,and beautiful moving imagery.


                
I saw a glimpse of this crappy direction they're taking back on season 2, but season 3 was really the last nail in that coffin!!!Will not bother with the next season. I can't believe the high praise this show gets these days. Their painful attempt to come across as super smart painted them as super turds.They stretched an entire season trying to show how smart he is, basically boring us to death with empty dialogs and in the end there was not even one attempt to solve a case.What a waste of time an money. Stay away from this show, it's a stinker!!!


                
1- It is extremely slow Extremely slow 2- Boredom is an inherent feature of this series. The episode is around hour and a half, (plenty of time for each episode) sadly it does not utilize the time properly). 3-they way it shows events, It assumes all the audience need to be dumb to believe and make sense of the material they are watching. 4- the genre says:Crime,Drama, Mystery, it should be Drama queen, Fiction, Crime, Mystery. 5- i have no Idea how this series has High rating, i would give it 1 or at most 2. the ending of all of the episodes is rather disappointing and irrational especially the ending of S02E01 and S02E03 and S03E02. The only good episode in my opinion is S02E02. Any ways i don't recommend this series at all at any case to other than children.


                
The actors totally lack any kind of charisma you'd expect from Sherlock or Moriarty, the stories are complicated and boring, this is a sad attempt of destruction of the mythic Sherlock Holmes character and stories.Sherlock Holmes just doesn't fit in a modern setting. I don't see how anyone who has read the Doyle books can like this series. It's kinda blasphemous.I will stick to my complete DVD collection with Jeremy Brett, or the two movies with Downey JR. and Law if I want a more "modern" take which doesn't totally destroy the myth. Or to my complete book collection for the true original.


                
Potentially the most overrated program I have ever seen, it beggars belief that this is a more critically acclaimed program than Dexter, Arrested Development and The Sopranos. Benedict Cumberbatch is a one dimensional stick of an actor and Martin Freeman is equally poor. Very mediocre series in my opinion.Beyone this I think Benedict Cumberbatch is a one dimensional stick of an actor and Martin Freeman is equally poor. Very mediocre series in my opinion. And equally so Benedict Cumberbatch is a one dimensional stick of an actor and Martin Freeman is equally poor. Very mediocre series in my opinion.


                
After all these great honors, spectacular reviews and messages we lost 1,5 hour watching this thing. I really don't know what's wrong with you people!Let's get started... English humor,maybe the worst globally,and this TV series just confirms it.No imagination, just flat bad jokes.OK it's not a comedy so let's move on but a negative aspect is already present. We see Sherlock(i use we cause we were 3 friends seeing this thing) and it's a really nice scene while he extracts clues concerning the crime.And for the rest of the episode he does exactly the same thing over and over again. With the same style, same expressions,speaking fast etc.etc. .The bad thing is that giving to a role a so strict personality makes the series and the character monotonous. Really bad try to reach American TV series that lack neither imagination, nor variety of expressions and depth in characters. However this thing is a great characteristic of how people in UK are. Don't waste your time.And American people please stop feeling that awe when you hear someone speaking English. It's so Overrated.


                
I think this is the worst piece of cinematography ever produced. I wasted ten minutes of my precious life which I shall never retrieve because I was forced to watch this. I would rather be tortured than watch another minute of this awful piece of 'TV'. Benedict Cumberbatch tries to come across as a sophisticated, well-groomed and intelligent individual but his astonishingly bad arrogance is more apparent, the directors and producers chose the worst possible actor for such a role. Martin Freeman, on the other hand, is a good lad and Benedict Cumberbatch owes him a lot for what he is right now. Martin Freeman, I love you, Benedict Cumberatch, I hope you die.


                
I can see why so many enjoy this show. The two main characters are attractive human beings; an English eccentric (enjoyably grumpy) and his dependable war veteran sidekick. There is only one police officer in their part of London, and he's a little grumpy too in his dealings with Our Heroes. Grumpy Eccentric Hero has a brother who a powerful man in the Government, and finally Grumpy Eccentric Hero has an even grumpier, even more eccentric arch enemy who is none too keen on Our Heroes. Grumpy Eccentric Hero has an amazing memory and ability to deduce facts from tiny evidence; this ability is depicted on screen as a high speed narrative accompanied by high speed visual renditions of The Clues as they are listed by Our Hero.It's good fun, too long, a little dull in places, very over-acted but never the less the BBC has certainly created a higher quality show than most of its drama; see Casualty and Waterloo Road if you're not convinced.
Even not counting the fact that by series 4 it becomes plain that the writers are making the plot up as they go, if you are LGBT+, you might want to know before starting the show that the incredible amount of romantic tropes that you will encounter are only meant for queerbaiting and that the main couple will not get together.In s4 a variety of other homophobic stuff will happen and characters will be no-homoed.The creators of the show have also made a series of very problematic statements about the romantic tropes actually being jokes from which we should have understood the characters were straight.The show queerbaited for seven years before we discovered they just wanted LGBT support for their own advantage. You might have escaped this 7-years-old hell but there is still the potential for you to be hurt even if you watch all the episodes now.Yes I know it seems very gay at first, that's why we all were baited.
I'm a fan of Holmes series. Always like to watch any films or TV shows. But this one is disgusting. It lacks one of the most important aspects of Sherlock Holmes. The story doesn't make any sense. I only watched two episodes. Whoever wrote the scripts is beyond retarded. Multiple victims dosed with the same drug at different middle of nowhere, the third one even came from the airport, for god's sake. Cab drivers are probably the first suspects. Besides, you don't need to know some passwords words to track someone's phone, just tell the police, then it's done. And what are benefits when two grown-ass men run out to chase an assassin and left the target alone? Other than those no sense, the show itself is full of bad actings. The way they talk and react made me vomit. Holmes is portrait as an ass that cant solve the case but can constantly come out an insult easily. Watson is like a horny monkey, tried to start some awkward conversations every time it sees a woman, I mean it must be really horny for a man to hit on a girl, when hes kidnapped, and not even in a good way. Poor untalented Benedict and Martin, maybe better luck on the stage, thats the place that requires overacting.
