First of all the acting was superb as usual, but the storyline for last night's finale was terrible.Mycroft up until now has always been Sherlock's smarter older tougher brother, last night he turned into a myopic, quivering stupid neutered man and lost all credibility.Here is a man who could not see that 5 minutes of his crazy sister and Moriarty alone together could not have disastrous consequences. Awful part of the finale, the scriptwriters should have been sacked for this piece of blatant nonsense.Mycroft was afraid of Euros too, which just does not fit in with the character that Conan Doyle wrote about.The premise that Euros was locked up since childhood because she was brilliant, had a very high IQ and set their family home alight stretches credibility beyond what is acceptable, I can imagine any family lawyer having a field day with this as evidence that she should be treated as the most vile criminal and have her future taken away from her.We are left with lot's of questions, how did Euros brainwash all of the guards in the prison so that they all came under her command?How did 5 minutes alone with Moriarty sniffing each other through glass like dogs turn into recordings of him making inane comments? How did Euros take over the mind of the Prison Governor, we heard some of what she said 'I can help...'? It sounded like something a teenager would say to someone to gain influence, puerile and infantile and would never work.Then we have 3 men tied up descending outside the window of the room Sherlock et al were in, apparently the ropes were tied to heaven because we were not shown how they were affixed.Euros pushes a button and 2 fall. How? The answer given by Sherlock was multiple choice (choice of 1 of the 3 men being the killer), so how could a single red button cut the ropes of the other 2 men?It was at this point I decided that somehow and unbeknownst to me that some dastardly person had put LSD in my cup of tea and I was now in the middle of an acid trip.Then Sherlock places the lid on a coffin and proceeds to smash it up, why did he place the lid on the coffin before smashing it up? And could you, the directors and scenemakers not have made the coffin break up so obviously like balsa wood?How did Euros transport herself, Sherlock, Mycroft and John to the Holmes family home? The prison was on a deserted rock in the middle of the sea, with no transport it appears.Are we to see Sherlock himself neutered in an upcoming series? whereby he cannot function without the input of his crazed sister?And finally the ending, I was sure it was a joke, but no, the ending was one of the worst in television history, whereby it turns out Euros was just lonely and just having a hissy fit and that's why she killed so many people.I cringe for what awaits in the future for Sherlock after watching the nonsense that was last nights finale.
Don't get me wrong, Sherlock is well written and well acted.But, does it deserve all the hype? In an age where TV has never been better the temptation is to class everything as a 'modern classic' and for me that is where Sherlock has been placed.I think the original novels and short stories give a much better take on the character and although the creative team have gone to great lengths to modernise the stories, sometimes things are best left alone.I can't say I care for Cumberbatch's performance as the lead either and feel that he is often upstaged by the always excellent Martin Freeman.The BBC will milk this for all its worth and the legions of fans will lap it up. Best of luck to them.


                
The problem with bringing Holmes into the modern era is that we have technology that makes crime solving a lot easier and his skills of deduction less impressive. And with that modern technology, the police are capable of coming to many of the same conclusions--just not as quickly. So, the show decided to make the cops and medical examiners around Holmes that much dumber in order to make him seem that much smarter. If SHERLOCK were the only crime drama on the air, it would be okay. But unfortunately for SHERLOCK, we have A TON of crime dramas on TV, so fans of the genre are well-versed in TV forensic procedure. Even the dumbest cops and medical examiners on those other shows are smarter than the cops and medical examiners on SHERLOCK. And that really frustrated me while watching the series.I also found the Holmes character a little too mean spirited (even for Holmes) in the first episode. Although he does calm down a bit for the other two episodes, I never connected with the Holmes character. And this could be my least favorite portrayal of the character (my favorite being by the late and great Jeremy Brett). I have other plot-specific gripes with the series, but I will refrain from spoilers.Out of love for Sherlock Holmes, I watched all three episodes, hoping it would get better. I was sorely disappointed.Bringing a Holmes-type character into modern times is tough, but it is possible to do it without making everyone around him morons (see House, Monk). So, specific plot points aside, the dumbing down of the cops and medical examiners around Holmes was the biggest problem I had with the series.


                
I think the this TV show is terribly over rated....i mean just saying things quickly and confusing the audience does'NT solve a case....if you really want to watch a brainy TV show watch HOUSE MD. The sherlock movies are much better i would say because in the TV they seem to be very unrealistic and feels too artificial to me.


                
Wow,This is garbage.Sherlock is unlikable and annoying. I'm 25 minutes into the first episode and can't stand it. However, with such a high rating I've got tot force myself to try and see it through. It's written relatively well but the story is bad and the characters are bad. No thanks


                
