I loved Sherlock seasons 1 and 2, and was eagerly looking forward to season 3. Alas... something seems to have gone horribly wrong. In seasons 1 and 2 the focus was on the crimes, the 'cases' and the brilliant and very original way in which Sherlock solved them. All the modern media (emails, iPhone texts, etc.) were used to great effect. And the 'tone' of the series was intelligent, rational and occasionally very witty. In series 3 the focus is no longer on the crimes and on how to solve them. Instead, endless time is devoted to the relationship between Sherlock and John, how they are really, really not gay (okay, we get it, enough already!), on John's new wife (what happened to the girl he was dating in series 2, she was much prettier and younger), and on the relationship between John and his wife, between Sherlock and John's wife, etc. etc. Also, there is constant reference to Sherlock being a 'high-functioning sociopath', followed by proof that he is really a warm, feeling human being. I can only deduce that some American producer stepped in... Worst of all, the plot, particularly in episodes 1 and 2, is dealt with haphazardly: okay, the bomb just had an off switch, and in episode 2: okay, if you keep your belt tightly fastened you won't bleed to death. I have to say that I found episode 3 slightly better, thanks mainly to the appearance of Lars Mikkelsen, whom I've seen in The Killing and who is a brilliant actor, in my opinion. And (possibly) bringing back Moriarty might be a good idea, I thought he was great in season 2. Although I hope they won't go for the twins angle.... Anyway, season 4 would have to be a big improvement in this for me to keep watching!
I am unable to comprehend how the character played by Benedict is Sherlock Holmes: the name is the only thing that is the same. Sherlock Holmes in this show is an arrogant, manipulative, anti- social, insulting, condescending prick who cannot treat anyone with respect or communicate with them. The show has started with the character created by Doyle and taken artistic liberty too far, using the guise of reinvention to rip out every single character trait of Sherlock and create an insufferable new character,perfect for Benedict to look good and get the fanboying and hype get them viewers. Sherlock Holmes would need information to solve cases. Well, good luck trying to do that when you let everyone know you think they're retarded within a minute of waking in the room. But of course, they all suffer his behavior because there wouldn't be a show if they acted like real people would act would it? Add to that all the drama and snappy dialogues and guns and explosions and standoffs: what happened to the Sherlock Holmes that was about the cases? In the books, Sherlock Holmes chides Watson for not prioritizing the case in his reports, and instead romanticizing the story. If he happened to watch this show, he'd probably have a brain seizure. I certainly was close to one.


                
If you try to re-invent a classic you better do no harm to the original concept. The main problem here is that both Holmes and Watson are boring. Benedict Cumberbatch is a very affected actor who simply does not have the depth of personality to make this Facebooky Sherlock work. What he lacks in charm and complexity he tries to make up in kinetic energy. In fact he tries much too hard. We are constantly being reminded how brilliant he is as opposed to how utterly pretentious he seems to be. His new side-kick Watson is also flat and uninteresting. For someone who is supposed to be a brilliant ex-Army surgeon Watson comes off as little more than a lap dog chasing after his Master.


                
I watched Season 1 of Sherlock last year and enjoyed it a lot. Clever direction, pretty good plotting and writing, acting a bit overwrought, though, but given the eccentric nature of Holmes himself, allowable.Season 2, however, has been another matter. Long-winded, confused, dull, heavily clichéd, and even more hammy. The direction has been lack-lustre, the writing appallingly bad, and the actors sleep-walking through their parts. All the digital graphics used this season are mostly intrusive rather than clever.Ugh. I only made it half-way through the last utterly absurd episode, apparently written by untalented 10 yr olds.


                
Sherlock a 9.3 rating on IMDb? Am I becoming blind or is there something wrong with me? Because really I don't get what the fuss is all about. When I started watching it I had some mixed feelings but I thought let's just give it a go because it's only 3 episodes per season. I now just finished the second season and I'm completely done with it. I can not stand it anymore. Every episode I'm talking out loud and the only words that are coming out of my mouth are "Pleassssssssssssssse" and "Pppfffffff". The story is so ridiculous and non believable at all it's annoying. Benedict Cumberbatch (as Sherlock) and Andrew Scott (as Jim Moriarty) do everything in their power to make themselves as annoying as possible. If that's what their character is supposed to be then I have to say they did brilliant work because I do really find them incredibly annoying. The eternal battle between Sherlock and his nemesis Moriarty is painful to watch. They hate each other, they meet whenever they want, and they don't kill each other... Why? Nobody knows. Well I obviously don't get it, because when I see the ratings it must be me alone that doesn't get it. I gave it a four because I want to stay honest and the filming is not bad. If I had to give ratings just for the story then it would be minus four. I'm wondering how long they are going to milk this series until people really start getting annoyed? For me it was two seasons, and I should have stopped watching it before. What a waste of my time.


                
So I am a huge Sir Arthur Conan Doyle follower and a fan of Sherlock Holmes book. I have probably read every Sherlock Holmes book that was written.When I was this show I don't connect with the Sherlock Holmes. He is just not up to mark, that thoughtful brilliant instinctive detective from the books. In books Sherlock Holmes was always two steps ahead of criminals, in some cases he already had solved the case in his head and was only following his theory to prove it. Here you just can't see that brilliance and I guess the fault lies with story writer, perhaps because its not easy to think like and write stories like SACD. But still, you feel at times how slow Sherlock Holmes is at times or falling into criminal traps every now and then, stupidly engaging in idiotic fights with criminals where he gets beaten every now and then. I would have preferred if rather than creating completely new stories, the stories written by SACD had been shown in modern light. Let the base and theme and crime solving remain the same, show the characters in more modern light.I am kind of disappointed by this show.


                
I finally found the time to sit back, relax and watch Sherlock.I like both leading actors, I like a good witty mystery spiced with humor but after watching the first two episodes I found myself completely bored. The show does not make you feel anything, the script is boring and rarely funny, the story has gaps and not believable, the interaction between Sherlock's and Watson's characters is not built well and again, not credible. No character depth, silly villains and just...well, the overall result is simply boring as I mentioned. Wanted very bad to like this show but as far as I am concerned, its far from providing the quality the US shows provide. The BBC is not close to match the American standard as even CBS's "Elementary" is far better then this show. The BBC probably still enjoys it's glory days which makes people believe they are watching quality, well, if there ever was, in my opinion, not anymore.


                
BBC's Sherlock is a visually and aesthetically stunning series with clever writing and intriguing characters. It gracefully adapts Arthur Conan Doyle's stories to modern day London and it's clean, sharp, and the first two seasons are completely worth your time. I repeat, the first two seasons are totally worth your time. The third season is a complete trainwreck. If you plan on watching this series stop after the season two finale unless you want to be disappointed by four and a half hours of cringe worthy mediocrity. But like I said before, the first two seasons are amazing but for God's sake don't waste your time on the third.


                
Sherlock season 1 was almost attention-grabbing until I viewed season 2, which left a sour taste in my mouth. Why? Because, I stopped having faith in this show when Irene Adler came into the picture. Not that I am hating on the actress. But, Irene's stature made me feel jocose in the sense that I yearned to want to wake Sherlock up when he started to lose his sense of concentration from her presence. Also, Moriarty fundamentally made me have this cringe-inducing moment after moment when his mouth would utter such words. I preferred the book version of Moriarty gravely. Besides all of that, I would prefer reading the Sherlock Holmes collection by Sir Aurthur Conan Doyle himself rather than this mockery.
