Sherlock is a brilliant take on the Sherlock Holmes stories. In season 1 and 2 that is. With season 3 something went horribly wrong. The episodes seemed to last forever and they were busy, confusing and pointless. What a disappointment. The many flashbacks, twist and turns were more of a hindrance that a help. Episode 3 was totally off the rails and even after watching the episode twice i still didn't understand the clue. Because Sherlock is written by the same person who writes Doctor Who, i believe he was mixing the two shows. Often i had the feeling i was watching a episode of Doctor Who.Hopefully a fourth series of Sherlock can be more like seasons 1 and 2.


                
Enjoyed the previous seasons a lot but this 2017 4th season has strained trying to outdo itself and has reached a point of ridiculousness that has left me impatient and constantly punctures the suspension of disbelief it takes for the audience to go with the story. There's little consistency shown in the surprise character of the season who shows up at the end of The Lying Detective and takes over in The Final Problem like a computer hacker taking control of the characters and the dynamics between them to which we have become attached and enjoyed so much. I think it was a mistake trying to be edgier, bombastic and to rely so much on action, effects and novelty.Character in this series and in the Conan Doyle originals was always the keystone. Explosions and special effects are a dilution and a distraction from the heart of the thing. A disappointing wrap up to an enjoyable concept generally well conceived and effectively realized in the first three series.


                
Many foreign tourists come to London believing that 221B Baker Street was once the home of an actual historic character, rather than the location for a fictional superhero.These camera-clicking simpletons imagine that old Sherlock really did once stalk the foggy streets of the capital, puffing on his over-sized pipe and peering through a giant magnifying glass.However, Mark Gatiss and Steven Moffat have now seen to it that no-one will ever again mistake Holmes and Watson as real people. These writers' portrayal of Sherlock is about as realistic as Dr Who or Inspector Gadget, and the character is now firmly established as a key part of the BBC's light entertainment and comedy offering, rather than the keystone of television drama it once was.This first in a trio of new Sherlock stories was not one for the Conan Doyle purists. Our hero's terrifying death plunge from the roof of St Bart's hospital was swiftly overshadowed by wisecracks about Dr. Watson's new moustache and a hilarious guest appearance by TV illusionist Derren Brown.We then saw Sherlock contemplating a lingering kiss on the lips with Moriarty, before witnessing Dr. Watson loudly announcing to his landlady that he "was not Sherlock's boyfriend!" Watson later introduced his new heterosexual love interest Mary (played by Martin Freeman's real-life love interest Amanda Abbington) and Sherlock's parents popped in for a cuppa (played by Benedict Cumberbatch's real-life parents). I assume that the remainder of the cast were also related to one another in some way or other, making the role of casting director on this production a less than challenging one.There was a plot of sorts, which involved a terrorist plot to blow up parliament. When Sherlock located the bomb he quickly defused it by throwing a big switch marked "Off", and this enabled the cast to quickly get back to more important things like motorbike chases and slapstick comedy.In the midst of all this hilarity Dr. Watson managed to get himself trapped inside a Guy Fawkes bonfire and set on fire, and Sherlock rescued him simply by plunging into the flames like Superman and dragging his partner out by the feet. The watching crowd didn't lift a finger to help, and I found myself a little surprised when Sherlock didn't soar into the sky with Watson draped in his arms like Louis Lane.Freeman's dry charm and Cumberbatch's piercing eyes just about hold it all together. Apparently one of the pupils in Benedict's eyes is permanently dilated, resulting in his rather unique and slightly scary stare. Many mistake this for eyes of different colours (like David Bowie), but such trivia probably has no place in a TV review and should be left to Cumberbatch's optician to fathom out.There's no doubting Gatiss and Moffat's enthusiasm, but I can't help thinking they've now gone a little over the top. There's a rumour that in the second episode Sherlock will have a sonic screwdriver so that he can wrap things up even more quickly and have time for a quick song and dance number at the end.Read more reviews at Mouthbox.co.uk


                
I have been an extremely loyal fan of the show since its debut. Series one and two of Sherlock convinced me of its 10-star quality. It was intelligent, witty, well-paced, subtle, and with the best spots of black humor and humanity. Series three has been beyond disappointing. As each episode premiered, I was praying that it would get better. That the show could somehow revert back into the quality themes and writing of the first two series. This never happened. The writers seem to be over-indulgent, sloppy, and hectic during the third season. Devoting time to slapstick comedy, dead-end plots, endless plot holes, erratic case scenarios, and irrelevancies. Most disappointing of all was the lack of any case akin to series one and two, lending the focus on to the main characters. If this had been done with elegance, it could have been delightful, but the completely solipsistic studies turn the charm of the subtle emotional reveals of series one and two into constant barrages of overdramatic declarations, and a light treatment of grief, death, torment, separation - the emotional aspects that actually needed to be handled. I feel as if I am watching an entirely new show, and it is one that I am disinclined to keep up with.


                
I absolutely loved season 1 and 2, but I have to admit season 3 was a big massive let down. It was still one of the best things on TV, but compared to the previous 2 seasons it was absolute corny, clichéd and cheesy tripe. Even the cinematography had gone downhill (although thankfully not the acting!).The 'Sherlock Holmes' character that we met in season 1 episode 1 is completely gone, there is nothing recognisable left. In fact, you would think they were completely different characters and completely changing your character's personality and characterizations to the point that they come across as a completely new person isn't character development, it is just bad writing.So I'm a bit confused about what I should rate it. Seasons 1 and 2 are definitely 10/10 and compared to other shows season 3 is probably about a 6-7/10. However season 3 compared to seasons 1 and 2 is probably a 2/10 and that is me being kind.I really hope the show improves again in season 4 and the writers stop turning it into a romantic comedy.


                
A modern adaptation, on what has to be one of the greatest characters ever created in literary history, is always going to be a minefield of critics and praises. I watched the series with an open mind and found myself left frustrated at how close they came to brilliance yet spoiled it with critical mistakes.The cast is excellent with the primary figures of Sherlock and Watson played nothing short of brilliantly by Cumberbatch and Freeman. The filming, the pace, the settings.. all of it is spot on.The difficulty comes in the exaggerations. Sherlock himself is transformed into a walking database that is almost cartoonish. Moriarty's character is akin to 'the joker' from batman with the exception that the joker is probably more believable. Essentially, they had all the ingredients to create brilliance and spoiled that by trying too hard.I believe the extremes they go to in an effort to make it entertaining were largely unnecessary. It seriously needed someone on the reins who could keep a modicum of realism and a touch of sanity so it didn't enter the world of marvel comics.My 18 yr old enjoyed the show immensely and if it introduces a new generation to Conan Doyle then something good will come out of the series. Personally I found it frustratingly painful to watch.


                
When I see a movie, especially a movie that is trying to put on a complex puzzle that the characters is trying to solve, I start to dislike it when it don't fit or if the character by just pure chance did something that just happens to get them closer to solve the mystery and stop the "bad guy". In the second episode of season 1, there where one time I said "bullshit that's to lucky". They where looking for clues about the black Lotus in a Chinese shop but find nothing, then out of nowhere Scherlock sees a mailbox that has not been emptied for a while and think to go and look in the apartment. It just happened to be the apartment of the girl that are missing and one of the bad guys just happens to be there. So the girl who don't want to be associated with the black lotus anymore just happens to live next door to a shop associated with it. That was a bit to lucky for them.I liked the first season the best because it had a great focus on the cases which where really interesting and good. Later the cases for the most part becomes a bit strange and the focus on the characters don't work as good I think and is not that interesting.
Hello community, to be honest i don't really know what and how can i qualify season 3 Sherlock. The background "episode" was too too cheap... I mean... so predictable, so obvious, so expected. The intrigue was so face palm. What i think happened is that they want us to get addicted to it by giving only 2-3 possibilities per episode (possibilities how sherlock is not dead after that jump). So we will have to wait till episode 3 to prove my theory :) This episode have lots of comedy , i really laugh like a crazy men. But its a "cheap copy" of the previous sherlock. This episode, has no intrigue, doesn't grab you into the story, doesn't make you guess who is the killer, who is the kidnapper, who is what... It haves a little story about a "secret group who will bomb London" but the secret group is only one person and this storyline was so obvious. The other "storyline" in the episode its how sherlock is still alive. I gave 7/10 but to be honest i don't know if at least this episode deserves such mark. We'll have to wait to see next episode :P
This is an enjoyable and well-made production that stays true in spirit to the original Doyle novels. I've just finished watching the first season and feel that both a fan of the novels (such as myself) and someone unfamiliar with the original Holmes stories will find equal entertainment in this series.Cumberbatch's portrayal of Holmes is excellent, it is more than adequate as the bedrock of the show and he delivers that signature brand of Holmes-esque aloofness and brilliance quite well. In particular I enjoyed how he can inject humor into the character while still keeping with the traditional, rather unlikable, image of Holmes. (I liked Downey's portrayal as well but I felt it was a little too charming) I also like how he takes a more dramatic approach with the "flash of insight" moments and how abrupt he is with others.Freeman is of equal importance to Cumberbatch in his portrayal of Watson as the two characters get equal screen-time. Again it's a good portrayal that deviates slightly from the standard formula by making Watson both a little more critical but also a little closer towards Holmes.The mysteries themselves are good, not quite as brilliantly conceived as the stuff of the original novels, but still very solid. I also found myself really enjoying the 3-90 minute-episode format for some reason. I thought it flowed very well in giving them adequate time to explore characters and solve the mystery without cramming in a bunch of needless filler, which I tend to find annoying in most other TV shows that run more than half an hour. I also think this format helped inform the universally excellent editing and cinematography of the series.However, the thing I like most about 'Sherlock' is its build-up of Moriarty over the course of the whole season and his continual relevance to Holmes throughout. This is a significant deviation from the books but its something I've always wanted to see. Moriarty is a brilliantly conceived character in the novels, yet I was always disappointed by the fact that he only crops up in a single Holmes story. Given his abilities and the brilliance of his rivalry with Holmes it was a big letdown. Obviously we've seen him as the villain in the Downy movies but again it is just one big story. Here he works behind the scenes to test Holmes with a variety of puzzles and it feels far more like the subtle 'Napoleon of crime' that the character is described as in the books. Not to mention that the glimpse of Moriarity at the end of the series is brilliant and I loved what we saw of Scott's portrayal.However, for all of these great things going for it the series is still not perfect. Some of the supporting acting is pretty wooden and Detective Inspector Lestrade is an incredibly pathetic character. He is bumbling and poorly treated by Holmes, a far cry from the capable and well-respected Lestrade of the books.In addition, while I fully believe in the need to keep Holmes fresh through different characterizations, incarnations, and settings I cannot help but feel this urban, sleek, abrasive, and very modern Holmes loses some of the magic held in the Doyle texts. Don't get me wrong, the liberties this series takes are almost entirely to its benefit, and yet without the trappings of Victorian England there is undeniably something missing from Holmes's character. Perhaps it is the lack of cynicism and world-weariness in the original novels, or even just their clothing, environs, and society. I can't help but disassociate what I see on screen with my love of the novels, at all times for me it felt like I was watching 'a modern version of Sherlock Holmes' and not JUST 'Sherlock Holmes'. (if that makes sense?) My final complaint is that the little cliff-hangers before each commercial break are a little overwrought and I found they broke the immersion of the show quite a bit. They're quite contrived and never let you forget that you're watching a TV show. This is hardly unique to 'Sherlock' though so its relatively minor.But overall it's a great series and one I'd recommend to anyone. It can stand both on its own merits and against the original novels quite admirably. It is just plain fun really, and you should be watching it!


                
I will probably get hell for this but I really wanted to put this out there. Sherlock is a very good show. I feel it is brilliantly written and does very well with keeping you entertained. However, as stated in the title/summary of this, I feel Benedict Cumberbatch is really the only main actor that doesn't annoy or break the illusion for me. Martin Freeman can be a great actor but for some reason in this show, Dr. Watson is just dragged along as a sidekick that is only there for the purpose of standing there looking stupid and worn out. There were times were I wished he wasn't even there at all, he is just this huge inconvenience for Sherlock and it seems no one realizes this. Not even Sherlock himself who is obviously very smart and doesn't even like people all that much. I do feel sometimes Sherlock just likes having Watson around because he is the only one that never gets tired of his cockiness. Watson "acts" like he's getting tired of Sherlock but always comes back for more. I didn't just see one episode and decide on this, I've seen 2 out of the 3 seasons and cannot bear it any longer. Also, I miss the random bad guys like in season 1. This Moriarty (or whatever) character is seriously ridiculous. His personality is ridiculous and so are his motives for being a "bad guy". What I like about Sherlock himself is that, yes he is almost inhumanly smart but seems believable, not so with this Moriarty guy. Both him and Watson always manage to annoy me. I don't care if you fangirl all over Freeman and don't like what I have to say, I just feel Cumberbatch doesn't get enough credit for pretty much being the only good thing on this show.


                
I generally enjoy BBC productions and British creativity. One of the main reasons I enjoy British productions over American productions is that the British artists are more creative, imaginative, and less sensational in their presentation, providing a compelling story and photography, without all the non-stop unrealistic action and special FX that the less imaginative American productions rely upon. Unfortunately, in this series the Brits have delivered the same material as the Bond series and the super hero series, with Holmes and Watson becoming macabre quasi-supermen.I would prefer a believable story, where Holmes, Watson, and their nemeses accomplish things that are humanly possible, versus things that only a super hero with magical powers and nanosecond timing could accomplish. The original Sherlock Holmes, although genius in his deductive reasoning, was a believable character doing things conceivably possible for a human. These stories by Conan Doyle were compelling and watchable. After watching this series, I almost need to spend three hours decompressing on my analyst's couch (if I had an analyst). Just TOO much death, perversion, psychosis, and other human dysfunction crammed into a few characters in a single movie/episode. Very dark, depressing, and difficult to process.However, I will watch the next one when available on Netflix. Sometimes we are gluttons for abuse.


                
In the last few weeks we watched the episode "Scandal in Bohemia".
It was an interesting episode with an old story from a new perspective.
The main character, Sherlock Holmes, is played by Benedict Cumberbatch.
He plays his role seriously but sometimes he is very funny and so the movie sided.Another interesting fact ist that the movie has a very clever antergonist of Sherlock Holmes.
Her name is Iren Adler. In the Movie she gets called as "The woman".
She is also an "Observing-Machine" like Sherlock.
Normally nobody is as clever as Holmes but this time Adler tricked Homes out.
This is a very big difference to other movies and in generell to the other Holmes episodes.
Also the case that Holmes has to solve is different to normal cases.
The client of Holmes is one of the highest persons of Great Britian.
Irene Adler threatens him to publish the photos.
But she doesn't want money for the photos.
This is another big difference to normal movies, because most of the time they want money.
All in all I would say that this episode is not normal.
There are many differences between normal movies and the other Sherlock Holmes episodes.
This makes the episode very interesting and many sided.
SPOILER IN PARAGRAPH 4.As a fan of most things Holmesian, I looked forward to "Sherlock", the BBC adaptation that places the famed detective in today's London. Having now watched the entire series, I can confirm that there is much to enjoy--yet, the writing, at times, seems lazy and even indecisive.But first, let's look at the positives. I particularly enjoy the pace of "Sherlock," whose 90-minute length allows for it to proceed at a less frenetic pace than its CBS counterpart, "Elementary"--though I should add that the writing in "Elementary" is far superior."Sherlock's" Mrs. Hudson is a devious little treat, particularly the seamy, even kinky details of her prior married life. Mark Gatiss as Mycroft Holmes has been a pleasant surprise, for in the first couple of episodes, there seemed to be no chemistry between the brothers. It has since developed into an exceptionally entertaining relationship something akin to Dr. Crane and Niles in "Frasier". Benedict Cumberbatch has created an entertaining Holmes persona, though it's a sort of one- note song with insufficient back story to explain why he and Mycroft have grown into such insufferable snobs. Martin Freeman is an acceptable Watson, though the depth of his affection for Holmes is a bit difficult to fathom considering the almost complete lack of reciprocity.What keeps "Sherlock" from reaching its full potential is the occasionally shoddy writing. In the "Sherlock" universe, things often happen for a) no reason at all, or b) a completely unbelievable reason. While there are many examples, in the interest of limiting spoilers, I'll give just one. SPOILER ALERT: In the season two finale, Holmes dies (apparently). We then see, in a graveside visit, that this is not the case. How did he avoid the death everyone witnessed? The answer, revealed in the subsequent Christmas episode, is so convoluted and improbable that I began to wonder whether anyone would really make the mental stretch to swallow it if the letters "BBC" were not part of the production, suggesting that it must indeed be quality television, and, therefore, let's just sit back and shut up.Don't get me wrong; "Sherlock" is good fun. However, it could be great fun.
Interesting serial to watch onceprobably a good fresh view on Sherlock book history


                
Holy smokes, there is no way this show should have such a high IMDb rating.It's decent, but nowhere near the same league as recently high-rated shows like True Detective, Breaking Bad, etc.There are a ton of 10-star ratings, and too many of them declare themselves to be big fans of Conan Doyle, read all the books, etc. So perhaps this is a wet dream for an ACD reader, but not for other folks.Americans, you have been warned... don't watch this because of it's high IMDb rating.


                
Decent start to a new series. Freeman and Cumberbatch were solid and seemed to fit well as a team. Kept enough nods to the classic versions while updating it to allow for the 21st Century.The on screen leads to the clues were a nice touch and I preferred them to the CSI flashback trick that is now used too often elsewhere. Not quite as well used as in Zombieland but good nonetheless.Script was solid but nothing special. A lot of the supposedly clever plot deductions were a bit telegraphed. And they have started off with the ever predictable TV staple of using the only other identifiable cast member as the bad guy which was only slightly offset by not showing him to the camera until after he was identified.Gatiss writing himself in as Mycroft is at the very least disappointing and potentially long-term damaging. His screen presence is weak and he doesn't fit well in the character. Also have to wonder; after the weak series of Dr Who if Moffat/Gattis really have the time and skill to deliver both these series at the quality required.


                
I have to admit I was rather sceptical when I heard there was a new Sherlock show on TV, as the concept just seemed so stale already. But to my surprise the show was actually fresh & decent and both Sherlock and Watson delivered a fantastic performance. A few cheesy lines ("I'm a high functioning sociopath" - no he isn't, maybe he's a 'Sperg, schizoid or an Autist, but a sociopath? Come on.) aside, the show didn't disappoint in telling a great plot and delivering suspenseful action. The camera, the sets, they're all good.
But that's just it: Everything's GOOD, but great? I must be missing something here as I simply don't see why this show is rated as 9.2/10. Again, clearly this is good TV, but for great TV they'd have to deliver more.


                
Sherlock Holmes has been my childhood hero. Among all superheroes I have read/watched He stands out high. He is no super hero but not from this planet either...I always wanted to know how would Sherlock Holmes solve mysteries had he been in this era...My wish has come true...Full credits to the creators.. A perfect tribute to the original SH.And the ways Benedict depicts Sherlock is amazing. Depicting Sherlock is not a joke. Because people already have His image in their heart..A must watch for all crime, thriller lovers.. Cant wait for the season three... ...........................Now i start with season three...In one word a complete disappointment. First episode focus on the reunion of Sherlock and Watson. A drama was expected and was done with elan. Though nothing much on investigation side.The second episode goes to my worst ever list. It acted like a sleeping pill to me. No intensity, no fun - a kind of marriage party. Moreover there is drunken Sherlock trying to solve a case and after all these an abnormal explanation of door-locked-from-inside-murder.The third episode was picked up a little but yet no way near to any of the episodes on first two seasons. there are lot of unexplained answers which you will definitely find in a moment if you are a true Sherlock an fan. At the end showing Moriarty is coming back for 4th season...WHY??? Isn't he dead? What is this? Sherlock jumps and came back in 3rd season. Fine. Now Moriarty also coming back in 4th season...Not fine. What next? Magnussen coming back in 5th??Not waiting for next season....But I would recommend every one to watch the first two season and give rest a slip.


                
This show has an amazing cast and the characters are written very well. The individual episodes are great, but if you are looking for a great main plot through all seasons, you will be disappointed, except for season 2 ,which in my opinion should have been the last. Anyway, if you like the concept of Sherlock Holmes in a modern setup and you're amused with sarcasm and ridiculous situations , you might still enjoy watching all the episodes.


                
Look I hate shows like this that think the music should be louder than the dialog. I mean you should be able to lip read to understand much of the dialog over the music. I generally liked the show except for this reason. The acting was fine and the modern technology works "such as cell phones" for great old story as it did in the day when the first Sherlock Holmes was written. I watched the first episode on BBC America I hope more episodes will be forth coming but without the sound problems of the first episode. I think the series is worth watching and I also liked the captions of what Sherlock was thinking it was easier to follow that way you did not know in older shows without Holmes spouting observations.


                
Sherlock is a good screen adaptation of the Sherlock Holmes novels. It has great actors and good writers. The chemistry between Martin Freeman and Benedict Cumberbatch is visible and you can tell they have a lot of fun together. I really like their character's relationship dynamic. John has pretty equal footing with Sherlock, but he lets Sherlock have most of the credit and attention because he knows he enjoys it. They would do anything for each other and really respect one another. They banter back and forth with ease in both their personal and professional lives and it creates a nice flow for the narrative. It says a lot about how great their friendship is.Secondary characters like Mary, Mycroft, Mrs. Hudson, and Molly do not disappoint. They are well written and add a nice humor to the show. Lara Pulver as Irene Adler was delicious and sexy. Unfortunately we haven't gotten to see much of her as she was only in two episodes, but I hope in the future they bring her back in a bigger role. She would bring an interesting chaos to the show. The only character I really haven't liked was Moriarty. I wasn't happy with the choice of actor or how his character was approached. He was too comic book villain and it didn't really fit with the feel of the show.While the show is not lengthy by any means, it is nonetheless entertaining. If you don't mind waiting ages between seasons, Sherlock is jam packed with mystery, intrigue, humor, emotion, and talent. Well worth the wait.
I normally don't view "who dun it's" very often, as they tend to be either obvious, or ridiculous. Sherlock is neither, 'tho there is an abundant placement of foreshadowing that leads viewers toward the conclusion. It's well done in the sense that you arrive at a result simultaneously with the "World's Greatest Detective".(very mild possible plot spoilers ahead)Had no preconception's whatsoever on this anthology series. First surprise was to find that "Sherlock" is set in the current era. Took a few moments for me to realize that I was viewing the proper show, but I settled into the story-line quickly once I understood that this was a modern interpretation. This 'Sherlock' is arrogant without a trace of the geniality of Basil Rathbone's characterization. Your warmth for the character does not grow easily. Am completely unfamiliar with Cumberbatch's prior output, other than a featured role in the last Star Trek film, so there was no performance expectation. He completely inhabit's the writer's take on the character and you never doubt his braggadocio. I did have a few minor qualms with scenes where he display's physicality, as Benedict is built much like a tall paper-clip, not someone I would trust in a fight.Oddly, the much smaller-framed Martin Freeman (Dr. John Watson) does come across as a go-to guy when your in a scrape. And in two of the first three episodes, Dr. Watson is clearly the savior. Despite Sherlock's cleverness, it is Watson who saves the day. It is the same resourcefulness his 'Bilbo Baggins' displays. Perhaps it is a quality inherent in the nature of the actor.The supporting police characters (queue the obligatory upward framed shot of the 'New Scotland Yard' sign), are surprisingly dismissive toward the effort's of their 'consulting detective', though this attitude seems to be evolving. Sherlock's success rate demands further respect on their part. I've never understood how anyone ever get's arrested in Britain, with their unarmed constable's. It was refreshing to see a bit of gun-play in this series.Each episode contained a plot device or two that elicited more than a mild groan (I tend to be critical in this area). It simply wasn't believable, yet was easy enough to overlook as the story relentlessly propelled you forward. The scripts are full of wit and charm that makes that particular task so much easier than standard potboilers.I anticipate Sherlock's redemptive traits being drawn forth, as there is a coroner I believe will wrest out Sherlock's humanity as the series progresses. You find yourself searching for ways to "like" this character. The same dilemma that Dr. Watson continuously faces.Am eagerly looking forward to season two, and that is something I cannot say about most episodic television. It's rare for me to get past the initial viewing. That makes "Sherlock" a major success in my book.
