When someone pointed me to Sherlock- a new series on BBC I was, to say the least, a bit skeptical. On top of that, I was told that this Sherlock lived in London in 2010 and was fond of texting on his Blackberry and hosted a website? Color me confused! But I gave it a looksie –after all how bad could it be- Holmes is Holmes. On screen appears a lanky young fellow in a trench coat, getting high on nicotine patches who I am supposed to believe is Sherlock Holmes? This was, as far from my favorite pipe smoking, deer hunting cap wearing image of Holmes, as it could be. I rolled my eyes-this is going to be cheesy. But then in one swift sequence " the lanky young Holmes" in his first meeting with John Watson describes him, his profession , his relationship with his brother and his brother's marital status-all by one look at his cell phone (that's right his cell phone). BANG! I was hooked. This is Sherlock Holmes through and through.And that in essence is why Sherlock is so, so good. Holmes is not about the Victorian costumes and the environment in which the mysteries unfold. It's about the characters and the events that make the stories the defining mystery novels of so many generations. And Steven Moffat & Mark Gatiss' take on Conan Doyle's master detective captures the essence of Sherlock Holmes magnificently. The stories are essentially the same (the first episode-A Study in Pink is a take on A Study in Scarlet-the first Holmes novel) but given a contemporary twist. This contemporary take (which I thought was going to be cheesy initially) is what shows the duo's exemplary creativity. The modern outlook does not take away anything from the essence of Sherlock Holmes- it adds to it. The three 90 minute episodes breeze past you at a breath taking speed- challenging your intelligence and making you yearn for more. The episodes have distinctly dark and brutal settings but are also filled with moments of wry humor that make the experience completely satisfying. The concept of using images and visual pointers in the scenes were Holmes makes his superb deductions is excellent and helps the viewer see and think with the ace detective.As for the cast, Benedict Cumberbatch is not the kind of guy who would strike you as Sherlock Holmes when you meet him in a street, but man, does he own the show! Oozing charisma, Cumberbatch plays the Holmes character to a tee-arrogant, self centered, brilliant genius. There is an air of superiority about Holmes that makes him pity the vacant minds that don't see and understand the things which seem so obvious to him and Cumberbatch brings that out beautifully. Martin Freeman as John Watson on the other hand plays a perfect foil to Cumberbatch's eccentric genius-the everyday man. Looking for meaning and purpose after returning from the War in Iraq, Watson gets swept into Holmes' mad cap world of brilliance and chaos. Freeman's earnest and subtle performance complements Cumberbatch's Holmes beautifully.Sherlock though, is not about acting performances. It's about bringing the experience of the world of Sherlock Holmes to the world we live in. Moffat and Gattis recreate the world of the Victorian detective in a completely new setting and do it superbly. Nothing about it is elementary-it is pure genius!


                
...it is worse than the previous three seasons. Actually, as soon as Mary appeared as a super duper spy, things went downhill. Characters are been treated as superficial with no depth. The bad guys are uninteresting and secondary. There is weird need for a female character to be present and dominant, while Irene was by far the best but for some reason got neglected.Why on earth do we need a female Holmes? So many mysteries to solve so many ideas. Moriarty was back but has not been seen 0. What gives? I really find that the writers have no clue on how to write a proper story. On the other hand, on the other side of the Atlantic, Holmes is more authentic.
I am surprised that this is currently 5/10. It was really quite good with a fast pace and a real sense of time and place. Nothing like the latest movie. The story was adequate with Cumberbatch doing a great job as Sherlock. This should develop into another BBC hit as it has the hallmarks of a good quality and effective entertainment without the violence or swearing of popular shows on TV today. In fact I am surprised it is not on earlier as kids are just as likely to appreciate the show as the adults to which it is aimed. I was impressed and that it not that easy, having seen Inception last week and been unimpressed it is nice to have a show where I don't need to pick it apart afterwards. In short, fun show that should run and run.


                
This is what we awaited for so eagerly?? This is what the writers are now putting out?? Not what I expected at all. Seasons 1 and 2 were brilliant, well crafted, and so special. I expected the writers to continue their skill in future seasons, but I'm bitterly disappointed, almost to the point that I don't want to watch it anymore. I so wanted to see the kinds of episodes that we watched in the first seasons, vibrant stories and such an interesting relationship that Sherlock and John had. These stories we just saw in season 3 are just pointless and totally confusing. Further, the characters speak way too fast for anyone in the world, who may not have English as a first language, to be able to decipher. And do they think that people are going to like that? I still don't see what the main story of each episode was. What crime were they solving exactly?... Sherlock writers, please give us what we want!! And if you have a new writer, fire him!


                
Sherlock is a crafty contemporary retake on the classic Sherlock Holmes tales by Arthur Conan Doyle. Its not easy to adapt this tale to a contemporary setting but the writers and directors of Sherlock manage to do so with flair. The sombre tones of the original, are remodeled and freshened up, with bright zany, overtones. Holmes now spends his time using modern tech gadgets not a magnifying glass to solves crimes in tandem with his prodigious intellect.That said, the classic bones of the tale are still there. The relationship between Holmes and Dr Watson, arch nemesis Moriarty and others are firmly cemented in place. Along with the manic, self abusive aspects of the sleuths personality. Whilst I, personally, am not a fan of Benedict Cumberbatch, his very British Holmes is a perfect fit for this role. Indeed, it almost feels as if he were made to play the part. As does Martin Freeman who is fits seamlessly into the role of Dr Watson. My only criticism of this show is it tends to overplay its hand somewhat at times. Its a little too zany, a little too hysterical and simply put at times its just plain silly. Some of the crime solving assumptions made, don't really hold together all that well either.That said, I do not think this new version of Holmes is as much a crime drama as it is enjoyable entertainment. If you try to follow along and solve the mysteries Holmes and co faces, you will most likely come away feeling frustrated and maybe a little bemused. I have enjoyed Sherlock to date and plan to keep watching. Eight out of ten from me.


                
I finished watching the Six Thatchers and i am worried, really worried.When this show first aired it was a breath of fresh air. A well-written,well-acted, well-directed, well-produced show. Interesting story lines brought from the past into the present. I noticed something going wrong when the writers and producers thought that the Moriarty storyline and the Mary storyline was becoming more prominent then the good old fashioned just solve a mystery story lines.I for one do no not watch this show for the political intrigues or the is he dead or isn't he. I just want to watch a mystery being solved by Sherlock. I do no not want to see an actress play an mercenary when clearly the actress playing Mary could never ever be such a person.I think this is the decline of the series alas. Why don't producers and writers just keep a good thing going but instead think they can reinvent the wheel? What do people love about Sherlock Holmes? His ability to be Sherlock Holmes.This is obviously not a bad show, i loved the first 2 seasons, was not sure about the third and the fourth started badly for me


                
I am not surprised that the earliest reviews are all ten stars, I would have also judged Series one and two with that score, sadly they took something away in the latter years, the show became too clever for its own good, they sacrificed style for substance. Back to the positives, the first two series, and in fairness The Abominable Bride I think are outstanding, they are clever, witty, absorbing, genuinely thrilling viewing. The performances throughout are sensational, I cannot compliment Cumberbatch and Freeman enough, they make a great double act, and inject a massive energy. I can appreciate the show as independent from the works of Conan Doyle, but when I want Sherlock Holmes, it's Jeremy Brett I look to. Personally, the highlight of the show was Andrew Scott, who's Moriarty was nothing short of astounding, he stole every scene he appeared in, a shame they killed him off when they did. I think Moffat took on too much with this and Doctor Who, and it seemed both shows dipped at the same time, he should have made a choice and focused on one show, it was surely too much work doing both. I hope very much that the show returns, and the genius that was evident in Series one and Two returns also. Highlight for me has to be The Reichenbach Fall, which is simply incredible.


                
This TV adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's work of genius "Sherlock Holmes", in-cooperates plots from the classical stories, in an unexpected good modern interpretation. The structure of the stories (we will see more as the series goes on) and the characters are transported well into the 21st century and the acting is not bad at all.I can imagine that many people will think that this show came about, because we just had the (maybe debatable) pleasure of watching a very different movie adaptation just a year ago, but the only connection I could find - aside from the wilder hair - is the occasional musical inserts. They do sound a bit like the movie soundtrack. But it works quite well and help reminding the viewer of 19th century origins without detachment from the modern stetting. Apart from that and the obvious connection through the story, they have nothing in common.One of the elements which seem odd is the visual inserts, that offer more information to the scene. It gives the viewer the possibility to see a scene from Holmes' point of view. I say odd, but not bad. While they could be more imaginative, it still works out fine.The show could use a little bit of a lift, maybe a bit of a humorous touch - the original Holmes was filled with witty, often underlined critical and a dark sense of humor (quiet radical for its times) - and while there are hints of that, it seems to be too low. There are sequences you may wander off with your thoughts and that is never good for moving pictures.I am eagerly awaiting the next episode and look forward to some growth.


                
The stories and the plot has been developed very well to fit modern standards and to make it a new story rather than the old Sherlock Holmes stories and films. Gripping it is along with very intelligent camera work and scripting. The edit is commendable and the direction is good which is topped by high class acting skills. A few episodes could have been made a lot better because after seeing them, I was constantly shaking my head saying that the book of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle expressed it better and somehow it has lingered on till date.


                
Season 1: Sat down to watch the first ep, mainly to have it in the background, however, little did I know it would be one of my favourite TV shows. S1 does brilliantly to set up the characters and the world they are in. Ep 2 is the weakest, however they are all great. Testimont to this is my shock realising id have to wait 2 years for S2.Season 2: Picks up from the end of season 1, it is just as good, keeping the stories fresh and showing natural developments of each character, again ep 2 is the weakest, but still a fantastic season with an amazing Cliffhanger.Season 3: The weakest season, introduces a questionable new character, but stays close to its roots which is why it keeps its 10/10 status. As well as Season 1&2 being some of the best TV ever. Season 4: has a lot to live up to


                
I was hesitative as to whether or not I should watch this show after the classic masterpiece by Igor Maslennikov with Vasily Livanov as Sherlock, Vitali Solomin as Watson, Rina Zelyonaya as Mrs.Hudson and Borislav Brundukov as Lestrade. I was afraid that pursuing the high profit the makers of this show would put too much in visual effects and action and little to nothing in reproducing the spirit of Conan Doyle's characters like it happened with the latest comic-like movie with Downey Jr. (which is fun and all, but isn't about Sherlock Holmes actually).I'm glad that I was wrong in my concerns and that I have watched this show. It is brilliant. Sherlock is definitely very different from the classic Holmes as one would imagine reading Conan Doyle and is like a 100% opposite of Livanov's Sherlock, but this new Holmes is still a very interesting and fascinating character. It was a wise decision to bring the story to modern times where this crazy character seems much more fit than he would in XIX century.It's a pity that Mrs.Hudson in this show is such a "pale" and secondary character. Indeed she was a secondary character in the book, but look at Rina Zelyonaya! She made an incredibly bright and remarkable secondary character. In this TV show I wouldn't even ask for the name of this actress.Lestrade here is a very usual, average, standard, faceless, you name it, police inspector. Absolutely unremarkable. That's another con as compared to Maslennikov's TV series where Brundukov made a marvelous dumbhead yet not farcical inspector that you could very possibly encounter in a police department. In this show on the contrary, I suspect, they've been given a task to not offend the police and hence this pale and faceless character.Dr.Watson on the other hand is brilliantly played by Martin Freeman and I'm glad that for this role they took an actor resembling my favourite Vitali Solomin. Watson played by Freeman matches my own image of this character very well and makes the show no less than Cumberbatch does.All in all, I like this show a lot. I give it 8/10 for changing the original Conan Doyle's stories too much sometimes (in Baskerville Hounds for example). But in all the rest it's a brilliant show.


                
One of the many adaptations of the books that we can see these days. Contrary to Elementary, the episodes are following the books very closely, in a very modern way. The main characters are excellent and the direction imaginative.
As the series is still ongoing, it is hard to give an objective point of view though.


                
This series, although concluded already is just too good to miss ( and guiltily repeat watch it again if I come across it on other channels) Benedict Cumberbatch as modern Day Holmes just shines like the diamon prisms under the right light. Martin Freeman also is reliable as Watson. Although there are of course more twists and complications to the millenial version, the core of Arthur Conan Doyle's work is respected and intact. Ably because of the wonderful pacing and cliffhanger in every episode , I convinced a few skeptics to try and watch, and yes, they had been Sherlocked , too. The additional personage e.g. The landlady, Sherlock's high ranking and fallutin' brother, plus someone else unexpected are all icing on the cake. Catch it and enjoy the show.


                
I grew up in the era of Basil Rathbone as "Sherlock Holmes" but was much too young to appreciate it and never grew fond of it. I became a fan of "Holmes" when Jeremy Brett played the role in the early 80s (when I was a teen) and I never believed that anyone could top Brett's interpretation.But, I'm really surprised to find that I like this modern/updated version of "Sherlock Holmes" and Benedict Cumberbatch's portrayal.I hope to be treated to many of years of these performances, but alas, that certainly won't be the case -- "Elementary my dear, Watson".I just hope to get a dozen or so eps. That would be fine indeed!


                
Is totaly creative. Art of writing story. Must think twice ot more way to find out way.


                
I'm a big Sherlock Holmes fan. And Agatha Christie.. For 50 years. I know the stories. I can anticipate the reimagined ones. Even Sherlock. I knew what was going to happen. Like Alice, you know the story it's the way it cinematically presented that matters. The Sherlock writers had painted themselves into a corner. It was clear from the start it was a dream/memory house adventure. It's clear all heroes only exist because of the villains, basic principle. Even their own villains/demons, I.e. Batman. It was fun, including the spiralling ending. But where can it go now? That's the problem. They'd really better off not doing more serials, just occasional specials. And not many. And do not bring Moriaty back.


                
Brilliantly written, well acted programme. Well done to all concerned. The story had me hooked from the start.All the elements of Holmes are present and correct. So far most of the original characters have appeared, with hints of more yet to appear. It is suspenseful and sometimes genuinely funny.Cumberbatch is a fantastic choice for Sherlock Holmes-he is physically right (he fits the traditional reading of the character) and he is a damn good actor. Watson was also very good in his character. I have seen 3 seasons and now I can't wait for next one. The cinematography and editing was excellent (a feature that was much improved in the recent series of Doctor Who), the display of text messages stylish and deceptively simple.All in all this was a triumph for the BBC, and showed the benefit of their nurturing of talent.
They introduce Moriarty. Both Sherlock and Watson are charming, and interesting, with excellent play against each other. It's been a wonderful modern interpretation of Sherlock Holmes, and not nearly as ridiculous as the American created Elementary. Quite honestly, it's amazing how good British television is. But then they bring in Moriarty. Being that this is Sherlocks biggest foe, the way they brought him into the story was both fitting and dramatic. The problem is the guy they got to play him. They COULD have gotten someone with a deep voice who just exudes charm and sophistication. Instead, they chose someone whose voice cracks when he talks like he's a teenage boy, who has no charm at all, and exudes something incredibly annoying that just rubs me the wrong way (no idea what exactly it is). I don't mind the fact that the characters has vague gay overtones (more power to him) but I do mind that his voice and attitude are like nails on a chalkboard. He has nothing going for him other than being good looking. Why didn't they choose someone better for the part? It kind of blew the whole thing once they'd introduced him. Now I'm not sure I can watch anymore episodes because he is sooooo annoying.
I watched the three episodes of Sherlock recently and thoroughly enjoyed them. The BBC updates the famous Conan Doyle creation to 2010 very well.Benedict Cumberbatch plays the great detective as a young, hyper intelligent and rather unpleasant man. His powers of deduction are as brilliant as you would expect.Martin Freeman plays an interesting Dr. Watson. He is a war veteran who the viewer can empathise with as he is fascinated by Holmes' abilities while being flabbergasted by his rudeness and lack of social skills.The first episode sees Holmes and Watson meeting and solving their first case. Episode two features another intriguing case. Episode three is probably the highlight of the series and has a great climax with Holmes coming face to face with his nemesis, whose presence had been hinted at in the previous episodes.A welcome addition to the long line of well acted, well written and well produced BBC dramas.
First - sorry my English. Someone do a lot of work. Many things was carefully well chosen. So, Dr. House series are brilliant. This is not. Sherlock trying to be new Sherlock-House version of Sherlock. Modern, but it not match. I don't like cellphone Sherlock, actual time ruined this movie. Plot sometimes is boring. Sherlock has House-like good voice, but this man is not enjoyable as Laurie, is artificial, an has too much makeup, visible in closeups, which are too much too. Dr. Watson is quite good, but story about Afganistan in Conan Doyle based movie ... funny. And too much tilt-shift lens inserts (looks like new toy of operator). Overcooked and fake feel. Done for money mix of verified ideas, doesn't work for me this time. Sorry.


                
At first, I was a bit surprised to see modern Sherlock Holmes. Well, we all know the classics and it's really hard to move the characters a century forward without losing the touch with the ground. Congratulations to the screenplay writers! Some minor flaws (do you really think modern Sherlock would beat the corps not just read the book?) but some good ideas, like smartphone replacing the watch.All in all, is it must to see, especially for the dyslexic generation - very good adaptation for those who never would read these books. For others, who have read them, it is a good example how to use the classics and bring it to the modern time.
I am a big Sherlock Holmes fan, but I was a bit skeptical about bringing the character to the 21st century. When I decided to watch the series, I was afraid it would disappoint me. The Pilot was a very good surprise, and the following episodes were able to keep up. The chemistry between Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman is excellent, and their characterization of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson was much better than that of Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law. The plots are full of mystery and humor. The show is not perfect, however. Some episodes, such as the pilot, entitled "A Study in Pink" were supposed to allude to actual Sherlock Holmes novels ("A Study in Pink" is an allusion to "A Study in Scarlett") but were actually completely different stories, with very few similarities. Also, Andrew Scott's performance of Moriarty is, in my opinion, terrible (although it might not be the actor's fault) and the character, supposed to be an element of suspense, became a comic feature. All in all, a great series that I really recommend


                
Good plot, clever conversation, great action, nice suspense, nice cinematography, mysteries to be enjoyed, classic fun music, all to be found in Sherlock.I was enjoying every moment I spent watching Sherlock. But that was it.I didn't miss Sherlock. I didn't find it memorable. I didn't find myself wanting to re watch it long after I finished it. (Which is why I rated it 8 when I should have rated it 9).Sherlock is best enjoyed while it is playing. You play it.I did say those not so nice things, but if I am given the chance to watch Sherlock or not, then bring it on. It's too good than not.


                
Though I enjoyed binge-watching the episodes on Netflix, they are not overwhelmingly surprising, particularly since I was such an avid fan of the books as a young boy and read all of the stories and short stories.However, I couldn't help but fall onto the band-wagon and enjoy Cumberbatch and Freeman's performances as Holmes and Watson respectively. Even more so than Cumberbatch's performance of the self-described sociopath genius who wields his powers of observations and deduction for the forces of good, I enjoy Freeman's portrayal of Watson as a true "everyman," a solid foundation for the fantastic stories that unfold around him, much like Watson the narrator and participant in the original stories.The show's modern twists are rather enjoyable, such as Holmes' use of a cell phone to help bridge the gap between the original stories' portrayal of Holmes' massive memory and intellect and current technology's ability to let the average person find just about anything via the Internet.I believe that as long as the viewer detaches themselves from expectations- much like I believe one should for any viewing experience- they can revisit the world of Holmes with renewed wonder.


                
There's no need for an introduction to Sherlock Holmes, everyone knows who he is and what he does, but this show adds a modern twist to these always intriguing stories.Since the story is set in present day, all the modern high tech gadgets are available for Sherlock, and he makes good use of them. I also like the style in which this series is shot, I found it rather unique and suitable for the genre.Benedict Cumberbatch, as Sherlock Holmes and Martin Freeman, as Dr. John Watson work very well together to create that contrast of characters, which of course contributes immensely to the show's success.


                
