Once again this proves that the BBC Licence Fee is one of the finest ideas this country as ever had.Moffat's sharp dialogue and subtle character development sit excellently alongside Gattis natural flair for the uncanny and his talent for mystery stories; so evident in his novels as well as his League of Gentlemen work.The modernisation works artfully, showing that the challenges Holmes faced were not merely a question of his better scientific method keeping him ahead of the police. Watson benefit even more from the modern setting, the circular nature of history making his recent experiences in Afghanistan even more relevant than they can seem in the novels.The cinematography and editing was excellent (a feature that was much improved in the recent series of Doctor Who), the display of text messages stylish and deceptively simple.All in all this was a triumph for the BBC, and showed the benefit of their nurturing of talents such as Moffat and Gattis over the past decade.


                
If you stop at third season and never start the next, if you can stop the urge to continue, you're going to love this show.Me, personally can't accept what they did. It's like well made fan-fiction. Brilliant modern take with interesting characters and great performances all the way from season 1 - 3. The show ended at "his last vow"


                
I have been a fan of Holmes since I was a kid and when I heard about this "updating", I was convinced that the BBC would make a hash of it. As a fan of the Jeremy Brett series, I did not consider that taking Holmes out of his Victorian environment would be a good idea. How wrong I was! I found the first episode of this series to be enormously entertaining, not least Benedict Cumberbatch's performance as Holmes. In removing Holmes from his Victorian roots Cumberbatch has, ironically, delivered the closest portrayal yet to Conan Doyle's original character. An eccentric genius just on the right side of being a complete weirdo. Cumberbatch also brought out Holmes' physicality, charisma and masterfulness. It was great to watch. I hope the next episodes are as entertaining as this.


                
Half way through the first episode, I had laughed and smiled a dozen times and had to admit to myself, "I already like this". All of the main characters are so interesting and fun to watch. Hats off to Martin Freeman whose facial expressions are clear enough to be seen while subtle enough that no one would notice unless they were staring (which is exactly what you do). Benedict Cumberbatch is an odd bird with piercing eyes and a peculiar manner that makes one think of an advanced race of brilliant aliens, and this one is pretending to be human, and in a strange sense, isn't that exactly what Holmes must do. The overall story in the first was pretty good, not great, but the acting, character development and dialog were so good, it made this one just plain fun to watch!


                
I am a fan of all things Sherlock. It would be easy for me to dislike a new version that strayed from the Doyle format. I am NOT disappointed. I am thrilled! As many have said, I was hooked 5 minutes into the first episode. This series is a keeper. Why are we waiting for more than THREE EPISODES????????? Things I love about Sherlock...The actors are hitting it out of the park! Cumberbatch is perfect. I wish he and Honeysuckle Weeks would marry to have wonderfully named children. ;) Martin Freeman has a difficult character to flesh out, but he's made it so much more than any other Dr. Watson so far, and that's meant to be a huge compliment. His handicapped to hero theme rocks.Mycroft, Lastrade, Sally (Freak) the cop, and of course Mrs. Hudson. I am hoping for much more Moriarty. I love this show. MORE EPISODES!!!!A large part of Holmes is his hometown, London. Each book, TV series and movie have made their attempt to show viewers the grand scope of this Victorian metropolis. Sherlock's take is one of the best so far. I loved the cab vs foot chase scene. Sherlock is going to take us on some grand adventures through the streets he knows by heart and I want to.The modern theme is well done as well. I like his use of smart phones, computers, and data bases to mimic Holme's well stocked library. It's still just tools wielded by that marvelous brain to sort out the clues.The gimmick of text confirmation of clues is also a welcome visual treat. Creators Gatiss and Moffat have crafted a gritty, moody series, with streets and interiors both creepy and full of character. In short, I would like to order 100 more episodes asap. Viva Sherlock!A fan in the states watching on PBS.


                
UTTERLY intriguing, excellent dialogue. plots: They are elaborate, yet, totally spectacular. Sherlock will compel you to the edge of your seat and captivate you with this twenty-first century adaptation. Benedict does a good job as Sherlock Holmes
 The result is a sharp, funny, clever series that remains faithful to the spirit of Doyle's stories while infusing them with a vibrant spirit of modernity.


                
This show is a modern take on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic Sherlock Holmes series. It stars Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman as Sherlock and Watson. The show is amazing. It has great acting from both Cumberbatch and Freeman as well as its other actors. The plots are amazing. They take stories like A Study in Scarlet or The Hounds of Baskerville and put a modern twist on it. Even if you don't like Doyle's Sherlock series you will probably still love this. I don't want to spoil it so I won't say much more, but I would recommend this to not only fans of the book series, but to just really anybody. I give it a 9/10 and any high-functioning sociopath will love it.


                
I love Sherlock, the books, the character, the genius and this one has it all. The only reason I didn't gave it a 10 is because the last season was eeeeeextremely disappointing. And because Jeremy Brett deserves 10/10. However this is a brilliant Sherlock homage.


                
I wasn't sure what to expect from this show. Quite a few of my friends loved it and i was aware that it has a HUGE fan base so i knew it must have been good but i was still skeptical and procrastinated from watching it for a while. However, i have now just finished season 4 and i can safely say it is the best show i have watched yet! Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman as Holmes and Watson were the best choice that the show could have made. Their chemistry on screen is amazing and they really do bring the show to life. Andrew Scott is also just as amazing and really does make you love a character that should not be loved at all. The script writing really portrays the characters the way they appear in the book, just with a modern twist. Conversely, i do have to agree with some of the media reviews/fandom and say that season 4 was definitely not the best. The characters started slacking and the story line was incredibly mixed up. Yet somehow i still loved it. I would really recommend this show to literally anyone. It does not matter whether you are usually a fan of murder mystery type shows or not because Sherlock is adapted to attract any type of audience. The show made me cry, laugh, want to scream and left me extremely emotional-you will become wrapped up in this universe before you even realize. You will not be disappointed, trust me!


                
Sherlock is a really great series. Along with Doctor Who and the Walking Dead, Sherlock is one of my favorite shows. It has an well balanced mix of drama, humor, and mind-blowing plot twists packed into movie-like episodes. I expect nothing less of Steven Moffat, the mastermind behind some of my favorite Doctor Who episodes. Although I was disappointed by The Abominable Bride, this show is still awesome, and it is one of the best shows on TV. I am looking forward to the next series: Steven Moffat and Rachel Talalay have proved themselves an awesome pairing with Heaven Sent from series 9 of Doctor Who, and I am excited to see what they bring to the table with Sherlock.9/10


                
I have seen most of the film and television adaptations of Sherlock Holmes: Rathbone, Brett, Eille Norwood, Langella, Plummer, Heston, Ronald Howard, Lee, Cushing--on and on. I have enjoyed and recommend the radio shows from the early 1930's onwards, beginning with a brief recording of stage star William Gillette. There's a lot of good fun out there.This BBC series gives us the twist of updating Holmes to the present day. And after the shock of seeing him expertly using a smartphone, we realize it's okay. As the producers said in their commentary track, of all the interpretations out there, they most enjoyed Rathbone's and Bruce's depiction of fighting Nazis. Why shouldn't Holmes combat terrorists and drug pushers now? In short, it works. And most importantly: it's fun. Gone are the painfully accurate depictions of Victorian days--those are great but, after all, a good story outlasts current mores. There are so many fresh ideas here that almost every minute is a pleasure. Highly recommended.The production is really stunning, and the directing and editing are absolutely brilliant. Mr Camberbatch is a great young actor, with honest instincts; and I believe I like what Mr Freeman and the writers have done with Watson better than anywhere else in the pantheon. When mixed together, these two are dynamite--as it should be. For future productions I urge the writers to avoid too many plot devices to fill in their time--like their Golem, for instance--but I do appreciate no reference to cocaine.Finally, it is exciting to think what people will be watching fifty or a hundred years from now. What will Holmes be investigating? Interplanetary crime? Will Lestrade be pulling in to the Baker Street space station to whisk him away to a moon of Mars? The point is, of course, why not?


                
I'm a big fan of Sherlock Holmes, I've red many of his adventures written by Conan Doyle and I've watched all the movies related to Sherlock. When I had first seen this title I thought it will be another screening of Sherlock's adventures, this time on a new TV Series. But it was something different, it was an original way, a modern way of telling us the adventures of Sherlock Holmes, a way that is related to our times. I really hope the show will go on because you can't get bored watching it. Fortunately,the producers can easily find many adventures in Conan Doyle's book to exploit and make again something worth to be watched. "Sherlock" is certainly a must-see and a delightful show, especially if you have red the book.


                
When I first heard that the BBC's new version of the Sherlock Holmes story was to be set in modern day London I thought it would probably be just gimmicky and not that good but as the previews were complimentary I decided to give it a go. I'm glad that I did as it proved to be a lot of fun. Benedict Cumberbatch was great as the eponymous detective and if anything Martin Freeman was even better as Dr John Watson his assistant. The mysteries contained many clues that it took the great man to solve but there were just enough were the viewer could work something out first. At only three episodes the series was rather short but I'm sure further series will be commissioned soon; after all we didn't even get to see Moriarty till the end of the final episode and that ended at a municipal swimming pool not the Reichenbach Falls.Unless one is a Holmes purist this should appeal to most viewers who like detective fiction. The cast put in fine performances, both major and minor characters. The only character I was unsure about was Moriarty who seemed far too emotional to me but as he was only really in one scene it is a bit too soon to judge. While there were obviously plenty of murders nothing too gory was shown so it should be suitable to for everybody apart from young children.


                
As an avid fan of Sherlock Holmes from a young age, my first thought when hearing about yet another screen adaptation was not a positive one. I felt like I had seen it all: the cheesy deerstalker imitations, the overused quotes, and of course, the common misinterpretation of Sherlock Holmes as an action hero. Though they were far from terrible, I always found myself verging on boredom. How different could BBC's Sherlock really be? The thing I didn't see coming was how far from the truth my expectations were. Much to my delighted surprise, Sherlock brought the same fast- paced, engaging adventure found in Conan Doyle's stories to a modern setting. I am happy to say that I have never once found myself forwarding through an episode or discovering a criminal before he is revealed. Though the seemingly endless waiting period between seasons of just three episodes each may sound unappealing to some, there is a reason so many followers are willing to pay that price. Each episode is packed full of intriguing plot and action, not to mention the clever scripting. Along with Benedict Cumberbatch's dark yet charismatic portrayal of Sherlock Holmes and Martin Freeman's take on Watson, I find myself hard- pressed to find flaw with the series. If there is one thing I should warn you about, it is to not start watching Sherlock until you have a weekend or so of uninterrupted time. Once you start, you won't be able to stop.


                
Simply some of the best television that you will ever see.A stylish and clever updating of the Sherlock Holmes plots with a crisp, modern edge.Some elements have been borrowed form other "TV classics" and you wonder as each episode starts whether this week will be the "Harry Potter" week or the "Dr Who" week but there is enough originality (in each of the first nine episodes at least) to forgive this and sometimes it really enhances the show for example with the Stanley Kubrick Clockwork Orange treatment with Moriarty in the Crown Jewels scene.A very good cast with Benedict Cumberbatch as Holmes probably at his peak (also catch him as Steven Hawking in "Hawking" for another astonishing performance) and Martin Freeman who can sometimes be a bit "hit or miss" is definitely firing on all cylinders as Doctor Watson.Clever updating of Holmes' addiction, questions over the true "relationship" between Holmes and Watson and the "Deerstalker" plus production elements such as the overlaying of text to point out the clues add to the mix to make this a real quality show.Sadly only three episodes are made in each series but it is clear to see why given how much skill and effort has clearly gone in to make this series. The end product however is what all shows should aspire to!The gorgeous Una Stubbs and Rupert Graves also provide first-class support and why on earth the latter is not a huge Hollywood heart-throb by now heaven only knows! I also pondered on the question as to why given her huge variety of real top-quality (and usually underplayed) performances over the years why we are not referring to the former as Dame Una! Remember this is the same actress who was with Cliff Richard in Summer Holiday, Aunt Sally in Worzel Gummidge and entertained us with a show about the game of charades (CHARADES!!) for nearly ten years as well as the long-suffering daughter of Johnny Speight's classic 'Til Death us do part! Kids will also know her as Miss Bat in the Worst Witch. Over 50 years of appearing on our screens has not dimmed her performances and which in this is as good as ever. I think we would all like a landlady/housekeeper like Mrs Hudson!Series' writer Mark Gattiss plays Sherlock's brother Mycroft well but in my opinion would have been better cast as Moriarty as for me Andrew Scott has yet to totally convince me but this is just a very very minor criticism and certainly does nothing to detract from the whole.Every episode contains at least one or two other very good actors and if you have not watched it yet, I would urge you to do so.Obviously it is a bit of cliché to say so but this REALLY IS the kind of TV for which we pay our Licence!Top Stuff.


                
There are so many crime TV series around that they are actually becoming quite stale, the plot is almost always the same with little variation. However, Sherlock breathes new life to this dying genre of shows. I think it's brilliantly done, the pace is very fast. As much as each episode is almost an hour and a half long, the plot never drags. I particularly enjoy Sherlock's dialogs as he speaks really fast and his quirky manner that rubs everyone the wrong way. Although it has only been 3 episodes, excluding the original pilot, I am already addicted to this series. But there is no such thing as perfect. The only one thing I find a little unpleasant is that some of the side characters have poor acting skills. A couple of them are so bad I nearly cringed. Other than that, I must say I love this show!


                
Sherlock is a phenomenal television series with a very well fleshed out episodes that are all film worthy, and a stand out cast. Prior to this series release, I think anyone would have considered placing the characters of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson in modern times to be a concept that would never work, and yet here we are, praising this show, rightfully, as being one of the greatest adaptations of the character to date. Each and every episode is special, intriguing and unique, none ever being similar to another. Each one also runs at 90 minutes, meaning the whole series is really just a collection of stellar Holmes movies. The only issue I would have with the series is its lack of character development for anyone other than Holmes and Watson. I obviously understand that they are the two that the series focuses on the most, but the likes of Mycroft Holmes, and even the title character's housemaid Mrs. Hudson, have so much potential to stretch beyond what we see of them, and it's characters like these that I would love to see further developed in possible future episodes. Every part in this series is perfectly casted. Benedict Cumberbatch is, without a doubt, my favourite Sherlock to date, he delivers the part with so much intellect and thought, we are truly watching a genuine talent and a dedicated actor at work with this role. Martin Freeman also shines as Watson, adding a lot of humanity to the character and serving perfectly as the voice of reason to Holmes, and his chemistry with Cumberbatch is undeniable. They are also joined by memorable performances from the likes of Rupert Graves, Mark Gatiss, Una Stubbs and Andrew Scott. The show never lingers or takes things slow, there is never a dull moment. Well written, acted and directed, Sherlock is a truly engrossing series that all fans of the character should check out, as well as anyone interested in a good drama or mystery series. Set in modern day London, Sherlock Holmes investigates crimes and mysteries with his colleague Dr. John Watson. Best Performance: Benedict Cumberbatch Best Episode: The Sign of Three / Worst Episode: The Hounds of Baskerville


                
I've never been a big fan of Sherlock Holmes; I don't find it particularly engaging to be talked down to by someone who is smarter than I am, and the stories mostly felt that way to me (I have bigger issues with mystery as a genre, but that's a different conversation). I did manage to catch Guy Ritchie's revision of the character and found that mostly amusing, but that's not really orthodox Sherlock Holmes; but my neighbor Bob talked up this series so strongly (and, as she stingingly reminded me, so had my friend Nancy), so I decided to give it a try mainly because, well, it's British, and I've had remarkable luck with British series lately.Here the creators have erased the historical Sherlock and replaced him with a modern-day counterpart (Benedict Cumberbatch) – a "high functioning sociopath," by his own description, a man whose only joy seems to be challenging his incredible brain to solve a puzzle. When he encounters Dr. John Watson (Martin Freeman) – they are introduced by a mutual friend as both of them require roommates to be able to afford to live in London – Sherlock allows Watson within his orbit, and Watson – who is no dope himself – has to try to avoid looking like an idiot.Obviously the entrée to the series is Watson, a man we sympathize with almost immediately; Freeman has that sort of everyman quality, and while we learn that Watson is a cut above, he's still human, still mortal, still relatable. Not so Holmes; while he's indisputably brilliant, he's also emotionally thoughtless and needlessly, though not intentionally, cruel and disrespectful to others. Sherlock simply operates on a different wavelength than the rest of us, and if you can't keep up, he has no use for you. By making such a genius so difficult – as would likely be the case in real life – the writers have hit upon the core of an interesting relationship.Another masterstroke is the series' length. Rather than give us a dozen or two episodes, we are treated to three ninety-minute films. While, yes, this emphasizes quality over quantity, it allows the writers to spool out the stories and develop the characters better, as you're not being relentlessly driven by the needs to fitting all that plotting into forty minutes. The series greatly benefits from this breathing room, and it does play with your expectations as a viewer. I kept expecting a solution at the hour (or so) mark, and this is used to great effect in the third episode, where Holmes indeed seems to have solved the crime, only to have the carpet drawn out from under him. Despite their length the shows move along at a brisk pace. I'm not sure every series would benefit from this format, but this one certainly does.Cumberbatch is simply riveting as Holmes; it's hard to imagine anyone else in the role, or at the very least anyone else being half as effective. It's a joy simply to watch him, and to try to keep up with him. He could almost become overbearing, but Freeman's Watson balances him out perfectly. Watson is one of the most engaging characters I've seen in a while – smart, capable, flawed, sympathetic, utterly human – and yet, like the viewer, both drawn to and irritated by Holmes. As good as Cumberbatch is, the show simply wouldn't work without this character being so perfectly written and performed; points to Freeman.The show is smart, funny, interesting, and keeps you guessing; there's really nothing more you could ask from any mystery, or any representation of the Holmes character. His older brother Mycroft (Mark Gatiss), who works for the government, is like Sherlock but with more polish, and their relationship is amusing. The show is written exceptionally well, and hits on every cylinder except one – an unexpected misstep all the more jarring because the rest of the series is so artfully conceived. The depiction of Moriarty, to put it simply and inelegantly, sucks. Moriarty is not the Joker (not even Heath Ledger's amazing version), and yet here he is played like a fey clown prince of crime. I understand they wanted to go in a different direction from Holmes, but they went directly the wrong one here. It's a colossal letdown when we finally come face to face with the man who might possibly be smarter than Holmes and he's a raving goofball. That somewhat important nitpick aside, though, this is an impressive and well-done series, even for those of you (like me) who abhor mystery. Unless you just can't stand all things British (and if so, by now, why are you reading my reviews?), then by all means take the time to track these down – Netflix has 'em – and give them a spin. Time exceptionally well spent.December 16, 2011
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle would be delighted and very proud with the TV show, I honestly have not much more to say, It is a well made TV show, well researched, the character is exactly how Sherlock Holmes should beI like that it its a modern version of the character, but clearly only in the time settings, Sherlock Holmes still as eccentric and old school as the guy from the books! he is funny, intelligent, watchful, etc Lets hope for many more seasons to come, and hours of endless entertainment to come and lets hope Harstwood films feels as proud as they should for producing this showI really enjoyed watching the TV show, and I hope they make some more like it!


                
I am not a fan of British television (too dreary and depressing for my liking) and do not watch much produced by the BBC other than the news so I was fully prepared to dislike this show. In fact, I only watched it because my interest in Sherlock Holmes had been kindled by the 2009 Robert Downey Junior film. So, I was astonished to find myself enthralled by this show from the moment the first episode opened.'Sherlock' is not yet another tedious adaptation of the Arthur Conan Doyle novels but instead updates the characters all together and sets them in 2010 London while still retaining the traits and personalities that make them the characters we know and love. It could so easily have descended into a mess were things not handled so well that the audience is left wondering what Holmes ever did without a mobile phone and laptop! Purists needn't fear though because although this is 21st century London with all the technology that goes with it, Holmes and Watson are still very much themselves.Benedict Cumberbatch, as Sherlock Holmes, does an excellent job portraying this almost dark, pragmatic character who can be infuriating one minute yet likable the next. He perfectly nails down the obsessive nature so inherent to the character as well as his hidden empathy (I firmly that Holmes is not a sociopath and he does want to do good even if he doesn't openly show it). And Martin Freeman is a perfect Doctor John Watson, depicting him not as some meek little sidekick but very much an equal to Holmes. Watson's loyalty to Holmes is evident from the start as we see their friendship develop but he is no pushover in the slightest when we see numerous scenes of how he too can be pragmatic and strong-willed. Other characters are portrayed just as well, including Inspector Lestrade, Mrs Hudson and Holmes' elder brother Mycroft. We also have the introduction of Lestrade's colleagues, who are at odds with Holmes' way as one would expect of 21st century police officers being shown up!This show definitely is becoming a firm favourite of mine and I'm glad to see the extortionate licence fee finally being put to use to produce something that can rival American imports that have, for years, been far superior to British television. I certainly hope the BBC will be airing more episodes than the three mini-films shown over the summer and highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys Sherlock Holmes and/or crime dramas.


                
I cannot express how much I love this series, it has it all. Ingenious plots, smart humor top notch acting. I should also mention the editing as its obvious a lot of work has been put into it. Each series (of the two released at the moment) has three episodes that run for one and a half hours each. I watched the whole first series in one weekend (yes its that good) and was eager to watch the second as soon as I could. I thought that they couldn't top the first series, but they did. The final episode in the second series had me breathless and its climax was exhilarating. I have to admit, it was the best TV episode I had ever seen. However, what makes this series so good is the way it creates so much emotion and excitement without the need to use drawn out action scenes like in the Sherlock Holmes movies. When I hear people talking about the movies I always ask if the have seen the TV series, I always get a "no". So rent out the first couple of series', stock up on food, clear your weekend and prepare to be amazed.


                
DO NOT READ if you haven't seen the last episode. This series is really good! The creators are absolute geniuses. It feels like they actually met Sherlock and are just writing his biography. Nothing like Guy Ritchie's boorish representation. The characters are so faithful to the books even though it's adapted to modern times. And the stories keep you on a constant cliffhanger. Absolutely great. I feel very lucky to have kind of figured out how Sherlock survives in the last episode. There's a truck full of what looks like garbage, it leaves once everybody gathers around the "dead body". He must have landed there instead of on the ground. Nobody notices obviously because in the meantime Molly throws another dead body from the building where she works in, a few floors down. Sherlock must have asked her to who fake his dead body with forensic science when he asked for her help. He figured out what JM was up to and had to prepare for the worst. I know it's possible because another death was faked in this series Miss Adler's. Her dead body fooled also Sherlock Holmes. He might have also recorded they're last conversation on the phone because he doesn't dive with it, but leaves it on the rooftop, probably for Molly to collect. I don't know... maybe I got it all wrong but I was so much in his deductive mood when i finished watching it that I needed to figure something out and this is what I've got. :) I can't wait to find out with the next series!
What an incredible experience to watch. I have fell out of touch several times just to get pulled right back in. Its fast pace, diverse characters and awesome plot lines solidify this show as one of the greatest of our time and maybe of all time. Every shot carefully crafted and can be analyzed for references and secrets to past stories or characters. I especially love the theme song and the incredible sound makes you love the mystery and Holmes' deductions. It can create moments that make you want to cheer. The relationship between Holmes and Watson is incredible chemistry and the actors are the greatest friends ever on television. In conclusion, this is a series that will make you want to go and read the original books and theorize for hours.


                
Great acting, stories, and loads of fun. I have a love hate with how short the seasons are but I think that is what makes this so good and also what makes it work. I think if it were a longer season it would not hold up as well, being shorter I believe helps them make a strong story and adds quality to the show. Sometimes quantity can water things down. Freeman and Cumberbatch work well together, I couldn't think of a finer pair. Andrew Scott as Moriarty excels, he is crazy and sane in one breath. I do hope he does come back, how could he not? The writers have a great way of letting you think one thing and blindside you with something else. I hope this continues for many more seasons.
A contemporary spin on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's legendary detective, Sherlock follows the famous sleuth solving mysteries in modern day London.The titular character is played to perfection by Benedict Cumberbatch in a career defining role. Cumberbatch is highly meticulous, surprisingly patronizing and exudes a cavalier demeanor. Providing the perfect balance is Martin Freeman as Holmes' reliable aide, Dr. John Watson. The latter's mild-mannered depiction is the ideal foil for the former's arrogance.Besides the efficient chemistry shared by the actors, the story telling; format; and direction also exceed expectations. For instance, Holmes' astute observations and scientific deductions are executed exceptionally. The interpretation to a 21st century setting is seamless and also pays homage to classic cases featuring the fictional investigative duo. A sublime blend of acting and writing ensure an engrossing and compelling watch.Sherlock combines suspense, drama and comedy in equal measure. The renowned detective is also featured in other mediums currently but Sherlock has cemented the 19th century literary character's place as a pop culture phenomenon.


                
