Where shall I start? How about the French princess? She was only 12 years old at the time. And it is ludicrous that William Wallace was the father of Edward III. The Irish could not have changed sides at the Battle of Falkirk for the simple reason that they were not there. Edward I did not order his archers to shoot his own men in the back. They had already discharged their arrows before battle was joined. And that final wild charge by the Scots at the Battle of Bannockburn, when everybody knows that the Scots fought defensively arranged in schiltrons armed with long spears.And the English armour? Some of it looks more like birdman costumes. The archers have better helmets (basinets) than the infantry, while their bows are just branches with the bark stripped off and a piece of twine attached. Looks like the film makers reached the bottom of their purse with the archers, because they couldn't kit out the English army's Gascon crossbowmen, who are conspicuous by their absence on Falkirk field.The English may have been guilty of some atrocities, but prima nocte was not one of them.I could go on, but I won't.But I suppose Shakespeare took liberties with history too. And they call him a genius!Having said that, Mel Gibson makes a believable Scotsman, and James Cosmo is terrific as Campbell, and I liked the princess's oversexed maidservant. Also brilliant is Patrick McGoohan. His scene where he throws that guy out the window is the best bit of the film.I know this film stirred up a bit of Scottish nationalism. I don't have any problem with that, but if you are going to get worked up, get worked up over the facts.I should know: it's MY country. It belongs to ME.


                
This movie can lay claim to the most refreshing interpretation of Scottish history (ie, ignore the facts, concentrate on the story).  It may well have the best Scottish accent ever in a major movie picture by an American-born Australian actor.  Or perhaps the best movie recreation of a Renaissance Fair recreation of a generic medieval battle (with added blood).  But its chief claim to fame is without doubt in the category of best historical joke in a major motion picture  - the suggestion that William Wallace (died 1305) fathered the future Edward III of England (born 1312).
William Wallace deserved a better movie.  So did I.


                
First off, unlike most reviewers who give this a lukewarm or low rating, I'm not interested in the politics of this movie. That said, what's up with the reviewer who said the only people who dislike this film are thin-skinned Englishmen? I certainly am not one.People here have praised this film for it's acting. Mel Gibson's 'Scotsman' would be a poor attempt at serious acting, if it weren't for the fact that he seems to realize that the role is far above his abilities and so he plays it, literally, as a cocky 1980s American action hero in a medieval British setting. The story reads like it was written by someone who read a book called "Shakespeare 101." The themes are laughably simple: Freedom! Love! Fight for your country! - but to his credit, this is just the sort of one-dimensional fluff Gibson directs so well. The images and music may be stirring at first, but the schmaltz is so thick this film does not stand up to repeated viewings.Two years later came another big-budget overproduced 3-hour 'epic', with similarly simple themes - this time though, with the love angle at the forefront. It won some of the same Oscars and even had a score by James Horner. That film was Titanic and just like Braveheart, it was well done and just 'worked' for many people. But over the years people were smart enough to look beyond the surface and see it for what it was - a childish, poorly written story that just looked and felt right. Why have so few been able to do the same for Braveheart? The answer: It's violent and bloody enough for people to think they're watching something important and life-changing. I could say the same for Gladiator.That said, Braveheart is worth a viewing, but it certainly doesn't deserve to be rated an 8 or have a place in the top 250. It's just Hollywood cheese at it's best - and worst.
I was very surprised when this won the Oscars for best picture and director. It's a fairly standard action movie.  The battle scenes are gory but not very realistic -- somehow, long, drawn out affairs are over in about 15 minutes, the good guys are super killing machines, etc.Gibson is a good at playing cool, restrained characters like Mad Max, but not good at playing a romantic lead or inspiring leader -- he was trying to be Kirk Douglas in Spartacus, but ended more like Graham Chapman in Life of Brian.The entire portrayal of the agonized Robert Bruce was very dopey.The direction is flabby, and uncertain, the pacing off, and the costumes aren't even terribly interesting or authentic.Historical dramas tend to work best when they don't try to turn their stories toward universal truths, but focus on the characters and situations at hand.  Gibson tried to turn Braveheart into a rousing statement about honor! truth! passion! freedom! but ended up just parroting the standard Hollywood line.


                
I was extremely surprised to find out that this was supposed to be such a good movie. I saw it on TV yesterday, and I hated it. It was soooo boring, and Mel Gibson was not at all convincing as William Wallace. He was looking like a 40 year old man that was still desperately trying to be young. He was supposed to be just a little bit older than the beautiful girl (whose name I forgot), but it was obvious he was much older.The story was boring, and some parts of the movie were well acted, but I was so irritated by Gibson and the story line, that that did not make up much.


                
Braveheart really messes up the history. For example, it has Robert the Bruce starting the Battle of Bannockburn within minutes of hearing of Wallace' death. I know that news traveled more slowly in those days, but Wallace was killed on August 23, 1305 and Bannockburn was fought on June 23 and 24, 1314. The report of Wallace's death did not take nine years to get from London to Edinburgh. There was a battle fought between the Scots and the English a year after Wallace's execution, but the Battle of Methven on June 19, 1306 was a decisive victory for the English.King Edward I, AKA Longshanks, did not die simultaneously with Wallace. He died on July 7, 1307.The movie suggests that Wallace had an affair with Isabella of France, and that she was pregnant with his child at the time of his execution. As the real Isabella had been in France all her life until she married Edward II in 1308 -- and Wallace was never in France -- that would have been impossible. There is also the minor matter of Isabella being a child of ten when Wallace diedThat whole bit about English lords having the right to sleep on the "first night" with any newly married woman before her husband is crap. There was never such a "right". For one thing, can you imagine anything which would be more likely to incite revolts? For another thing, marriage law was determined by the Church. The Church has always supported marital fidelity. Any king or lord who tried to push this "right" would find himself excommunicated.The Scots did have legitimate complaints against the English. But this pretended Prima Nocte was not one of them
Coming from Scotland I loved Braveheart. Then I turned ten and realised that it was a cinematic piece of crap. The accents are so bad by every single actor that I cant help but cringe my arse off (you know that really bad kind of cringe like when you remember farting extremely loudly in a job interview). The fact that the whole thing was filmed in Ireland with Irish actors was also a rather big factor in sealing this movie the 'Worst Scattish movie based on Scattish people but made by Americans' title. For a start the film was based on a POEM. Randall couldn't have just researched a few separate history books and built up a decent picture of what really happened. Too easy. He based it on a poem written by a guy called Blind Harry two decades after the events happened. Completely logical. You know what I can see why people like it. Its got romance, adventure, violence. I would be fine with that if (stupid) people didn't take this as complete historic proof that Wallace was an all round hero. He wasn't. He raped and murdered his way to the top. Fair enough he did fight for Scotlands independence, but where has that really got us? Were still part of the UK being controlled by England so the whole revolutionary tale in the movie is balls. I don't get why an American or Australian would make this movie. Surely their countries cant be so dry of culture that they have to start stealing other peoples? I know every one says their 'half scatch' or 'three quarters Irish' but their just kidding themselves. Leave the Scottish movies to the Scots. After all I'm sure the yanks wouldn't like us making a movie about their own war of independence filmed in Canada starring New Zealanders eh?


                
I finally watched this movie after hearing about it for years and I really wish I'd spent my time watching something else.  Braveheart ranks right up there with Titanic and Pearl Harbor as prime examples of what's wrong with Hollywood historical epics.  They take a rich and complex history or event and dumb it down for the viewing public into a shallow tale of revenge, love and death.  Emotions are over-the-top and characters are either good or bad. Strangely enough, considering its reputation among some people as being mindless entertainment drivel, I feel Gladiator is a much better film, despite all the sneers that Gladiator aped Braveheart.  Gladiator took the elements that floundered in Braveheart and made it much more satisfying, visually and dramatically.  Compare Maximus's quiet death, as he finally reaches his family on the other side, with Wallace's leatherlung scream of "FREEDOM!" delivered on the soaring wave of a pulse-pounding, throat-catching orchestral surge that you would find only in a Hollywood epic.  I look at Braveheart as a supreme egotrip by a moderately talented actor.  Mel Gibson needs a good director to keep him in line so he doesn't grandstand, and Emmerich succeeded to some degree in The Patriot.  Throw in the shameful historical inaccuracies and the blatant gay-bashing (Mel has a few personal agendas) and you have a long film that bores and exasperates.Still, I gave it 2/10 for the cinematography.  The scenery is beautiful. Oh, and the gut-wrenching bellylaugh I got from Wallace's final word made the rest of the movie much more enjoyable.  Too bad it didn't come earlier in the film.If you want to see Braveheart summed up in about 5 minutes, watch the "Starvin' Marvin" episode of South Park.  It's infinitely more satisfying.


                
I will start with the one area of Braveheart that I will give praise to: the battle scenes.  The battle scenes were, for the most part, very accurate and appropriately brutal.  While I did think it was "cool" to see William Wallace wielding a military pick at one point in the film, it seemed pretty nonsensical.  It seems as if someone on the set said, "You know what would be really COOL?  We could have Wallace smash in some guy's head with a big HAMMER!  Yeah, YEAH!"As for the rest of this film -- let me simply say that I probably would have found it to be wonderful if it was about a man named Elphed Beeblebrox and his life-quest to gain freedom for his nation, Goonia, from the evil imperial Shanta and King Twazel II.However, as this movie is simply an exercise in making history as two-dimensional and misrepresentative as possible, I have to give a big obscene gesture out to everyone involved in the more important aspects of making this film.  I'm sure I don't need to go into details about this -- if you actually cared, you'd probably go pick up a book to read about the history of this period.  Let me just set three things straight: both England and Scotland were horrible "sports" during this entire protracted war, Edward I died about ten years after Wallace was executed (Ed continued to pound Scotland throughout this entire time),.


                
I'm sad to say it, but this historic movie really sucks. Mel Gibson attempts to create a film containing everything: romance, action, blood (quite a lot of that) and of course, a heroic Mel himself. The problem is just that the story soon focuses mostly on the latter part. Braveheart is, unlike historic movies of quality, not very accurate when it comes to historic facts. But the film is not only full of factual errors, Gibson's directing is not very impressive. There are plenty of irritating mistakes and goofs in the directing/production of Braveheart.The battle scenes may be well-made, but they are not good enough to change the impression of Braveheart being the absolute low-water mark of American film-making.It is actually quite impressive that movie of Braveheart standard won Academy Awards for both Best Picture and Best Director.


                
Braveheart is an over-rated historical epic which is much over-rated. The film stars Mel Gibson, and the film seems to portray him in one of these idolised images of heroes that is so common in the majority of films he stars in. I don't know why the mainstream have embraced this film. Maybe they thought it sounded good to say that they had seen it and they enjoyed it. Maybe Gibson does excel in alluring mainstream people to the cinema to watch historical epics. Whatever it is, I had a lot of problems with this film. It is a typical Hollywood blockbuster, and maybe that is what the problem is. Too much action, a rushed story, and a long film that seems to lack in direction but uses cheap and tacky dialogue to bring Mel Gibson up to a hero status, particularly when he gives a moving and emotional speech about freedom. (I am sure that these words can be compared to other events, particularly in American history, and maybe these are more reasons why the film was so loved.) As a film, I had trouble sitting through it because it was not interesting, and I found several areas to be comical (unintentionally, I don't think the director wanted this to be a comical film). My verdict: over-rated and not recommended unless you like Mel Gibson or you disagree with this post.


                
Historical accuracy never was Hollywood's forte.  However, the story of William Wallace and the Battle of Bannockburn does not need any silly Hollywood romance or face painting to make it into an interesting yarn.  If you want to see how a sickening and totally fabricated love story can spoil the potential for epic film-making, then this may be the film for you.... 
However, if you are a self-respecting Scot with healthy regard for the historical William Wallace and Robert the Bruce, then you'd best give this fanciful tale a wide berth.  Or just go along for a good laugh as you sneer at Mel Gibson's "Scottish" accent - he plays William Wallace with a strictly 20th century inner-city Glasgow accent... (poor old Mel, he doesn't know any better, but somewhere there is an accent coach who should have been fired!!!)


                
What an overrated crappy film that takes too many liberties with the facts. "Every man dies, not every man really lives.." What does that mean? Any film based on an historical event should try to follow some factual truth. Granted some liberties need to be taken but it should be done in a way that has a sense of realism and not filled with goofy Hollywood BS. For example just prior to the first battle with Longshanks army, Wallace's men moon the British from a distance. Now come on!! Do you really think this happened? And what is with the crazy Scot that says the F-word that we are suppose to find funny. Was the F-word even used in those days? Granted the battle scenes are well photographed but I would think the British army would have held their own better in combat with the Scots rather than appearing like some amateur confused bunch of boobs. The only highlight in this film was Patrick McGoohan. His performance was convincing. However when Mel Gibson yelled "FREEDOM" at the end when he was dying he took the words out of my mouth.....freedom from this overrated nonsense.
Lots of blood ,violence and simple Goody/Baddy plotline.Created by accountants to appeal to a movie audience who have a reading age of six.Mel pockets the millions but his acting loses more credibility.Enjoy it while you got any left  Mel


                
As a film it is obviously intended for children and retards; looks good but the dialogue and plot are puerile, the directing and acting, especially of Gibson, are over-the-top. Then we come to the story......"I know" someone said, "lets take a factual story and rewrite it so that not one single fact remains". Why?? I've never understood the Scottish fascination with Wallace - he was a useless commander who won one battle in his life by ignoring the code of chivalry and attacking while the English crossed Stirling Bridge and then spent the rest of his life hiding from the English and leading his band of cut-throats over the border to destroy undefended farms and villages. His next biggest victory after Stirling Bridge was against an English Nunnery where he raped all the nuns and killed all their goats and sheep. Not in the film? I wonder why. Eventually even his Scottish supporters got so peed off with him they deliberately shopped him to the English.And if I was more than 1/4 Scottish I'd be a bit miffed that the Scots were painted with blue woad, more than a thousand years after the demise of the Picts who may have worn woad but were a different race to the Scots


                
I watched "Braveheart" on cable last night and I wondered why I bothered.The movie was slow, plodding, and bloated. The pacing was such that one could stop watching for a few minutes while one went and made supper, return, and not really miss anything.The only character who was the least bit interesting was Edward Longshanks, played by Patrick McGoohan. Then again, Mr. McGoohan has often played such people (e. g., Number 6 in his TV series "The Prisoner"). I could well imagine Edward being tough, brooking no debate or challenge to his rule.Everyone else was largely colourless and the portrayal of William Wallace didn't particularly convince me that he was the leader of a rebellion. The romantic angle between Wallace and Princess Isabelle was laughable at best. I mean, really--a royal consorting with a serf?Other reviewers have pointed out historical inaccuracies in the movie. That's nothing new--for example, take a look at Errol Flynn's portrayal of George Custer in "They Died With Their Boots On".So why did this movie win the Best Picture Oscar and not "Apollo 13"? I admit that I'm biased because not only am I a space buff but I was in high school when the events for which that mission is remembered occurred. The latter, however, had action and suspense and, on the whole, was tightly-paced. Even the historical inaccuracies are relatively minor. "Braveheart", on the other hand, was ponderously dull and, for me, a complete waste of time.Maybe there were political reasons for it. It certainly couldn't have been on the artistic merits of the movie.It's the second time I saw the movie. The first time was nearly 20 years ago. I didn't like it then and I didn't like it now.


                
Dang, it looks like all of them starry-eyed folks from "The Shawshank Redemption" fan club got on their horses and rode over here to watch (and fulsomely praise) this film! However, this slop of revisionist history made by the Holocaust/Christian revisionist is much worse than the ridiculously overrated "Shawshank". I mean, I've seen more incisive character depth and subtlety in "Highlander: The Final Dimension". If this won "Best Picture", couldn't Mario Van Peebles at least win "Best Actor"? I must admit - I didn't watch every scene. Instead, I fast-forwarded over the most obvious parts, and since the film was nothing but obvious, it made for a more coherent ride. Done in 1.5 hours, this film might have rated 4 stars (out of 10, mind you).Instead, it is what it is, and it certainly is the worst film to win a Best Picture Oscar since that snorefest known as "Out of Africa". Every character is a bolt of evil or a bolt of good so that you can cheer or sneer without issue. Edward I Shawshanks (okay, Longshanks), played sneeringly by Patrick McGoohan, is really given the smear, and William Wallace, almost unanimously proclaimed by historians as a boor/rogue, is turned into legend by Obersturmbanfuhrer Gibson. His performance (in partnership with the wig) is laughably bad. His scenes with Marceau, who (G*d love her) tries her best, have that campy oil-and-water feel straight out of "Moment By Moment" or Streisand's "A Star is Born".Let's get out, but I do have to say that the thing that I hated the most was the true WWF feel of the battle scenes and the camaraderie of Mel and his mates. I mean, I love The Undertaker and all, but do I need to see him in a Budweiser commercial masquerading as a historical film? Me? I'm just waiting for a real good film about Edward II...now that guy was a piece of work! Meanwhile, I give this mess 2 out of 10.


                
I gave this a two only because of the acting from Mel Gibson was very good that's where the film got the second start from other than that I thought the film was just awful for one main reason which angered me, how the English are made to look in this film. I am very annoyed because it makes us look like the bad guy, first of all William Wallace isn't this superman Scottish terminator that the film makes him out to be and at the end we are meant to feel sorry for him! When the British gave the Scots everything they needed and yet they still attack us I think the Scots should be thanking us for everything we have done for you. This film portrays a lot of untrue rubbish about an incredible nation (which is England).


                
I admit that 1995 was not a great year in film but there were at least ten better choices for best picture (Apollo 13 for one) than this one.  Heck, even Rob Roy, which takes place at around the same time, was a better film. Braveheart is not a bad film.  It is just a very mediocre one.  As it has been pointed out it is historically inaccurate. It is also indifferently acted and directed, by Mel Gibson no less, without any distinction.  It is too long and kinda boring.  And those battle scenes!  By the second one I decided to take a break in the theatre lounge. In its favor I will admit that the photography is kind of pretty.


                
Fans of repetitive blood and gore will have a field day with this pretentious epic-scaled spectacle.  Sentient human beings (read women) will simply be bored -- although Mel's body has seldom looked better.  In fact I would have been less outraged at Mel winning best actor for this mess than best picture and best director.  The camera techniques and art direction ARE excellent.  But the gaffing, sound mixing, editing, and most of all the interaction of the strengths of the performances were strictly amateurish. Nowhere was restraint exercised.  If this is the 63rd greatest movie of all time, then I am the 63rd stupidest women who has ever lived.  It's a shame that fans of an historical epic such as this have no sense whatsoever of cinematic history.  If you  are female and over 30, do NOT waste your time on this drivel.


                
I hadn't seen this movie when it came out and, considering the hype it was bathed in back then, I may have liked it at the time. As it is, I watched it on DVD and HATED it for the following reasons:Mel Gibson's tic-drenched acting. He acts with his face, not with his heart. He is especially annoying at the beginning when he is supposedly a younger man. His eyes-wide smiles and grins come off as ridiculous leering.Gibson/Wallace and the women in his life. Gibson obviously likes to set himself up as hunk-du-jour. The most ridiculous line in any movie comes when Sophie Marceau berates him for beguiling her, saying something like, "you just have to look at me and i go weak in the knees." Give me a break. Gibson's fright wig. Scarier than Tina Turner in Tommy. His hair made me feel like I had lice. Ew. Tedious plotting. Homely family scene followed by rousing battle followed by incomprehensible noble plotting followed by homely village life followed by rousing battle followed by incomprehensible noble plotting, etc. Yawn. Cringe-worthy dialogue. I wasn't taking notes at the time, but even my 13yr old kid, with whom I was watching the film, couldn't stop groaning. Gibson's messianic complex. Probably not noted at the time of the film's release, but it is impossible to watch Braveheart today without seeing Mel-the-Messiah. Martyr like poses and positions abound, arms outstretched, beatific expressions, etc. Hard to watch. -Overly violent battle scenes. I guess these things are the norm now, but I am getting less and less tolerant of listening to the FX-designed sounds of the battlefield, let alone close-up shots of swords and brainmatter.All in all, Braveheart is a film by a man in love with the image of himself as heroic Christ-like martyr. I think that will be the LAST film with or by Mel Gibson I will ever see.


                
