I'm an American but with a Scottish heritage so I suppose it would be easy for me to overlook blinding disregard for history in the case of this movie. However, I just can't. There's no excuse for this. If you want to make a hack/slash film, either make the characters fictional or make them at least kind of historically accurate, not neither. William Wallace and the princess didn't even exist in the same time period, let alone fall in love. What the h*ll is going on here? The film itself really isn't bad. The cinematography is outstanding, but I just can't suspend disbelief enough to enjoy it. This ranks up there with the awful movie "Pearl Harbor" in terms of historical accuracy, if "Pearl Harbor" had included a scene where the Japanese dropped a hydrogen bomb on Hawaii.
This is not all bad, but it's definitely not all good either... and I am simply amazed that this tripe won an Oscar.It's overlong, over-sentimental and (I gather) historically inaccurate. I'm not sure that this matters although it's a fine line with these historical dramas - I'd like to think that they are based on the facts and I can learn a bit about the world...The battle scenes are certainly impressive, but gory and indulgent. The love interest with the princess is just laughable, and Mel's acting just didn't work for me - with his piercing blue eyes and haughty carriage, I felt at times (especially when he rides on horseback with his arms spread in a show of submission) as if he was imagining himself as a messianic figure - but with a false humility, a fake messiah.I did come away wanting to know the real history, but I also came away feeling unfulfilled, that I had been fed a load of er manure, shall we say.
I had liked Mel Gibson's *Braveheart* a bit better 9 years ago when I first saw it; but that was 9 years ago. 9 more years of experience in both life and movie-watching has revealed to me this film's inadequacies upon a re-viewing on a TV broadcast.Gibson shows no particular talent for framing, camera placement or camera movement. Blocky, centered compositions dominate. Like all amateur directors, Gibson relies on slow-motion to increase the significance or suspense of a scene. There's one particularly egregious sequence in which Gibson's Wallace, returning to a village in which he attacked some English soldiers, SLOWLY approaches some infantry who are ready to take him into custody. One soldier's chain-mailed hand SLOWLY takes hold of the harness of Gibson's horse. Gibson SLOWLY raises his arms above his head. Gibson SLOWLY reaches behind his back for his weapon. Gibson SLOWLY bashes the soldier's head in with the weapon. Look -- this is really incompetent film-making. A good director, in order to increase suspense, would find NARRATIVE solutions to achieve his aim, rather than simply assume that slowing the film's speed to a crawl will put us on the edge of our seats. Slow motion: the hallmark of lazy, unimaginative, and incompetent film-making. *Braveheart* is riddled with it, to the point that the entire film seems to consist of it. Run the film at normal speed, and the movie's no more than 2 hours long . . . and it would also become abundantly clear that there's not much to this simple-minded epic, after all.There's certainly very little complexity here, an unforgivable sin, in my opinion, for a historical epic. We're given to understand that King Edward the First feels that he needs to subjugate Scotland in order to create a united "Greater Britain" against the competing imperial aims of England's Continental neighbors (particularly France), but why make such a comically satanic figure out of this character? "My greatness will be better demonstrated when Scotland lies in ashes," Patrick McGoohan hisses -- all that's missing is the villainous chortle. McGoohan functions as a sort of Evil Stepfather in this castle-and-moat fairy tale. It works both ways, as well: because the English are such slave-masters, any and all terrorist tactics against them by Wallace's army of Highlanders is meant to be applauded. They burn forts, slit throats, lay siege to York ("When we invaded York, you would not support us," Wallace reprimands a council of Scot nobles), send the head of York's commander, via a basket, to London, trap English soldiers in a wooden hut and burn them alive . . . all for "freedom". Gibson and screenwriter Randall Wallace (no relation to the subject of the film, presumably) manage to find nothing contradictory about all of this. Acts of murder are Bad when the English commit them, Good when the Scots commit them. However, perhaps unconsciously realizing the murkiness of this type of morality, they give Wallace an added motivation designed to checkmate those who question if murder is washed clean by patriotism: the English brutally execute Wallace's wife (married to him secretly in order to avoid Longshanks' proclamation of "prima noctis") on a trumped-up insurrection charge. Therefore, Wallace's butchery is sanctioned by a divine sense of retribution above the laws of men. One unforgivable act makes a thousand revenges forgivable. Such ontological morality is as easy as it is totally insane.It's not Christian, either -- but Gibson has demonstrated with his most recent film, *The Passion of the Christ*, a religiosity that's not merely misguided, but mired in ignorance and neuroses. He conflates his own masochistic impulses with that of Christianity itself. In *Braveheart*, we get a foreshadowing of his *Passion* in the sequence in which he's tied to a wooded cross and tortured. (Though the cross is laid out horizontally, we get the heavy-handed point.) In Gibson's theology, spiritual transcendence is achieved when your body is getting cut open. "FREEDOM" is the triumphant battle-cry after your entrails are piled in a steaming heap. Only through pain suffered in its extreme can true victory, and therefore happiness and peace, be found. Watching one man's pathologies play out in such a public manner -- e.g., a major motion picture -- is a merely pathetic spectacle; more alarming than that is the ecstatic response this sort of thing has received from the movie-going public. Both *Braveheart* and *The Passion* were big box-office hits.Well, the battle scenes are still pretty exciting, and have been justly imitated over the past decade. For that reason, and that reason alone, *Braveheart* earns a generous 3 stars out of 10.


                
The film may have a memorable quote. It may have a well known actor. But that in my mind does not redeem this film. Here Mel Gibson pushes forth quite extreme prejudices, showing Anglophobic and Homophobic ideas. The Film has a very black and white morality and the villains are quite one- dimensional. It badly alters history, exaggerating what the British did. The myth of Primae Noctis was established by this film. The chronology is quite poor, Isabella was nine when Wallace died and Edward III was born seven years later. William Wallace committed some atrocities in his fight for 'Freedom' and raided England. You could make a good film out of this by showing the moral dubiousness of his actions, but instead a quite one-sided portrayal is given. Not only does it install bad ideas but it increases a quite negative stereotype of the British. Not all Americans think like this, but such films reinforce the stereotype of them thinking in such basic terms. I feel that this film has often been overrated, even as a film it can be quite poor. The only joy the film give me is venting out my rage at those who tarnish history.


                
Several people recommended this film to me and I was looking forward to watching it. But I was disappointed.For a start, I found it difficult to take the hero seriously. That wasn't William Wallace fighting English tyranny. It was Mel Gibson. The film had "Made in Hollywood" stamped all over it, taking crowd pleasing liberties with the historical truth. Crowd pleasing liberties can be forgiven sometimes, but these were just so, well, *corny* is the word that springs to mind.Good battle scenes though, and the evil king played a good part. But I wouldn't watch it again.


                
While it had some alright moments, particularly the spectacular battle scenes, this was, overall, a pretty poor movie. Essentially I was bored. It was so very long, and so much of what went on was overly moralistic. Some of it was just laughable - at times I was expecting them to come into a clearing and be greeted by the Knights who say 'Ni!'. The love story stretched credibility, and was blatantly made up so we could get some steamy action between the sheets, as, it would seem, a film without isn't worth the effort.We also had the unseemly spectacle of a Young Scotsman being played by an middle aged American who seems to have decided after all these years that he would give acting a go, and not making a very good job of it. His accent was poor, and he tried to do emotion and stuff, but it really didn't work. Go back to what you are good at, Mel, Lethal Weapon X or whatever. It still dumbfounds me that he won best Director. I realise it was a bit of a thin year, but you can do better than this.This film is also one of a long line which insists on ramming the morals of the story down your throat. I would rather be allowed to use my brain, in a film made by a director who lets me think for myself.Overrated, Overlong, Overmoralistic. 3/10.


                
A lot has been commented about the film, so I'll stick to where I differ: the first half of the film is far too long, entirely predictable and, worst of all, contains no significant formative experiences of the hero-to-be (other than the death of his father). Big Yawn.I would leave it at that but IMDb wants 10 lines of comment, so here goes: by minute 45 Mel Gibson comes across as a lost puppy, devoid of any ferocity. I don't buy his transformation into a hero, really.Why don't we see how he is taught to fight? And I can't come up with line 10.


                
If anybody who reads this has ever read one of my other reviews, they will know that they tend to be long and that I always have lots to say.Not so with Braveheart. The film does not leave much to say. It's the hugely historically inaccurate film of Scottish hero William Wallace's life: the death of his father, his life with his uncle, the tragedy that leads him to fight the English, his victory at Sterling and his eventual downfall. All this sadly directed by and starring the ever-awful Mel Gibson, boasting an absolutely pathetic accent. I should know, my family's Scottish!It's a shame, because apart from Gibson, it's quite an enjoyable romp. It's no Oscar-deserver (1995 should have gone to The Usual Suspects and The Cure, the latter didn't even get any nominations, a travesty!), but it's fun. But Gibson manages to cross time and become Gibson of the 13th century. Wallace is just a Scottish Martin Riggs of Lethal Weapon or Porter from Payback. And they were suspending belief for the 1990s, he becomes ridiculous here.The supporting cast, on the hand, is quite good. Ian Bannan gives a good, albeit unbelievable performance as Robert the Bruce's leper father, the kid who plays his son is marvellously expressive (one to watch) and Robert the Bruce is well-played by Aidan Quinn, I believe it is (forgot to check, I'm afraid). But Gibson is still just Gibson, and is looking silly.I would like to end by noting that it is historically inaccurate, all that stuff with the Princess of Wales is laughable. The battles are inaccurately portrayed (there were no longbows at Sterling), Wallace did not dress like that (he's a knight in every picture I've seen of him) and Robert the Bruce's dad wasn't a leper. And those bits with the Princess really are stupid, just a chance for the public to see Mel kissing a girl, what poor cinema! And the portrayal of the evil English is exaggerated, they were evil, but not that evil!It's a shame, with a bit of finesse and work and without Mel Gibson, this could have been a very entertaining historical drama, along the lines of Elizabeth. The locations are fantastic, the music is touching and it's pretty entertaining during the battle scenes. But with Gibson directing, it becomes unbelievable and cheap. It feels less like a tribute to Wallace as one to Gibson himself, which takes away the point of a historical drama. I give it 3/10.Uppers: 1)The cast (except Gibson); 2)The backgrounds; 3)The music; 4)The battle scenesDowners: 1)Mel Gibson's big-headed filming and attitude; 2)Totally inaccurate historically; 3)Full of exaggerations; 4)Gibson's accent; 5)How can they make a Hollywood flick about British History?
Sad to say that Mel Gibson got a very big budget to make a very big epic about
the English-Scottish wars of the 14th century. Sad because he got to indulge two
of his biggest prejudices Anglophobia and Homophobia.The film is technically most impressive and Mel Gibson makes one virile heterosexual martyr who gets to bed the Queen of England and the big joke
Gibson is playing on us father English royal dynasty down to today.Gibson directs himself and acts as William Wallace who was the peasant leader
of the Scots who resisted England's invasion of their country. The King of England at the time was Edward I who was nicknamed Longshanks. Patrick
McGoohan plays Edward.No one ever accused old Longshanks of being a nice guy. Among other things
he did was expel the Jews from England and they did not come back until
Oliver Cromwell let them back in. And no doubt he was disappointed in his
son the Crown Prince who was as gay as green shoes as an English friend of
mine used that expression.He did not however throw Edward's boyfriend Piers Gaveston off a tower battlement. Gaveston came to a far more grisly end when the Crown Prince
became king. That is a fiction of Mr. Gibson's prejudices.As for Sophie Marceau she's gone down in English history as Isabella the She
Wolf. No doubt she was a woman with needs, but as history has it Edward II
did his kingly duty and did begat an heir who became Edward III. Edward II
reigned from 1307 to 1327 and the royal prince was born considerably after
William Wallace met his grisly end described accurately here. A product of
Gibson's stated homophobia.As impressive a cinematic achievement as Braveheart is I won't give it a good
review. God knows there have been historical films done quite inaccurately
for the sake of drama and done well. But an appeal to bigotry I will not
endorse. I would suggest a reading or a viewing of Christopher Marlowe's play
Edward II for a more accurate telling of that tragic tale.I see very little difference between Braveheart and Jew Suss produced by Joe
Goebbels to stoke Anti-Semitism in Nazi Germany.Shame on you Mel Gibson for your lies and distortions.
i hate it, worst movie ever (with some exceptions) how does know one else see this, its badly writen badly acted and badly directed, there is no faith in this movie, things are seen then explain, as if mel doesnt believe that everyone in the theater can see what he see's. theres a point in the movie where mel as a boy is told by his father a moral lesson, two mintues later he full grown and you hear the same thing again, this time he's saying it to a big stupid guy. the chemistry was very nice, although the father/son/prince/ group was just stupid, and the cheesey sets killed every seen shot inside, it was not intesting, and although the fighting was amazing it was only because it was high priced.


                
This movie uses Scottish History as the 'mcguffin'. It has more to do with the conventions and cliches of Hollywood and the superficial people therein than with Scottish history, medieval or modern. The only Scots who saw any merit in its distortion of the facts was the Scottish National Party who sought to capitalize from it politically and failed. But mind you, the tourism industry did not too bad out of it so I suppose it's worth a few points: Three out of ten.


                
Kilts? Blue face paint?
That's just the tip of the iceberg in hilarious innacuracies.Well filmed.But if you watch it as a gruesome adventure ... fine.Just don't take it in as true history.No other film has distorted Scottishness more.


                
I've seen the movie now several times always with people who fawned and drooled over it.  I've tried to like it.  I may be the only person in the world I know who doesn't like this movie.  Sure, it has it's strong points, Solid performances from all the supporting cast.  The english king in particular is an exceptional Machiavellian villian,  doing whatever it takes to stay in power.  Great use of locations in and around scotland. Fantastic battle scenes and period detail.I guess my main problem is with Mel Gibson.  His portrayal of William Wallace while okay just wasn't that convincing for me.  I kept expecting Danny Glover to appear any second to help his old buddy fight the evil British.  And the constant harping on freedom with the long bombastic monologues got old really quickly.Another thing that bugged me was the lack of subtlety of any kind.  It seems like the filmmakers assumed the viewer wasn't smart enough to pick up on the themes of the movie so they kept clubbing us over the head with it. (How many times do we need to hear speeches on freedom?) Ultimately, Mr. Gibson's portrayal of William Wallace just didn't convince me and I got tired of the complete and utter lack of subtlety in the filmmaking.
A decent if flawed attempt.


                
As a man born in Scotland but brought up in England I am in a position to see both sides of the war fought by one means or another for a thousand years.The Scots,perceived as the good guys by the rest of the world if the comments on this site are anything to go by,have,as is customary for smaller nations,held the moral high ground for as long as the conflict has been going on.Yet the English,for most of the time are hardly aware of the war at all.Only when the two nations played each other at football(soccer )at Wembley Stadium and what the sports media referred to as "The Tartan Hordes" descended on London did Anglophobia raise its ugly head above the parapet . Mostly the English can't be doing with the "Scotland the Brave" nonsense as sung in English pubs by drunken Scots,glaring round aggressively to deter any gainsayers."Get a life",is the usual quietly muttered retort. One would like to think that cockneys singing "Maybe it's because I'm a Londoner" would be treated as tolerantly should the circumstances be reversed.And tolerance is the key word in any consideration of Mel Gibson's "Braveheart".Because the movie is so ridiculously biased as to be almost racist in concept and execution..Simplistic and bad history,Little Mel has allowed himself to make a movie swayed by resentment and hatred,real and imagined grudges and the sort of chauvinism that,had it been expressed by the English,would have been sneered at by Guardianistas all over Highgate. Did a single English person object to this farrago of nationalistic fervour?No.To most it's a matter of supreme indifference that yet another Hollywood director sets out to rubbish the nation.Get a life guys - better yet get a history book.Hollywood movie
As a dramatic fairy-tale - for those of us who like action movies and rooting for the underdog - Braveheart Is watchable and entertaining. But there It ends. Where a budget of £75M went(compare to the relatively tiny £3M budget of the Infinitely better "Rob Roy")one can only surmise but It certainly wasn't spent on Historical study. The fact that Mel Gibson takes the part of William Wallace(who was a "real" person) gives the clear and Intentional Implication that this Is a true story - It Is not, and If the main character had been "Just some brave Scot" I could stomach It - but real people and real events have been Interwoven with a fantasy with some of the grossest anti-English sentiment I have ever witnessed In a film. The production team couldn't even get the man-skirts correct(The Kilt was Invented four centuries later by Englishman Thomas Rawlinson In Lancashire In 1720)and the "head-In-a-basket", the "princes-boyfriend-thrown-to-his-death" and multiple other scenes are pure fantasy as Is the age of the homosexual prince's French bride (she was aged 9 when married - not that the marriage would ever have been consummated whatever her age!). The clear Indication that all Englishmen were cowardly scumbags while all Scots were thoroughly decent heroes pervades the whole movie and on a personal note I find this offensive and racist as do many of my movie-loving peers. However, I'm happy for those who will no doubt enjoy It - as long as they realise that the only true fact this movie contains Is the names of some of the people.


                
I used to love this movie until i actually read the history of William Wallace and then the fact that the Scottish Nationalist Party used him as their poster boy..... yeah lets use Braveheart's leading man.. a homophobic Jew hating alcoholic. Nothing about this movie is true... read history book and get the REAL FACTSHollywood AT ITS WORST EXCEPT FOR MEL Gibson'S NEXT EFFORT SAME SCRIPT Different MOVIE... THE PATRIOT...LOVED OTHER MEL Gibson BOVIE'S THIS ONE I USED TO LOVE BUT NOT WITH THE SAME INTENSITY.BUT I SUPPOSE ITS BECAUSE OF THE SNP..Britain FOREVER
Apart from the many anachronisms and lack of historicity of Braveheart, I'm very disappointed by how predictable the whole film turned out to be. Those directors must really think their public are idiots as they keep rehashing the same stories over and over again. It looked more like a Scottish western than any accurate portrayal of mediaeval Britain. What is more, all the villains were far too wicked and one-dimensional to seem realistic. It left me completely untouched and uninterested apart from the romance at the beginning of the film. The claim that Wallace fathered the future English king, that's farcical at best, one does not even need to check historical dates to know how preposterous this must be. What's the point of making a film about a real historical character and then rewrite history completely? Gibson should stick to fiction. But historical faithfulness is the least of his worries, he had his characters speak Latin in The Passion of Christ though historically they spoke Greek, Aramean and Hebrew. I give it three stars for the beautiful Scottish landscapes.


                
One word... Boring.  It wasn't a bad movie, but it wasn't a great movie. It was 'ehh'. Anyway, everyone makes such a big deal over this mediocre movie. Mel Gibson is okay in it I guess.  The battle scenes are cool for about 5 minutes.  All of the dialogue is dry and drawn out.  It's about 3 hours too long.  Mel Gibson's ass is awesome..... I like blue face paint though, so that's a plus.  But, I'd honestly take MadMax (or even Lethal Weapon..maybe) over this pile of crap anyday. I guess he made this movie to get people ready for his other directorial garbage: Jesus Falls Down A Lot (also known as The Passion).  Go watch something else, and please stop raving about this movie.


                
The MPAA has given out some strange awards, but in recent years there's been no Best Picture winner less deserving than Braveheart.  Maybe 1995 was just a bad year for movies.  It's not that the movie is bad.  It's just so....average.  Hard to believe it has become a cult movie.


                
So, I saw Braveheart.  All I have to say is big deal.Seriously, what happens in this movie?  Wallace is wronged, and he goes to war.  Fight scenes occur.  The King of England is evil (he has to be evil, or the film doesn't work), more fight scenes occur, Wallace gets caught, and yells "Freedom!"Three hours just to learn that "Freedom" is good?  The blood and gore weren't even that great.That, and the way it was made.  Notice how they went into slow motion whenever anything was about to happen?  What is that?  I don't have to be told something significant is going to happen. Braveheart didn't steal my heart.


                
Poorly made, poorly written, poorly acted. This was, in no way, shape or form, the Best Picture of 1995. Not sure it would even finish in the Top 50.Of course, this film appeals to those who like their blood and guts, their hatred of women and gays, and their history-lite.What's to like? Cinematography is OK. Patrick McGoohan is great, as usual, though he stars in the worst homophobic scene in modern film.What's not to like? Just about everything else. The praised heaped on this dung pile is truly stunning. More evidence that the movie-going public will eat whatever it's spoon-fed. Sad the Academy felt the same way.What's next? Will 'The Longest Yard' remake win Best Picture of 2005? Wouldn't be any less preposterous.


                
I did not like this movie at all.  Wallace, at times, seemed unbelievably dim, or unusally clever.  If the lead character seems unreal, any movie is doomed.However, Mel Gibson was brilliant in finding and casting Sophie Marceau.  I know many movie fanboys love this film.  I highly suggest you all check out Sophie Marceau's earlier French films.  She is a female goddess and the best part of any movie containing her.


                
Mel Gibson again plays the berserker movie fans love so much.  While Braveheart may be entertaining to watch, it is a favorite formula repeated. My major discomfort with the movie comes right at the end when old Mel screams "freedom".  Contemporary viewers hear and know exactly what he means, but...people of the British Isles did not know "freedom" nor believe in it as we do today.  Individual freedom did not exist in Europe. Freedom for Wallace would be his ability to choose his own master from the aristocracy and not the freedom to be a king, as we would like to think we have the freedom to be today.  Individuals in the tribes of the British Isles were raised to be what their father's were.  They could be nothing else.  Peasants never became kings, and never believed they could.  The belief in freedom to be whatever we choose, or have the skills to become, came from the original people of America, the First Americans.  Too bad they receive no credit.


                
