Honestly, all factors were indicating a favourable outcome here. Even though many of us inevitably feel that most products and stars churned out by the Hollywood movie system are most kindly described as formulaic.Personally, I have a fairly neutral opinion of Mel Gibson as a brand. Despite this, my expectations for Braveheart were in line with so much hype. As I have a fervour for history and cinema, the combination is oftentimes one I find especially interesting. Braveheart had a headstart.Well, it was a very pretty little 'historical' tale. Otherwise, this is a seriously overrated and predictable flick.


                
Having watched this film for the first time (we had some Scots friends staying and they wanted me to see it) I have to say that I was not especially impressed. Having read some reviews calling it the greatest film ever, I was surprised by how inadequate it was in terms of the production. The battle scenes gave full opportunity for Mel to vent his hatred of the English in graphic form (I bet he wished the swords were real!) but I still found it largely lacking in both sentiment and reality. Oh, I know we complainants are constantly exhorted to look on this as a film (i.e as a fantasy and not as a documentary etc), but I'm afraid can't, entirely. There is a strong political subtext and message in this film which does have modern implications for people in the UK. For these reasons alone, we do need to take it seriously. I think the effect that the movie has had on people, especially as regards the liberties taken with historical characters, concerned me a lot more than the film itself. The opinions appearing in some of the reviews reinforced my worries.I was really concerned by the way people seem to have established very fixed opinions about events and characters of which they admittedly know little, apart from the information they are given in the course of this film. This is totally bizarre. History seems to be the only academic discipline in which this occurs and which is accordingly trivialised to such an extent. Few people would take such liberties with a topic involving other subjects - Science or medicine,for example. Some of the opinions about Edward I, for instance, are quite extreme - 'epitomy of evil','monster' 'tyrant' etc. Don't you think people should maybe do a bit of further reading before applying such epithets? Edward I deserves better than this pathetic bit of character assassination. He was a strong medieval King -intelligent, personally brave, ruthless, learned, pious and a positive and faithful husband (both his wives absolutely adored him). Like most people, his character was a mixture. Most of his successful counterparts, Phillip IV of France and Robert I (the Bruce) of Scotland were equally determined and certainly just as cruel when the need arose. If we're talking about more recent comparisons I think Abraham Lincoln might well fit the bill. Lincoln was basically a good man, but was driven to extremes by the political position in which he found himself. Like Edward I he was equally determined to protect his country by the establishment (or re-establishment) of a state of union, and definitely was, despite his wit and geniality, equally ruthless in achieving what he saw as necessary for the good of his country. I do realise that this is a film and that films need heroes and villains. That's fine as long as they are mythical villains such as Lex Luthor or the Riddler; my point is that if you want to assess a proper historical character, and publicise those assumptions on a public forum, maybe you should do a bit of background reading and not base your opinion entirely on a highly biased, third-rate Hollywood epic


                
If you think, this is a great movie and historically correct, you really should look up what critics write about this movie. It didn't end up for no reason at 2nd place in a rating of 'The Times' of most historically wrong movies ever made.And this is quite sad since the story has a lot of potential. If you make a historic movie about such an important topic and mix up facts with, sorry not sorry, made up bullsh#t, I cannot take the movie seriously anymore at all.


                
In my point of view, this film isn't my favorite, because I don't like this historical period, I'm not interested in that. I had to force myself to watch all the film. I've found that the scenes are very long and I'm not interested in films about war. But the scenes takes place in Scotland and the landscapes are very beautiful.I love when the cameraman films that. I like too how they did the production and the acting. But they don't reproduce very well what happened in reality. What a shame ! I don't know if I will recommend you to see this film. Maybe if you like war and the history of Scotland, you would love this film. But for my part, I don't very like it a lot. There is a lot of violence too so don't look the film with your children. I don't know what I can say about this film, I hope you can enjoy the film.


                
In the 13th century, Scots battle to overthrow the English and gain independence. This is nothing but a big, bloated turkey that seems like it's never going to end. It is not clear where Gibson is worse - the hammy performance in front of the camera or the inept direction behind it. Gibson often has the camera linger on himself as he strikes heroic poses. Too much screen time is devoted to bloody battle scenes, causing the film to become increasingly tedious. The only respite from the repulsive bloodbath is romantic scenes that look like shampoo commercials. We also have Gibson to thank for showing us what's under those kilts.


                
Before you flame me, I tried to like this film, I really tried. While it does have its strengths, and far from the worst film ever made, it is deeply flawed, and no it is not just the historical inaccuracy.I'll start off with the good things first. Braveheart is very well made, the scenery and landscapes are beautifully realised and the cinematography is beautiful. The music is absolutely wonderful and gives plenty of dramatic and emotional weight, easily one of James Horner's best scores. The battle scenes are very well staged, while James Cosmo, Brian Cox and Sophie Marceau among the cast do good work.However, to say this film is inaccurate historically is a understatement in itself. Granted I am no historian, but I took an interest in the subject and even I could tell that any history text-book was literally thrown out of the window. Like I said with The Patriot, the inaccuracies are the least of Braveheart's problems. How about the hackneyed dialogue, the uneven pacing and the stodgy story? And don't get me started on its presentation of some of the characters, especially King Edward I, and sorry but homosexuals being stereotyped as wimpy and effeminate didn't bode well with me either. While some of the actors did a good job, some didn't do so well. Mel Gibson, who I personally don't care for though he has done some films I like, did a better job directing than acting. Here he comes across as very monotone and his hair doesn't fit the period I don't think. Plus he reminded me too much of Mad Max. Patrick McGoohan didn't work for me as Longshanks(King Edward I) either. McGoohan certainly was NOT a bad actor, I loved him in the Columbo episodes he guest starred in where he plays one of the more interesting murderers, but he overacts quite wildly here. It doesn't help that Longshanks has been turned into a sneering cliché.All in all, not completely terrible but a deeply flawed film and I am sorry but I didn't care for it. That said, I can understand both viewpoints, there are those who love it and Braveheart certainly has some great assets to it, but there are also those who dislike it for its presentation of the characters and its "distortion" of history, both of which are understandable. 4/10 Bethany Cox


                
In typical Hollywood fashion, "Braveheart" delivers a sturdy tagline as a sort of moral: "Every man dies, but not every man really lives." That is particularly true of Mel Gibson movies, where you can be assured that nearly everyone will die in very bloody and gruesome Medieval fashion, and that most of them won't be given the chance to really live. (Although the film's portrayal of 13th-century Scotland looks so miserable, I can't fathom why any of them would bother.)But what about Mel? History dictates that Mel, as the eponymous -- sort of -- hero, will have to really die. But does he really live? Let's see what Mel and his screenwriter, Randall Wallace, offer as a definition of "really living":1. William Wallace's wife is murdered the day after their wedding.2. Wallace's rampage of revenge incites a bloody insurrection. 3. A pitched battle is fought, leading to hundreds of dead Englishmen and horses and hundreds of exposed Scottish backsides. 4. Wallace has a clandestine affair with the French princess -- who, according to history, was nine years old, but never mind. 5. Wallace is betrayed, captured, and messily tortured and executed in an extended climax that reaches a sort of feverish apotheosis with Mel screaming "FREEEEDOM" as blood and spittle flies from his lips.Gosh. If that's what they think "really living" is all about, I've got a long way to go. Messrs. Gibson and Wallace (Randall, not William...) have settled on a rather ruthless and violent idea of what life is all about, and their concept of "freedom" seems equally brutal. Revenge, philandering, pedophilia, gory disembowelings -- is that sort of freedom really worth it?
Mel Gibson has a death wish and is an exihibtionist - he shows it every chance he gets. He regularly enjoys being beaten to a pulp on screen. Although I am a believer I think he went over-board with the suffering of Christ in his OTHER MOVIE and not enough said about the triumph of Christ and supernatural intelligence that could only be divine. And you have to trace the root of Gibson's penchance for self-mutilation to this movie. In addition,being subtle and thought-provoking is obviously not important to Gibson. The only virtue in this movie is that we get our first look at the beautiful French actress Sofie Marcel, luscious green scenery, melodic score by Horner, but Mel ? No thank you.


                
The early part of this film is reasonably well made, it takes sufficient time to introduce the characters, set the scene and build up the story - but only until the first major battle. After that it quickly loses its way, and from there on the whole thing becomes more and more implausible and, frankly, ridiculous - the Princess of Wales negotiating with Wallace, and falling in love? Wallace singlehandedly murdering the Scottish nobles? Wallace conquering York, the North's greatest fortress? Come on, please... I don't mind too much if a movie takes liberties with history if it helps the story, but in this case the story itself becomes totally unbelievable, and with that, the film.The characters become mere caricatures of themselves without any further development, the film becomes repetitive, boring, way too gory, and ends in utter obscenity with the execution scene. Several times during the second half of the film I was on the point of switching it off out of boredom and sheer annoyance. Way too long and insulting to the viewers intelligence. Why do so many people think this is a masterpiece? A mystery...4 **** out of 10 because of the first hour and some nice views of the Scottish scenery.
A vastly overrated picture.The acting is very plain and uninteresting and the characters are rather superficially developed. Mel Gibson is trying hard to be intense, but without much substance to it.The movie is full of historical inaccuracies, cliches andstereotypes.  The evil caricature of King Edward as a rabid and cruel monster is particularly unconvincing. The movie somehow never really explains what the freedom for which Wallace is fighting is really about.Some of the battle scenes are pretty impressive and very well done, though. On the whole, however, a rather boring, plain and uninspiring film, certainly not something I'd want to watch more than once. Also far too violent, especially the torture scene in the end.


                
I can't say I hate Braveheart, it's actually not too badly made.  The camera work is generally good, the music is excellent and the battle scenes are well done.If you accept that this is just made up Hollywood stuff for kids, good guys vs bad guys then it's ok.  The problem is, most don't and this won Oscars for Gods sake.First of all, how can anyone give this film a 10/10, the characters are black and white, good vs evil, so completely unrealistic.  The story uses historical characters that actually existed and then makes up the entire story.  Basically you have a violent thug, who somehow can speak French and Latin, who hasn't had a bath ever and he's sleeping with the future Queen of England, come on.Can you imagine the outrage if the KKK replaced the Scottish and the English were all black, the film would have been banned in a second.  Yet because it's the English that are nasty, that's ok.If I made a movie portraying Abraham Lincoln as a child molester and a wife beater, who raped and killed innocent children, then claimed it was true, received 10/10 in this site and won an Oscar as best director.  Wouldn't a few Americans find it offensive, oh no it's ok, it's just Hollywood, that's all right.I can accept that an historical Hollywood film might be inaccurate, but portraying a whole nation as evil and ugly is very offensive and moreover acknowledging it as great film is even worse.


                
One of the worst Best Picture Oscar winners, and surely one of the most over-rated movies of all time. (Not THE worst, that honour definitely goes to the 1931 version of Cimarron). Historically inaccurate anti-English propaganda, with wooden over-the-top-macho-hero acting. The only good part was when Wallace was executed.Plot summary: Mel Gibson sets out to make an anti-English movie, because that was the phase he was going though (The Patriot was even worse), and wins a few Oscars in the process.Also a great example of how clueless the people are who determine the Oscar winners. In a year that brought such fantastic movies as "Leaving Las Vegas", "The Usual Suspects", "Dead Man Walking", "Twelve Monkeys" and "Richard III", they gave five Oscars, incl Best Picture and Best Director, to this piece of crap.
Sorry guys, this is another one of those movies that really takes a dive whenever anyone speaks.  Well, not anyone, just Sophie and Mel.  The supporting cast is solid, Cox and McGoohan in particular, but there's no escaping the fact that they are burdened with a script made to inflame the hearts of Scotland-ophiles everywhere.  Mr Wallace basically lifted a whole bunch of names from the pages of history and then remade events to suit his film.  Sorry, sorry work.  I sat through this thing hoping that Gibson would be captured at each turn so that it would end. Did no one else notice that Gibson's Robert the Bruce was a snivelling wimp?  The real Bruce was a frightful warrior and powerful King who has got to be spinning in his grave over this travesty.  Not to mention that Wallace never got within a country mile of Princess Issabelle...much less fathered her child.  Sorry.  Wrong again.  This is another movie that should have been shortened by removing all the spoken lines.  The battle scenes were excellent...sorry about the rest.


                
possibly the dumbest film ever to win best picture.  the battle scenes are undeniably impressive-brutal & well staged, but that can hardly compensate for the film's length, bombast, &, most offensively, it's self-importance. it's surfeited with blowhard sentiments about vague concepts like "freedom" & "honour", which are meant to stir the audience up against the cartoonishly evil british.  it dares to give us blood & guts and then to lecture. it can't just be unpretentiously entertaining. in addition, it feels like a colossal ego trip for gibson (did he really win an oscar for best director?)the ending is ludicrous.  even though he's been torn apart, somehow, in the deep reserves of his being, he finds the strength to bellow "freedom!"laughably bad & turgid.


                
Come on!!!??? A top film and oscar?  Bad Script Bad acting Bad... I am mean this film was laughable... perhaps on par with a lower range Saturday afternoon film... maybe a George Hamilton film.  In competition with Dances with Wolves for the all time worst Oscar Winner.


                
Unbelievable. I'm talking about the Oscars, and #85 in the top 250, and 8.4 stars. And the story and the make-up. I would like to like this movie. I like the triumph of the underdog against long odds, and mourn his ending: betrayed, hanged, drawn and quartered. I like the Victorian statues dotted all over Scotland, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Stirling and other places, and the plaque in Smithfield. I thought it was kind of funny when the boyfriend starting blathering on about his PhD in military strategy, thinking he'd be made a general, and got chucked off the battlements. I like McGoohan, and I used to like Mad Mel. I was even mildly entertained when watching it. But coming out of the cinema I felt seriously let down. Fantasy fare for ten year olds.I've read about Wallace, quite a bit in fact, and this was just barmy. Gladiator was hard enough to swallow (Maximus fights the Roman Emperor in the Colosseum?). Braveheart was simply impossible. The blue paint was ludicrous for a start. It went out of fashion circa 55 BC, twelve hundred years before, and was never Scottish warpaint. Some of the positive reviews here make me want to scream, laughing. Did I know that William Wallace was Robin Hood? No, I didn't, and nor does anyone else. Did I know that the next king of England had Oor Wullie for a dad? Give us a break, puh-lease.What a missed opportunity. There are just about enough solid and well-documented records about Wallace to tell a rousing good story, within the bounds of sanity and probability. This is not it. Scotland for Ever! You englischer Schweinhund!
For whatever reason, I hated almost everything about this film. Yes, I am a girl. That probably contributes a lot. Mel Gibson's accent and acting seemed overdone. The story was constantly overshadowed by an overly dramatic battle scene. The film was pretty much made to flaunt machismo, daring, and flashy firework-battle scenes. To make matters worse, not even historically accurate. Wallace was not the poor villager the film depicts, but a landowner and minor knight. Queen Isabella, his love interest, was only a few years old at the time period used in the film; the kilt was not worn for another few centuries; Robert never betrayed Wallace; The Scottish did not paint their faces. Sure, overlooking this, as a film is primarily fiction, this could have been a good film. But I could not see it. Sure, there were some intense scenes, some scenes that made me smile. But, as a whole, Braveheart was a loss. What I take away from this film, actually, is the idea of Primae Noctis, the legendary right that feudal lords supposedly had to peasants' marriage beds on their wedding nights. Sadly, this is not proved fact, but a myth. Still, it is interesting trivia that could be true. I will say that the landscape was beautiful and lush for much of the film, with impressive costume design and a production element that must have taken some talent. The accompanying soundtrack was also well done, with music played at the right moments in the right amounts. An ambitious film with an overuse of blood, battle scenes, and paint, Mel Gibson does not impress. I found myself turning away several times either in disbelief and/or loss of interest.


                
Robert the Bruce is a Scottish hero and it was he, not Wallace, who really broke the shackles of English rule. I cannot see the film-makers logic in having him cowering in the shadows when anything happens. Artisitc licence is one thing but this is Hollywood, once again, trying to re-write history.Patrick Mcgoohan's performance is one of the few saving graces. He is one of the best on screen villains I have seen, both for his own acting and through the dialogue of the character.Peter Hanly is also excellent as Edward's cowardly son, Sophie Marceau smoulders in the background and David O'Hara almost steals the show as the hysterically funny, but once again historically inaccurate, King Stephen.Mel Gibson is extraordinarily annoying as Wallace. The accent is bad and has rarely been considered as much of an actor anyway. Another problem came from the lacklustre acting of the extras (all Scots) who somehow managed to look bored at a re-creation of some of the most famous battles in our history.The backdrops and scenery are beautiful and the battle scenes are superbly directed but the rest of the film is a little flat. Gibson fails to occupy the centre of the screen and the extras do nothing to enhance the experience. The rest of the supporting cast do fine jobs, eclipsing the movie's lead actor. 'Braveheart' is fine for arousing the nationalism of drunk sports fans but leaves the serious film goer wanting more.


                
The acting was good. The cinematography and directing was good. Other than that.... The movie was much longer than it needed to be. It was also much more violent than it needed to be. Add to that the fact that it was historically inaccurate. It's a lot of Mel Gibson's self-glorification, as we've seen him too often...and he does it so well. Over-acting his way through lukewarm love scenes, and bloody gruesome battle scenes. and at the end of this movie he exclaims "FREEDOM!!"...that is exactly how I felt when I walked out of the movie theater, after sitting there for over four hours watching this overindulgent midieval battle film. If you plan on buying the DVD, save your money. Rent it if you must, but it pales in comparison to Lord of the Rings. Enough said.
This film is like a three-hour ad for Mel Gibson. It's pretty good on the technical front: the battles are great, the costumes are neat, and the pictures are stunning (or at least interesting.) But the script is so thoughtless, so blatantly Hollywood-ized, that it's impossible to take any of it seriously. Unfortunately, the actors play it like friggin' Shakespeare. The script is transparent as it divides characters into heroes and villains, then divides them again into superheroes and supervillains. And the "dramatic" moments (such as "They'll never take...our FREEDOM!" or "Every man dies, not every man truly lives") feel phony and jingoistic. Mel Gibson isn't made to play superheroes. His persona is a balance between heroic bravado and self-deprecating charm. In a movie this melodramatic, he feels totally false and out of place.


                
"Braveheart" is a 3-hour movie from 20 years ago that won Mel Gibson Academy Awards for Best Picture and Best Director. I will not deny that this film has some solid moments, but as a whole it was not even close to being enough for such a long film. Visually, it was fine for the most part, but this film is great evidence of how seeing something good is not equal to feeling something good. The story was not particularly interesting, but maybe the reason is also that this era in history was never among my favorite ones. It is as usual all about great writing and despite the Screenplay Oscar nomination, this film does not have it. You could certainly say that it is fairly difficult to make a script that keeps one interested into a film of almost 180 minutes, but they took the challenge and they came short.On a more positive note, Mel Gibson proves in here once again that he is as good of an actor as he is a filmmaker. His performance was probably my favorite aspect of the very few good qualities in here. The Scottish sceneries were worth a watch too as were the costumes. However, this makes it pretty much style over substance. Not among Mel Gibson's best works overall and it's a bit ironic that this was the biggest success of his career. What maybe disappoints me the most is that I quite like Pat McGoohan and him playing the main evil guy is something that sounds awesome in theory. Still, I could not warm up to this one. Certainly a contender for my least favorite Best Picture Academy Award winner. Not recommended.
First and foremost, lousy amateurish screenplay. From action to scenes, to plot to dialogue, oh my god. Gibson's acting is so-so at best. King Edward's acting is awesome! But the freaking lines across the board suck (actor's spoken lines.) If you're into slash, dash, slash some more dash even more, that really does not 'evolve' in any way, then see it. The photography is beautiful, but is photography enough to justify spending nearly 3 hours on this thing? Whether William Wallace was a great person / warrior you're left to infer that he 'should have been' but that is not on the screen though intended as outcome of the flick - yuck. His character is badly drawn across the conflicts. I haven't read the book (novel on which it is based), hopefully it is much more interesting than the slam bam surface only flick.


                
I finally got around to seeing Braveheart more than two years after it came out. Sure, I read the great reviews, saw it get all those academy awards. I believed the hype, and so I made the huge mistake of watching this movie, which I must say is absolutely ridiculous start to finish, in my opinion. This refers to plot, dialog, acting and everything in between. I don't care if it's based on a true story - it felt fake. After I realized that I would not enjoy it on an artistic level, I started noticing its more amusing aspects, so it wasn't a complete waste of time, which is why I did not rate it a 1.I have now seen many, many Mel Gibson films, and have reached the sad conclusion that he's not much of an actor (or a director, but never mind that). Now, this saddens me, because there is a vast quantity of Mel movies that one can (unfortunately) be exposed to, few of them any good - and strangely enough, the LW series is one such exception. Perhaps he should have brought Danny Glover along for this one as well?I console myself with the thought that members of the academy must have forgotten to watch the many, many movies that came out and were better than this one. Otherwise I can find no explanation for their votes.


                
A young Hobbit called Wally realises he may be gay . He dresses in a skirt and grows his hair like a girl . Trying to fight against his feelings of gay lust he meets a young maiden in Middle Earth but unfortunately it is under occupation from the Orcs and they kill Wally's love . This really angers him because she was very good at giving Wally advice on hair care and other girly stuff . This only reinforces his homosexual feelings and so goes on an adventure where he walks around in painfully homo-erotic slow motion promising to free Middle Earth from the Orcs . Or failing that going to another part of Middle Earth that is a bit more sunny It really was disgraceful that some people in Scotland were taken by this Hollywood garbage . It's by no means the worst film ever since the fight scenes are well done but it proves and for all that patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel and every sculpture featuring Wallace since this film was released just happened to have a physical similarity to a certain Hollywood actor . I don't want to condone crime but I do enjoy reading about some Scottish council somewhere complaining that someone keep vandalising some expensive Wallace monument and it is going to cost a lot of money to repair it . Save your money by not jumping on a BRAVEHEART bandwagon . If Mel Gibson wants monuments of him built he can use his own money


                
