Set in the late 13th century, 'Braveheart' is the story of one of Scotland's greatest national heroes Sir William Wallace. leader of the Scottish resistance forces during the first years of the long, ultimately successful struggle to free Scotland from English rule...Crucially charismatic in the title role, Gibson plays the heroic figure and emerges as a remarkable hero with wit and romantic soul, determined to rid his country of its English oppressors...Wallace's revolution was set in motion, with great obstacles from his countrymen... Many Scottish nobles lent him only grudging support as most of them were more concerned with wealth and titles than the freedom of the country... In fact, the Scottish leaders are in favor of revolt-or not-depending on English bribes... Wallace, by comparison, is a man of honor, incorruptible and righteous... He was knighted and proclaimed 'guardian and high protector of Scotland,' but as much as he railed against the Scottish nobles, submitted to Edward I, King of England, he was astonished and in shock to discover the treachery of the leading Scot contender for the throne<U+0097>Robert, the Earl of Bruce<U+0097>to whom he confided , 'The people would follow you, if you would only lead them.' Sophie Marceau is exquisite as the distressed princess Isabella of France who ends up falling in love with Wallace, warning him out of several traps...Catherine McCormack is a stunning beauty who ignites Wallace's revolution...Patrick McGoohan is chilling, brutal, and vicious as the ruthless Edward I, known by the nickname 'Longshanks.' This king remains simply the embodiment of evil...While Angus McFadyen moves as a nobleman torn between his conscience and political aspiration, and Brendan Gleeson brings strength and humor to his role as the robust Hamish, David O'Hara is very effective as the crazy Irishman who provides much of the film's comic relief from even the most tensed moments...Mel Gibson has reason to be proud of 'Braveheart.' It is a motion picture that dares to be excessive... Gibson presents passionately the most spaciously impressive battles (yet staged for films) even excessively, and it is his passion and excess that make the motion picture great... The horror and futility of massed hand-to-hand combats are exciting rather repulsive... It is epic film-making at its glorious best...Gibson's 'Braveheart' focuses on the human side of Wallace, a character so immense, so intelligent, and so passionate, exploring the definitions of honor and nobility, pushing us to follow the hero into his struggle against injustice and oppression...There is a great shot of the lovely mountains of Scotland covered in mist with beautiful bagpipe music... James Horner's beautiful score, calls up memories of his work for 'Titanic.'
This is an emotional, involving and ultimately draining film. By the time you are done, you are spent. What makes this movie so intense is the passion of the main character: Scottish rebel leader William Wallace, played by Mel Gibson, who put his heart and soul into this performance. Add to that a powerful story, great cinematography, excellent action scenes and even some humor....and you have a classic film.Patrick McGoohan shines as the evil English king and Sophie Marceau, Agnus McFadyen and Catherine McCormack all contribute. I'm sorry the latter had such a short role as her beauty captivated me very much. All the characters in Wallace's "army" are fun to watch, too.For those a bit queasy with bloody violence, this is not a movie for you. There are lots of gory action scenes that includes limbs being hacked off. This is not a film for the feint of heart. The only objection I have to the violence is the ending. Seeing a man tortured is not my idea of entertainment. I now fast-forward through that part but otherwise thoroughly enjoy the rest of the three-hour film, an "epic" adventure, if there ever was one.The most memorable scene in the film, for me, was not any of the action scenes but just the absolutely stunned look on Gibson's face when he discovers his trusted ally was anything but that. To discover that the key people in the country that you are fighting for are not backing you must have been indescribably crushing to, although since this is the movies I don't know how accurate this was to the real story. Whatever the accuracy, it's a great film and belongs in anyone's collection of epic-adventure masterpieces.The Blu-Ray transfer, by the way, is spectacular.
This epic tale of patriotism, love and conflict opens with a birds eye view which takes you through mist and air out onto an open loch with scenic mountains in the background. This is accompanied by stirring bagpipe music, and shortly by the start of a narrative by Robert the Bruce.After a short introduction of a young William Wallace, involving his fathers death and his first step into warrior-hood, we are taken to present day England where Edward Longshank's tight rule over Scotland is getting increasingly harsh. Enter a fully grown Wallace (a rugged long-haired Gibson) who is back to start a family and a new life. He soon meets Muran, a girl who he remembered from way back. He and Muran fall in love and shortly get a private nighttime marriage, as a public one would result in the 'Prima Nocte' rule being enforced.Unfortunately, one of the English soldiers controlling their village confronts a scared Muran and forces her into a quiet spot. William leaps to Muran's rescue and all hell ensues. The commanding officer executes Muran promptly for assault on one of the King's men as she bit him whilst defending herself. She was supposed to meet William at a secret spot after she was rescued but was knocked off the horse.William returns to the village on horseback to give himself in, but he has other plans. The uprising that ensues is one of the most pulse racing and exciting fights that has ever graced the silver screen IMO. This is the spark that starts off the Scottish revolution for freedom. Soon, other clans join Wallace, then whole towns stand by him. He soon finds himself on the fields of Stirling for a real showdown. I thought I'd give you the first hour in a nutshell, the rest of the movie revolves around Wallace, Longshanks and the Queen of France as they all fight for their own cause.The battle scenes are ground breaking and upfront, the senses of comradeship, love, patriotism and courage all take a stand throughout the film. The music adds further to the epic, be it sad and haunting tunes, or strong and stirring bagpipe anthems. Wallace is portrayed as a beacon of strength and power, not to mention a much honoured leader. Sometimes Gibson takes his character a little too far, but the title Braveheart is one that is implied to Wallace's qualities. The films dramatic and moving ending is a good finish to a superb and powerful film.


                
Review: This is one of those types of movies which will give you the 'good goosebump' feeling after watching it. It's a typical epic that details a certain hero fighting against all odds for freedom of his/her country. Although the story is pretty typical, its ability to entrance you in it is not. Not many movies are able to accomplish this. Mixed with a powerful musical score (which also won Best Score at Academy Awards for information sake), the movie delivers an amazing experience to viewers satisfying epic lovers, and action seekers. Acting by Mel Gibson is spectacularly superb (he has an edge since he IS partly Scottish). It loses 0.5 points however due to the constant playing of the musical score in some situations which do not seem to fit well with it. What many people complain about is that it is historically inaccurate, I don't remember this movie being brandished with a "True historical story" or even a "Based on a true story" logo. Watch it for the 'good goosebump' feeling.9.5/10 - Freeeeeeeeeeeedom!!!!!!


                
This is surely one of the best i have ever seen if not the best. flawless is the word for the movie.Mel Gibson has given it a tremendous direction along with his supreme acting skills. I got to say i have seen many but the impact that this film generates is simply amazing.The story is based on William Wallace, a commoner, whom unites the 13th Century Scots in their battle to overthrow English rule.It's definitely a must watch for every movie lover as well for those also whom do not watch movies that much. I must admit that this is perhaps the greatest action/drama movie ever made. It is hard to believe that it was made in the year 1995.So folks if u have'nt seen this movie u are surely missing a great movie. Go and see it because this is the BEST.


                
Braveheart is an absolute fantastic movie with a really well developed storyline that contains both a lot of action and a lot of heart,with very strong,powerful and inspired performances.Even for people who aren't from Scotland,this movie gives you great pride from the country you came from,it is all beautifully made and William Wallace is without a doubt Mel Gibson's finest performance,and his most impressive movie as a director.I also loved Brendan Gleeson in this movie,he isn't a very important character,but he is such a good actor and gave me so much pride for the country I come from,Ireland.Braveheart is a highly recommend movie for all moviegoers,those five Academy Awards don't lie.After his wife is sentenced to death by an English soldier,William Wallace leads a group of Scottish warriors to battle against the English for their countries freedom.


                
Around 700 years ago, the brave Scotsman named William Braveheart Wallace rose out of oppression by the tyrannical and pagan king Edward Longshanks of Briton, and united the people of the north (Scotsmen, Celts, Irish, and Picts included), driving the English out of Scotland and onto their own lands. Mel Gibson's portrayal of this warrior was next to perfect, he showed savagery, compassion, love, and hatred, all key elements held by any true Scot. During the fight scenes, he showed the heart of a warrior, and in the many love scenes, showed his deep and everlasting adoration for his deceased bride. During the opening of the Battle of Stirling, Mel gave the speech that would set in place the standards for many movies to come, including Aragorn's speech before the Battle of the Black Gate in LOTR: The Return of the King (this only includes the actors actions, as it is obvious that this speech was already told in J.R.R. Tolkeins book). The true brilliance of this movie ends with the remarkable and heartbreaking torture and then execution by means of beheading of Wallace, and then the narrator telling the prologue with scenes of Robert the Bruces army preparing for the final battle against the English, that would result in Scotlands freedom from British rule. The final scene shows Campbell (Brendan Gleeson) hurling the legendary Wallace claymore into the battlefield, sticking into the soil, representing the separation of Scotland from England, and an eternal reminder of the great deeds William Wallace did for his country and his people.


                
It was too much to take in upon first trying to watch Braveheart when I was younger. It's story is not terribly complicated, in fact it almost resembles (when taking it out historical context, which is not completely accurate to the film anyway) a 13th century Scottish version of the Mad Max series- Wallace's wife gets killed by the English, he gets revenge, and then some; he faces off in battles to finally gain freedom for Scotland. Clad in blue make-up, using his "they may take our lives, but they'll never take our freedom!" speech, charging ahead, and getting into a truly bloody battle that is only rivaled in 90s war/epic movie-making by Saving Private Ryan, this was what I remembered most from Braveheart when also first writing my comments. Seeing it today it's a totally different experience, as taking in the story it's very well told, with excellent performances that emphasize- unlike in Gibson's Passion of the Christ- that he can really get belief out of melodramatic performances. And when he does get his cameras up into the nitty gritty of violent confrontations, be them small (when he first takes his vengeance on the British after his wife's slaughtered, which itself is a very powerful scene) or large (previously mentioned battle), it's with a vitality and viciousness that rarely gets into Hollywood productions. There are even moments of fun (flashing the British, to 'kiss arse') and close-to-poetry (Wallace's death). It's a handsomely done work that should stand the test of time in Gibson's oeuvre. One of the best films of 1995.


                
Braveheart was quite simply Mel Gibsons best movie of his career, it also goes on the list of one of the greatest films of all time. The soundtrack was absolutely fantastic as well as the acting. Showing the traditions of the Scottish and the brutality of England back in Medieval Times. Mel Gibson delivered a patriotic, stellar film for the ages showing the determination and love of one man that changed an entire nation and gave it the strength to gather together and stand against tyranny. Love for country, love for family, and love for the only one that he ever wanted. The sets used were perfect depicting the environment in which they lived. Braveheart leaves an impression that can't be beat!


                
"Braveheart" is one of the most well directed and well shot movies of all time. What Mel Gibson does here is astounding. There's plenty of exciting battle scenes and legit emotional instances. The cinematography is terrific. You really feel like you're in Scotland, admiring its beautiful and brutal world. A lot of endearing authenticity is also thanks to great acting and costume designs as well. It's hard to find a war film that's so focused and emotionally driven as this one. The only flaw I have is that there's a love scenario that develops towards the end of the movie that's totally unnecessary and even takes away from some other emotional tendencies that occur earlier in the film. But it's hard not to get swept up in the grand spectacle that's known as a masterpiece. This is one that shouldn't be missed.


                
At the sixty-eighth annual academy awards, Mel Gibson's Braveheart won five awards, including best film, and it deserved every one of them. With epic battle sequences, rousing speeches, remarkable performances by some of Hollywood's best actors, and its inspiring tale of man's quest to liberate his homeland from tyranny, Braveheart is as great a film as has ever been made.Following the (mostly) true story of Scottish outlaw, hero, and martyr William Wallace, the film takes us from the childhood events that would shape him, through his war against the English, and to his betrayal and execution at the hands of Edward II. In any hands this would be an exciting tale, filled with violence, treachery, and intrigue. And in Gibson's hands, with a script based on the writings of the 15th century poet Blind Harry, this is truly a tale to inspire. It is inspiring because it is the story of a man who wanted only to live and work in peace, but who was willing to take up arms to avenge the woman he loved.It is inspiring because no matter how high the odds were stacked against him, and no matter what he was offered in return for halting his crusade, he would not give up his struggle to free his beloved Scotland. And it is inspiring because unlike other men, who would have sought to use their military success towards their own rank and status, Wallace fought under the banner of another, Robert the Bruce, even when Robert did not deserve it. For Wallace it was not about power, or wealth, or even his own honor, though this mattered to him greatly. It was about seeing Scotland free and independent under the man who rightfully held claim to the throne.William Wallace, as depicted here, is one of the greatest heroes in any film, and only Mel Gibson could have done the role justice. Despite the scandals and alcoholism that have plagued him in recent years, there can be little doubt that Gibson was, and is, a great actor. And when this film was made, he was at the very height of his career and acting ability. Earnest and charismatic he brings both the gravity and experience of a veteran actor and the energy and enthusiasm of a younger man. Few actors will ever give a performance as great as the one he gave here, and it was unquestionably the best of his career.The other cast members also performed excellently. Patrick McGoohan is the very epitome of ruthlessness as Edward the Longshanks. Sophie Marceau likewise performs very well as the noble princess Isabella, whose romance with Wallace, although wildly historically inaccurate does much to give the film an extra emotional pull. Angus Mcfayden is particularly compelling as Robert the Bruce. He is a good man who genuinely wants to do the right thing, but who lacks self confidence and is plagued by evil council. It is with great anticipation that we await the moment he will break free from his fears and doubts and take up the cause.From a technical and cinematic standpoint, Braveheart is exceptionally well made. No expense has been spared on the sets and costumes, and the film utilizes some of the most beautiful settings in Scotland and Ireland. And the battle scenes are among the greatest ever to be put on film. The scale of the battles is something to behold, with hundreds of fully armed and costumed combatants on both sides. Nor have the filmmakers shied away from the sheer brutality of medieval warfare. Watching the axes and claymores strike their mark, the hard part is believing that people weren't harmed. This violence alone, without the later execution scene, is enough to earn the film a hard R rating, but it is absolutely what's needed.It may be graphic, it may be suspect in its historical accuracy, and I admit it has cast aside much of the complexity of the real William Wallace for the sake of a more compelling narrative. And of course it's a vanity production on the part of Gibson. But Braveheart is absolutely the kind of rousing epic that audiences crave. It is well acted, well crafted, and contains a compelling story and an uplifting message at its heart. Wallace's cry of "Freedom!" will resound with you long after the film has ended. There is no doubt in my mind that this was the best film of 1995, and it has lost none of its impact since.


                
I loved this film. I know a lot of people feel that you can question a film based on the integrity of a film maker like Mel. But I say, if this film is a slice of who Mel is then he must be an amazing guy! You must see this film as a man to experience what it must have been like in the old days to fight for what you believe in. Love a woman so much that it hurts too lose her like nothing experienced before. To know the feeling of being betrayed by those you trusted! These are sentiments shown so well in this film and show that Mel is a filmmaker that has seen the other side and tapped his primal man side as well. Watch this film if you want to touch the sense of what most of "Metro" guys today are missing! It will teach you again a thing or two about good films and good manhood!


                
Yes this is definitely one of my favorite movies of all time. It is amazingly composed, told and shown. The acting is beautiful beyond words, and the special effects are on the highest level. The movie is basically perfect down to every single detail and is so well made that you believe every bit of it. The story is so exciting and the acting so incredible, that you sit tight throughout the entire movie. Besides that the fact that it is an authentic story makes you think about it even more. This is a classical fairytale about the evil force against the underpowered good in an epic fight for freedom, but it is not a fairytale, it is a historical fact. This is definitely a movie for everyone to see, even though my writing may not fully describe the full excellence of this movie, you should see it if you have not yet, and if you have you should see it again.


                
Braveheart is a truly cracking film - easily the best of 1995. Toy Story may have done better and earn more fame, but this shall always come before it in my mind as the better film - it was actually made for a purpose, and wanted to tell the story of Scotland's greatest medieval hero. Yes, the film does look a bit dated now, and offers no fancy sword-fighting moves or excessive blood, but this helps it stay more realistic, and brings us closer to the action. The two big battle scenes during the film were brilliantly done, and define the word "epic" - they were perfectly realistic, yet obviously done on a high budget. There was also some great acting - despite a disappointing, slow start, and it remains to this day as one of the most realistic non-WWII epic movies to this day - no magic dragons or glorious pre-battle speeches - just character and honesty. Braveheart didn't fear about being hated by the English - it tackled the rough subject with honesty and brutality, and made its point perfectly well. Braveheart shall not be forgotten - it was the best thing that happened in Mel Gibson's career (he isn't at his best now), and was the first great sword-and-sandal epic - Jason and the Argonauts was just pathetic. The fact that it looks old now only makes it more realistic - I doubt that there was blood flying like it was out of buckets (Kingdom of Heaven) or hugely melodramatic sound and visual effects (Lord of the Rings) in medieval battle. A truly cracking watch - Braveheart is a film that shall not be forgotten for its character, strong script and originality. A stunning job! 9/10


                
I loved the film. A rare case, when an entertainment film is so well-made, so moving...As for history - no matter how accurate or inaccurate it is historically, I don't see it as anti-English. Look at those treacherous Scottish noblemen! They are showed as far, far more disgusting people, than the English king etc.! I think it is not about "good Scots" vs. "bad Englishmen", but about people who are bleeding on the battlefield, fighting for their homes vs. people who just want more castles and personal power, than they already have. (English or Scottish, or anything else - no matter).


                
Clint Eastwood needs to take lessons from Mel Gibson who did a great job with this semi-epic rumble. Braveheart is a movie that is filled with great emotion. In fact I find it difficult to believe a person could watch this movie and not feel anything for the main character William Wallace. Sure the plot is your basic revenge for love destroyed good guy bad villain standard but that is not what makes this movie tick. Great landscapes, score driven, and violently picturesque battles and added with a touch of romance make Braveheart scream down the film highway. And once again it is the supporting cast that I feel overshadow Gibson's performance. Especially Patrick McGoohan as the ruthless Longshanks. In my opinion this is the part that makes or breaks this movie and it definitely made it. If you are going to have a villain in a movie not only do they have to achieve that hated look their actions need to match. Longshanks behaved how like a King trying to enforce his rule should. He was smart, cunning, and rarely did he lose his temper unless it was needed. If this sounds familiar then watch the Godfather and Michael Corleone. The comparisons between their actions are very similar. Wallace's fellow Scots and soldiers were also well chosen and added characters that made Wallace even stand out more. I am impressed with the way Gibson chose his shots. From the ground shot with the sword appearing fifteen feet on the screen to the shot at the end with the cloth he understands that when there is a defining moment in the script you need to do something even more to emphasize it. Make it stand out in the audiences head. This is where Eastwood sorely lacks as a director. His films have potential to be more than he puts into them. Especially Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil that just screamed from every page of the screenplay for a director to drive it like a Ferrari on an open road. Gibson rightfully deserved the Oscar and he understands how difficult and restless the directing experience is. But he is also unwilling to take a great script and let it go to waste and for that I give him his do. Braveheart is a grand movie that will be a classic for years to come. It invokes volcanic emotions and returns to a time when men fought for love and freedom with fearless passion.


                
I have seen "Braveheart" a few times now, and it only gets better and better with each viewing. However, I have *always* thought that this is a brilliant film. The battle scenes are spectacular, the love story sweet, and the script -- generally -- is great, the film doesn't have any weak moments although it goes on for nearly three hours. Mel Gibson has truly accomplished great things with this film. I simply love it! And James Horner's score is nice (although the scores for "Titanic" and, in particular, "Glory" are better). Well, there's really nothing else to say about it, except if you haven't seen it yet: what are you waiting for?! (9/10)


                
That was great! It's so refreshing to see a genuine portrayal of medieval life without the sugar coating given by other low budget film's that mislead the viewer into thinking that people back then had more of a sense of honor and duty than they do now. This film gets a lot of unnecessary flack from people due to it's violent content, but THATS HOW LIFE WAS BACK THEN! Mel exposes this in a expert and dynamic way. As a director Mel Gibson is nothing shorter then amazing. During the battles you feel as though this is a first hand documentary account dropped on a real life battle. And it's real! There is no CGI. That big army was made up of thousands of extras. It wasn't a cartoon with digital effects running rampant. It's genuine. When it's raining that's not a rain machine. Mel was wise enough to recognize that it would be better to shoot the scene's in the rain if and when it did rain, to give it that authentic look. If the characters were mint clean in ever shot like Orlando Bloom was in The Lord of The Rings that would have looked phony. Mel pulls very few punches except in the scene of William Wallaces execution that doesn't even show the disembowelment. A show of restraint by Mel. However at one point there is hardly even one scene that can go without someone getting killed. In one of those scene's the English kings throws an unsuspecting man out a window just for simply showing confidence, and submitting his advice. There have been few movies I've seen recently where I truly despised a character and was routing for them to get their punishment but BraveHeart does just that in creating a truly despicable character in the British king. The king would later die a much simpler death than the ones he gave other people. Back then if you were a sociopath with power you got away with murder. The royalty had little respect for the life of people they found inferior. The peasants were mere pawns to them. There is one moving scene in which a prince in a moment of self realization is brought to tears by his past actions, in which he tells his father; "Those men who fight for me, fight cause if they don't I'll starve their wives, and burn their homes." (That quote may not be exact.) After which he boldly states; "I will not be on the wrong side again!", choosing a soul over depravity. This was not a wicked film drunk on blood and gore, it had a true heart, but there are still people who refuse to see that. There are already plenty of watered down swordfests for you squeamish types stinking up video stores like The Golden Compass or Lord of The Rings. However if you want to see something genuine watch this you'll be amazed.(And to all those people who keep voting down this review... F**K YOU!)
Braveheart received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the performances, directing, production values, battle sequences, and musical score; but criticized its inaccuracies regarding Wallace's battles, titles, love interests, and attire. At the box office, the film grossed $75.6 million in the US and went on to grossed $210.4 million worldwide. At the 68th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for ten Academy Awards and won five: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Cinematography, Best Makeup, and Best Sound Editing.
Hi everybody, this weekend I watched Braveheart. And I wanted to give you my opinion. In this film, William Wallace is the hero, he defends the Scottish, he wants freedom for himself and for the Scots. I liked this movie but I thought that it was too violent and that too many details were shown. In spite of Mel Gibson, who is William Wallace in the movie, he is not Scottish, he took a very good accent to imitate the Scottish. At a moment, a part of Bravehart was so incomprehensible for me. But at the end, I understood. Bravehart is a synonym of courage. When William Wallace was killed, to take his revenge, his troops set off another war against the English. So, I'm going to stop now for the summary because I'll be able to tell you all the movie... HAHAHA... So personally, I find this movie great, the director has done a good job. The actors allowed us to immerse ourselves completely in the film, it was incredible. Now, Braveheart is one of the favourite movies that I have seen despite the excess of violence there was. The film was interesting. And for me it deserves to be in the Oscar's Ceremony to be recognized by all. I hope that my opinion will interest you. Bye for now
The best thing about this film is its battles. That's not to say that there isn't more to like, just the battles are brilliant. They're raw, often gruesome, and feel very realistic (even if they really aren't). The passion of the Scottish contrasted with the English soldiers during the battles perfectly shows what the film is about, and makes it more believable that they could take down such a superior force. At first the Scottish are driven by their love for their country, but as the film progresses, and we see that not everyone in Scotland is with them, the drive is for freedom, that they want not just for themselves, but each other.The score is great, has an uplifting sense of bravery, played with a highland feel, and it fits perfectly.There are not too many problems that I have with this film. I think that all of the performances are great, but I would have liked to get some more depth to the likes of Stephen and even Isabella, who could have been really interesting given her horrible scenario. The historical inaccuracies are really bad too, but I was mostly able to look past them by deeming this as a work of fiction. And in that respect, "Braveheart" is Great.9/10


                
This movie will never forget. There will always be a special place for me. Sense of freedom has a special significance for me every time. Especially a person who does everything you need for your ideals. And the sense that I do not want anyone to feeling of betrayal. I would say the best treatment of the film cause and effect. Similar filmed many movies, but that is special for me. Love, freedom, war, justice, in short it has got everything.And it tells something so much better for me. Victory is not to survive, it is reach the purpose even if you died. As a result, an excellent movie.


                
Braveheart is one of the best medieval films ever made; but also been described as one of the most historically inaccurate modern films of all time. Directed by Mel Gibson, the film is about a 13th-century Scottish warrior, William Wallace (Mel Gibson). King Edward I AKA 'Longshanks" (Patrick McGoohan) of England invade Scotland in 1280, murdering many of Scotland's people. Patrick McGoohan is just chilling as Longshanks. What a great performance from him. In the film, Wallace, at first, tries to live a normal life with his childhood friend turn wife, Murron MacClannough (Catherine McCormack), but the horrors of life under Longshank's reign became too much for him. With his fellow Scots, he launched a revenge attacked against the English causing the First War of Scottish Independence. Randall Wallace, the writer of the screenplay, has acknowledged that Blind Harry's 15th century epic poem 'The Acts and Deeds of Sir William Wallace, Knight of Elderslie' as a major inspiration for the film. The film takes creative license on the piece, to make the film, more gripping like the like the hanging of Scots nobles at the start of the film or Wallace's getting help from Princess Isabelle of France (Sophie Marceau). I have to say, Sophie Marceau was a great actress for this role. In real life, Isabella was 3 years old and living in France at the time. She was not married to Edward II until he was already king and Edward III was born seven years after Wallace died. This aspect of the plot may however have been inspired by the play, 'Wallace: a triumph in five acts' by Sydney Goodsir Smith, which historically has adult Isabella present at the Battle of Falkirk longing for a real man. Yes, it's a bit historical inaccuracy, but it's brings something to the table that works. Little things complains like the Scots not wearing kilts at the time could be passed over. The belted plaid (feileadh mór léine) was not introduced until the 16th century, 500 years after Wallace's death. Things like Jus Primae Noctis plot that supposedly allows the Lord of a medieval estate to take the virginity of his serf's maiden daughters is still up to historical mystery. Still, there were some historic inaccuracies, I couldn't accept, like the film showing England's occupation and rule of Scotland being much longer. In fact, the English occupation of Scotland was just 2 years old before the battle of Falkirk. Prior to that, the Kingdom of Scotland was separate and fully independent. It was the Scots that gave power to Longshanks when they couldn't decide a king. I will defend the film for the depiction of the Prince of Wales, Edward II (Peter Hanly). His appearance in the film as an effeminate homosexual drew accusations of homophobia against Gibson. In real life, Edward II was believe to be bi-sexual who was very unpopular with his wife, the royals and the people of England. Many historians believe Edward II wasn't gay at all and that it was made up to discredit him. One of the few things, the film go semi-right was the portrayal of Robert the Bruce (Angus Macfadyen). Angus's performance is amazing in the film and my favorite character in the film. Some Scottish people got offended of the negative portrayal of Robert the Bruce whom is more a Scottish hero than Wallace. Even, the title 'Braveheart' is often refers in Scottish history to that of Robert the Bruce, not William Wallace. He got to play second fiddle. Other key figures in the war of Independence was cut out in the film like Bishop William de Lamberton and Andrew de Moray. They were replace by other characters such as Brendan Gleeson as Hamish, and the Irish Steven (David O'Hara). Madman Steven has some of the great one-liners of the film. A lot of Scots might hate the film, due to this misleading history, but in my opinion, a lot of Scots should be thankful because the movie brought a lot to tourists to their country. Some of the English media accused the film of harboring Anglophobia. Yes, because there is going to be a negative portrayal of antagonists in any war film. Doesn't matter if English or not. The action scenes were great. The battle of Stirling was missing the bridge part. The war tactics are not historical right, but it was still well done. It was brutal, bloody, and in close quarters. It's scary to think that men fought this way for years. Even the fake horse dying look real, that even Animal Welfare investigated the film. Gibson toned down the film's battle scenes to avoid an NC-17 rating from the MPAA, with the final version being rated R. Some gory scenes are still disturbing, and disgusting for some viewers. Not a film for any young children. Still, there is some beautiful scenes in the film. I like the way, he shot the landscape even if it's Ireland, not Scotland. Braveheart theme song by James Horner is just beautiful to listen to. It's a very smart film. Then there is the famous quotes that continue to be overplayed whenever, the film comes on such as "They may take our lives, but they'll never take our FREEDOM!" The film quote capture the spirit of Celtic heroism. The quote 'Every man dies - Not every man really lives' is from 19th century, American poet, William Wallace, no relation to the William Wallace in the film. I still love it. Overall: it was worthy of winning the Best Picture at the Oscars in 1995. It's still worthy to watch even with today's films.
Braveheart. The Oscar winning war drama acted and directed by Mel Gibson. It is the heroic tale of how a Scottish commoner rebelled against an English tyrant. With a grand canvas, absolute stunning cinematography, a water tight screenplay, very well acted and above all directed with such a passion and courage that you want this tale not to end at all even after the three hours of running time. After an emotional twist in the tale, the movie goes to a very high level of film making in unforgettable last hour of it. It's Mel Gibson's show from start to finish as he acts and directs with full love and understanding of cinema. The war scenes are detailed, uncluttered and mesmerizing. Sophie Marceau as English queen looks beautiful and acts smartly. The camaraderie among Scottish rebels is charming and provides the comic relief. Just like Gladiator, Braveheart is the heroic tale worth revisiting again and again and again.


                
