It's been quite awhile since my husband and I have found a show we both immediately liked -- but we both loved Justified immediately! The dialogue is fantastic! I love the back and forth between all of the characters. The history between the characters is rich and full of drama and leaves you guessing. The episodes are well written and entertaining, but not predictable which is a refreshing change. Timothy Olyphant is amazing in this role! He fits the character perfectly! He's exactly right as the smooth, charismatic US Marshall. He's also proud, loyal, and has a keen sense of morality all packaged up in troubled bundle.I'm recommending this show to all of my friends!


                
Positively one of the best TV shows I've seen in years. I, for one, didn't cared as much about gun action( which by they way is abundant) as I did for the excellent dialogue and the acting. Acting in particular is extremely good, not one single character is out of his role, to be truthful even a dog if you see in a scene in this series, you get the feeling that it's exactly where that dog belongs to. As for the dialogue, it is so good, that it's actually the only flaw this show has. It seems very unlikely that all that crowd of cunning rednecks have such a large arsenal of polite irony, well placed quotes, to the border of well educated people and yet fall over and over to next man's scheme or simply go down by the hand of their own stupidity. Anyways I cannot up-vote this show enough and I can only suggest to make yourselves comfortable in any greasy sofa you have, and prepare to get ported to Harlan, Kentucky.


                
I rarely watch TV, but being such an Elmore Leonard fan I had to see if Justified lived up to Leonard's books. This series appears to be based upon Riding the Rap. Episode 2 actually uses dialog that is taken straight from the book, so I assume Leonard is consulting on this project. The series, at least the first two episodes, captures the wacky but gritty Elmore Leonard style that I love. I disagree about the slowness of pace. I think the series is paced correctly for maximum benefit. Given the cramped style of a 40 or so minute format, I am surprised that they are able to pack in as much as they do. My guess is that the series will be one long exposition of the book, which is fine with me since I am always sorry when I come to the end of an Elmore Leonard novel. If the script and the visual effects didn't capture my mental image of Leonard's novels, then I would not watch.. But the writers, directors and in particular the actors...all of them...have nailed Elmore Leonard. This is far better than Get Shorty. It has the grittiness and the fidelity missing in that movie. I would not be surprised if this series won an Emmy.


                
A co-worker and I are fans of FX's Sons of Anarchy. He told me about this show after seeing it advertised and urged me to record it. I'm glad I did. I found the premiere episode refreshingly intelligent, subtlety comedic, and engaging.Timothy Olyphant truly fits the role and expertly portrays Raylen Givins, a US Marshal with a flare for the attitude and historical respect expected (and required) of the position reminiscent of a Texas Ranger.His Marshal authenticity and brand of justice leads him back to his hometown where he endears old friends and confronts new enemies while sidestepping questions of his dubious past and kin.The story is fun and believable except for some legal proceedings regarding a recently widowed woman, but otherwise delivers very well and provides for good previews.Lastly, I discovered that this show is based off a novel by Elmore Leonard. Leonard is the talent behind such movies as "Get Shorty" and "Be Cool," among others, that I revere as favorites. I was pleased to see that a show with his name in the credits is also praiseworthy.


                
I was very impressed with the show. Excellent casting choices and the characters interaction is fun to watch. Raylan gives law enforcement a good name. He's humble, honest, sexy and a force to be reckoned with, what a combination! The episodes are fresh and well written. Tim is perfect in this role which showcases his acting abilities perfectly. Looking forward to many more seasons of this fine show. Absolutely love the setting and premise being more of a small town feel. I will definitely buy this series when it comes out on DVD. I have recommended this show to family and friends. Kudos to Tim and all involved in the making of Justified. Just what TV viewers needed a thoughtful and smart series thats well worth watching.


                
When I watched first season of justified, I thought to myself- Man, how fresh is this show? I got the same feeling that I got when I watched Firefly and even dreaded the same fate for this gem. But thank God that didn't happen. So we got the second season and I found out how the show matured without actually losing any of its inherent charm. Again, setting was perfect and Mags Bannet proved to be another worthy foe<U+0085>.. and then the history of between the clans<U+0085>.. I mean, everything was just pitch-perfect, even better than the first season. So then I asked myself another question. What will happen in later seasons? I mean, it's a great show and all<U+0085>. But all good things, finally & sadly, do have to come to an end<U+0085> and how many times do we see an end that is extremely painful, as the show descends into a sad state, trying to rescue itself from a grim fate by using cheap thrills, cameos that are just plain laughable and then network would cancel it anyway. We have all seen this happen to even the best of the shows. So how much juice was left in justified's engine, which was already running at near perfect revolutions per episode. But then, to my amazement, 3rd season happened and then 4th one with the amazing Drew Thompson story. It just kept getting better, against all odds, defying the fundamental laws of writing and acting and production value<U+0085><U+0085>it just pushed and pushed ahead. Now people may think that 5th season might have been one of the weakest, but I personally disagree. Crowes were not as vicious as other baddies, but they had their own charm. Even when this show (maybe) dragged, it had a better overall entertainment value than the lot of them. So we got then news (probably mid-season) that 6th was going to be its last season. And I was relieved. Creators and writers and all others involved, made a decision to preserve an image in the minds of the viewers that was different from that of every other successful show I know. And the image was<U+0085><U+0085>.Not to crash and burn, but gracefully conclude this modern classic. I know critics look at this show and roll their eyes, nitpicking things that are just miniature compared to the overall impact of this fine piece of entertainment. Coming back, sixth season started with a bang, and never took its eyes off the prize. Finding at least two worthy foes, who were as charismatic as Raylan<U+0085>.. it's difficult to find anything wrong with this line of thinking. But anyway, in the finale, show skipped a couple of years, to show a time that was simpler (I presume) and they DID leave Harlan alive, and then it ended with simple line. I know, I should have been shedding tears, to see my most beloved show end, and end at such emotional note<U+0085>.. but I somehow tilted towards smiles, that stretched from ear to ear. How clichéd I would sound to say that I wasn't sad that it was over, but rather glad that It happened<U+0085>.. but there<U+0085>.. I said it, I meant it and am here to represent it (while clichés are open and puns are intended). I wish I could have time to analyze each and every episode. I wish that I could repeat every crisp dialog to remind myself of those good times. I wish I could discuss the score, the cinematography, the acting, the spontaneity of plot and tons of other things<U+0085>.. but I can't. All I want to say is<U+0085>..THANK YOU, to the creators of this wonderful show and every person involved, and now that I have watched Justified, I know I won't be able to enjoy anything else that easily. My sense of morality is even more screwed up after watching this piece of art, but I am better for it. I will re-watch justified till cows come home and I will keep thinking how on earth this marvelous show was created, sustained and concluded, maintaining a level of entertainment that I never find even in the best of show and movies. This just goes to show that something as simple as nice story telling can go a long way. If you haven't watched Justified yet, then please go ahead and give it a try. If it proves to be your cup of tea, you will have the experience of a lifetime watching a simple yet elegant TV show.
Being a devotee of Justified (yes, I drank the Coolaid), I'm no stranger to being completely absorbed into the episodes. Excellent writing, excellent acting, excellent production, excellent character development will do that.There is not enough room here to say all I'd wish to about this whole series. I wish I could. It took me places I had never expected.That said, I was not prepared for the entrance of Jonathan Tucker as Boon. Sinister and creepy, yes, but I was blown away by the way Mr. Tucker carried this character through these episodes. He had me feeling sorry for Boon and wondering if this person could be redeemed. He had me outraged at his sheer callousness. Undoubtedly there was great direction too, but we don't get to see that.I'm going to miss my favorite series terribly, but I'm definitely going to catch up on Mr. Tucker's prior work and watch for him in the future.THANK YOU to the entire cast and crew for an unforgettable experience.


                
Justified is an excellent,unforgettable and entertaining TV series that combines terrific direction,wonderful performances from Timothy Olyphant,Walton Googins and a great cast,fantastic Action,great dialog and a memorable theme song and score. All of those elements make Justified an outstanding show that is Crime Dramas and Television at their best.Set in Lexington,Kentucky and based on Elmore Leonard's short story Fire In The Hole,Justified tells the story of Raylan Givens(Timothy Olyphany),a Deputy U.S Marshall from Miami,Florida who is a 19th century Western-style Lawman who uses old school tactics of the law. After getting in trouble Raylan is transferred to his home town in the Lexington,Kentucky section of Harlan County. While in Harlan Raylan has to deal with childhood friend turned criminal in Boyd Crowder(Walton Googins)and other dangerous criminals and individuals.Justified is a brilliant and entertaining Television series that for 6 seasons and 78 episodes wonderfully mixed together genre elements of Crime Drama,Action,Western and Humor giving TV viewers one of the best Crime Dramas of it's kind and a great show that has a style all of it's own. Right from the first episode Justified is an terrific show from the moment you watch it and when you see the series it pulls you into a journey that is violent and dangerous,wild and offbeat and at times can be over the top and exciting showing us a crazy world where everything is unpredictable and you don't what's going to happen or when. With Justified there is the good,the bad and the ugly with U.S Marshalls,crime families,police and outlaws in a violent place where money,guns and drugs are in the air where blood and violence is aplenty. You are in Elmore Leonard's world of Pulp entertainment and you will be in for a ride. The Action on Justified is incredible,fast and fierce with many gunfights and Western-style stand offs where there is great build-up and a intense conclusion. The dialog on Justified is outstanding and clever with great wit that truly adds to the show. The dialog makes the characters come alive and feel fresh. Although serious and dramatic Justified has a humorous and fun tone because there some moments that are just wacky and insane and the characters never take themselves too seriously and as a viewer you laugh at times. What also makes the show what it is the various villains in each season such as Boyd Crowder(Season 1),Mags Bennett and The Bennett Clan(Season 2),Robert Quarles(Season 3),Daryl Crowe Jr. and the Crowe Family(Season 5)and the final villain in the series Avery Markham(Season 6). Each of those villains that are on the show fascinating and will grab your attention. While Justified is a Crime Drama the biggest influence on Justified is the Western genre whether it's the characters attitudes,the style or gunfights the Western style is on full display on the hills of Harlan County,Kentucky. The main character Raylan Givens is a great character and classic invention from Elmore Leonard because Givens is an old school lawman in the truest sense using old law tactics from the old West in the 19th century getting into Western style gunfights and drawing his gun on criminals and taking them down with one shot telling people it was Justified. Raylan is also an old school Cowboy with the white hat,belt buckle and Cowboy boots making him a 19th Century man in a 21 first century land. A lawman can't be without an outlaw and the outlaw comes in the form of Boyd Crowder who is a top criminal in Harlan County who will do anything to be on top as an outlaw and rule with an iron hand whether he's taking out his rivals or avoiding the cops he will do anything to make money at all costs. The main focus on Justified is the long and on going relationship between Raylan and Boyd who were once childhood friends now rivals who are on opposite sides of the law. The scenes and back and forth banter between Raylan and Boyd are some of the best scenes in the entire show giving the two characters an emotional depth that is amazing. The ending in the final episode of Justified is fantastic,powerful and brings the show full circle not only for the show but for the characters Raylan and Boyd which is unforgettable. An outstanding conclusion.The casts in all 6 seasons were sensational with excellent performances from Timothy Olyphant(Raylan Givens),Walton Googins(Boyd Crowder),Nick Searcy(Art Mullen),Joelle Carter(Ava Crowder),Natalie Zea(Winona Hawkins),Jacob Pitts(Tim Gutterson),Erica Tazal(Rachal Brooks),Jere Burns(Wynn Duffy),Margo Martindale(Mags Bennett),Sam Elliot(Avery Markham),Neal McDonough(Robert Quarles),Mary Steenburgan(Katherine Hale),Michael Rapaport(Daryl Crowe Jr.),Mykelti Williamson(Limehouse),Jeremy Davis(Dickie Bennett),Damon Herrimann(Dewey Crowe),Kaitlyn Dever(Loretta McCready),Jeff Fahey(Zachariah),Garret Dillahunt(Ty Walker),Jonathan Tucker(Boon),Raymond J. Barry(Arlo Givens),Alicia Witt(Wendy Crowe),Amy Smart(Allison),Patton Oswalt(Constable Bob),M.C Gainey(Bo Crowder)and more.The direction on the show is terrific,stunning and adds to the show with the camera always moving with great angles and a relentless pace. Wonderful direction.The theme song by Gangstagrass(Long Hard Times To Come)is great,light and matches the tone of the show. The score by Steve Porcaro is good,memorable and goes with the Action and style of the series. In final word,if you love Elmore Leonard,Timothy Olyphant,Walton Googins,Crime Dramas or Television in general,I highly suggest you see Justified,an excellent,unforgettable and entertaining Television series that you will watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10.


                
I am very sad to see this show go. I can sit here at type out all the things that made this show great, but I think just telling how we enjoyed it will do a better job. My wife and I often use the hours after our children go to bed to relax and enjoy a show or 2 that we usually have to prerecord. We were lucky enough to catch this 1 early on, back when few people were watching. We kept telling our friends they should tune in and eventually they did, thanking us later. At some point midway through the 2nd season I mentioned to my wife that while we had a few shows we watched regularly, I found that I was looking forward to Justified each week a bit more then all the rest. She agreed. Justified had, without us even knowing it, become our favorite show. The show mastered the art of building tension through the season. Even episodes that might be considered "slow" were just trains gaining momentum before the eventual train-wreck.Going back to that 2nd season, I honestly think that season was 1 of the finest seasons of any TV show I have ever seen. The characters built that season lasted through the entire series, even the side characters lasted. it is a rare thing in TV to see characters built the way this show could. Please, if you haven't seen this show do so now. It really is 1 of the finest to come out in recent years.


                
Great stuff. I thought I would have to wait until September for the return of "Sons of Anarchy" for Tuesday nights to be worth staying home and sitting in front of the TV. I was wrong. This show is well written and acted. Timothy Olyphant gives Raylen Givens character just the right amount of cockiness to make him likable yet feared. I'd like to see more interaction with his father in future episodes. Raymond Berry is a great actor and perfectly cast as Arlo Givens. Also, Walton Goggins gives "Justified" a true villain that everyone can fear and his acting is another good reason to watch this show. He was great in "The Shield". Hopefully, the writers will find a way to keep him in future episodes.


                
This is my all-time favorite television series. Yes, more than the Sopranos or The Wire or I Love Lucy or whatever. This show has Elmore Leonard's genius for dialog among a cast of wacky low-lifes. One standard for a good show/movie/book is that you can't just have a couple of compelling lead players, you need a talented supporting cast, and Justified has the deepest bench in the league. Walton Goggins routinely steals the show as Boyd Crowder, and Jere Burns as Win Duffy just eats up the screen. There's also a raft of redneck punks who are not quite smart enough to understand what's going on. If you want to watch a crime thriller with a lot of violence that will also regularly make you laugh out loud, Justified is the best.


                
Love the show! I've netflixed justified up until season 4! Couldn't wait for them to start showing the 5th season. So I stream it weekly first thing! As i'm in UK they stopped airing it from s4!But the actual series is a killer, the characters grow on you, and what I find even more special is that it follows the good and the bad through out the show, I completely love the Boyd crowder character, a real stand up crook, and a very good bad guy, and was very surprised to find out he was the transsexual woman in sons of anarachy! If thats not acting i don't know what is! Needs to be more of this show! On more TVs! I'm like the only one who knows it over here.....


                
After completing Breaking Bad, thinking that nothing could equal or ever surpass it, I found Justified. With no expectation other than I could possibly find something entertaining to watch since no more BB to watch. We have now watched all 4 seasons available on Netflix and can honestly say this is one brilliant brilliant series. In someways similarly to BB the web in intrigue builds episode on episode as do the characterisations. Also one of the key strengths of BB is that every character no matter how inconsequential plays a vital role in the development of the plot. Justified in many ways surpasses this.Really cannot wait for season 5 with the climax of season 4 leaving a wonderfully poised situation. Just hope that Netflix can get this to air asap as inexplicably Channel 5 have dropped it!


                
I have to admit I stumbled over "Justified" when channel surfing and I caught the Season 4 opener. I then watched the second episode of the season, and realized that to fully appreciate (much less understand!) the show, I'd need to see Seasons 1,2 and 3 to get caught up. Money well spent. I highly recommend that if you have not seen them, you will be well served by watching earlier episodes, either by retail DVD or, for a couple of bucks each, episodes on Amazon. Each season has a central story arc, especially Season 2 with the Bennett-Crowder-Givens family feud, and the Season 3 Frankfort mob-Givens-Crowder interplay. I won't bore you with a synopsis of the story lines, or what characters do what, you can read that in any other review or IMDBs description. Not every episode is perfect - there were a few from Season 1 and 2 that I thought didn't really add too much to the whole series, but the thing of it is, each show has some little scene or scenes that contribute to the plot line that carries on. As other reviewers have noted, you also need to pay attention. Get distracted for a couple of lines, and you might miss an important plot twist. This is a THINKING person's show.Some might describe the characters as caricatures or stereotypes, but they're really not - while they may portray 'simple country folk', their characterizations and motivations are, for the most part, quite complex. Boyd Crowder specifically is a great TV character. While violent, sociopathic behavior is second nature to him, he's also quite erudite, and perhaps the most knowledgeable character on the show, if not the best educated. Walton Goggins deserves an Emmy, without a doubt.Timothy Olyphant's Raylen Givens is a combination of Eastwood's Dirty Harry and Garner's Jim Rockford. Not afraid to shoot, and tenacious as a terrier, he also has a bit of a blind spot for pretty girls, sad stories, and impossible situations. He's not perfect, by any means, and he knows it. Raylen and Boyd are the best good guy-bad guy team on TV. Their shared background and, at times, overlapping interests, make the interplay between their characters the high points of each episode.The other cast members shine from episode to episode. The good part is that not all characters show up in every episode - thus allowing for a widely spread story line that lets actors move in and out as required. A special nod to Nick Searcy as the ever-suffering Chief Deputy Art Mullin, and bad boys Dewie Crowe and Dickie Bennett, and Jere Burns as Wynn Duffy, who appears to have bounced from USA Network's "Burn Notice" to "Justified" without having to change his character. Like any really good show, the writing makes or breaks the whole thing. "Justified" is that rare combination of action, emotion, and humor that might just capture you. But don't start in the middle of a season - go from the beginning.


                
There's never been a better drama. Well paced, strong acting, brilliant dialogues, a well rounded show which will never bore you, not even for a second. It's the best drama ever made and I ve seen breaking bad, sopranos and all the other popular dramas. It has six glorious seasons, leaving you wanting for more. I just can't emphasise how brilliant this show is, absolutely perfect. It's sad that how underrated and underwatched this show is. More people need to see this, it deserves more recognition, much much more than the overrated breaking bad. Give it a try, you won't be disappointed.


                
Only problem I have with this show is that it's no longer running.


                
Having been working abroad I missed this show entirely and it was highly recommended to me after discussing "Deadwood", which I ranked as an amazing show. So having some time on my hands on leave, I acquired the first two seasons and gave it a shot. I rate Timothy Olyphant highly in this type of role and wow did he deliver.Walton Goggins, another of my favorites from The Shield another favorite show was there too, so what a feast. The storyline, acting, editing , directing, music, sets.. in fact everything about the shows oozes "professional" It would be fair to say I was "blown away" by the show, now watching season three, which maybe doesn't have quite the same momentum of the first two seasons , but hey I'm not complaining at all...I could watch this all day....Raylen Givens is a man born beyond his time, his heart is in Tombstone or Dodge, and we're given the idea he plays out his life just like the old timers of old did.The character is a joy to behold. I seldom get time to watch good shows, but now added this to my favorites along with Deadwood, Dexter, band of brothers and Pacific. There's enough storyline explained in other reviews, I just wanted to go in print and add a big pat on the back to all involved with the show for making such a great show and putting a big smile on my face. I hope this show is planned to run a few more seasons yet. I feel Tim Olyphant has more scope to play with the Raylen Givens character yet.If you like the genre of Modern day westerns, I don't think anyone does it better than Timothy Olyphant and co.Sit back and immerse yourself in the atmosphere that is portrayed as Harlan County...and then tell me I was was wrong!


                
This is my first review, but i will do my best.Justified is a TV show that's starring Timothy Olyphant, a great actor and if you like Timothy in general, you will love this show. He is great in the role of a law man, which he has shown us before in Deadwood. Although his character in Justified is a lot more lovable.The show takes place in Harlan County, in Kentucky and it's awesome for a Dane like me, to see a different kind of TV show, because there is a lot of modern TV shows that takes place in the big cities. So it's nice to get away from the city life.The show is just pure awesome, and i would say that it's a mix of shows like Sopranos, Deadwood and The Shield, added with a great sense of humor time to time.I hope my review inspired you to watch the show.


                
This show is absolutely brilliant. The best word to describe it would just be "cool". I was hesitant at first, fearing a show essentially about a cowboy might not keep my attention for long, but I was very wrong there. Rayland Givens may just be the coolest character in television, in large part due to the writing. The way he's able to always stay so collected and confident makes his character seem like a guy you may not like if you actually knew him, but he is perfect for the show. He knows he's faster, smarter, and just plain better than any adversary, and the witty writing to match makes the show a delight to watch. This comes highly recommended to anyone looking for some excitement while not getting too serious.
Timothy Olyphant is exceptional in every sense of the word and absolutely "riveting" in his new role as Raylan Givens. Carrying a swagger and demeanor that exudes a naturally raw confidence, rarely seen in television today, Olyphant generates a presence the moment he steps into a scene and before a word even needs to be spoken. Though mostly revolving around the rural areas of Kentucky, where values seem to follow a more "Old West" mentality and civility, the contradiction alongside modern rules and approach only heightens the confrontations with a suspenseful air that leaves you in utter anticipation. Yet, the series does an exceptional job in revealing a vulnerability to Raylan, as he struggles to deal with his personal life alongside his career as a U.S. Marshal, that at times seems to conflict. With superbly written dialogue, a complimentary cast of characters, and a quality unequaled, Justified is utterly magnificent in every regard.


                
As a heartbroken fan of Nip/Tuck, which just ended its 6 season run, I was keeping an eye out for another FX show I could enjoy. With FX, original series can be either hit (Nip/Tuck, Dirt) or miss (The Riches). Justified is a show I normally wouldn't have looked at even once. Being a city girl at heart, I'm not a fan of westerns or anything country. One thing I am a fan of is Timothy Olyphant. When I saw one of my favorite actors (brilliant in "Hitman") was going to be in a new show, I of course had to watch. A pleasant surprise awaited me.It's as if Timothy Olyphant was born to be US Marshal Raylan Givens, a good ol' country boy with personal issues. After shooting a man in Miami old west style ("It was justified"), Raylan is punished by being sent back to his old home town in Kentucky to work the local cases, many involving people he knows. His estranged father, former best-friend-turned-criminal, an old flame and a complicated ex wife round out the engaging cast of colorful characters. Raylan has a reputation for being a bit trigger-happy, a branding he hardly thinks is fair ("only if it's justified"). He is never without his 10 gallon hat (unless someone steals it), he can talk down a hostage situation with whiskey and a bucket of fried chicken, or shoot a guy for "taking one more step". It's all in a day's work for Raylan.Justified is one of those shows that makes you forget you're watching a show being acted by actors. It's as though you are observing actual people live their lives. I feel like I'm in the scene, watching everything unfold before me. The dialogue is fresh, gritty, real and absolutely hilarious. The characters bounce between utterly ridiculous and completely relatable. And the actors, everyone from the main stars to the day players are right on the money.If you haven't yet seen Justified, do yourself a favor and catch it when it re-airs on FX. Or wait for the DVD's to come out. If this show doesn't win an award or two, well, that ain't civilized.
Justified was a unique show that had me hooked from the first 10 minutes of the first episode and from there, I became a die hard fan of the series. Although it was bittersweet to see the show finish up this year, like everything all good things must come to an end and Justified did not suffer from the fate of going stale due to going too long. Justified had it all, action, drama, and plenty of dry humour.US Marshal Raylan Givens (Timothy Olyphant, Die Hard 4.0) is a modern day cowboy who looks the part with his iconic Stetson and is not above employing unconventional methods of employing his own brand of justice. Following a controversial but justified shooting in the line of duty, Raylan Givens is transferred from Miami, Florida to Lexington, Kentucky. Also included within jurisdiction of the Lexington office is Harlan County, where Raylan was raised and which he thought he had left behind in the past. This also puts him within a collision course with several of his old friends and members of his dysfunctional family. This includes his former best friend turned adversary Boyd Crowder (Walton Goggins, The Shield) a charismatic career criminal and Raylan's estranged father Arlo Givens (Raymond J. Barry, Falling Down). Raylan also seeks to protect his ex-flame Ava Crowder (Joelle Carter, American Pie 2) from Boyd after she shoots dead Boyd's brother following years of abuse. Raylan must also get used to working under his new boss Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal Art Mullen (Nick Searcy, Cast Away) who aims to ensure that Raylan Givens toes the line with his impulsive tactics. Raylan's colleagues also include the laconic and dry humoured Deputy Tim Gutterson (Jacob Pitts, EuroTrip) a former Army Ranger sniper, and the sensible Rachel Brooks (Erica Tazel) who is often seen as a level-headed person but is not to be underestimated. Raylan also must put aside his differences with his ex-wife Winona Hawkins (Natalie Zea, The Other Guys) as they both work in the same government building as each other.Timothy Olyphant is top notch as US Marshal Raylan Givens. This role suits him right to the ground and without a doubt this is my favourite role of his. He is awesome! The rest of the supporting cast was fantastic as well. I have always liked Walton Goggins from The Shield as corrupt police detective Shane Vendrell and it was great to see Walton Goggins on another series. I always thought Jacob Pitts would always be known for his role in EuroTrip (2004) and I didn't know what would he be like here but I thoroughly enjoyed his role as Deputy Tim Gutterson. I also found Joelle Carter to be an attractive woman and she was a pleasure to watch as Ava Carter.Also featuring throughout the series include a treasure trove of guest stars including M.C. Gainey (Con Air), Jere Burns (Burn Notice), Mykelti Williamson (Forrest Gump), Neal McDonough (Band of Brothers), Margo Martindale (Million Dollar Baby), Jeremy Davies (Saving Private Ryan), Kevin Rankin (White House Down), Adam Arkin (Chicago Hope), Michael Rapaport (Cop Land), Alicia Witt, (Urban Legend), Sam Elliott (Tombstone), Mary Steenburgen (Back to the Future Part III), Stephen Tobolowsky (Groundhog Day), Garret Dillahunt (Deadwood), Jim Beaver (Supernatural), Stephen Root (Office Space), David Andrews (Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines), Matt Craven (Crimson Tide), Ron Eldard (Black Hawk Down), Damon Herriman (Love My Way), Brent Sexton (Life), Demetrius Grosse (Banshee), Patton Oswalt (The King of Queens), Jonathan Tucker (Hostage), Scott Grimes (Band of Brothers), James LeGros (Point Break), and Jeff Fahey (The Lawnmower Man).Well written and addictive, Justified was a winner. It was always a pleasure watching Justified and although it has come to an end, I can take comfort that it did not run out of ideas or go stale.To all the cast and crew of Justified, I say thank you for all your stellar work on an awesome series. It was an absolute pleasure watching Justified. 10/10.


                
I started watching 'Justified' and was immediately hooked. The characters and story are thrilling. There is never a dull moment in the shows 6 seasons. Unlike any other show i never i saw a dip in the show. I kinda hope that amazon/netflix pick this series up. I awarded this 10 out of 10 because it's simply the best series i have watched in a long time. The effects, the dress/make-up and actor/actress choice is really amazing. You get attached to almost every main character, might even cry when you see one of your favorites go. To someone who is looking for a great drama series, I'd offer this one as the best right off the top of my head.


                
I watched Justified from the beginning and absolutely loved it. Graham Yost and his team of writers are clever and intensely driven. I laughed , I cried and I sat on the edge of my seat !! So far, my favorite all time series. I was scared of the finale because I thought everyone would end up dead. It was the best ending for most. I always thought Boyd did his best as a fanatical minister and that's how he ended up. Raylan did the best he could for a restless man and dear Ava will get the healing she needs at Connie's ranch !! Congratulations to the director, the writers and the cast for one fabulous series. I would highly recommend this.


                
I've been watching this show since it premiered several years ago and have to say it's one of my all-time favorite crime dramas. The basis, a story by the late, and genuinely great, Elmore Leonard, has given viewers a terrific group of characters in a setting, Harlan County, KY, that is vastly different to most urban crime stories. For those of you not familiar with Leonard's writing ("Get Shorty" is just one.), the writers have remained true to his sardonic and often dark humor. Raylan Givens and Boyd Crowder are one of the all-time great rivals, wonderfully acted by Tim Oliphant and Walton Goggins. Joelle Carter's portrayal of Ava stands right there with them. Over the years there has been a great variety of characters introduced and intertwined, but the focus of the Raylan vs. Boyd rivalry has never been lost. This show has never gotten the awards' recognition it deserves, perhaps because it was up against "Breaking Bad" for much of its run. This is the final season, with no "Breaking Bad" around, so maybe it will finally get some overdue recognition. Definitely one that will be missed.


                
