Justified is well acted, has great characters and interesting stories. My only complaint concerns some of the writing. When it comes to dialogue between characters, the writing is always superb. But there are just too many coincidences that effect the outcome of the plots. Too many times when someone shows up just in time or when warring parties just happen to show up at the same time and place. And Raylan is frequently put in what appears to be a deadly situation with no way out only to have the situation resolved in minutes if not seconds. These things occur in nearly every episode, so the repetition becomes tiresome. But if you're willing to suspend belief, Justified is fun and entertaining.


                
I have been a justified fan from the start. I've watched the confidence and cockiness of Sheriff Givens grow, and Boyd Crowder go from bad, to good, back to bad again! The acting ability of Walton Goggins is AMAZING. While Justified was on hiatus, Walton moseyed on over to Sons of Anarchy for a roll you have to see to believe! Tonight Justified began it's new season. It was no surprise that Timothy Olyphant is now one of the shows producers! The content of the show seems to have always revolved around drugs & money, and it appears to be no different with this season. While I understand the need to keep viewers interested, the violence, in my opinion, has really increased, or at least gotten more graphic. I love action adventure programs/movies, but I think you can get the point across without quite so much visual gore.I do miss the character of Mags, she too is an incredible actor.I am glad this show has been renewed. There is not many programs that have a sheriff with a cowboy hat! Living in Texas, it's much appreciated :-) I hope to see more of a triangle between Raylan, Boyd and Ava, and also the continuance in the relationship of Raylan,his ex-wife and baby! Makes him more "human".
Timothy Olyphant's character Marshall Raylan is forced to return to his home Kentucky, where his ex-wife, his criminal father, among some other colorful characters of his past resides. This is show very episode to episode, with a job for the Marshall every other day. Most of it involves his childhood friend (who also played Shane in The Shield).There are a lot of recycled FX actors in this show but it still doesn't lose to the fun of all of their chemistry. I'm not inherently interested in this show, but it does have its misgivings. It's like the Bones and House of FX, but with the quality of plot and writing that FX is known for.Not going to lie, Timothy Olyphant is the only man that can pull off a cowboy hat with denim shirt. At angles (and also shirtless) he looks like younger Billy Bob Thornton, which is a good thing. This is show for those that enjoy crime dramas and Timothy Olyphant monologues, I say you are in for a treat.


                
On the plus side, we have a bona-fide Western, centered around an easy-on-the-eyes cast with some remarkable redneck (and other) villains, loads of zingers a la Elmore Leonard, and some solid plot twists. The Kentucky and other dialects are a marvel, and the female villains consistently interesting. On the downside, there are zillions of plot holes, loads of hanging threads, and an awful lot of interesting but undeveloped ideas. They seem to have written this season-to-season without a long-term plan. Upshot: loads of fun, but miles from, say, Breaking bad.
Overall I consider this show quite enjoyable. It is strongly character-driven. The plot lines can seem to meander and plod along slowly at times; you can sometimes tell when a conclusive moment is approaching but it often seems to play out in slow motion, but there can be twists and surprises along the way. While obviously comprised of good guys and bad guys, I was actually relieved that the character of Arlo died. I found him irritating to watch and listen to, finally, thank you writers - that was "justified"! Now I'm looking forward to the character of Duffy meeting his end somehow, please.I find the addition of Patton Oswald's character, driving a 70's AMC Gremlin, a little odd. "Barney Fife" has been done, and can't be improved on. And the car is old enough to have become a collectable, a more suitable beater would be a '98 Dodge Neon or similar, they are just as funny-looking.Character portrayal was stereotypically over the top in the episode featuring the "hill people". That sequence seemed almost a rip-off of Li'l Abner.But my biggest beef is simply scenery, southern California does not look anything like Kentucky, like so many others have said here.But, I still generally find the show entertaining and will continue to watch.
