I thoroughly enjoyed this movie inspite of seeing the Japanese movie not the novel. Ajay was brilliant. He got into the skin of the character. He looked like an ordinary guy. He lost all his muscles. Even the kind of shirts he wore with full sleeves did justice to the role. Tabu acted well too. I think she should settle down as she was looking old. The movie is something very different from your regular Bollywood trash. I have seen many Korean, Japanese, French, Hollywood thrillers. And drishyam was a good drama/ thriller too. I am *uckin' fed up with majority Bollywood stars and movies. Even if the script doesn't require, the hero is showing off abs and dancing skills. Majority of 'em is filled with vulgar item songs which is getting monotonous. People who enjoy thrillers should check out the treatment, confessions of a murder, bereavement and malevolence, marshland, poker night, 13 sins, the secret in their eyes, the shrine, freeway killer, ittefaq (borrowed from signposts to murder ), adam green's spiral and frozen, the keeper of lost causes, cell 211. People who expect item songs, hero bashing goons ala matrix style action, hero showing dancing skills, hero flaunting abs, the same *uckin' monotonous Bollywood obnoxious films should be with care before watching this film.


                
As everyone is aware it is a remake and the movies made before are exceptional. So, definitely the expectations would be high at least by the people who have seen it.The movie is super entertaining and comes off as a new genre. The first half gives you a beautiful picture about the characters, how they are simple, funny, trying to meet ends and commoner. Just before the interval you get a glimpse of the story and how it is going to screw everything up.Second half is just an intellectual battle between Tabu and Ajay. How they try to out do one another. The climax is brilliant.Ajay makes up for the time he was away from serious movies and excels scene by scene, Shriya is gorgeous and does well too. Tabu is menacing and yet a mother aptly supported by Rajat. Its a must watch!!!!!


                
What are the necessary requirements for making a good movie? I guess strong acting, realistic judgments made by characters, complementary music and tight pacing are essential elements in achieving this. In all these departments, Drishyam stands head and shoulders over every other Bollywood movie that has come out in this year. Even though it is a remake of a Malyalam movie, there is no loss of quality and it delivered emphatically.The essence of the movie is that due to some unexpected turn of events, a normal middle-class family gets itself involved in the missing case of the son of Senior Police Officers. As they never intended to do anything wrong, they decide to forge a story to dupe the police and save themselves.Ajay Devgan and Tabu are the two established actors in this movie, and both of them prove their mettle. It is a welcome change for Ajay Devgan as he has made one bad movie after another despite possessing great acting talent. He plays Vijay who runs a cable TV network and leads a modest life that revolves around his family. Tabu, on the other hand plays the IG officer who is the mother of her missing son. She once again proved that she is the finest actress in Bollywood with a menacing, layered performance that will leave people spellbound.Drishyam is a suspense movie and the director does well to include several trademark techniques that are used in such movies. The slow- zoom, slick editing and the tense background score all add another dimension to the well-written thriller. The movie explores several elements of Indian life such as the rampant corruption of police officers, unyielding devotion to family, and the longing for revenge. Drishyam is a well-made movie that deserves wide recognition for its achievement in making something that everyone can relate with. All the actions that the characters made were justifiable and any other person in that situation would have done the same. I have not revealed much about the movie in this review because you have to see it to understand the power of this movie.


                
DRISHYAM:: Meaning by it-'seeing is believing', a wonderful crime cum family drama cum thriller; so spine chilling keeping you adherent to the chair totally not relaxed, we feel that as if we are the part of the disturbed family. Great involving director, great story, told so nicely, very very interesting, superb editing and wonderful role played by the total cast. Ajay Devgn after long time in so balanced underacting(Totally not Singham type);but a most responsible struggling hard-worker family man, who is ready to anything for his family. Shreya Saran; who is most glamorous heroine from South( remember Shivaji- the boss-Rajnikanth-Shankar?) has done role of typical Indian housewife.Tanu is role of brutal and tough cop and her husband; who is a big businessman-role played by total underacting and balanced work by our marvelous actor RajatKapoor- all steal the show. We have shortage of such spine chilling suspense crime thrillers in Bollywood as last was 'Wednesday'. In Hollywood Alfred Hichckok has given so many spine-chilling thrillers and I do recollect Edward Fox's 'The day of the jackal' and Bruce Willis+Rachard Gere in 'Jackal .'The executive decision'- was also such spine chilling thriller and we do recollect 'Taken-1,2,3,' and 'Unknown etc. The year 2015 has been so luck for the cinema viewers that we have received so marvelous and wonderful movies throughout the year and this is one of them. A great family drama cum thriller cum suspense movie cum crime movie, filled the stuff of police brutality, innocent child acting, burning problems faced regularly by the teenager daughter and their parents-we are reading of news papers and seeing in all medias-mms scandal, blackmailing, etc. This movie tackles so many our social problems in so nice way to digest easily and provoke the thoughts and succeeds to win the sympathy of the audience.10 star or more. A must watch family drama cum thriller cum spine-chilling suspense movie. Very brilliant movie. For me its better than The Shawshank Redemption


                
worth watch... family is what we all have.. the movie really show how one can do anything to save one family.. starting to end movie is great ...how a man who is 4 class fail done things that amaze you every time differently... great movie.. straight..no filmy drama just genuine story with real concept... great one... :) movie describe how a middle class family have small events of happiness.. how one man do anything to see a smile on his wife face.. and kids... also how he try to save money :P visuals of the movie is great... direction by director done is a ways its seem like more close to reality... songs of the movie are very soothing and heart touching... the little girl acting is too great for her age.. she is very bold in the movie and done a great role... Ajay Devgan acting is very strong in this movie.. he done so many comedy movies but the seriousness he shows in this film is great and different... Halla boll, Gangajal , Aakrosh.. he done so many great serious role movie but every time he is different in his acting.. Shriya Sharan done great...her acting is worth for her role.. genuine.. Drishyam give a message to young generation.. that message you know once you watch the movie... families destroyed because of that mistake.. must watch


                
Where do I start? I am speechless literally; when the movie started I thought in first 10-15 minutes, that it was just another Ajay Devgan flick with Police & Stuff. As later on the story took a 180 turn and started escalation from interesting to the whole new level of awesomeness and interest. I don't care if its a copied version of some movie or not, but hats off to the writer/screen writer! Acting was top notch from all characters, not even a single one, whether a big famous actor, or side roll; small time actors; everyone acted to the nearest of perfection. My best movie so far, story wise. Literally it blew off 3 Idiots, PK, Bajrangi etc. from my top lists A must watch...


                
Its definitely a golden period for Indian cinema as they are producing some great back to back movies... now Dhrishyam its been made in multiple languages before...n no surprise the reason is surely the script that's d reason the stars are not promoting this movie... So hats off to the person behind the story...He is the main Hero...!! Talking about the stars:- Ajay is fabulous in the role n I'm happy to see him doing such movies as i was very much disappointed by Action Jackson(It was one of his worst movie after Himmatwala), Tabbu n Shreya has done their part well n in fact everyone in the movie acted so well(including the little girl) that u will feel that everything is happening in real...special mention to Kamlesh Sawant(Inspector Gaitonde) he has done a great job...he was one of the main reason movie looked so interesting...!! Its the best thriller movie i have watched in bollywood... Its a flawless movie n its nearly impossible to find any mistake in this one... Great direction..! Please Bollywood come with some more movies like this one... Watch it for one the best engaging screenplay, powerful script, great direction n brilliant performances...!! ****A MUST WATCH ****
I usually don't watch Hindi Bollywood movies, but this is one of the best movie i have ever watched. I would recommend everyone to watch it on first priority.It is Ajay Devgan's master piece. Good acting by Tabu and Ishita as Anu.We must appreciate the director of this movie. Job Well done.


                
First the Acting. The Actors did terrific acting that lifted my mood. Without good acting movie viewing is not pleasurable. Secondly the music. The music adds spice to the movie. It takes your mind inside the movie. You feel like you are a part of the movie. Thirdly the direction. The director narrated the movie in such a way that I did not even took a pee break during the interval. The direction made the film interesting. And finally and most importantly, THE STORY. The story is awesome. The story is the soul of every film. If the story is bad, nothing can save a film. It will surely die. This film's story is brilliant. It stays strong in the first half and also in the second half. The unexpected and surprising climax stole the show. Finally only one thing to say. "Outsanding"


                
Discaimer: everything written below in praise of the film should also apply to the original South Indian (from 2013) that this one is a copy of, or perhaps even more for having come up with such a masterpiece.Yes, it's a masterpiece and mind-blowing concept and it goes down as one of the most entertaining films that I have ever watched. Not only does it keep you on your toes throughout but it makes you chew your nails in between. A thriller of the highest quality! This could be India's answer to 'Gone Girl' (2014), or even better I would say.One important point was to make the public side with the hero and his family and to sort of create an understanding for everything that he had done. This of course wouldn't have been possible if they had shown it as just some deliberate murder, or had shown a completely innocent guy being murdered. So that was quite smart.This film is all about self-confidence, trust in one's ability and about sticking to your decision come what may. I have gone through something somewhat similar to this in my life a few years ago, although I wasn't the one accused and neither was I on the wrong side - even more similarly to this film, perhaps no one was entirely on the wrong side - and add one more similarity, the only person on the wrong side had not intended for things to escalate to this much as that person was on the play trying to achieve some other goal. It's amazingly mind-blowing seeing the similarities! A bit sad that I can't elaborate much on the story to explain how similar things were, from character to character! Not to imply that I am as smart as the hero was, but I have one stunningly striking similarity from my very life with this film, and something that my friends often find hard to believe. To come to the point, all my English is based on what I had started from news channel and the commentary of cricket matches, then to the Internet and hence the articles etc. read online. Add to this learning very good, pure Hindi from online dictionaries and Urdu from reading the news-slide on Pakistani news channels. Add to this I am a complete film freak! Alone in July I have watched 23 films! So quite a few similarities there.
Yes, this is the real psychological thriller. No, this is not a slasher type or a haunted horror movie, but definitely will thrill out to the spine. . The story is simple, looks modest, not visually fancy, but it's a mind-blowing! Every part is at its portion. Not too much, yet not less. But brilliant acting with an outstanding directing of all. Each character has a strong solid performance. Every scene is very well-delivered. Even though the first quarter is to build and introduce the character, but it's done perfectly smooth. I didn't even realize it. And then the story goes. . As when the problem occurs, the audience can feel the pressure, the tense, the stress. It is so realistic so you can see how it feels so relatable. And i can feel my heart throbbing at some scenes, wishing for nothing bad happens. Just when i think what the story will be, it's twisted. The more i'm guessing, the more i'm wrong. . People say it is one of the best Bollywood movie, and i can't agree more. Definitely the best, indeed. A lifetime masterpiece. This movie deserves a wide acknowledgment to all over the globe. This is a hidden gem. And i'm really very late watching x))Spoiler : if you expect some dancing or singing like common Hindi movies, you won't see it here. Ah, and i really love the way the main role create such a deceptive reality into people's mind.A. Must. Watch.
Considering it as a thriller genre, it is worth of giving 10 stars. Story is gripping and performances by everyone are stunning.Gaytonde delivered his best which makes all angry at their seats and feel of slapping, beating him. Ajay Devgan also suited for the role as calm, sharp till innocent Vijay./ I am sure that watcher will be spell bound till the credit scene comes. About direction, NIhsikant Kamat delivered his best for what any thriller movie needs. Suspense is open as well as suspense is a maintained as a suspense till last second. That is the achievement of director. Best scene of art direction is when police come for first time to Vijay and his daughter was about to face them. last moment Vijay (protecting father, this is shown excellently that is what expected from every father for his daughter) comes in between of policeman and Anju. He talks to police hiding his daughter while she continues to cry. This was the best scene of movie.


                
only few movies are there which can show you that what is a life of common man and what is the story that can be build around him and his dedication to family.talking about story base. when you will leave the theater you will certainly appraise yourself saying yes you watched a movie .and thanks to the acting of all the characters. they had given full justification to the roles they had played.yes you have to wait and watch the story to build as you know real man story cannot be build from starting , enjoy the base and then let rest part to be done by movie itself.


                
Ajay Devgn once again proves that why is he the most intense actor of Bollywood. Drishyam is a well made remake of the original version. The makers just got it right. Early morning I went through certain reviews (the one mentioned by Rediff calling it as an ordinary film), by no means it is an ordinary film. It is an exceptional work brilliantly performed by Ajay Devgn and Tabu. Critics can rate it negatively but this film will certainly entertain you. The film starts on a slow note but picks up pace rapidly. The thrill will keep you on the edge of seat. Those who have seen the original version of Sir Mohanlal will also enjoy watching this remake. Ajay Devgn as a family man is tough and hard. Tabu has done full justice to her role. This movie is going to be your perfect watch for this weekend.


                
one hell of a movie u cant match Tabu and specially Ajay in their acting skill. With a great story the acting is very good. Ajay Devgn is simply the best in such role..and he can out class anyone when it comes to such type of role. Tabu at its best..other actors did the acting pretty well its a must watch film and a sure shot winner. After Baby Piku Tanu weds Manu and Bajrangi Bhaijaan now comes Drishyam...i have not watched the Malyalam Drishyam but this movie cannot be compared with other remakes...and i seriously don't have worlds to express my view on this movie as it is a class movie and a family drama movie with one of the best script and actors.


                
Not the Highest Grossing Movie. But Story is Great. It's Better than Grossing.


                
When it comes to Action and contains Top class Story THIS IS THE MOVIE THAT YOU LOOKING FOR. You can sit with your family or friends, doesn't matter its getting more and more interested in minute by minute. This is not usual and typical Indian movie. Its comes with nowadays Young tragedy. You can argue all the day what's wrong or write IN THE END FAMILY COMES FIRST.


                
The movie rocks.It has many twists and turns.Ihave really enjoyed this movie and this movie keeps me at the edge of the seat from start till end.The story is superb and the suspense is terrrific and mastermind.The direction is good by Nishikant kamat.The screenplay was good.The by editing is nice.The acting was simply superb and outstanding from Ajay Devgan.He really get into the character and acted and behave like a ordinary guy.Tabu acted well.The Dialouges were good.It's like the shawshank redemption of bollywood.Bollywood should make more movies like this.Overall the movies is a must watch.And it will be a blockbuster.My opinion watch this movie to enjoy your weekend.Your will definitely like this.


                
A well made thriller, worth your time . Cast, direction and cinematographer and director have done a great job. After seeing this movie, I would like to see the original Malayalam version. Good acting by Tabu, Devgan and Sriya. Hope we have more well made movies in this genre. Good plot, keeps the audience guessing and a nice climax.


                
What a movie! This is one of the finest bollywood movies ever. This is not like a boring, baseless, crap, without story Hindi movie. This movie is a complete package of drama, thrill and entertainment. The story is awesome. I usually get this level of excitement in Hollywood movies but this movie exceeds all expectations. The way Ajay Devgan performed his role is spectacular. Whoever reading this review must go and watch this movie. There is total thrill till the end. Tabu and Rajat Kapoor also performed good role. But all hail to AJay Devgan. The concept is very good that how 4th std fail Ajay shook the entire police system only with his intelligence. Go and watch this movie now.


                
No spoilers.. I never wrote reviews for any movie, but after watching this flick, I am just out of my mind !! Just one word.. Brilliant . The starting is quite stretched out but you can forgive all mistakes in this. It is the most thrilling movie I have seen till date. During the film I was so excited that I wanted this movie to finish and yell : 'just tell us whats the end is !!!' And the ending is phenomenal. You cant predict the ending at all. I don't know exact writer but sir you are excellent. The entire cast is also fantastic. The little girl acted very well too. Go and Watch this one.. this is the movie which mustn't miss by movie buffs.


                
In an era of superhero blockbusters Drishyam gives us a breath of fresh air. The main charecter is not all muscular good guy beating the bad guys. This movie presents us with a loving father, a middle class man who makes the best of efforts to defy political power by using just his mind. Ajay Devgn gives a real "pater familia" performance and in my humble opinion the Jeethu Joseph's script is to remain a classic not only for Indian cinema but cinema as a whole. You know you are waching a master piece when the play of less than 4 actors can give you goose bumps, and when weeks after seeing the movie you still ask yourself questions of the type "who was really guilty".


                
A great movie with mindblowing Twists.
Every moment is very good.A must watch film.


                
Drishyam is one of those movies which have thrill suspense everything. If you are big fan of thrill movies you must watch it.


                
You won't regret at all after seeing this movie. Watch it, and thank me later:)


                
