Drishyam is a Hindi remake of a Tamil monster blockbuster. I have not seen the latter so I can't make the comparison (but I have just found out that the Tamil movie with English subtitles is on YouTube ... Yeah!).Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay Devgn) runs a cable TV network in a remote and hilly village of Goa. He lives a happy life with his wife Nandini and two daughters. A 4th grade dropout & an orphan, Vijay has worked his way towards success with his sheer hard-work & street smartness in order to provide for his family who mean the world to him. A man of few means & needs; Vijay believes life is to be lived simplistically - his wife, while she loves him devoutly, wants Vijay's thrifty & miserly behavior to end and wants the world for her family. If there's one thing that Vijay cannot live without, it is his passion for watching films. Such is his 'filmy' obsession that he doesn't mind staying up all night at his office binging on TV movies! In a bizarre turn of events; a teenage boy goes missing; he is the son of a headstrong & no-nonsense cop; IG Meera Deshmukh (Tabu) and the Salgaonkar family is the prime suspect! Will a humble & middle class man, be able to protect his family from oppression of the powerful? How the family weathers the storm that ensues during the violent investigation forms the rest of the story leading to an unexpected & shocking climax.Drishyam is a riveting entertainer. The first half lays the foundation for a rip-roaring second half and it didn't disappoint. The cast is great with Ajay Devgn leading the ultimate "how to get away with murder" plot line. We are treated to his ultimate foe in Tabu who has the killer look to match her crime brain. Elsewhere, I really enjoy watching Rajat Kapoor who plays Tabu's husband. His character moves in brilliant counterpoint to Tabu's relentless pursuit for the answer. Love the superb cat and mouse games and how the tables keep turning till we were tearing our hair off, but everything hits the groove and reaches a satisfying climax.Drishyam could have been a classic but several creative choices baffled me. The humour in the first half feels laboured and forced. How it paints the family of four is too obvious to me. But thankfully I love watching Vijay who is a character after my heart. He loves watching action movies, law and crime dramas, and the accumulated wealth of knowledge help lay the path of deceit and red herrings for the police. He is a character that is very easy to root for. Tabu also puts in a superb shift and it is easy to believe in her smarts, but it is her cold cruelty that puts a shiver in my heart. Overall, I find the writing couldn't match up with the characters and story, and it felt very "by the numbers" rudimentary to me. In more capable hands the shades of the characters would have been more layered and the theme of wrong versus wronged shining forth. Fans of the Japanese film Suspect X will find this quite familiar but thankfully with a good mixing up of elements and locale. As it is, it comes off just as a solid piece of entertainment than superb character studies.


                
Intelligent suspense with fine acting about a family living in a small town bullied by a corrupt policeman. When the ladies of the family are threatened and take measures, the father defends his family in a cat and mouse game with the police. No bombs and guns but lots of suspense, twists and good acting. If you like the suspense of Hitchcock than don't forget to take your time and enjoy this Indian movie.


                
Vijay Salgaonkar is a 4th grade dropout. He owns a small shop running cable TV in the neighborhood and spends most days watching TV. Using his TV knowledge, he helps an elderly couple get their son out of jail from a corrupt system where a crooked cop extorts from the locals. He's a father-knows-best at home. When creepy Sam threatens his daughter Anju with a peeping Tom video, Anju and his wife Nandini inadvertently kills him. Vijay sets off to hide the crime against Sam's unrelenting, ruthless police chief mother.I wasn't sure what this movie was going for at first. There is a bit of light tones which confused me a little. The first act needs to be tighter and darker. This does turn much darker with a hint of The Usual Suspects. The dates concerned me a little but the movie throws it a very nice reveal. The other concern is Sam's mother. She's definitely not a simple villain although a much darker villain may be better. I appreciate seeing both sides of the crime but it does make for a more complex narrative. I can see this being remade into a dark, stripped-down noir.


                
Undoubtedly, This movie is one of the greatest movies in Indian Cinema a as far as Thriller/Mystery genre is concerned. but i don't know whether my sixth sense was on at the time of watching the movie cause 80% of the suspense was predictable and the guesses i made 20-25 sec getting right(i'm not a criminal lol) except of the last scene where Ajay Devgn reveals the dead body was disposed in the police station itself(provided that i have not seen the Malayalam Drishyam nor even the trailer of this movie) and it truly gives a "thrill" factor. A 7.5/10 script with a 7/10 acting and a 9 for the execution of the script. Amazing work by Nishikant Kamat. A must watch film. You will definitely enjoy it.
I loved the movie ofcorse. One of the best I have seen this year after Bahubali.But I think while the story gets full stars, not everyone in the cast is able to do justice to the role. Tabu has one of the main roles in the story and her looks match too. But one needs a strong voice and personality for the character. For example Rani Mukherjee or Sridevi kind of actress would have been much better than Tabu imho. The best acting was done by the bad cop Gaytonde. Absolutely brings alive the character. Second best was the little girl. Loved the movie. Acting could have been better though.


                
Visuals can be deceptive, don't always believe what you see because you can be easily manipulated, is what a film like Drishyam preaches. For me the one negative i took into watching this remake is that I saw the original Malayalam version with subs about a year and half back ago(this of course not knowing it will be made in Hindi). So when compared to original even though its a scene by scene copy, it just doesn't have all the sheen of the original, but nevertheless with such a strong story like Drishyam you cant go really wrong. Because for the people who haven't seen the original this film could be a genre changing film, a suspense thriller that has not been seen on the Hindi screen celluloid. Its simply breathtaking.The films story is about a 4th grade drop out who is now married, has two girls, one who is in her late teens, the other is about 5-6 years old.The 4th grade drop out Vijay owns a local cable company, and all he does all day is watch movies. For him his family is everything. Then all of sudden tragedy strikes,while at a school camp a fellow student of his daughter makes a video of his daughter while taking a shower. The male who makes the video then tries to blackmail his daughter with the video for sex. In all this ruckus when the boy confronts Vijay's daughter, he is accidentally killed by his daughter, and wife. What follows next is what forms the films crux. The rest is for you to find out.Acting wise the film was throughly refreshing, seeing Ajay Devgn do a serious role, and not his usual buffoonery seen in films like AJ and SOS. He played the common man role superbly. Shriya Saran looked beautiful and was first rate. Rajat Kapoor was good. But it is Tabu who steals the show, as a strict cop and a mother, she is fire on screen.Drishyam is a film in which you know who committed the murder, but the suspense lies in how the murder is covered up so smartly by a so called 4th grade drop out. The master plan will leave you speechless.Overall i was at a disadvantage because i had seen the original Drishyam that left me in awe, and this film is a 100% copy but just in a different language, and that is probably a good thing because the film didn't need any change. A enjoyable watch for me, but for a 1st time watcher you will be left in with your pounding heart, and a smile on your face at the end of the film. A genre changing film. A must watch if you haven't seen the original. Finally I just have one question, who far can you go to protect your family...3.5/5* or 7/10
A remake of the Malayalam film of the same name, 'Drishyam' is A True Thriller, that thrills & engrosses you. While the narrative warms up in the first-hour, its the second-hour that takes this thriller to dizzy heights. Director Nishikant Kamat & Lead-Actor Ajay Devgn, deliver a tale thats truly interesting.'Drishyam' Synopsis: Desperate measures are taken by a man who tries to save his family from the dark side of the law, after they commit an unexpected crime.'Drishyam' is about a family's fight after an unexpected crime is committed & the series of twist & turns that follow. However, 'Drishyam' isn't full-proof. The first-hour is relatively slow-paced & although its never boring, the story doesn't really move. Its the second-hour that does wonders. I strongly feel if the first-hour was crisper & stronger, the overall impact would've enhanced even more. Upendra Sidhaye's Adapted Screenplay is genuinely engaging & engrossing, especially in its winning second-hour, that also offers a fabulous culmination. How one wishes if the first-hour was more on the point & crisper. Nishikant Kamat's Direction is skilled. He has handled the film well. Cinematography is stark. Editing is decent. Vishal Bhardwaj's Score is perfect. Performance-Wise: Ajay Devgn shines in the central role. He truly convinces you as the man who'd do anything to protect his family. Tabu is impressive, yet again. As the tough cop in search of her missing child, the supremely talented actress ignites the screen with her strong presence. Shriya Saran is flat. Rajat Kapoor is first-rate. Ishita Dutta is very sincere. Kamlesh Sawant is excellent. Prathamesh Parab is decent. On the whole, 'Drishyam' works! It may not be perfect, but it still has enough merit to earn itself a viewing. Watch it!


                
the movie is very very good till first 2 hours, after that its very hard to watch. why can't they hire a simple lawyer when police is torturing, beating them without any proof is the part I am not able to understand. other then that, the 1st two hours is really good, but ending is terrible.the movie is very very good till first 2 hours, after that its very hard to watch. why can't they hire a simple lawyer when police is torturing, beating them without any proof is the part I am not able to understand. other then that, the 1st two hours is really good, but ending is terrible.the movie is very very good till first 2 hours, after that its very hard to watch. why can't they hire a simple lawyer when police is torturing, beating them without any proof is the part I am not able to understand. other then that, the 1st two hours is really good, but ending is terrible.


                
"Drishyam" as I've read is a remake of a south Indian film. Story-wise it's a physiological thriller where a fourth grade fail husband is shown to protect his wife and daughters from police for the murder they've committed for their self defense. The hero, though is illiterate, is very smart and his smartness is credited for the endless time he spends watching movies, especially the crime thrillers due to which he is able to save his family until the very end. His smartness is coupled by his patience, courage and affection for his family.The specialty of the film is its story which grips you to the very end due to the suspense it delivers. It looks much like a Sherlock Holmes tale with the last minute irony. The deft direction and performances are enough to hold you to the edge of the seat. Had the length been trimmed and script offered tautness, it would have been better. Anyway, still the film is remarkable for its interesting and unpredictable story.Rating: 3 stars out of 4


                
One particular area where bollywood films had lagged, is the lack of serious and purposeful movies. But Drisham has put an end to this and has compensated the gap sufficiently. Nishikant Kamat (Director) deserves applauds for his direction abilities, story formulation and characterization. The movie is a combo of mystery, thrill, suspense and intelligence. The plot revolves around Vijay (Ajay Devgan) and his small happy family who runs a cable TV business and enjoys a good reputation in his area. Anju (Ishita Dutt) is Vijay's daughter who goes on a school trip where she is harassed by a boy (Tabu's son). The boy manages to record a mobile clip of Anju while she is bathing and blackmails her to fulfill his sexual desires. When he reaches at the spot, he finds Anju's mother Nandini (Shriya Saran) at the RV alongside her. Nandini pledges and begs him to leave them in peace for the sake of God but in vain rather he insists Nandini instead to fulfill his sexual desire. In the meanwhile, Anju picks up a rod and hit him on the head which results in boy's death at the spot. Frightened, upset and shocked from the sudden tragic incident, Anju and Nandini bury him in the courtyard lawn. Next day, Vijay returns home and finds about the incident. Now Vijay decides to save his family from police and the court while repairing the psychological damage in the meanwhile. Vijay is a movie-holic who spends most of the time watching Hollywood and Bollywood films. Keeping his movies experience, situations and plots in mind, he makes a fool-proof plan to avert the danger. Here enters Mera Deshmuk (Tabu) in the plot who turns out to be the Commissioner of Police as well as the mother of the murdered boy. Investigation starts but no clue comes in police hands until inspector Gaitonde (Kamlesh Sawant) informs police that he has seen Vijay driving decreased's car few days ago as he finds in it an opportunity to level personal scores with Vijay because he denies to pay him illegal money just for the sake of being a police official. This opens up a new Pandora Box of suspicions, illusions and perceptions but Vijay trains his family intelligently and skillfully that how they will react to all the possible situations utilizing his movies experience. He goes on a 3 day family trip to outskirts and maintains record of all receipts but not for the actual dates rather for 3 days preceding the actual date. When police inquires him and his family, he responds that he was not present in the area on the suspected dates and shows them the record of receipts. Police tries hard but could not find any clue which frustrates Mera and she decides to torture the family in front of themselves. Ultimately the little daughter of Vijay confesses and tells police that the dead body is buried in the courtyard lawn of her house. When police digs the place, they instead find a dead dog stinking badly and that was the master trick played by Vijay as he knew that one day police will penetrate through her family and will come to this spot. Taking advantage of the situation, Vijay informs the media nd public gathered at the spot that its the conspiracy of Mera and Gaitonde to involve his family in the alleged murder and they have even tortured his 6 year old daughter for confession. The police is beaten up by the angry mob and Vijay is liberated from the charges. But where goes the actual dead body remains a mystery till the end and Vijay does not tell anyone of the reality as it is buried under the area Police Station. The whole plot is embodied with twisty, thrilling and sensational schemes and makes you sit at the edge of your seats while watching this movie. The credit goes to the intelligent director who has kept his characters under control and made the happenings the way he wanted. Ajay Devgan has impressed with his acting abilities and showed maturity in his performance. The supporting cast also did fair justice to their assigned roles. Tabu has not been utilized to her full potential and there is hardly a one to one scene between Ajay and Tabu. Music of the film is routine alike and cinematography is even ordinary. The highlights of the movie are its story, dialogs, acting and above all the direction. Its a recommended movie for family audience and a message for children to respect and trust their parents because they can go to infinite limits to protect and safe them


                
Drishyam remake of the same name in Malayalam is faithful to its original version. People who have watched the Malayalam version may get disappointed but the viewers who have not watched the original version will definitely enjoy it. The Malayalam version is definitely superior compared to the Hindi Version. But the actor who portrayed the role of Inspector Gaitonde was superior in terms of acting as compared to the original version. It is good to see Ajay Devgn act in such a good role after long time. This is best movie and performance since Singham and the viewers will definitely such roles from him in future as well. Tabu was effective in the role of IG. Shriya complimented Ajay well in the role of a faithful wife. Ishita Dutta portrayed the role of Ajay Devgn daughter's faithfully.Overall, the film is a must watch for people who want respite from mindless masala movies. It may not rake money at the box office. But it is a must watch for those who have not seen the original.


                
