Just came back from the Premier Screening of Drishyam. The reason for me to catch the movie was the reviews of the original Drishyam which is a Malyalam movie with Mohanlal as the lead actor. The trailers of this Hindi remake with powerful existence of Ajay Devgan (or Devgn, as he writes it now) and Tabu, motivated me to go for this movie after a tiring Thursday in office, (mentioning the tiring day as disappointment was the last this I was willing to accept after the day, Glad I chose this movie). So the movie starts with a small happy family of Vishal Salgaonkar which is living happily in the ever happy town of Goa, there family was disrupted because of an unwanted person entering into their lives who happens to be the son of the Inspector general of Goa, Meera Deshmukh, then an accident happens which changes the life of this family for ever. The way this 4th grade failed person (Vishal) plays with the police department is commendable. So the movie is about how actually Vishal safeguard his family and himself against powerful Meera and her Police Department.My special suggestion is to have patience and sit for the first half of the movie as nothing much will happen but the story will be built up. After the interval when you come back with that tub of popcorn, its then the real investigation and the never ending plot of Vishal to safeguard his family starts, the proceedings will sometimes give you goose bumps and at times you will expect something to happen which will not happen and hence the tag line of the move "Visuals Can Be Deceptive" The Camera work of the movie is good. it features some of the beautiful locations of Goa (I am not sure if all of that was Goa) The acting done by the whole Salgaonkar family is superb along with Tabu's never disappointing appearance in front of the camera. The movie has limited songs, Two, actually, if I remember correctly, but both the tracks are good and perfectly goes with the situation. The side characters in the movie are also done by good actors and so they mix in the screenplay very meticulously. Overall, Its 100% worth a watch on this weekend, so go ahead book your tickets and go for it, I am sure you wont be disappointed, specially people who like Ajay Devgn on screen should go for this movie for sure.


                
Drishyam- Less are the cases present in any film industry where a film is made with brilliant piece of writing (By Jeethu Joshep in case of this movie)and every other thing just revolve around it. Drishyam was one of those cases. One thing i would like to clear before you watch the movie is that this is not a suspense movie. It has been wrongly promoted same as happened in case of Aamir Khan's TALAASH. But yes its a part family movie and a part thriller. From the very start culprit will be in front of your eyes , but its hard to prove. Its all about how deep the truth has been dumped and how difficult its gonna be dig it out. To say about the plot will ruin the movie. Like the trailer shows Vijay(Ajay) is a very good man , with a golden heart , but somehow his family is being caught by the police to prove that they have kidnapped the son of Meera Deshmukh (Tabu) a cop. After that starts a thrilling ride in which Meera want evidence to prove Vijay and his family guilty , and Vijay will do anything to save his family as he say - "EK INSAAN KE LIYE USKI FAMILY HI SABKUCH HOTI HEI AUR UNHE BACHANE KE LIYE WO KISI BHI HADD TAK JA SAKTA HEI". The character of Vijay literally lived up to this quote of himself . But the movies seeks for your patience . The first half up to the crime happens was a little too stretchy. Length of 2hr and 43min for a thriller is too long. Some editing was needed on the first half. Although i personally didn't find anything boring , as it was good with light moments , making base for title characters , some good humour and a nicely picturized song CARBON COPY. Still its true that some editing could have made it better. Its like a tasty cake has been made but the Cherry was missing. But wait , the cherry has been provided by the 2nd half. For me which compensate all the minor errors of first half. You couldn't imagine how the writer has managed to write such a plot with so much details of investigation and specially the interrogations. This movie has some of the best interrogation scenes which Bollywood haven't shown us till now. Nishikant Kamat is one hell of a director. His land marks includes 1. making movies in 3 languages 2. have directed the highest grossing Marathi film. 3. Is very good with remakes - first FORCE and now this one. 4. Lastly he can dig out acting out of John Abraham. And any director who can make John Abraham act , is a great director for me. Nisikant truly amazes me with showing how good he can control intense scenes. Ajay Devgan shines again in a serious role. He brings all the seriousness to the character and also provide some comic moments on the first half. The character he played has made some decisions with ethical difficulties , which could be right from someone's eyes and can also be wrong in someone else's view. Vijay makes us believe that his decisions were right for the situation and any person would have done such things for safe guarding his family. About Tabu , she is one of the greatest actress Bollywood have. She doesn't have any comparison . Only rivalry she had or have or will have is she herself. As cop she was tough , and you cant imagine how tough she was. You have to watch it to know how she mixes up her emotions of being the mother of the victim with the emotions of a tough cop who is investigating the same case. About Shreya Saran , i love her smile. And i missed that smile since i had seen her in Awarapan. Although she didn't get much of the meaty role but she was decent as Ajay's wife. Same goes for Rajat Kapoor as Tabu's husband. Some unique cinematography has been done , as the movie shows Goa not from a tourist point of view but from a resident's point of view. Vishal Bhardawaj as music director was OK as he doesn't get much chance to impose good songs in the movie but the background score by Sameer Phatarpekar was brilliant. Yes i have to cut some marks for a stretchy first half , but m going with 7.7/10 which is not bad at all. The thing i said for PIKU i would like to repeat for this is that there exist no reasons why should anyone not watch this movie except in case you have seen the original one. Just one request , DON'T EXPECT ANY SUSPENSE , be patient and FLOW WITH THE INTENSITY. By ANuP APu KuMaR.
If you thought Ajay Devgan and Tabu's riveting performances would be a reason sufficient enough to watch this movie,then let me tell you.It is the film's story which wins in the end. First half is lose and needs editing,however the second half doesn't let you even move your eyeballs off the screen. Shriya Saran is good in looks n below average in acting.Both her daughters look convincing and act decently well. The story keeps you glued till the last frame,and the last 1 minute of conclusion gives you goosebumps and deserves claps.Intense,engaging,sharp and an intelligent thriller.This visual is DEEPLY DECEPTIVE.


                
Made in all South regional languages, Ajay & co make another remake of a successful script in Bollywood and hardly anything goes wrong here .A powerful script that build up a bit slowly in the 1st half but once it starts , keeps you intrigued right till the end and has elements in store even in the very last scene. Few scenes are very neatly crafted and few scenes are actually not shown and left for audience to self understand - how rare is that in B'wood. Although I am tempted to reveal the story, i ll let the viewers see this one and enjoy the thrill drama.The background score fails to go hand in hand with the tight script. Sriya disappoints and does not hold up well, both the kids were amazing , Gaytonde nails it as the bad cop, Tabu is strictly average after her award winning role in Haider & finally Ajay is back to his intense roles where he delivers a powerful punch . Had the 1st half, actors & background score been perfect, this would have been one thriller to remember. Nevertheless, definitely worth a watch, can't wait to see the original in regional languages


                
i have not seen original one, but i really enjoyed this movie very much. i think a movie like DRISHYAM can never be made again in Bollywood film industry, this is something new for Indian cinema. i was expecting something different ending killing n all like other Hindi films. But that did not happen. this movie is really fantastic By stretch of the imagination. must see if you are a Bollywood fan.this movie deserve 8.0 rating that i gave. this is the best movie of 2015 in my opinion. if you liked ''BASIC INSTINST'' ''PRISONER'' This is also a must see movie for you. must watch this movie you will not be disappointed.


                
It's easy to feel conflicted about the story presented by "Drishyam". After all, there's an unjustified death that took place, and an entire family gets behind a plan to cover it up. To my thinking, the kid Sam was a victim of manslaughter and not attempted murder, but not knowing how the law deals with these things in India, I'd have to assume that the penalty would have been almost as severe as actual homicide. When Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay Devgn) decides that he'll pull out all the stops to protect his family, the intrigue and suspense mounts in this rather offbeat thriller.The other facet of this story that baffles me somewhat is why teenage daughter Anju (Ishita Dutta) became so distraught over the cell phone video. At first one doesn't know under what circumstances she was recorded, but it's eventually revealed that she merely went into a bathroom to change her clothes and the peeping Sam caught her in a state of undress. It's not as if she were intentionally engaging in a pornographic film. But again, different cultures look at things differently, and teenagers in particular aren't amenable to rational thought at times. So one can understand why she took matters into her own hands when Sam came calling.The odd thing that occurs over the course of the picture is that the viewer finds himself siding with Vijay and the family over the cover up. That's made easier of course by the corrupt methods of the IG of Goa, portrayed by Indian actress Tabu, as well as the brutal tactics of Inspector Gaitonde (Kamlesh Sawant). If he couldn't get the three eldest members of the Salgaonkar family to crack, it was pretty much a foregone conclusion that he would have forced young Anu (Mrunal Jadhav) to talk. But by the time the authorities arrived to dig up the family's backyard, and seeing to what lengths Vijay had already gone to cover the family's tracks, I had a strong suspicion he had tampered with the grave. It was only a matter of suspense to find what he replaced Sam's body with.Apparently this movie is a faithful remake of another Indian film with the very same title, which I find intriguing in one respect. As I write this, the film under consideration here is ranked in IMDb's Top #250 for 2016, but sits at #21 on the best films of India, while the original "Drishyam is #2. How that anomaly occurs I wouldn't know, but it's an interesting little side note. To my mind, I think the ending of film would have been better served without the final confrontation between the Deshmukh family and Vijay, though I did find some irony in the idea that Sam was reburied under the floor of the new prison.
I am not a big fan of Bollywood. But I have to say, movies like this can be put in a same bracket with Hollywood movies. Very thrilled one.


                
I think both these movies are good but they are copies from a Japanese movie called Suspect X. I wonder if any reference has been made to that movie. I feel it is great that such movies are brought to the Indian public but there should be an understanding that there is an element of plagiarism involved. The Indian public deserve to know where and how much credit needs to go to the right people.


                
Movie develops well from the start and has few coincidences. But they are used perfectly throughout. Crux of the movie is its script that is almost developed flawlessly. Even when you think that script has shown every thing, it extracts few more awesome spices from within and presents it's brilliance. Cinematography shines from the start and consistently wonders all through. First half shows good thrilling intensity that makes the viewers want more from the second half. Fortunately, the second part shows much more than expected. Ending of a movie of such kind is very important and that was only scaring me at the end. But it was done very diligently and suited well. As per as the remake phenomenon is there (movie is remade from Malayalam Drishyam), I would love to see these kinds of remakes instead of silly commercial ones.Both Tabu and Ajay Devgan were spot on in their part. Although main focus was completely on the theme and not on the stars at all but it was very important to play these characters well. Rising above all was Kamlesh Sawant (Inspector Gaitonde) who nailed the performance that was supposedly the most important role and character in the movie. We have seen him before in few good short roles but this was a comparatively bigger responsibility in which he succeeded. Few other characters were good and fit well with the flow.Nishikant Kamat is well known to direct good high intense movies and he used his skill perfectly in this venture. He did full direction justice required for this remake. Certainly he puts a good amount of appreciable effort.It reminds me of a similar 2010 movie gem 'Right Ya Wrong' which many people are not aware of. Not inspired of-course but both these movies are definitely a must watch.Overall, an astonishing script supported with great cinematography and direction.


                
This movie starts with a flash back to the past days of Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay Devgan). He is a movie freak, 4th standard failed, a cable operator who has spent his entire life watching movies. He watches films at every given chance, be it in his office, or be it day or night. In fact he happily stays back in his office during the night and spends this time to watch movies. He has happy family of four, wife, two daughters and himself. Drishyam Movie ReviewHe is good and upright man of high moral values and encourages good conduct and good people in his surrounding environs. He is Eveready to fight injustice and helps anyone and everyone being wronged. The first 15-20 minutes are and nothing much happens, but suddenly the movie picks pace when his daughter and Meera's (Tabu) son Sam meet in an unfortunate happenstance.Sam makes a nude video of Vijay Salgsonkar's daughter and demands a physical relationship with her at the cost of that video, but she does not give consent and tells her mother of the incident.When Sam comes to her house as per his demand, her mother is also present and through a dramatic twist of events Sam meets his death during the meeting. From here the movie is full of thrills & suspense with Vijay Salgaonkar using his experience of movies to save his wife and daughter against any kind of criminal charge.Now the flow of movie doesn't allow you to leave your seat even if you are feeling the high pressure of loo. Every character of this film does justice with his/her role. Ajay Devgan and Tabbu both are national award winners, but the director couldn't do justice with her dual identity ( mother & police), Gaitonde truly lives his character.The story has a technical loophole as there is no forensic department to investigate finger prints in car. If this logical scene was included in the film, then may be the duration of this movie would have been shorter. Or maybe the writer could have inserted one more scene where Vijay Salgaonkar is seen removing his finger prints from the car. But both these logic induced scenes are missing from this otherwise great film.Overall the movie is an epic movie, you will have no regrets in watching this movie, rather it will thoroughly entertain you.I am giving 4 stars out of 5
Drishyam is undoubtedly one of the better thrillers that have been released of late. More than anything else it is the story and screenplay which are responsible for the qualitatively enhancing the content of the movie. The story gives new meaning to what a "murder mystery" can be. The plot has been cleverly designed and keeps the audience on the tenterhooks for most part of the movie.In the acting department, the movie doesn't host brilliant method acting , but the actors do a fairly good job on the whole. Almost all performances are passably good with the possible exception of Shriya Saran who somehow fails to deliver in most scenes. The director could have done better with her but he allows her to misfit , which dilutes the quality of many scenes and sequences in the movie.There are not many songs in the movie . A few could still have been avoided. The direction is not stellar but story makes the director's task easier by providing winning moments at periodic intervals. Enough for the audience to ignore minor mistakes. I would have loved to rate this movie higher but for the weak acting skills of some important characters. Surely a one time watch. I would not mind watching it twice .
If You have not watched Movie from Long time with Your family.Congrats Buddy Move your Busy Booty and lend at Movie theater with Your family For Watching Drishyam. Beacouse there at Drisham Some performance are waiting for you.This movie is the perfect outcome of Best story,Best screenplay,Best Acting all are on top to give us a MegaHitLets talk about the story beautifully written by keeping all loop hole in the mind.Better i will call This as Engineered Story.Acting:-It waste to talk about Acting,If Ajay Devgan,Tabu is there.they are more than a performer.Direction:-Very good job by Director and Team.I don't know how director Handle all these actors,Result is exceptionally well.Music:-Songs are complementing to Story. Don't waste time to read more here Just Go and GEt Drishyam


                
Mind blowing movie seen in recent times, The acting is good and it is expected from veteran actors like "Taboo, Ajay Devgan"The first half of the movie is a bit slow. It could have easily been shorter. It was actually building the storm for second half. Second half is breath taking, movie goes in normal slow pace and whenever you feel the criminal is going to get caught, it has a twist to it.More than acting i was blown away with the Script / Plot of this movie. The story was so good that movie had to be good unless its screwed by some stupid acting.Ajay and Taboo does justice to the movie. Everyone was on their toes. The Little baby girl in the movie is also good.Must watch for everyone. Do not miss it.
I personally didn't have high expectations from this film, though there were plenty of reasons to have the other way around, presence of terrific actors like Ajay Devgn and Tabu, Nishikant Kamath had successfully adapted a south film into a bollywood hit ( the 2011 John Abraham starrer 'Force' was adapted from 'Khakka Khakka')and to top it all, all the adaptations of the original film was successful. I'll be frank, the trailer the promos were not arresting. The film started pretty sluggishly, in fact nothing much happens in the first 30 minutes, but maybe it is used for character development, it effieciently sucks us into it's world and makes us feel for the characters, so much so when the film takes off after half an hour it never lets you go. Drishyam is a very rare thriller which keeps you hooked till the last scene of the film despite its length. Ajay Devgn Tabu are perfect, Shriya saran was refreshing too, she should do more films in bollywood. Overall i think, it is a very rare film from bollywood, which should be watched and remembered.


                
I haven't watched the Malayalam original but this one is fairly well made and manages to keep the suspense for the better part of its long run. After a slow first 40 min, the movie picks pace rapidly and takes us through the cat-and-mouse game played between the protagonist Vijay Salgaonkar, a film-addict of a cable operator and the IG of Goa Police, as part of the investigation into the disappearance of the latter's only son. Light on the songs and with mood-appropriate score the movie hits the right notes with the audience. The cast was largely credible in their roles except for Shriya Saran whose efforts to play a normal middle-class mom and as Vijay's wife bordered on the constipated .Perhaps the script called on her to assay the psychological counterpoint to Vijay's resolve and cunning; a stronger and more intelligent wife and the plot would have come unstuck. Kamlesh Sawant as Gaitonde takes the cake for his portrayal of the corrupt but smart inspector. Lovely, breathtaking shots of Goa's rain-fed mountains , rivers and coastlines adds to the allure of this movie, making you aware of just a hint of eeriness behind all that tranquility; as if tranquility itself is a mirage- everything it is not as it seems. Incidentally Vijay's cable company is also named Mirage, a fact that almost escapes us , caught as we are with other illusions. Notwithstanding the movie's brilliance, there do seem to be a couple holes that are difficult square. Firstly, Vijay's prescience and wiliness is also helped by dollops of luck which go unacknowledged leading us to mistakenly attribute some sort of 'master-architect' quality to him. Secondly, IG Meera's deconstruction of Vijay's alibi is too rushed and therefore does not appear follow a logical chain that should be characteristic of police investigations. Thirdly ( a spoiler here), the unearthing of the remains of a calf buried in the compost pit left me wondering where did he find the poor animal and how is it that he managed to transfer the bodies ( admittedly not as easy a task as managing paper evidence). This is conveniently left to the viewer's imagination, to somehow force-fit aberrant data into the larger narrative. Vijay himself , at the end is tight lipped about this , choosing to let sleeping dogs ( bodies?) lie rather than explain technical details of the grand deception to his wife who in her portrayal of innocent naiveté and low IQ is assumed to believe that speedpost and compost are organically linked. Still, for all this, nothing takes away from the movie's taut storytelling even if thematic wisps of the Devotion of Suspect X come unbidden as one reminisces about this one.
One of the unusual but best thrillers which takes time to speed up in the first half but blows you away in its later half with its multiple twists and especially the climax. To me, this movie is a battle of wits between the literate cops and an illiterate common person. The movie is quite different having no Hindi Masala and very few songs yet it holds a firm grip on the interest of the audience. From very start, It makes you believe that you know the climax but topples you down from your own beliefs at the end. Do watch this movies for its engaging screenplay, powerful script and good performances. One of the movies which comes near to the style of Hollywood rather than most of the Bollywood trash.


                
Drishyam is a brilliant thriller, and it will look amazing if you have not watched the original Malayalam/Telugu/Kannada/Tamil Version of this film. This film showcased the elements of a typical Indian middle class family to its best. Coming to the direction nothing new all credits must be given to Jeethu Joseph for his wonderful story line and the way he dealed with it in the malayalam version of this film. Star cast satisfied the audience with there striking performances(Every one). Music is below par for the music lovers of this era. A WORTH WATCH IF YOU R A STORY AND SCREENPLAY LOVER... And if you want to watch a film with ur family in this weekend then Drishyam is a perfect choice.


                
Drishyam (2015)One of the most intriguing thriller I have ever watched in Bollywood. Dhrishyam takes the thought process of a normal person to the most toughest level. I know the movie is an official remake of a Malayalam movie by the same name, so I will give the credit to the original makers of the movie.I was not expecting it to be that much good but it is beyond my expectation. You will be enthralled with the story till the last minute. Ajay Devgan in a role of Vijay Salgaonkar is perfect. After a Long time I have seen this type of acting from Ajay Devgan (specially after Omkara). Tabu never disappoint us after her recent comeback. There is excellence piece of writing with brilliant direction by Nishikant Kamat. After watching the movie you will come to know that being a movie freak sometimes helps you to solve a bigger problemHighly recommended for a true lover of thriller movies and those who want Edge of the seat thriller!!!#Visuals_Can_Be_Deceiving


                
Very good story brilliantly made in a movie except one unrealistic scene where sub-inspector Gaitonde slapped the little girl Anu so hard, she fell over and after that he gave a gesture that he is going to smash her with his boot. Do any one think that even the most brutal cop of the world will do something like that? Then I thought that the director probably inherited it from the original South Indian movie stuff where overacting is not only very well accepted but appreciated.One more thing Tabu does not look like a Police Officer from any angle and the flashback started a bit dull and slow. Rest is just wonderful.


                
There are movies which are generally paced than there are movies which are light which appeal to a bigger audience. I found drishyam slow but that's where it appeals to a bigger audience. It is a story of a man who goes to different lengths to save his family.Direction: Average direction.Screenplay: Above average screenplay.Cinematography: Average cinematography.Tone: When it comes to tone, what comes mostly to one's mind are efforts to embed into minds fake incidences occurred. Those and other are set well.Music: Below average.Acting: Almost everyone associated with the movie has acted really well.


                
Drishyam is not your usual cold, hard and superfluous reality sort of a film where the lead character's graph depends on the resolution. In fact, it outlines every facet of the dice right from the opening shot except that one important frame which holds the key to the chamber of secrets. It's a multi-layered story that's not confined to just one household. It could be anybody's story and that is what makes the film beautiful. The film holds. In the way it unravels for us the street-smartness of a near-illiterate man intent on protecting his family at any cost, and how forgiveness can, sometimes, lead to a kind of acceptance. And in the way it delivers the stinging twist to the tale.Movie Was Great but the only factor which teases it was the Length of 2:45 minutes .


                
Power of films & multimedia.Story of a 4th class fail man and his 10th class fail wife! His adopted daughter and own daughter. How he saves them from the murder of a sex-maniac bully & thug – the only son of the IG Police – played by Tabu!Tabu had conceived a son after many years of marriage – when she was just giving up all hopes of becoming pregnant – she conceived. But just by conceiving and giving birth to a child does not end the responsibility of the parents! In fact their responsibilities barely begin – to nurture the future of the nation with good, healthy & kind citizens! But alas both Tabu and her businessman husband are unaware of the art of bringing up healthy children (many are unaware in India btw.) ! Since they were filthy rich, she could keep many helpers and maids to take care of the needs of the child. Such families hardly spend quality time with their children. Both wife and husband were more inclined towards their professional duties. In order to compensate for their absence during their ward's growing-up years, they pamper the child with surplus gifts – latest gadgets and even cars – esp. when they grow old enough to not bother about their presence or even absence in their lives!This was exactly the case with the spoilt brat of Tabu. Having grown up in the midst of illiterate and frustrated subservient docile servant category of people, the son turned out to be a desperate & cheap eve-teaser & womaniser! He begins to blackmail Ajay's adopted daughter by stealthily taking her bathing video. She tells her mother about the blackmailing episode and both mother and daughter literally plead to him to stop torturing them unnecessarily! By mistake the daughter hits him with an iron rod and he gets killed – good riddance to bad rubbish!Thereafter Ajay uses his knowledge of cinema to off-track the cops pursuing them..and manages to befool them successfully.Also the wrath of several criminals on the IG Police for not letting them work smoothly<U+0085>that her own son becomes a thug!(that was quite a far-fetched lol-ish comment though- LOL)Conclusion – Position & financial status of a family does not necessarily confirm good natured offsprings!


                
I went to watch it on the 4th day seeing 9 on IMDb... And what can I say, this is one of the most finest film of thriller genre of Indian Cinema or It would not be incorrect to say of World Cinema! No wonder this movie was remade into 4 languages, This movie might not do business like Bajrangi Or Singham but it surely have the caliber to do so... Actors are doing actual acting, Ajay Devgan, Shriya, actresses who played daughters and That Gaitonde guy is awesome too... And Tabu is in 55% of movie but She have done justice to her part... Now the main thing is story build up... The fundamental rule of Crime thriller writing is never reveal the crime in beginning, but in spite of breaking this rule this movie rule out in every possible way out their... Last one and hour is like you can't even wanna go to pee. Story connects with the viewer so badly that They get scared every time a Policeman yell at Ajay's family, I really don't watch Bollywood movies because most of them sucks, Specially the Masala genre... But if they will keep making movie with this much high class Hardly I'm gonna miss any movie!! Thank you original writer of the film, I am gonna look up about you on Internet! Great work Sir! Songs comes and goes, I still don't know why they add song to the movie cut... I mean songs are really unnecessary especially in thriller movies... Anyways... The plot is simple, Vijay a lower-middle class man lives with his happy family... He runs a cable operator shop and obsessed with watching movies of all kind. A rich guy makes MMS of His daughter and blackmail her to have sex with him without Vijay's knowledge, She at the time of meeting him takes her mother and turn of events results in accidental death of Boy. The family then manage to bury it and Vijay's knowledge of movies guides him to hide all the evidence, and create an alibi by visiting a near by city of the day of murder. Few days later it is revealed that the boy is Son of IG Goa Police, then the movie is all about interrogation of Vijay's family on a little suspicion of Inspector Gaikonde and Due to lack of evidence, Ajay's family walks free in End... And believe me this interrogation part is best part of this movie. All the viewers can do is guessing, guessing, guessing and not How He did it but this that How He He will be caught! So Go and watch, this is not a movie It's an experience!
