Casting – 4/5Acting – 4.5/5Story – 5/5Screenplay – 5/5Editing – 5/5Cinematography – 4/5Background Score – 4/5Wow, finally a good thriller movie after a long time. Drishyam is a remake of the Malayalam movie by the same title. The movie is nestled in a Goan village, the kind where everyone knows one- another. The protagonist is a middle-class Goan Vijay Salgaonkar( Ajay Devgn) for whom his family's well being is paramount.Ajay plays the role of a 5th class school-dropout who runs a local cable-service provider shop. He is a big movie-buff and spends most of his time at work looking at the motion pictures.  Vijay has a cozy life with his wife Nandini(Shriya Saran) , elder daughter( Ishita Dutta, 'Poonam  from Ek Ghar Banaunga'  & Tanushree Dutta's sister) and younger daughter(Mrinal Jadhav).  The coziness of his family is shattered one night following an offhand chain of events.Vijay's character development is myriad throughout the film and it compels you to think away from the extreme principles of black vs white,  right vs wrong, yin vs yang.  His strong will and steadfastness to protect his family at all costs forms the backbone of the story.The unfateful night's chain of events leads to a massive police search headed by the stern and steely IPS Meera Deshmukh (Tabu).Tabu's acting is top-notch in multiple interrogation  scenes throughout the movie with a distinct no-nonsense persona on display at all times.Ishita Dutta is remarkable in her Bollywood debut with a wide palette of emotions. Mrinal Jadhav plays the role of the innocent and adorable younger daughter splendidly, generating a few interspersed audience laughs.Rajat Kapoor has a knack for playing the upper-class, businessmen –roles and is casted perfectly as Tabu's husband. However his character is a bit monochromatic, probably due to the script.The movie has multiple twists arousing the curiosity of the audience culminating into a superb climax.Even though the film is 2 hours and 43 minutes long, it binds the audience to their seats till the very last scene.I strongly recommend this film, especially to the thriller genre lovers.P.S. The film also teaches you why watching movies can impart you with paramount life-skills. So, definitely a connect with the movie buffs :)


                
A great movie and superb story line!!!. A must watch if you are a fan of thriller and suspense moviesI have seen this movie in Tamil as well but I would give an extra star for the Hindi version. Tabu in a role of a cop and a mother has done a great job, it was a treat watching her portray this role so convincingly and at ease. Shriya does justification to her role as a mother and a wife of Ajay Devgan. Last but not least, Mr. Devgan has done a good job as a father who goes out of his ways to protect his family.If you are a Tabu fan, you would regret if you miss this movie. I would request you all to please go the movie theatre and watch the movie.


                
DRISHYAM REVIEW- Hell yeah, just watched the Masterpiece, gem of thriller. Wow is the only word is in mouth now for this movie. Heard a remake of national award Malayalam movie is coming in bollywood and i was just waiting like anything for this movie. Trailer didn't offered much but it was promising. Then critics reviews came which took my expectations to sky level. And finally after watching it i must say movie worths it. A rare thriller which was made to look realistic only not as filmy masala content. First half takes time to set platform, sets movie plot then 2nd half blows you away with its masterclass planning and scenes. A simple plot, a common man who is 4th std failed not much educated tries to hide his family's crime from so called educated police officers. But the content and screenplay is so realistic that it makes this simple story a masterpiece. Even a Long runtime of 2 hrs 40 mins looks too tight and glues us to Our seat. Writer has done an extraordinary job, people will not forget this story in lifetime. Kudos to him and screenplay maker . Music wasn't much needed for movie,still 1 song after interval is situational which plays important role to make scene much tight. Entire star cast acted like real incident and really made me feel that its all happening in real in front of me. Ajay devgn the man who is the soul of this movie. His acting is just out of the world. Those intense eyes, innocent expressions, scary scenes and some emotional scenes as if this movie made for his acting only. Surely best performance of the year till date and i don't think someone will give better performance than him in this year at least, he deserves an award for this movie. Tabbu role is exactly half to Ajay according to runtime of movie. She did whatever expected from her role. Other star cast did fab job, each and every actor gave his best for their roles. Director Nishikant Kamat proves his skills and talent metal again here. He never left movie's grip till the end. Even the last ending scene of the movie was watchable and gives goosebumps. Hats off to him. He already had remake in hand which made direction much easier so there was no chance to make movie a crap. Overall a must watch for all. Only kids wont understand it, but other audience like classes, masses, youngsters and even seniors will love it. Go for this one, take 3 hrs from your life and enjoy the rare and the best thriller ever made in bollywood. Don't miss, you cant afford to miss this masterpiece. Here we have got the best movie of 2015. Last line, 'Its like,'Shawshank Redemption in bollywood. 9/10 * stars by me :)


                
Well, visuals can indeed be deceptive. When the maker knows what he wants to present, you know you are in for an absolute treat. And for the ones who haven't seen the South Indian make of this movie, like me, are in for a masterpiece. Drishyam is inspired from a Japanese novel The Devotion of Suspect X & has been adopted into various languages in movies. When the roots have already been built, it is about proper presentation in a particular amount of time which is where Nishikant Kamat and his team come out triumphant. The best part about this movie is that it was presented and portrayed with utmost perfection in a manner in which the makers wanted it to be shown. The buildup was slow but every aspect was properly covered with enough evidence to win the audience. Suddenly, after a poor 1st half of 2015, Bollywood is coming up with tremendous flicks. It was the emotional journey of Bajrangi Bhaijaan 2 weeks back, critically acclaimed Masaan(I haven't seen it) last week and the gripping Drishyam now. Coming to the story, it is about the family of Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay Devgn) ,his wife (Shriya Saran) ,his elder daughter Anju (Ishita Dutta) and the younger daughter Anu. Vijay is a 4th fail illiterate (as has been emphasized a lot in the movie) who lives a happy and satisfied life. He has his own cable service and he loves, watches, uses the scenes in movies in real life. Life takes a turn when the elder daughter (adopted) encounters a sad incident while on a School Nature Camp. This is the bitter reality of life:- We become culprit for no fault of ours and evil intentions of few spoilt rich. It was a mischief by a boy called Sam which came back to haunt the Salgaonkar family. Now, the only aim of Vijay is to protect his family from the police. It was to save themselves from blushes of the incident. But they were up against a tough & scary(I mean threatening) Inspector General (IG) Meera Deshmukh (Tabu) who was inclined to find the truth, after all Sam was her son. The way the planning is done, the manner in which it is portrayed, the confidence with which the family handles tough interrogations, the way the sequences are shown is all just perfect. Hats off to the original writer Jeetu Joseph, he left no stone unturned. The adaptation by Upendra Sidhaye is really good with a few changes here and there. The story unfolds wholly in Goa. The writing & script was so good that for me, it easily comes up amongst the best Bollywood has ever had. And the way Nishikant Kamat has handled it is simply phenomenal. The less said the better for Nishikant Kamat who has won my heart with such a wonderful vision and achieving the ultimate goal through this vision. You might feel that the pace is slow in the 1st half, but it doesn't bore you as its gripping. Some of the sequences are just scintillating especially after the arrival of Tabu. We have seen ample of movies regarding catching the criminal but this one is different, it's about saving the family. Will Vijay succeed? Or will Meera find out the truth? Watch it in a cinema theatre near you to find out. Direction by Nishikant Kamat is stupendous. It was an immense pleasure watching the movie on a Thursday night Premiere. When audience shouts and applaud towards the end, you know that the movie has won. Quite a lot of credit has to go to the casting director Vicky Sidana for coming up with a tremendous blend of actors. Apart from the big guns, it was the superb selection of supporting cast of Rajat Kapoor(Meera's husband), Ishita Dutta, Kamlesh Sawant (Inspector Gaetonde), Martin Uncle(Owner of Martin's cafe) etc. In such thriller movies, editing is a key aspect & with Aarif Sheikh, you know he will set it up perfectly & he did. Cinematography by Avinash Arun is also really good with the frames being simple yet catchy and beautiful rendition of Goa.There are just 2 songs comprising of the evergreen duo of Vishal Bharadwaj and Gulzar Saab but music isn't what matters in this movie. It's the haunting & terrifying back ground music by Sameer Phaterpekar which makes you deeply involved. I would specially like to point out the background music during the interrogation involving Tabu with her deadly eyes & the haunting music.Coming to the performances, Ajay Devgn delivers a phenomenal performance, one that will be remembered. His eyes speak a lot & he lived the character of Vijay Salgaonkar. Tabu is simply outstanding as Meera, playing the role of a tough cop & a concerned mother. She chooses her roles wisely and delivers a great performance most of the times. Shriya Saran is too young to play a mother but she also performs wonderfully well. She had a couple of difficult scenes and she did it really well. Debutant Ishita Dutta is someone whom I have seen earlier in the serial Ek Ghar Banaunga & I knew she would make it to Bollywood. She makes a really good debut. Rajat Kapoor is at his fluent best as he usually is. The younger daughter also does a decent job. But its Inspector Kamlesh Sawant who impressed me a lot, he was simply sensational. Martin's cafe plays a crucial part in this movie and so does Martin uncle. Others were brilliant as well.All in all, Drishyam is a perfectly made movie which won me over. For me, it was flawless. I would rate it 4.5/5.
Very nice thriller after Manorama Six feet Under.Ajay Devgn is doing what he does best !!! ACTING !!! He swiftly slides into the role of a commoner and keeps on mind boggling you with his performance. Tabu is a legendary actress.. She is the only one who could play Meera with such finesse. This is my first Shriya Saran movie so can't say much about her. I am sure she is a very popular actress and she was good playing the role of a docile and gullible mother and wife. The kids were good too.. I personally feel that they could have taken Prakash Raj for the role of Gaitonde.. I missed that guy throughout the movie. Rajat Kapoor looked wasted as he didn't have much lines but he has that upper class appeal and looked good with Tabu as her husband.They could have avoided the first song in the movie and just keeping the Rekha Bhardwaj song (which made sense).Otherwise,The story is 10/10. I am giving it 9 because i felt the first song was unnecessary and I missed Prakash Raj as Gaitonde... !!!


                
This movie is about the power of love someone possess for his family. It is about the enormous strength to save his loved ones from all the odd of this world. And sometimes, yes sometimes we even forger the fine line of difference between right and wrong when we try to protect our family from being destroyed. This movies is about this man who is illiterate yet very intelligent. In his day to day to life he shows a sign of honesty and kindness. He is strong but loving at the same time. But when one day someone tries to harm his little small world he becomes furious but keeps his head cool and fights against the corrupted police department with enormous strength and dignity.Even sometimes I was petrified with the fact of the story-line, but eventually had to agree it is family what keeps us alive and get going. So when it is time to protect our family anyone will do what Vijay has done in this movie.Kudos to the directer and all the cast and Crew. Tabu and Ajay Devgan proved one more time, they are one of the finest actors in Bollywood.


                
I usually do not write feedback, but for this movie I had to. This one of the best stories in India Movies. Excellent writing and direction. Acting is also good. Start is little slow but after 30 mins movie really picks up and maintain great suspense till the end.Script is very strong, acting of co-starts(Ajay devgans wife, daughters) is great. Its most realistic story and flawless movie. Usually Indian movies are never realistic, there will be lot of spice and fiction, songs, crazy emotional melodrama etc. But this one is a master piece and it has the perfection of Hollywood level.In short great movie and must watch. Only reducing 1 star because I read some reviews that original Malayalam movie had better actor and start of the movie could have been improved. Else this would be the real perfect movie. Must watch..!!!


                
The story revolves around the fourth-standard school drop-out Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay) who lives in Goa with his wife Nandini(Shriya) and their two daughters. He is a movie buff who runs a cable-video business. Crazy about cinema; he laughs, cries, plots and plans or for that matter even allows films to dictate his sexual desire. All in all, Vijay has a blissed-out existence. Till his teenage daughter Anju(Ishita) goes for a inter-school nature camp. There she encounters Sameer Deshmukh(Risabh Chaddha)the son of IG, Meera Deshmukh(Tabu). The brat shoots a video-clip of the naive girl in the shower. On their return home, crafty Sam seeks to trade 'favours' from Anju. The teenagers are negotiating when an untoward incident occurs, leaving Anju stumped and her family in a fix.The film gathers momentum as an interesting chase ensues between the cops headed by Sam's mum, the Inspector General of Police and Anju's father, Vijay.Though the first half (that could do with a 10-minute trim) feels sluggish, the pace kicks in when Tabu, the hard-nosed cop enters. Since all evidence from the time her son goes missing, points to the Salgaonkars, she bays for their blood, like a wounded lioness.Interestingly enough, the unassumingly 'innocent' Vijay matches her with his quick wit and sharp moves.A suspense drama with a nail-biting finish, Drishyam holds the viewer by the eyeballs till its' engaging climax.Ajay, who is the prey here, shines in his role of the protective father. While his family definitely needed to be cast in a more discerning fashion, half a star in this review is reserved for Tabu, who is outstanding as his predator.If Kahaani was the last memorable mainstream Hindi suspense thriller you watched, then Drishyam will be a grand new entry to that list. thrill lover must watch ..................
All characters are well performed specifically #Annu ,and Gaitonde will be recognize by directors in future , movie s fabulous, whole credit goes to Director , don't underestimate the power of uneducated man From the starting we know what happened ,why happened ,even after that known all these things the culprit is right there in your face from the word go, but the catch here is how will you prove it. Ajay and tabu Both have been National Award winners sorry trio Nishikhant Kamat who well known for Mumbai blasting feature fill Mumbai meri jaan . The film takes off as a typical family drama. The first half of the film is intentionally slow-paced and shows to the audience the lighter moments in the family of Vijay This half combines the elements of drama and low power genres. The audience gets completely absorbed in the twist of events that begin to unfold from the end of the first half. The second half is more like a thriller and is about how the family, despite the vengeful villainy of a corrupt cop, stands its ground even as the law takes its course.


                
Well the first thriller in Bollywood which is simply mind blowing. I wonder if bollywood can make such good movies, then why don't' they?? Drishyam is a not so typical bollywood predictable thriller rather an outstanding unpredictable thriller. It will keep you connected till the very last movement. It revolves around a small family about a father (Ajaz) who is going to do anything to protect his family. And a mother (Tabu ) who will do anything to break him. I wouldn't say its the "Shawshank Redemption of Bollywood"; however It really is one of the best Bollywood movies i have ever seen.Don't think, just go and watch some of the best performances by Ajaz, Tabu and other actors.


                
It's a great thriller movie. I don't understand how can few people under rate this movie, that too 1 and 2 stars. This is one of the best movie, and a must watch film. We must encourage movie makers to make these kind of movies. We are bored watching the same love stories with remixed songs.


                
The first thing when came upon our mind on hearing the word bollywood movie is - Entertainment. But the first point here - there is no song in the movie. So you cannot even in your wildest dream expect this movie to be entertaining in a traditional way. Coming at the storyline, I am not going to repeat it as it is already there several times. There are situations when you cannot judge/or call a person to be criminal just because of what he did. Instead, even he is a criminal in the eye of the law, you would support him after knowing the full story. Just a philosophic thought here; are all the so called 'criminal' are really criminal - or you would support him and will not judge him as guilty if you know why he had made that action. The movie is unpredictable - at least to the general viewers. I have never met anyone who had climax that he had anticipated the climax before it happened. Being a general man, we usually keep distance from the unwanted problems. But what you would do if problems comes itself to your door? Would you surrender to it or fight against it. But there is another way. Heard a proverb where it said that aim to the storm in such a way that it works in favor of you. Evey character are so appropriate, that you can call them ideal as per the Indian tradition and society. Loving husband, caring elder brother, Protector of the family – you will find all of them in Vijay. In the end , you will leave the movie hall – but the movie will not let you leave alone. You will be surrounded by the movie even after couple of days.


                
The unfateful night's chain of events leads to a massive police search headed by the stern and steely IPS Meera Deshmukh (Tabu).Tabu's acting is top-notch in multiple interrogation scenes throughout the movie with a distinct no-nonsense persona on display at all times.Ishita Dutta is remarkable in her Bollywood debut with a wide palette of emotions. Mrinal Jadhav plays the role of the innocent and adorable younger daughter splendidly, generating a few interspersed audience laughs.Rajat Kapoor has a knack for playing the upper-class, businessmen – roles and is casted perfectly as Tabu's husband. However his character is a bit monochromatic, probably due to the script.


                
One of the best movies by Ajay Devgan. He is seen in a different avatar unlike his usual comedy and action movies. Tabu makes a remarkable comeback. Ajay Devgan portrays a character of a common middle-class man, Vijay Salgaonkar, who has a small family. Their lives change as a twist of fate and their decision to take it on, results in a struggle that is both painful and engaging. Drishyam is deeply layered duel between truth and lie. The movie shows "How far a man can go to protect his family".Vijay takes a lot of risk to protect his family. His brilliance is shaped from the nights he spent in his office keenly watching movies. He relates his daily life situations according to what he learned from movies.


                
Wow, what a movie! Kept us hooked for the entire time...we saw Kahaani as a thriller, and now this seems even better and more believable. I wish such quality movies as this are made more frequently in Bollywood,rather than the constant flow of trash that one sees. Haven't seen the original, but can say that I would still have liked this version. Its a must watch for all.Ajay Devgan, Gaytonde, and Tabu have all given extraordinary performances. The set up of the movie is also nearly practical and who does not want to see a tussle between a common man and police, especially in India! The ending is very good.


                
I have watched several remake South's movies made by Bollywood. And it just a relieved that I watched Bollywood one, regarding maybe Malayam one is far better than Ajay's Drishyam. I might be not credible enough to score the movie as high, but I think it deserves high rating despite its remake (non-original movie). It was delightful fully roasted ribs, if I may say so. Enjoyed every moment. Half to an hour was really tensed me up. Its direction was highly good. When it comes to tactical things and thoughts, I'd say, really focus me up. I even can't blink an eye to look forward, what he could do. Regarding the actors, it just perfect. Yes, it was not that remarkable, but for a good story- oriented movie, it is as it is. I have nothing much to backstage mode. It just surprise me a lot. Ajay just get it right. Even his Singham image was better, but Vijay is another case of a father.I think I could do that much to do this review.


                
Drishyam (2015) Drama, Thriller Director: Nishikant Kamat Stars: Ajay Devgn, Shriya Saran, TabuFinally, Bollywood delivers a fantastic thriller movie after a long time.Though a remake of 2013 Malayalam movie but I feel it still deserves all the applause and hard-work put in by all crew members. I would have regret if I missed such a masterpiece. Story portrays the life of a middle class family who suffers from intense pains and sorrows just to keep themselves intact. High authority tries to bully, put pressure over them but still they face them.Movie cleverly plays with psychology of the people and degree of impact cinema has on people's mind. I would rate it 9/10.


                
Simply Awesome Movie of the Year 2015 ! Beautiful Screenplay, Amazing Story. hats off to Mr. Joseph. Superbly executed by Nishikant Kamat. Great star cast by Viacom.Very sensible Director love your work. Ajay Devgn and Tabu both amazingly performed.Everybody in the film performed well. One of the best thriller movie of Bollywood.What a twist and turn in this movie.Accept the Original Malayalam Drishyam this is the one just flow less story line.Nice location in Goa. After first half of the movie there are lots of turns and twist. Bahubali, Bajrangi Bhaijan and Drishaym nice movie of the year. In Drishaym we can see the something different and it will refresh your mind. Songs are good according to the story situations. "Carbon Copy" superbly sang by the Singer. Nice Lyrics by Guljzar Sir.


                
its a wonderful movie , Best part is direction and a strong story, acting is also good, overall 10/10 movie .i think Bollywood is going in a right way.the movie is has no loopholes for audiences and also a good entertainment for every age group . some scenes are really good and can give you a thrilling experience .i will love to see more movie like this in Bollywood however its a rear condition. its a wonderful movie , Best part is direction and a strong story, acting is also good, overall 10/10 movie .i think Bollywood is going in a right way.the movie is has no loopholes for audiences and also a good entertainment for every age group . some scenes are really good and can give you a thrilling experience .i will love to see more movie like this in Bollywood however its a rear condition


                
Absolutely amazing probably not for Hollywood Genre but with type of Movies Bollywood makes majority of which are same kind of repetitive so called masala movies which lacks whole lot of brain i.e they say if you'r watching Bollywood leave your brains at home. But this one truly is totally different which was very brave of the producers and directors to make this movie in spite Bollywood totally taking a safe side with those non sense romantic flicks and they got their reward people likes it and i think this is the stepping stone towards change in Bollywood in the coming years people are less likely to watch those stupid senseless flicks again and again on repeat mode year after year. Coming to this particular movie though it will in the beginning loose all the hopes of being an 'Absolute Thriller' and 'Suspense', but what follows throughout is not less than a suspense, director has very perfectly managed to sew in suspense in those small events throughout the movie, the plot as a whole is very clear in the beginning half an hour but you'll have to watch this movie and will keep you glued not for mystery but what follows and what is the likely outcome though most will guess it it is quite obvious but how the director still keeps those mystery intact in small events is totally phenomenal. Coming to the conclusion watch for a change in Bollywood and the evolution of Bollywood which might just be around the corner.Bollywood Directors and producers should take some risks and provide new themes and set an example world wide, because if they keep on sitting on their comfort zone the movie goers might move on very soon to Hollywood and other different stories.


                
Drishyam #Thriller #Drama Directed by Nishikant Kamat. Lead role : Ajay Devgnn, Shriya Sharan, Tabu.This movie may be categorized as a philosophical one. It shows that some situations cannot be judged as right or wrong, maybe it is right from one perspective but is wrong from a different perspective. And only thing you can do is choose between those two options according to the priorities you have and stick with it, No matter what. Vijay Salgaonkar (Ajay Devgn) is an orphan dropped out of school after his 4th grade, works as a cable operator near a police station in rural area. In this movie Vijay's family in order to protect themselves, had done something which according to society is a crime. But Vijay supports his family and protects them with all his wisdom and knowledge he has got through watching TV and trying to apply those in real life.The movie is a must watch for a thriller lover. Ajay Devgn as always has done brilliant acting. Shriya Sharan has also done impressively good.


                
It is very good movie compared to other recent junk movies. As always, Ajay was best. Tabu was OK. And acting of everybody was good. I liked the story, direction and screenplay. It is far better than typical masala movies. Movie used real locations instead of artificial sets which makes it more beautiful. Other Indian movies should also inspire from this and make meaningful movies. Songs were OK. but it doesn't matter. Even the acting of little girl was extra ordinary. Nowadays we hardly find such nice movies. And all of above, there were no third class pakistani actors in this movie unlike in almost every recent movies.


                
"Visuals can be deceptive" the tag line of the movie was the perfect description of any Hindi movie of recent times.I must reckon with the fact that it was quite challenging for a Hindi film to exceed effortlessly with the obvious comparison of original drishyam (Malayalam).At an era of trash films produced in bollywood , this film's success implicates that Hindi cinema is not finished yet...Suspense thrillers are not the cup of tea of Indian cinema lovers...Still this film is a hit which makes a welcome change about the mind of Indian cinema audiences who are accepting such genre of films...Here i will not review this film...but yes i will surely recommend..Superb acting of entire cast specially Tabu and Ajay Devgan. Watch this film and feel the sensation of suspense in your vein... PS:Second half of the film is the best part..First half could be better.


                
A carefully crafted remake! Good attempt to put forward the same old debate: Does motive hold more significance than outcome. Though I believe each of us will be having differences in our thoughts about the idiosyncrasy of the protagonist.We see manifolds of thrillers with immensely gripping stories come and go every year, such that with time we as avid Bollywood viewers had become really good at finding loopholes, glitches in scripts. And then a movie introduces itself to the faculty of our reasoning (if you keep the practicality aspect aside) which not only keep you amalgamated with its effects but also make you think on every twist and turn: How come everything is making sense! One of the best things I found about the movie is its unusual pace, as exists in the Mother Nature of slowly and slowly ripening things to next levels, cautiously building up the story minute after minute. No point in rushing towards a nail biting finale. And leave one or two strings unattached on the way to always keep spectators perplexed, speculating.All in all a must watch as a thriller!Down Point: MusicPlus Point: Acting, plot and story-telling.


                
I went to watch Drishyam on Saturday and while I didn't have very high expectations from this movie, I was surprised by the whole experience. The first half of the movie is slow and the world building till the interval almost makes the movie boring and had me wishing that I should have selected some other movie to watch but if you persevere till after the Interval, you are rewarded with a sudden upping of the story with a high dose of thrill, suspense and mystery added in the till-now- boring film.There are intense, nail biting moments with the viewers intrigued with the suspense of how the actors are going to cover the crime that they have committed. Enter the no-nonsense, strict and very shrewd Police officer, Tabu and the emotions along with the tension starts running high. There is a tug-of-war being played in our hearts all through the movie where we aren't able to decide who to side with. Should we side with Ajay Devgn's family who have committed a crime, even if they are good people or should we side with Tabu, a strict Police officer but also the grieving mother of a boy gone missing?Ajay Devgn, Shriya and the two girls all play their parts to perfection. Their emotions, dilemmas, fears and the sense of guilt is expertly portrayed to the viewers by the director. Tabu is her awesome self and plays the part of a ruthless Police officer well and then just as easily shifts to the tear jerking character of a grieving mother. The other characters also play their part well.The second half of the film is played out to perfection with the sequence of events so well planned that they left me stumped.The sound score is average and I was thankful that their weren't many songs in this movie because whatever there were, aren't memorable and I would easily give them a slip.Had the first part been more crisp and more like the fast paced second half, Drishyam would have been a super shiny 5 star rated movie from me. But currently, I give it 4 out of 5 and recommend it to all people who love suspense and a tight knitted mystery that leaves you baffled and then amazed.This review is also available on the blog Njkinny's World of Books & Stuff
