It's been over eighty years since It Happened One Night debuted on screens and still, it remains the quintessential romantic comedy to watch. While being the influence of countless films since, It Happened One Night is triumphant and timeless because of its great cast, director, and script. At the start of the film, we see the beautiful Ellen Andrews (Claudette Colbert) in Florida aboard her wealthy father's luxury boat. Ellen is planning to marry King Westley, but her father disapproves of him and forces her to stay on the boat until he can find someone more suitable to his liking. This leads her to run away and seek out Westly herself while her father puts out a highly publicized bounty for her return. She boards a bus to New York and crosses paths with the charismatic Peter Warne (Clark Gable). He's a gifted newspaper reporter who also has a drinking problem that constantly gets him in trouble. Once Warne figures out who Ellen really is, he proposes a plan to her. He will escort her to New York for the rights to her story, which has become a national headline. While the seemingly mismatched pair goes on an adventure they eventually warm up and become close. The plot flies at a free-flowing pace that allows for wickedly good one-liners. The script is fantastic and allows for great comedic timing and also a sense of drama. There is a bit of suspense as the will-they won't-they couple explore their feelings for each other. While watching the film you get the sense that they will end up together, but it's never fully guaranteed and leaves room for you to doubt. We meet several supporting characters that mostly never overstay their welcomes, such as the bumbling Shapeley and boisterous Zeke. They are great in the small amount of time they get and don't distract from the main narrative. One minor problem with the story is that the geography is very confusing. The audience is left out of the loop when it comes to knowing where exactly the leads are. This makes it hard to track the importance of each setting.This is the prime example and maybe founding of the screwball comedy. Screwball comedies tell the story of two leads (often an unmarried man and woman) that come from different social classes and how they interact with each other based on their previous lifestyles. If you like films such as Heaven Can Wait and Raising Arizona, you should thank this film for popularizing the genre. Frank Capra won the academy award for Best Director for this film and he totally deserved it. He balances his cast well and allows them to have total freedom within the cramped space of the frame. He pushes the camera for claustrophobic scenes that force the actors to work together to make the physical comedy work. The acting is the definite draw and best part of the film. Both Gable and Colbert took home academy awards for their performances. Gable will go down as one of the best romantic leads ever. He's handsome, quick on his feet, and witty. He also delivers the perfect one-liners with confidence and swagger to make women want him and men to want to be him. Colbert does an excellent job as the uptight and bratty female that so many leading ladies are still trying to replicate almost eighty years later. She perfectly embodies a rich girl that is out of her element while in the real world. She bounces off Gable's laid back working man character with ease and her one-liners are just as good or even better than his. Walter Connolly also does a good job as Ellie's wealthy father, Alexander Andrews. He plays the overprotective but also understanding father. At first, he wants Ellen to marry someone rich and famous in order to boost his social status, but after seeing her unhappiness he changes and sees the errors of his ways. He's one of those fathers that every girl wants and every man should strive to be. It Happened One Night is the biggest influence on the romantic comedy genre. Having the great pair of Gable and Colbert, and Capra as the director lifts this film to the heavens of classic cinema. Even in 2017 the film is still fun and can be used to teach writers how to create good comedy.


                
Sorry to say but this movie is just a bit too overrated. Especially Capra's directing is disappointing, since it's done in such an extremely old fashioned manner for 1934 standards. Surprisingly enough he still won an Oscar for his directing of this movie though.It's definitely an entertaining enough movie to watch. These type of movies were the romantic comedies of the '30's, the sort of Cameron Diaz and Asthon Kutcher flicks of their time, only done with more class and better actors involved. Nevertheless it's just as clichéd and predictable though. Dozens of these type of movies got made in the '30's and quite frankly I just can't see what it is that makes this movie a better one than any of them.It's a boy meets girl story and of course they can't get along at first but slowly begin to like each other better and more. What makes this movie its story more special is its adventurous elements being thrown in. It's a movie that involves lots of traveling and therefor also many different characters, which mainly gives the movie its adventurous feeling, without ever really getting a big adventure.More fireworks was to be expected, especially from Frank Capra's directing. It's just too formulaic and at times even just plain poor. It's way too old fashioned for 1934 and it's one of those typical movies that features long close-ups for the dramatic moments. It's a very static made film, as if it was just a job that had to be done and no real passion was thrown into it.As could be expected, the acting is still great though, from Clark Gable and the much more unknown Claudette Colbert. They were good together and luckily shared some good chemistry, which made the movie all the more fun to watch. This was actually the movie that earned Clark Gable his only Oscar out of his career. Ironicly enough non of the actors really enjoyed starring in this movie and also lots of well known actor turned the script down and Claudette Colbert, who also received an Oscar for her role in this movie, even didn't took the trouble to attend the award ceremony at first, until hearing upon her win.Yes, I know I'm making the movie sound horrible, which it really isn't. It's basically a movie I enjoyed watching but is no way worthy of this currently high rating on here. There are way better genre movies and Capra movies, with a much lower rating on here though. There are better and more interesting Capra movies to watch out there, which does not mean that this movie is an horrible one though.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I'm a big fan of Frank Capra films.  Meet John Doe, It's a Wonderful life, and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and Mr. Deeds Goes to Town are four of the greatest films ever made.  Capra was not without his misses and downright lemons though.  Arsenic and Old Lace and the abysmal Here Comes the Groom fall into these categories.  It Happened one Night falls somewhere in between.  Not an all out screwball comedy and not alot of social commentary, it is nevertheless a good light road picture, one of the first, and shouldn't fail to entertain.  Innovative in it's way it was the forerunner to many more comedies in the later 30's which have become standards in the genre of Screwball. Capra here was still honing his technique for better films to come and it shows. At times the timing is off and the writing could use snappier one liners which hit the mark. Gable's funnier moments seem to be accidental or improvised -- and Colbert, though capable, just is no Carole Lombard or Rosalind Russell in her delivery.  The thigh scene where she hails the passing car has been improved upon in several later comedies and even cartoons.  Even though I like this picture, I feel it is another film which has received a higher rating over the years than it is due.  Maybe it's just my love of more complex and polished comedic situations and dialogue in films like Bringing up Baby and His Girl Friday etc which I'm missing here. Cary Grant was, afterall, the definitive leading man in this type of picture.  It Happened one Night is a good, not great evening at the movies.  If you want to see Clark Gable really turning on the comedy charm check out Teacher's Pet with Doris Day which was made late in his career.  I've yet to see a better Gable comedy than that.  And if you're looking for another sweet road picture from yesteryear I recommend A Lady Takes a Chance with Jean Arthur and John Wayne, a light screwball comedy dappled with excellent performances.  It's a shame it is long forgotten and hard to obtain on video.


                
This very enjoyable romantic comedy is worth watching primarily for the exceptionally good performances from Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert in the lead roles. The story itself is basically a somewhat fluffy romantic comedy, not unlike hundreds of other romantic comedies that have been made over the years - it's fun, pleasant to watch and more or less predictable. There's no real dramatic tension; the only mystery is how the main characters are going to end up together rather than if they're going to end up together.Colbert nailed the part of Ellie Andrews - a spoiled and rich young woman who married a man she didn't really love just to get out of her father's controlling clutches. He essentially kidnaps her in a bid to end the marriage, and she escapes, trying to get from Miami to New York to be reunited with the guy. On the road she hooks up with Peter Warne (Gable), a down and out reporter who sees the story of Ellie's escape from her father as his way back into the newspaper business. Gable was fun and handled the part well, although to be honest I've seen him in better roles. Colbert and Gable had a pretty good chemistry together, and the supporting cast, while not overwhelming, held up their ends of the bargain well enough.A winner of multiple Academy Awards for 1934, this is a good movie, and certainly Gable and Colbert are the big attractions in it. 7/10
As good as Gable and Colbert were together in this good romantic-comedy, they weren't enough, in my opinion, to keep the story from being a little uninteresting.  It might just be the fact that I'm not that crazy about romantic-comedies, but I seem to have stopped enjoying the idea of the story after a while.  However, I really did enjoy some of the scenes in this classic. For example, the scene where Colbert manages to get a ride with Gable by lifting up her skirt to hitchhike.  I also thought that the scenes where Gable undresses and tells Colbert that there aren't two men in the world who do it the same way and the scene where Gable explains to Colbert that dipping your doughnut is an art were brilliant.  Overall, I think it might simply have been the idea of a reporter falling in love with a rich woman whose father does not appreciate her fiancé that kind of made this movie, to my eyes, not quite as good as I expected. However, I must give credit to Gable and Colbert for their two very good and very strong performances as well as for Frank Capra's expert directing.  I do believe that he is one of those directors who can make those incredibly charming movies better than any other director.  I do recommend it for movie-buffs and for fans of Gable, Colbert, and Capra.  After all, it was the first movie to win best picture, best actor, best actress, and best director.


                
Here I am again, in a quandary over a film's reputation and my own reaction to it. Hailed as one of the great screwball comedies and on many best lists, I just didn't think it was as strong a picture as I was expecting. When I think of 'screwball', I'm looking for snappy one liners and engaging chemistry between the principals, but the film didn't deliver for me on that score. Gable's character came off as rather harsh for my taste, especially in the scene at the cabin when they faked their marriage to convince the authorities that Ellie (Claudette Colbert) wasn't the person they were looking for. There was also that set up at the beginning of the relationship when Peter Warne (Gable) has the 'so there' tiff with the bus driver. I was really expecting a clever resolution to that exchange and it just went nowhere.So OK, the picture swept the Oscars, but take a look at one of the competitors - "The Thin Man". Now there was a screwball comedy, with as engaging a couple as you can find in William Powell and Myrna Loy. What was probably needed here was someone like Cary Grant to pull off the male lead, as Gable's approach was just a bit too shrill. In fact, Grant was a newspaper reporter in "His Girl Friday", opposite Rosalind Russell, so there's another example. Another would be "Philadelphia Story", Grant again with a little help from Jimmy Stewart. The latter two came a half dozen years later, but you still get the idea.As for director Capra, I think he outdid this picture with his 1938 Best Film Oscar winner - "You Can't Take It With You", and you can't get any more screwball than that one. And even though the theme is somewhat different, "It's A Wonderful Life" stands head and shoulders above this one in my estimation. So maybe I'm missing something, and I'll leave it at that.There were a few things that caught my attention though, like 'Hot Dogs and Hamburgers - 10 cents' on one of the roadside bus stops - there's a bargain! And I had never seen an 'autogyro' before, I thought it would be a helicopter, but seeing it with two propellers going in different directions was really cool to see.But then you had Gable smoking in bed a couple of times. Not a very good example to set when so many people lose their lives in house fires from that very cause. And who thought it was cool for him to beat up a guy to steal his car? Sorry for those downers. But the thing that nagged me the most - what did Ellie Andrews ever see in King Westley to begin with?
It Happened One NightThe conversations are practical and sensibly written and addition to that the hilarity that it ensues doesn't seem forcibly installed and makes it look like ridiculous but instead keeps it grounded; which audience resemble with, that is supported by the pragmatic characters and the world that they reside in. The writing is strong and witty especially which is clearly visible when it offers a similar gravitas to the supporting cast to factor in on drama and comedy too. It isn't shot nicely and the camera work could have been a lot better but it surely is edited perfectly. The execution by Frank Capra is apt for the script and bodes well with the tone throughout the course of it as he keeps it light and breezy. Clark Gable is as always convincing on his portrayal and so has been Claudette Colbert on her parallel role with him as a bratty celebrity. The only missing puzzle is the stakes that are projected in here are taken lightly by the characters and the makers which clearly isn't feasible at all. It Happened One Night is a soothing and independent night if not appropriately taken hold of.


                
There have been written so many things about "It Happened One Night" that it's probably not really necessary to add anything else; the plot is known, its huge success (including the Oscar Award for Best Picture of 1934) is known - there only remains one question for me: is it really THAT different from all the other screwball comedies of the time, and THAT much better? We've seen "Ball of Fire", we've seen "Bringing Up Baby", we've seen "Bluebeard's Eigth Wife" and many others of the kind; and they were all about equally funny and equally well made and acted - in fact, some of them are even more entertaining, because with a running time of 105 minutes, "It Happened One Night" is a bit overlong and DOES have its lengthy periods. And there also are MANY other comedies from the same time, which are MUCH less known, and yet almost more unusual and inventive - like "Three Cornered Moon", made just a year earlier and also starring Claudette Colbert.Now was it the studio's PR machinery (and it was VITAL for Columbia to land a success that year, because otherwise they would have gone bankrupt), was it the impact of Clark Gable, who was rising like a shooting star at the time, were it the last glimpses of pre-Code frivolity (like when Claudette Colbert teaches Gable about hitch-hiking, and lifts her skirt instead of her thumb; or the constant talk about the 'Walls of Jericho', the blanket that separated their beds...) - it's all OK with me, of course, it may not be the VERY best of the classic screwball comedies IMHO, but it's surely good, clean fun to watch even today!


                
It Happened One Night, the film which won pretty much every Oscar worth winning, still holds up remarkably well for a film produced over 75 years ago. It's a film with a very simple story but that story is engaging, charming and often quite humorous. The fact that so much of the humor survives intact all these years later is perhaps most impressive. Obviously sensibilities were quite different in 1934 than they are in 2010. But most everything still works. And it's not just a good film, it's also a time capsule of sorts, a look at an entirely different world. Obviously many modern films have been produced set in the same time period as this film's story. But those new films look back at the past through different eyes, presenting modern perceptions of what life was like back then. This movie is the real deal, a slice of 1930s American life, the way it really was. To the modern eye some of the things we see in this film seem almost unbelievable. This is how people really lived? But it was only 75 years ago, an eye's blink of history really. And that is part of what makes this film so fascinating.Of course the one thing above all else that this film has going for it is that it has Hollywood royalty in the two lead roles. Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert are just as terrific as you would expect them to be and both duly picked up Academy Awards. Of course pretty much everyone involved with the film except the caterer picked up an Academy Award but I digress. Gable and Colbert certainly earned their golden statues. Gable plays Peter Warne, a newly unemployed newspaper reporter. Colbert plays Ellie Andrews, a spoiled runaway heiress. Running away from what? Well she recently got married and her father most certainly did not approve. So before the marriage could be consummated Daddy dearest essentially took his daughter hostage on his yacht down in Florida, far away from the new husband in New York. What's a girl to do? Well, jump off the yacht of course. From there it's going to be a long, strange trip to New York. Ellie gets on a bus, meets Peter and now the film really gets going.Once our story has been set up there's really not much left in the way of plot. It's a simple story about the obstacles Ellie will face on her long journey. There sure are plenty of obstacles though. And this woman, used to all of life's luxuries, really has very little idea how to interact among the common folk. She needs someone to look after her and Peter falls into this role. It's a fun trip, with many memorable moments along the way. One scene in particular stands out with Peter and Ellie having to pose as a quarreling married couple. They could have stopped the film and handed Gable and Colbert their Oscars right there. There's also the famous hitchhiking scene, there's the Walls of Jericho, there's even a possible inspiration for Bugs Bunny. Now for all the moments which do work there are admittedly a few which don't. Some things are a little hokey but not absolutely everything is going to translate over 75 years. And while it's an engaging story it's not an altogether dramatic one as there's a sense of inevitability hanging over the whole thing. But the movie has to be deemed a success. It's witty, charming, amusing and ultimately quite memorable. Director Frank Capra, helped in no small part by the performances of his two great stars, produced a film which not only was a classic in its time but which still stands up today all these decades later.


                
Well, it's evident why the many attempts to re-capture the spirit of this film have failed. The story really isn't all that good. What works is watching how Clark Gable (as Peter Warne) and Claudette Colbert (as Ellie Andrews) make the most of the script, with help from director Frank Capra. They play the reluctant lovers quite magically - coming across like a couple of performers having fun with the project. Possibly, the sparring of their characters parallels the two stars discovering their professional "chemistry". There is a sense of fun (the script calls it "screwy") about the film, thanks to Mr. Capra and his famous stars.Most memorable are the leading couple's "risqué" scenes - Mr. Gable baring his chest when explaining how men undress, and Ms. Colbert lifting her skirt to hitch a ride - they are sexy and tasteful. And, Roscoe Karns' "Oscar" is worthy. The ability to create "fun" from "dumb" was improved on, in better films - but re-making this rather dated and unappealing story would obviously be futile. You can't re-make Capra, Gable, and Colbert - and that's what happened one night.******* It Happened One Night (2/22/34) Frank Capra ~ Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert, Roscoe Karns, Walter Connolly


                
The whole time I watched this movie, I waited for some action. What did I get? A terrible metaphor. I was blue balled for an hour and forty-five minutes. 1 star, I would rate lower if I could.
The genre of 'Romantic comedy' is generally scoffed at and looked down upon by critics and many viewers nowadays. This is mainly because of the mechanical way in which a huge number of them have been produced over the years and unfortunately, there is a distinct lack of creativity and artistic input apparent in most of them. Although the prejudice that some people have against the films categorised in this genre is justified due to recent releases, but one has to acknowledge the fact that a number of great and incredibly influential films also are romantic comedies. The film that is widely regarded as the one that pretty much single-handedly started it all, is Frank Capra's 'It Happened One Night'. It was the first Screwball Comedy and it is very easy to see the way it influenced subsequent films.'It Happened One Night' is a film set in the Depression Era. It hints at the struggles that ordinary American people faced at the time. However, the film never really tackles it head on and in a way must have offered the viewers of the time a nice escape from reality and an escape from the horrors of their financial problems. The film explores the class distinctions of society. We get to see two individuals belonging to different classes and financial backgrounds get together and go on a journey. We see the character of Peter showcase his disdain and prejudice against the haves of the society. We also see how Ellie being a rich sheltered socialite finds it difficult to completely fit in with Peter and his ways initially. The gender politics in the film is an interesting element. On one hand, there certainly are aspects of it like Ellie needing Peter's help for everything, or some of Peter's aggressive remarks towards Ellie that can make the film look a bit dated, but from another angle it is a bit progressive too. We see at the beginning that Ellie is being almost suffocated and imprisoned by her father. Capra gives us a good understanding of how oppressed she clearly feels and the whole affair with King Westley is nothing but an attempt to break away from the shackles.The film is very charming and funny. Clarke Gable puts on an utterly charismatic performance. He exudes charm and charisma and Claudette Colbert holds her own brilliantly. The chemistry and the wit involved in the scenes between them to a great extent makes the film. Robert Riskin's script is rich with witty, snappy and sharp dialogue. There are singular examples of brilliant scenes that stick out over the others which are extremely funny even today like the piggyback scene, the hitchhiking scene, etc. to name a few. The film pretty much set the template for the trope of the two leads hating each other at the beginning and then slowly developing feelings for each other. We see this transition take place slowly and gradually. There are three major scenes involving just the two of them having a conversation before going off to sleep which can be used to notice the changes and developments that take place in the way they perceive each other over the course of their journey.This was made when the silent films were starting to go out of fashion, and one can see how much the camera work is reminiscent of the silent films of the era. The camera is not very mobile and the movement of the camera is kept to a minimum. However there is one specific moment of bravura camera movement in the scene where the camera tracks sideways from left to right to follow Ellie as she heads to the cottage shower while being noticed by the working class people in the locality. Another very important aspect of Capra's direction is his lack of the use of music. Films of the later 30s and early 40s were famous for being a bit drowned in music. But Capra uses the music in a very discreet way. Some of the most important scenes in terms of character development is accompanied by nothing but the sound of crickets chirping in the background. But I couldn't say the film blew me away and I'm sure that's because of the fact that I was already expecting a lot of the twists and story elements that were going to transpire as they have been repeated to death over the years in other films. The last 20 minutes of the film I felt were a bit flat. Another example of a film which left me a bit underwhelmed because of the tropes being used and reused in later films was 'Double Indemnity'. I know maybe this criticism is a bit unfair, but I generally tend to judge a film solely based on whether it worked for me or not irrespective of when it was released and I'm afraid 'It Happened One Night' doesn't completely hold up.Having said that it is still a charming, funny film with charismatic performances. There are a number of scenes of genuine comedy littered throughout the film. But the last 20 minutes left me a bit underwhelmed.


                
It Happened One Night is a film from 1934 directed by Frank Capra (It's a Wonderful Life, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, Arsenic and Old Lace) and written by Robert Riskin (Mr. Deeds, You Can't Take it With You, Meet John Doe) who adapted it from Samuel Hopkin Adam's (The Harvey Girls, The Gorgeous Hussy, Week Ends Only) short story. It stars Clark Gable (Gone With the Wind, The Misfits, Mutiny on the Bounty) and Claudette Colbert (Since You Went Away, The Palm Beach Story, Drums Along the Mohawk).It Happened One Night is about a rich spoiled girl who runs away from all of the wealth and meets an out of work newspaper writer and they hitchhike to New York City together and on the way there, they just might find love. This film was one of the pioneers of the screwball comedy genre. So when the Robert Riskin was writing this script, I'm sure he had no idea of the impact this would have on the world. Ever since this film, the formula has been copied over and over again. Even now, this has the classic rom-com formula.The acting in this movie is great. The chemistry between Gable and Colbert is impeccable. Sure Gable's character Peter might be a little of his time (with all the talk of beating Colbert's character Ellie). They still work very well together. Colbert also gives a good performance as the rich girl who just wants to get away from it all. They both won Oscars for their performances.While a good movie, we have all seen this before: two people with conflicting personalities don't like each other in the start, but of course fall in love in the end. But then I remind myself that this is the first movie to do that. In conclusion this is a very funny movie that has a lot of heart.


                
"It Happened One Night" is a comedy movie which is being very well combined with romance and it shows us a spoiled heiress who is running away from her father. In her try one man who is also a reporter is helping her in order to have a story to sell to his boss.I liked this movie because of the nice plot but most of all because of the cast and their interpretations. Especially I liked very much the interpretation of Clark Gable who played as Peter Warne and I believe that he was simply outstanding in his role. I also liked the interpretation of the beautiful Claudette Colbert who played as Ellie Andrews. One more interpretation that it had to be mentioned is Walter Connolly's who played as the father of Ellie Andrews, Mr. Andrews. I also want to mention that this movie is a really enjoyable movie because it has a good plot which is combined very well with the interpretations of the cast and of course the direction which is made by Frank Capra.Finally I believe that "It Happened One Night" is a very good movie to watch and I strongly recommend it. This movie wants to show us how things change in life when some events happen and we have to be prepared for everything from the worst to the best.


                
Road trip escapism at it's best despite a crowded long haul bus, Go Greyhound! Still trying to assess who is who in this early debut of the RomCom. Going with Clark on the "Thelma" role who shows his weakness for drink in the opening scene, and his desperate pursuit of adventure to leave his dismal, unappreciated career life far behind and makes it happen. "Louise" is definitely all about Colbert because she finally decides to take supreme measures to leave her insipid, mundane life for anywhere but here attitude. However, her scheme falls apart by end scene as she succumbs to predictable married life. Or perhaps it's the other way around?? Either way, no canyon crossing here!The Walls of Jericho analogy is probably lost more so on current viewers which dilutes much of the sweet and delightful truimphant notes. Colbert's system of hitchhiking was the highlight of the production. The Haye's Code, most likely in force, was compromised to see a skirt hitched thigh high with that perfect gam and ensuing end result, hilarious! I kept seeing Julia Roberts in "Runaway Bride" in the final scene with her wedding train flowing through the meadows to an escape vehicle. So many other films to mention based on these characterizations, plot lines, and script devices that lead credence to the viability of Capra's vision and use of erratic, crazy, convoluted elements. Great PR for romance on the road, Clark's attempt to be theee MAN in charge (LOL) and an actual AeroGyro demo. Delicious entertainment!
It Happened One Night is one of the only three movies since the commencement of the Academy Awards to have been able to win all five major Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Screenplay), a feat that would not be matched until One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in 1975 and of cause latter on in 1991, Anthony Hopkins The Silence of the Lambs followed suit.Here is a romantic comedy as raw as they come giving you a thrill as you watch two people miss matched from the start found a way to fall in love and tour America on their way to New York. The funny thing about the movie is the name which says, "It happened one night" when actually in the movie's story it actually went on for more than a night.The movie plot is about Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert) who has been whisked away by her father in his yacht to keep her away from her new husband King Westley. Ellie then jumps ship, swim to shore and heads off to New York to meet with King Westley. On her way she meets a reporter Peter Warne (Clark Gable) and both started as an unsuitable pair that grew to be lovers.Both Colbert and Gable felt the movie was not going to be good enough and gave Capra a lot of bull. Even the movie's iconic scene where Colbert lifted up her skirt to stop a car during the hitchhiking scene, was not so easy to film for Capra as Colbert refused to do the scene claiming it was not lady like, but upon seeing a body double do it, she later changed her mind and did it herself.Although picking up slow, the movie later became one the biggest hits for the studio and the thing is that at the end the movie cleared the Academy Awards and both Gable and Colbert were better off. Colbert is known to have told a friend, "I just finished the worst picture in the world." She boycotted the Academy Awards when she got a nomination believing she will not win, but she was called back to come pick up her award.Here is a movie that actually makes you smile all the way through, although like the actors themselves upon initial siting of the film you can be turned off thinking this is heading nowhere, but be patient the movie has all the familiar scenes that we see in the movies today (all taken from this old classic). This old classic is tagged the 46th greatest film in the last 100 years in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition).It Happened One Night is a nice DVD for one to place on the shelf.www.lagsreviews.com


                
This is supposed to be a screwball comedy, but it was so dramatic it kept me on edge almost the entire time--will she go back to her husband? Is he going to make it back in time? What about everyone else who helped them on this crazy journey? Is she going to say 'I do?' wow! It's old-fashioned in the way women are depicted (colbert spends a lot of her time sobbing and freaking out, while clark gable plays the unmoved, exasperated, in control, wise-cracking, eye-rolling man), the way people talk, and the way 'trashy' relationships and hitchhiking is depicted ('see? i told you they were a nice couple!' still cracks me up.) Yet at the same time, it was surprisingly racy. Apparently a moral code was passed a year after this was released, so we see scenes like unmarried people sleeping in the same room, almost-kissing, cuddling, and one v. shapely leg exhibited during the famous hitchhiking scene. It's great. It's a very beautiful movie; the hay scene with lighting in particular reminds me of Casablanca, and Colbert looks beautiful and very sleek in all scenes; it's like the Inception of the 1930s.The ending is satisfying, and it's a feel good movie--there's no real villains here, and you get a sense that everyone's just an upright, decent person who wants you to win, even if they fired you a week prior, etc. Great lines, great chemistry-- a v. enjoyable movie.
A rich girl (Claudette Colbert) runs away from home. She runs into a newspaperman - played by the always dapper Clark Gable - who offers her help, but only because he hopes to scoop the story of her flight from her rich and renowned father. Much hilarity and goofiness then ensues, until our heroes bridge the class divide and fall in love. Cue ending.Modern audiences will find this stuff tame, and it is one of director Frank Capra's weaker pictures, but the film is interesting enough from a historical perspective. The Hays Code was on its way in, the age of "talkies" had arrived, the Great Depression was in full swing and hack directors were busy turning cinema into a glorified version of stage theatre.And so "It Happened One Night" is primarily an interesting time capsule, flirting with sexuality and immorality, conning us into laughing at a rather misogynistic plot, celebrating the invention of sound cinema with much song and dance business and carefully selling another love-conquers-money dream to its impoverished Depression Era audience.Would modern audiences buy such a tale today? Of course they would. The template of many "opposites attract" romantic comedies starts right here, and ever since Rob Reiner "updated" Capra's film with "The Sure Thing" in 1985, movie studios have been retelling this tale, in one form or the other, virtually every year.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing.
