Frank Capra's idealistic outlook on life is evident in his films. From It Happened One Night to It's a Wonderful Life, Capra has always had a tendency to let the little guy rise above it all and beat the odds. It is no small wonder that Capra enjoyed much of his success during the Depression, when movies were used to truly pull an audience out of the despair of the 1930s into a world where anything can happen, where being a nice person is all you need to succeed. While the fact that the country was in the middle of the Depression was not completely ignored, an overly optimistic view on life was taken to counter the despair of everyday life.There were many points in It Happened One Night where the true state of the country was indicated. Homeless people hitching rides on trains seemed perfectly normal. Rather than regard them with apprehension and pity, you smile and wave at them. Another example is the hostile reaction proprietor Zeke's wife had to the fact that her husband had let Peter and Ellie stay the night with promises of being paid. Upon seeing Peter and Ellie's car missing, they rush to the cottage to see if Peter and Ellie are still there. They cannot afford freeloaders.In another scene, a child's mother has passed out from hunger, because they have no money to buy food. Peter and Ellie have nearly depleted their funds, but decide that the mother and child need money more than they do and give some to them.Despite these instances, the movie was altogether cheerful in its depiction of the world. In the throes of the stock market crash, this movie signaled the birth of the screwball comedy. At a time when the country needed release, they could find that release and laughter in movies like It Happened One Night. Audiences were amused by scenes in the film, such as the segment in which Peter teaches Ellie how to dunk a donut. Or, when forced to share a room, Peter puts a blanket between his and Ellie's beds and calls it the `wall of Jericho,' which is revisited when the walls of Jericho come tumbling down after Peter and Ellie's marriage. Probably the most famous scene in the film is the hitchhiking sequence, which features Peter standing by the roadside trying to thumb a ride unsuccessfully, finally giving up after more than a dozen cars speed by without paying any heed to his attempts. After he gives up, beaten, Ellie simply lifts her skirt above her knee. The first car that passes stops, as we see extreme close-ups of a foot slamming down on the brakes and a hand applying the hand brake.A master in his profession, Capra left his mark on the films he directed. With an almost childlike cheerfulness, he maintains a sense of dignity and class. The viewer is left with a feeling of hope for humankind, even if its only that a person's ideals could be used to make such a film. Capra's films are still regarded as masterpieces. It Happened One Night arguably remains to this day unparalleled in screwball comedies. It was one of many movies made during the Depression, a sometimes sad and even lonely time in our history. It gave its audience a chance to escape and forget their troubles for a few moments in time.9 out of 10 stars


                
Consider this, "It Happened One Night" was made in 1933 which gives it the distinction 70+ years later of being the oldest film still widely viewed by mainstream audiences. And most of the runner-ups for oldest film are 1930's screwball comedies inspired by the success of this seminal film which made a clean sweep of the 1934 Academy Awards. The genre has held up over the years because these are small human stories with themes that are still relevant. The main reason "It Happened One Night" worked then and still works today is the accidental pairing of Colbert and Gable, who provide an amazing chemistry under Frank Capra's direction. Columbia Pictures was a small player in the early days of talking pictures and studio head Harry Cohn had difficulty rounding up two major stars to play the leads in this modest budget production. Colbert was not interested in doing another Capra film after a negative experience working for him six years earlier in her silent picture debut. Cohn told Capra: "That French broad likes money" and Capra finally got her on board with an offer of $50,000 (double her usual price) and a guarantee that production would only last 28 days. Gable was under contract to MGM but had been making trouble for them so as punishment Louis B. Mayer personally loaned him to Columbia for this film.The film had a lot else going for it; a motivated Capra, a great script that would play well with small town America, and a good ensemble of supporting talent. The story concerns a spoiled young heiress (Colbert) trying to escape the control of her father (nicely played by Walter Connelly). Dodging her father's private detective she takes a Miami to New York bus where she meets a recently fired reporter (Gable) who agrees to help her in exchange for an exclusive story. Cozy quarters and many adventures lead them to change their initial opinions of each other (brainless brat and obnoxious bully) as an undisclosed affection develops. On the eve of their arrival in New York they try to sort out their feelings for each other.While the script is not really successful in convincingly illustrating the process of their falling in love (one minute they are just friends and the next they are in love), Capra is able to sell it with a simple connection process between these two characters which is at work throughout the film. As another reviewer has written: "Far from lovey-dovey, the dialogue is witty, sharp and occasionally heartless. We may know the outcome, but the road to get there is paved with arguments, anger and misunderstandings. It's also clever, funny and a bit risqué (for 1934)" . During their three days and nights together Colbert convincingly gives us a character who matures from a spoiled rich girl to a responsible adult, motivated by a desire to improve her companion's opinion of her. Gable shows real star presence, playing a confident, charming, and resourceful gentleman. By the end their sudden love is credible because they have demonstrated that they are both exactly what the other is looking for in a partner.After the Oscar ceremony Capra threw a party where he downed a magnum of champagne and passed out on his front lawn clutching his Best Director Oscar.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.


                
IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT (Columbia, 1934), directed by Frank Capra, based on a short story "Night Bus" by Samuel Hopkins Adams, ranks one of the best known and popular romantic comedies from the 1930s, thanks to the star chemistry of Clark Gable (on loan from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) and Claudette Colbert (on loan from Paramount), with fine direction by Frank Capra, witty screenplay by Robert Risken, and for being the very first motion picture to win all five major Academy Awards, including Best Actor (Gable); Best Actress (Colbert); Best Director (Capra); Best Screenplay and Best Picture. This might have been an "upset" in 1934, considering other top-rated films and performances of the year, but who would have imagined IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT to still be as entertaining today as it was back in 1934?This now well-known plot that's been remade twice by Columbia as EVE KNEW HER APPLES (1945) with Ann Miller and William Wright; and YOU CAN'T RUN AWAY FROM IT (1956) with June Allyson and Jack Lemmon, opens in a yacht in Miami where Ellen "Ellie" Andrews (Claudette Colbert), spoiled daughter of a millionaire Wall Street banker, Alexander Andrews (Walter Connolly), who disapproves of her recent marriage to aviator King Westley (Jameson Thomas), making arrangements on having it annulled. Following a heated argument with her father, Ellie runs from her state room, jumps overboard and swims to shore. Eluding her father's hired detectives, Ellie, acquiring new clothes, purchases a night bus ticket bound for New York City where she plans to meet Westley. While on board, Ellen encounters Peter Warne (Clark Gable), a hot-headed reporter recently fired by his editor, Joe Gordon (Charles C. Wilson). With both disliking each other immensely, Warne, having discovered the "spoiled brat's" identity, becomes her constant traveling companion in order to get an exclusive story and his job back. Hours before reaching New York and taking a rest stop in an auto camp, misunderstandings occur as Ellen awakens to find both Peter and the car gone.A simple story playing like an overlong "B" movie, IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT is a memorable bus trip of so many classic scenes that have been imitated by others but never duplicated. Highlights include the "Walls of Jericho" where Peter and Ellen share a room in auto camps where a blanket is tossed over a rope that separates the couple as they sleep for the night; Peter demonstrating to Ellen on how a man undresses, particularly one in which he removes his shirt to no undershirt underneath; Peter's correct method of dunking a dough-nut into a cup of coffee; and the classic hitchhiking scene where Peter fails to attract cars while Ellen comes up with a method all her own.Although IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT is essentially a Claudette Colbert movie from start to finish (there's no secondary female character, quite rare for its time). Due to the strength of Gable's performance, this has been hailed to be his best comedic role. Gable's character is hot-headed and forceful, living by a moral code. Although he shares a cabin with a married woman, that's all he does. He even tells Colbert's Ellie when she asks if she'll ever see him again, he replies, "I make it a policy not to run around with married women." And when he's hungry, he takes a carrot from a farm rather than going through the method of panhandling. This is Gable, a role model. Director Frank Capra, whose subject matter is usually on people, captures the many extras, especially those on the bus and auto camps, to make them appear as important as leading players. Roscoe Karns is equally memorable, "believe you me!" as the gabby bus passenger, Oscar Shapeley from Orange, New Jersey; Ward Bond as the tough talking bus driver; the meek Arthur Hoyt and the nosy/ domineering Blanche Frederici as the auto camp owners; Georgie Breakston the poor boy traveling on the bus with his mother (Claire McDowell); along with other passengers gathered together and singing "The Man on the Flying Trapeze," to a player of a snoring fat and bald man who rests his head on Colbert's shoulder. During it's entire 106 minutes, there's seldom any underscoring. As for the costumes, with the exception of the final 15 minutes, both Gable and Colbert use the same clothing through most of their trip.While Gable and Colbert had challenging roles in their careers, plus their reunion in MGM's large-scale BOOM TOWN (1940), it's amazing how this likable little comedy was the only one to honor them Academy Awards. There's a scene where I feel Gable earned his statuette, the one where he tells Ellen the type of girl he would like to someday marry, saying that those kind of women don't exist anymore. Gable says this with frankness and sincerity. Colbert on the other hand earned hers from that same scene as she she listens and looks on lovingly at Gable with tears flowing down her cheek, coming to realize it happened one night.IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT not only became a perennial favorite on late night television during the 1960s and 70s, but on cable TV as well, ranging from the Disney Channel (1980s), American Movie Classics (prior to 2001) to Turner Classic Movies, and availability on video cassette and finally DVD. While IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT has aged in appearance, it's still timely screen entertainment. There'll never be another film like this again. (***1/2)


                
Director Frank Capra (It's A Wonderful Life) delivers another top notch film that has a really simple storyline.It is basically a 1930s rom com! Setting the template for the genre for decades.
Its stars Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert form an unlikely couple. Colbert a spoilt brat heiress about to marry someone in New York. Gable a failing newspaper reporter who needs a scoop to boost his flagging career.In an era before interstate air travel the pair travel from Miami, Florida to New York via a nightbus and several stops en route.
Its interesting how simple life seemed in the depression era U.S. in this film. No freeways with thousands of cars hurtling past! Just quiet backroads with the occassional car.The film is an early road movie as well as rom com. Very little is set in one single location. Just the odd motel rooms, the nightbus and exterior shots.Gable seems to revel in his role as a bit of a scally that differs from his more stiff upper lip roles in films such as Gone With The Wind.
The film was a great success winning several Academy Awards including the big 5 (Director, Actor, Actress, Best Picture and Screenplay). Few films (only three to date) have achieved such an accolade.For the first ten minutes I was like this is really dated and will be boring, however on reflection you can see its appeal. Bravo again Mr. Capra.
Chirpy and cheeky, happy and snappy with great performances from Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert. She was already a star, he was about to become one whilst Frank Capra, under pressure to get this finished quickly so Colbert to move on to another gig, roars into the spotlight with this Oscar winning film. Also, arguably the beginnings of the screwball comedies, the film is a joy from start to finish, plus with Blu-ray you get to enjoy all those cars and buses and hot dog stands. Whilst the film plays with the idea of coyness, it is more or less pre-code and gets away with many a wisecrack that would have been cut the following year. Good script, lines beautifully delivered and the speed and screen wipes ensure (until the rather unnecessary hold up towards the end with all the wedding build up) that this moves like a bullet and facilitating multiple viewings. Goody!


                
Greetings from Lithuania."It Happened One Night" (1934) is a movie that was great story, great acting, involving writing and great directing. This movie was made back in 1934, and its only a prove that these qualities mentioned above are the key to a great movie - those qualities don't age. Overall, "It Happened One Night" is a delightful escapism. It has a great story which i'm sure i have seen many times in another movies, made many years after this movie saw the daylight. It only shows of how great this movie is and was made head of its time . Great entertainment.


                
1. Young people in love are never hungry.2. There IS a certain method of attaining full pleasure by dunking donuts into coffee.3. Pawn shops are very useful. If you've got anything of value to pawn that is, and having a millionaire Father with his own boat is incredibly handy.4. The limb is mightier than the hand when it comes to the task of hitching a ride. Problem is in 1934 it was easier to trust strange drivers.5. Very easy to steal cars by knocking people out and tying them to trees. I'm just never going to try it.6. Never leave your bus ticket on the seat.7. You CAN and WILL get to New York on an amount of $4 if you don't buy chocolate, sleep in hay stacks overnight, eat carrots and persuade motel owners you are staying for a week. Of course, it always helps to travel with an unemployed newspaper reporter who has the upper hand threat of black mail. 8. Never be afraid to call home in case of emergency, even if there's not a fortune and fiancee waiting. 9. Blankets are sufficient walls of Jericho to keep the big bad wolf out.
10. Ignore all of the above. No one is crazy enough to play cat and mouse if wads of cash are waiting. Without a doubt, this still rates as Capra's best award winning success, by being the first film to sweep the five major categories at the Oscars, including the coveted Best Picture of 1934. Capra-esque trademarks and some of the most famous scenes are a part of this classic comedy which made screwballs popular. And the screenplay is full of absolutely delicious moments! Gable and Colbert are at their comic best, it would have been nice if they teamed together again. They both deserved their Oscars. Capra's direction was excellent, but he just got even better, picking up another two best director oscars in four years, this success marking his first.
Although my favourite movie of 1934 is still "The Thin Man", "It Happened One Night" is one of the best movies ever made from the 1930s.Rating: 9/10


                
Probably the fluffiest Best Picture winner I've ever seen. The only thing gritty about it is Capra's intense hatred of wealth being put out front and center. I liked how the Gable character shows the Colbert character how the other side lives, and it kinda speaks to how those in Hollywood don't really understand our struggles. It's a cute little love story with good acting, but it is hardly worthy of a best picture win. 9/10


                
Beautiful movie, despite the gruesome hairstyle of the main actress. It was nominated for five main Academy Awards and deservedly won all five. The only two films that have repeated this success are
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "The Silence of the Lambs".9/10


                
It is such a joy to watch the chemistry of the two leads. I fall in love with watching them fall in love.


                
They most certainly don't make comedies like this anymore. It is such a joy to watch the chemistry of the two lead on screen and fall in love with them falling in love.


                
This is one of Capra's earliest and it's amusing too. Capra, from an immigrant Sicilian family, shows his concern for class differences and promotes a benificent view of the poor. There's nothing explosively funny about the script, no memorable tag lines, but rather comic or ironic situations follow quickly upon the heels of one another. There are some laughable exchanges though, as the one between Ward Bond as a bus driver and drunken passenger Clark Gable. Bond: "Say, I ought to sock you in the nose."Gable: "I always keep my nose out there where people can take a sock at it."Bond: "Oh, yeah?"Gable: "That's an intelligent reply. Why didn't I think of it?"Bond: "Oh, yeah?" Gable: "If you keep that up we're never going to get anywhere." Bond: "Oh, yeah?" Gable {exhausted}: "Ya GOT me -- YEAH!"Colbert is a spoiled brat, as we are told several times, although Capra never deprives her of our sympathy. (She's not spoiled, she argues, because spoiled people are used to getting their own way and she's been told what to do all her life.) Gable is a blustering newspaperman who begins their relationship with the intention of exploiting her but falls for her instead. (Cf., "Roman Holiday".) He teaches her things. (1) How to dunk a donut. (2) How to hitch hike. (3) How a man undresses. These lessons must have been amusing to an audience in 1935, many of whom might have been happy to have a donut to dunk. The undressing scene -- incomplete before Colbert retreats behind "the walls of Jericho" -- started a fad involving the non-wearing of undershirts by men. It's still kind of interesting, partly because we rather like the performers, but it's badly dated. Nobody dunks donuts anymore. Nobody hitch hikes either. Why not? Because instead of driving Model A Fords at 30 miles an hour down country roads everyone now speeds along in Ford Mustangs on Interstate Highways at 80. And hitching is now largely illegal.Besides, all hitch hikers are serial murderers now. (Except north of the border, where hitchers flourish along the TransCanada Highway. Canada has no serial murders, only postmen and moose hunters.)But this is a movie with some of Capra's populism on display. I direct your attention to the scene aboard the second bus. The scene is crowded with ordinary humanity of diverse but modest backgrounds. (Rich people in this movie fly.) An improvised band is playing in the back of the bus and a passenger requests, "The Man on the Flying Trapeze." The tiny band goes through the first verse, including the bridge. A sailor pipes up and says, "I know the second one, let me handle it." And the third verse is sung by a short dark guy up front. Then everyone piles into the bus's central walkway and dances around -- sailors, fat guys with bushy beards, little scholarly looking people, all smiling and singing. It's a startlingly unexpected delight, a spontaneous community engaged in a rite of intensification, the equal of any of John Ford's dances. Even the bus driver, behind his curtain, is drawn into the song. And the moments when the sailor if fluttering his hands and swings clumsily from an overhead bar are unforgettable. A thoroughly happy scene, a capricious but Capraesque caprice.Gable is almost always likable and unpretentious. Colbert can be irritating but she's okay here. You won't laugh during this film but you'll probably smile a lot. Well worth going with.


                
This is a great early road film. It is one of Gable's best after "Gone with the wind". Claudette Colbert, who is really beautiful, plays a controlled rich man's daughter who, after a bitter dispute, dives (very smooth and skillfully) off their rich yatcht, hops on a bus, and goes from Miami to New York to be with her fiancé that her super controlling dad is trying to stop her from marrying. Claudette is a grown woman, her fiancé is not a criminal or anything, he's just someone her dad just personally dislikes. So I am on Claudette's side and I feel that her dad was controlling to an unecceptable level, he was sending out detectives after her, that's just not OK considering the circumstances. Getting away from her dad's home was not illegal since she was a grown woman.Claudette meets Clark on the bus through interesting and humorous circumstances. I loved all the wit and repitour between the two. Clark's hilarious responses to the uptight bus driver saying "oh yeah?". Clark finding out the truth about Claudette and him blackmailing her to both help get her to her fiancé and to get his newspaper editor job back, cause he'll have a good story on her, and many other great and funny situations and dialogue between the two of them. The moment in the cabin when Claudette's dad's detectives were looking for her, and she and Clark put on a last minute act to fool them,them yelling at each other and then Clark telling the detectives "too bad you're not looking for a plumber's daughter!"(Claudette earlier said " I'd trade places with a plumber's daughter any day"). The character of Shipley, I completely understood Claudette's reaction, Shipley was annoying. And then Clark lying to Shiply about being a gangster to scare him away, since he threatened to butt in front of Clark to grab half the $10,000 reward of returning her to her dad. The way Shiply ran off was the first funny thing he did. Then Clark and Claudette ditch the bus while saying "when Shiply stops running, he will start thinking". I liked the night time scene next where they set up camp outside, and Claudette lying back in the hay with the moonlight shining on her face, a nice old fashioned feel it gave. I also enjoyed the hitch hiking talk between them. Clark showing her all the different thumb signals, then him not being able to get any stoppers. Then Claudette pulling her dress to her knee and the first car seeing her stops. Claudette then tells Clark "goes to show, the leg's mightier than the thumb. Clark: " why didn't you take off all your clothes? We coulda stopped 40 cars". Claudette: "I'll remember that the next time we need 40 cars". Hilarious. I'm not sure if this film was pre or post code but there were a couple sort of pre code references. Clark, while pretending to sleep, laying his hand facing up on the seat next to him when he sees Claudette coming back to sit there, Clark demonstrating to Claudette in what order he undresses as he's doing so in front of her, and his talk about "the walls of Jerihco". None of those things were anything as risky as what you have today, but there are a lot of pre code films that were considered risky by 1930s standards and not so risky today. Anyway, except for Claudette's dad's actions being too far, this film was great. And I loved the bus scene where everybody is singing to " Man on flying trapeze", that scene really reminded me of this film being an older, more simple time.


                
I finally saw this movie tonight! The only things that I knew about it were the famous Gable "no undershirt" scene and the famous Colbert "hitchhiking" scene. It didn't disappoint. It was like an archaeological look back in time to the original "ROM-COM" master movie, and it still holds up after all these years. Think about it...it was made over 3/4 of a century ago. To put it in another perspective, if you went back an additional 76 years from when this was made, it would be Pre-Civil War! It's important to remember that this was made in the height of the Great Depression, and note the strict moral code of the time, fully incorporated into the movie. However the total sexual tension was fully exploited in the movie, and still applies today. I also appreciated the technique in the final scene, of letting the audience imagine what's happening, when the "walls of Jerico" finally go tumbling down!Capra's directing and choice of shots and perspectives was amazing too! It really set the standard for all these genre of movies that have since followed. Very watchable, Very entertaining. One final thought....as I watched Gable in this movie, his facial expressions and mannerisms totally made me think of Johnny Depp, who I now realize is the modern day Gable! Watch this movie and don't think too much...just let yourself be entertained.


                
In another review I called "Pillow Talk" one of the seminal films in the development of romantic comedies as we know, understand, and love them."It Happened one Night" is its predecessor and partner.Although this film virtually swept the Oscars, it was made virtually by accident. No one liked the project. Clark Gable was banished to the film as a punishment, and I'm quite sure that in 1934 Frank Capra was not looked upon with the high regard his films enjoy today.Yet everything came together in this "bus movie", as it was derisively called pre-production, and a charming, funny, and moving story unfolded.Only a few years into "talkies", the film set the tone and stage for the antithetical courtship that would become virtually ubiquitous for romantic comedies. Don't believe me? How do you decide who is going to get together at the end of a romantic comedy? Its the two people that early on hate each others' guts, right? Right. Every one of those movies is in some way derivative of "It Happened One Night".Unless you just hate "old movies", watch and enjoy. Or if you've already seen it, renew your relationship with the film. It is absolutely worth it.


                
It Happened One Night is directed by Frank Capra and stars Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert, Walter Connolly and Rosco Karns.One of the funniest and best romantic comedies of the 1930's, it's easy to see why audiences then fell in love with it.The funniest scene in this for me has to be the one where Peter's teaching her the thumb signals to use when hitchhiking.They don't work and Elli gets a car to stop by not using her thumb. Elli Andrews(Claudette Colbert)is a rich heiress who runs away from her father(Walter Connolly) after he objects to her secret marriage to another rich man called Westley(Jameson Thomas) her father hates him.She gets on the overnight bus and finds herself in the company of down on his luck newspaper man Peter(Clarke Gable).Recognising her from her missing person picture and article in the papers he sees a chance at getting a top story.However the two end up becoming friends despite their many differences after a series of incidents.Elli eventually falls in love with Peter but will he return her affections?will Peter write the story?will she split up with Westley and can a rich girl really love a man from the lower classes?Well watch this classic and find out. Gable and Colbert are both excellent and show a real gift for comedy. Rosco Karns steals all his scenes as an annoying bus passenger who shows great interest in Elli.
Obviously some things about this film are dated, such as Claudette Colbert receiving, in the opening scenes, questionable 'sexist' or 'brutish' treatment by her purportedly loving father. Those actions would not work in film today, as we all know, certainly not in a comedy genre. However, it explains why Colbert's character, not a ditsy dope, would choose to run away from her privileged existence and face certain retribution -- financial and emotional -- making her all the more sympathetic as she gamely takes on Clark Gable in a battle of wits and manners. Likewise Gable, in the opening scenes, suffers in somewhat tragic circumstances, and his character struggles to hide his dejection and sense of failure under a dapper appearance and good grooming. Without this foundation, the situation is silly and contrived, because these two attractive, intelligent, witty persons would have no reason to react as they do, suffering rebukes and slights from one another, mostly "deserved", or at least rationally handed out, according to their limited knowledge of each other. A variation on the theme of 'Pride & Prejudice'!


                
Somehow in all my 55+ years of movie watching I had missed seeing this one. It recently was on a list of top movies, and my local public library had a copy of the DVD so I snagged it and saw it.As history records it, this Capra movie was made almost on a lark, with actress Colbert just available for 4 weeks, and she demanded twice her normal salary in a mild effort to discourage the producers. They made the deal, started shooting right away, made it in 4 weeks, and it swept the Academy Awards for that year.Clark Gable is Peter Warne, reporter, in a different role for him. He is a boozing, wise-cracking reporter who tells it like it is, and doesn't hesitate to call a spoiled rich girl just that.Claudette Colbert is the spoiled rich girl, Ellie Andrews, who had eloped but her father was determined to get the marriage annulled. Her father is Walter Connolly as wealthy Alexander Andrews.As the story begins Ellie and her father are on their yacht in Miami when she gets tired of his telling her what to do and jumps off the boat, and manages to get away.Most of the movie is a road trip, as Ellie takes a bus back to New York to be with her beau. On the bus she meets Peter, her suitcase with money is stolen, so he sticks with her, and then realizes there may be a great story here, as all the papers announce that she is being looked for.Predictably Peter and Ellie begin to care for each other, and she starts to doubt whether she wants to be married to the other guy.Good 1935 movie, and my favorite Clark Gable role.
Screen writer Robert Riskin, and Film Director Frank Capra enjoyed a long a fruitful association together throughout the Golden age of Hollywood. Together they worked on eleven pictures starting with The Miracle Woman in 1931 and culminating in 1961 with Pocket Full of Miracles, although this was a posthumous credit for Riskin, having passed away six years previously.Arguably their most successful collaboration was It Happened One Night released by Columbia Pictures in 1934. It was their fifth picture together and it was so simplistic it was ingenious.Shot on an incredibly low budget, in less than four weeks with two reluctant leads, it seemed this film was destined for failure. However it became the box office smash of the year and the first film ever to scoop the four main Acadamy Awards (Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Picture and Best Director plus Best Screenplay for Robert Riskin)Having recently eloped to a flash aviator lover, spoilt heiress Ellie Andrews (Claudette Colbert) escapes from a disapproving father desperate to annul her marriage and attempts to travel incognito by bus from Miami to New York to rejoin her 'husband'. On her tail are the Police and several detective agencies hired by her father to try and stop her.In transit she meets wise cracking newspaper man Peter Warne (Clark Gable) and after a none to promising start to a friendship, Warne offers to help Andrews avoid her father henchmen and make sure she gets safely to New York. In return for his somewhat out of character generosity he expects her full and exclusive story. A story to help revive his flagging career.Reluctant at first and acrimonious to the last, Andrew's resists Warne's offers, but after several misfortunes on the road and near capture by the detectives, Andrews resigns to the fact that she has no choice but to accompany the disagreeable Warne all the way to New York.Your not going to get any prizes for guessing the emotional outcome of their journey, but just accompanying them on this trip is where the true entertainment lies.Riskin's witty dialogue make the frequent and inconsequential arguments between the two a must see as the silly disputes over 'dunking, piggybacking, hunger and hitchhiking set the screen alight. However, Gable and Colbert's comic timing and acting expertise wins the audience over in the more intense scenes, like when they pretend to be a squabbling man and wife to the prying detectives.Brilliant.Walter Connolly (Andrew's Father) Roscoe Karns (a fellow bus passenger)and Alan Hale (an operatic motorist) all steal every scene they are in, but without a doubt this is Gable and Colbert's film.If anyone doubts Gables title as the king of 1930's Hollywood, then watch this film and you will see why. In this film he single handedly destroyed the global market for vests/undershirts purely because he did not wear one. Name one actor today or even since who has that much clout and I'll eat my own foot off!Forgive the old cliché but this IS a must see film.
It is unfortunate that I had to this hilarious comedy first, because all the movies after it pale in comparison. This movie confirmed my love for spunky Clark Gable and introduced me to the lovely, elegant and talented Claudette Colbert. It Happened One Night is a very simple story and that's what I loved about it. Colbert plays a rich, snooty heiress that runs away from her Father after he disagreed with her new marriage to a playboy. Although she is just doing it to spite him, she is determined to go to New York and marry him. He sends out private investigators all around the country in hopes in finding her. Since she is rich, she uses unlikely transport: a night bus! And there she finds Clark Gable. Hilarity and romance ensues.There are many memorable scenes in this and every time I watch it, it still cracks me up. There is nothing better than to watch Gable teach Colbert how to hitch-hike - boy does she show him! Great performances, great direction - just runs smoothly so you can enjoy this fantastic movie.It Happened One Night will make your needs melt for Clark Gable, make you laugh out loud and make you realize how much this sort of comedy is lacking in today's cinema.


                
I have seen a few Frank Capra movies in my day, and I must say that this is my favorite of his films. Every modern romantic comedy, from "The Graduate" to "When Harry Met Sally" to "Sleepless in Seattle", owes a serious debt to the film that all but spawned the genre, "It Happened One Night".It can be argued that film was lucky to even get off the ground. This film was produced at several different locations on a shoestring budget (with Claudette Colbert receiving a large chunk of that budget as pay), yet the chemistry between Colbert and Clark Gable was among the best ever caught on film. Also, Capra's efficient directing style, which became a necessity for this project, paid off in spades."It Happened One Night" caused a sensation from the word "go". T-shirt sales dropped because Clark Gable didn't wear one in the film. The phrase "Walls of Jericho" became a part of the American lexicon. It showed that women could indeed get just about anything they wanted, just by showing a little leg. And it has been acknowledged in several circles that "It Happened One Night" was the inspiration behind the creation of one of most-loved cartoon characters ever, Bugs Bunny.It would be hard to pick just one reason to watch this film, but if I had to choose, it would be the scene in which Peter (Gable) and Ellie (Colbert) pretend to be a married blue-collar couple when private detectives hired by Ellie's father encounter them at a motor lodge. This scene alone demonstrates Gable's and Colbert's chemistry with each other (I know I've mentioned it before. Trust me -- It's that good!).The first film to win Oscars for Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress, and Screenplay, "It Happened One Night" is a heartwarming, charming, hilarious movie that I would recommend for any couple (young or old) to see. This is the first truly great romantic comedy, which still holds up pretty well (Okay, so taking the bus isn't very romantic anymore).By the way, I showed selected scenes of this film to my son when he was 16, and he liked what he saw. If that isn't a ringing endorsement, I don't know what is!


                
Romantic comedy is one of the most fun of all movie genres; a great one is mixed with a nice balance of romance and humor that is very enjoyable for the actors and the audience. Today, these "rom-coms" are much more cynical and bitter; almost to a point of not being funny or romantic at all. They also so rigidly follow a formula that it becomes incredibly difficult to find any part of the story that is surprising, refreshing or even remotely entertaining.Here is a film that very well may be the first example of what is considered a romantic comedy. Often called the first screwball comedy, this is anything but for there are very few fast-talking dialog scenes and the on-screen couple don't get into too crazy of situations. Directed with down-to-earth sincerity by that great American director, Frank Capra, the story of a spoiled young woman taken from her high society settings and stuck with a wise-cracking, handsome man who takes her under his wing and sets her straight is as old as the hills. And yet, it works here effortlessly due mostly to the wonderful and realistic chemistry between the two lead actors.Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert, two of the biggest stars in Hollywood at the time, reportedly both disliked the script and only did it for money and steady work. Neither would have thought that an Oscar for each and huge acclaim was waiting for them on the other side. Each actor's personality complemented the other perfectly; Gable's smart-ass remarks and smug grins against Colbert's soft, delicate yet independent facial expressions. Another element here handled much better than today is the parental issue. For most parents in these movies, they are either blithering idiots with no mind for parenting or bull-whipping tyrants with no evident love for their children's welfare. Here, the father is a little hard but is certainly filled with love and only wants what is best for his daughter.Still, perhaps this film will live one forever because of the incredibly smart and funny script. Based on a short story, screenwriter Robert Riskin fleshed out the characters and threw in some really great one-liners revealing not only the conflict between the main characters, but also the features and mannerisms that would put them in future situations. Nearly every scene is wonderful to watch unfold. The great timing between Gable and Colbert adds to the snappy dialog and makes the watching all the more enjoyable.It is amazing what has happened to practically every part of the great medium that is film a mere 80 years later. What was once great comedy and great romance together in the same story today turns into wild and illicit sex or stupid, dumbed down physical comedy and cheap laughs. Sometimes they have both; but here it comes down to well-written and acted characters along with two very likable actors letting their personas shine and the story do the talking. It really is true when they say they just don't make them like they used to.


                
"It Happened One Night" is a clever, warm comedy which mixes in a hint of attitude. The female lead character, Ellie Andrews, is in her early twenties and lives in an old-fashioned U.S.A. where women are invested with significance by the males who govern and guide them. Her wealthy father has detained Ellie against her will on his boat, because he wants to annul her recent marriage to a man he despises. Ellie escapes and hits the road with fired reporter Peter Warne (Clark Gable), both endeavoring to get Ellie back together with her husband.The night scenes are beautiful, with light luminously dappling the darkness - the night crossing of the stream and the bedding down beside the hay carts are awesome.Director Frank Capra eloquently brings to life inclusion in God's vast family by portraying a makeshift community of bus passengers joining in song.Yes. This film is somewhat dated by the inferior status of women and the two-bed accommodations for a supposedly married couple; but to be fair to the writers and Mr. Capra, they worked under the intimidation of the Hays Office restrictions: a ludicrous and un-American brand of censorship which was in the vigor of new enforcement when this picture was made. Keeping this in mind, the viewer can see that the writers and director managed to cleverly slip some of the sensuality of real life into the movie.Despite any minor qualms, "It Happened One Night" is a delightful comedy which achieves excellence and is well worth your time.
Ellen "Ellie" Andrews wants to marry fortune hunter "King" Westley against the wishes of her millionaire father.She escapes from the family yacht and hops on a bus to New York City.There she meets a reporter called Peter Warne who has just gotten fired.Peter gets an idea for a great story.He would get him to Westley if she gave him an exclusive story.Or else he will tell her father where she is and collect the reward.She agrees.A lot of stuff happens to them and eventually, not right away, they start having feelings to each other.It Happened One Night (1934) is a top-notch romantic comedy from Frank Capra.There's a great cast.Clark Gable makes a great pair with Claudette Colbert.These people say plenty of witty lines in this screwball comedy.It's famous for it's extremely funny hitchhiking scene.Peter brags about his hitchiking skills and has a few ways to make a car stop.He tries them all and eventually thumbs his nose.Not one car stops.Then Ellie steps out and shows a little leg.A car stops immediately.And the singing driver is funny.There's a lot of other stuff that's funny.The singing of "The Man on the Flying Trapeze" on the bus, Henry getting Shapely frightened, the "piggieback ride" and the whole deal with "The Walls of Jericho", meaning a blanket separating the beds of the two in some motel rooms.The film was a winner of five Oscars in 1935.It was the best picture of the year, Capra got one, Gable got the only Oscar of his career, Colbert had to be summoned from a train station because she didn't believe she would win one.Robert Riskin got one for Best Writing and Adaptation.It's been said that the cartoon character Bugs Bunny was being inspired by this film.There's an imaginary character called Bugs Dooley mentioned there, and also, Clark Gable eats carrots in a scene while talking quickly with his mouth full.Now it's your turn to watch this classic, if you haven't done so yet, and be inspired by it.


                
<U+0085> and that night was 8th January 1976, which was the first time I saw this All Time Great. Although I've seen it well over 10 times since it never fails to charm, captivate, amuse, entertain and defragment me, they being the opposite effects most modern movies have on me. Frank Capra made some great films, but imho he didn't better this simple little screwball comedy with its Love (Ultimately) Triumphant message.Grouchy newspaper man Gable bumps into coquettish runaway heiress Colbert on a bus trying to get to New York to marry an ugly gold digger to spite her father. To get the story he helps her but they gradually fall in love of course - this is the logical how and why of it, with the central witty and natural performances from Gable and Colbert as sparkling as the lustrous photography. As a by-product True Love between the classes was also shown to be possible, although of course in this case neither class had Breeding. There are some delightful characters to savour along the way <U+0096> the tongue-tied Ward Bond, the garrulous Roscoe Karns, the operatic Alan Hale, and the blustery Walter Connelly. Favourite bits: dunking doughnuts; piggybacking; hitch-hiking; the Walls of Jericho making it alright; frightening Shapely; the repartee on the bus(es); the clinch by the haystacks in the gleaming arc-moonlight <U+0096> and so much more!To me it's ascended into timelessness <U+0096> it seems less dated than most films made from the '50's to the '80's - the only films that will temporarily look less dated than this are perhaps those made in any current last couple of years. And no matter how corny I always relate better to real people than to Imperial Stormtroopers or cgi cartoons. Thoroughly recommended - this is a brilliant beautiful film, absolutely inconsequential and one of my top 10 favourites.


                
