There is nothing here to waste any portion of your life on. The only reason I bothered to get to the end of this muddled mess was, I was putting together a piece of furniture so I had a distraction from this story. The other reason I stuck it out to the end was I was curious how this could get a four star review from Turner Classic Movies. The story line itself makes little sense, and the adventures these men have a ridiculous contrivances. The first forty five minutes of the movie are just there to establish that these are bunch of down and out men who would do anything for money; a lot of the interactions between the characters are silly, and add little or nothing to this story. After that they have a series of adventures that make little or no sense. Things that no one would do, things that are not possible, and things that would be just plain stupid to do. There are just to many things to outline here. I would not recommend watching this film unless you want to see a stunningly poorly written story line. I am at compete loss as to how so many people have given this a good review. The only thing dumber then the story line is the ending of this film; like the rest of the film it makes no sense; no one would do what this guy does. Since this film is bad on so many levels I can't outline them all here. Your going to have to decide if you want to waste nearly two hours of your life, on something this bad.


                
Just watched this out of date, over acted piece of utter nonsense. What on Earth are all these other reviews talking about? Did we watch the same movie?There are "real" classics out there, one's from the same period that dated well, showed the period and the issues of the day and dealt with them in a real and honest way...and then there these are "arty" classics that just go and over do the story, the dialogue and the characters to...well, I don't know why they do it but I can say that I don't get why they do "it". This must be an arty classics because I just didn't get "it" and I don't understand the people that have watched this in the last 40 years and pretended to get "it" as well. 
There is nothing real about this movie, the story is passable, okay, but there is no insight into the time or place of the movie, the dialogue is plain ridiculous, and the casting is terrible...(did anyone look at, and understand, who/what Linda's character was supposed to be in the first 5 minutes of the movie? She was badly cast and then given a terrible role to play on top of that). Vanel's transition from tough old street thug to corny coward was...well, it was hilarious actually (that was a source of a few laughs, truth be told). I think only O'Brien Luigi and Bimba are well played and we get saved the silly dialogue of the others with these characters. Mario was...such a shallow and repulsive character to me that I won't even go into how out-dated this kind of "hero" is in this day and age.
Who should want to watch this movie? Those that want to see what being "cool" meant to a man in the 50's and how women (and a really beautiful one at that) where/should be treated by such macho men like Mario (this is a real women beater's showcase here). All in all a rubbish movie and if I could have those two and a half hours back I would surely ask.


                
