This movie is astonishing, a gritty story filmed in an ultra-real style that relies simply on the beauty of lighting and film to achieve its stunning effects. It seems from another world, which in a way, it is. The acting is superb: Montand's Mario is full of jerky movements and intense impulses but always maintains his Gallic savoir-faire, while Charles Vanel as Jo brings, at first at least, a type of macho to the screen that modern movie-makers simply do not comprehend. The rest of the cast, especially the camp chief, Luigi, and Peter van Eyck as Bimba are incredible, as is Vera Clouzot who is incomprehensibly but believably upbeat and innocent - and totally gorgeous - in the midst of the hellhole of a town they're all stuck in. Clouzot's directing is flawless - I don't think anyone has ever squeezed more tension with just a few essential scene elements. The trucks wheeze and grunt as well as they ever have in the movies - the only comparison is Spielberg's early gem, "The Duel", but Clouzot's automotive cinematics outdo even Spielberg. The stripped down existentialism of the characters, the starkness of their shared dilemma, the grim and grimy scenery, and the cinematography itself are all of a piece. The latter is what elevates this movie to the very top rank, including some of the most dramatic and effective black and white shooting I've ever seen. Yet it never becomes mannered or gratuitous - it is orchestrated with the rise - and rise! - of tension in the film. The final scene takes on a surreal as opposed to ultra-realistic quality that has its own logic. One last word about the acting - we don't see anything like it anymore. The self-conscious mannerism of method acting (which has had its own triumphs) and the toxic awareness of everyone from the actors to the audience, the camera, directors, etc. that each actor is a celebrity and potential artiste, has ruined that conviction that actors were once larger than life people before they went on-screen, that they came to acting as an outcome of living rough, unadorned, and yet imaginative lives as opposed to shooting for fame and fortune and celebrity within an artificial corporate star-making incubator.


                
This is an extraordinary movie. From the opening scene showing the squalor of a Latin American town with filth and vultures in the street and naked children begging for food amid the oppressive, fly-stirred heat, to the finale on a winding mountain road, it is just plain fascinating. True, some of the action does not bear close scrutiny. One does not siphon nitroclycerine nor does one avoid potholes or bumps in the road by driving at forty miles per hour. No matter. Let's allow a little license. And the title doesn't entirely make sense because the wages of sin are death, but the wages of those who followed their fear and did not seek to drive a nitroclycerine truck over 300 miles of bad road are life. Again, no matter.This is such an original movie, every scene like little or nothing you've ever seen before (and for sure will never see again), that the little inconsistencies and some stretching of what is possible are not important. This is man against nature, man against himself reduced to a simple task. It is life in the raw. One mistake and you are dead.Yves Montand has the lead as Mario, a Frenchman stranded in this god-forsaken town with only one way out: get enough money to pay for airfare. Charles Vanel is the older, tin-horn dandy who ends up with a case of the shakes. Peter Van Eyck is the man with the nerves of steel who finds this little adventure a piece of cake after forced labor in the salt mines for the Nazis. And Folco Lulli is Luigi, the happy, singing baker who hopes to return to Italy with the two thousand dollars they are paying him to drive the nitro-loaded truck.This is a film depicting the primitive nature of a macho mentality. There's a lot of posturing. Every event is a potential test of manhood. Status and privilege are flouted. The weak and the poor do not inherit the earth.Henri-Georges Clouzet directs and somehow manages to come up with a work of genius. One wonders how. The story, on the face of it, would seem to belong in the slush pile of a ten-cent pulp fiction mag from the 1930's. The acting is good, very good in places, but not great. The cinematography is straightforward, but nonetheless very effective. It is lean and focused always, showing us what needs to be seen without drawing attention to itself: the invisible style, which is the best. Clouzet's direction is characterized by a vivid depiction of things that we can feel: the mud and filth in the streets, the desperation and the boredom, the cruelty and meanness of men, the oil on their bodies, the singular fact of a ton of nitro in the back seat so that every move is a neuron-exposing adventure. I think that the visceral experience from beginning to end and the fine pacing are the essence of what makes this a great film.Clouzet's wife, Vera Clouzet, plays Linda who first appears scrubbing the floor in an open-air bistro. She is rather extraordinary herself, finely made up and creamy white like a star of the silent film era. She grovels a lot, especially for Mario. She provides the counter-point, the contrast for the testosterone action of the movie.No student of film should miss this. It would be like missing Citizen Kane or Dr. Strangelove or especially The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, which it vaguely and strangely resembles. "La salaire de la peur" is, regardless of its flaws, one of the best ever made.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
A completely novel plot.  Happened upon this on late night TV about 10 years ago.  Thought I had seen all the best of the classics and then this came on.  "Where have you been all my life?" was the overwhelming question.  What an incredibly beautiful and stark movie at the same time.  Absolutely unprecedented.  Everything about it--especially the cinematography (check out the scene with the turnabout for the trucks) is superior.  If you care about plot, allegory, intelligent directing and acting, this is one which is second to none.  Nitroglycerine being transported across the Venezuelan countryside. . .who comes up with this stuff?  The remake (Sorcerer) is decent, but doesn't even come close.  Outstanding flick.


                
This is richer, tenser, more atmospheric, and in all ways a better film than Clouzot's next one, "Les Diabolique" - which is saying a lot.  I've never understood why Clouzot isn't more highly regarded.  Indeed, for a long time I simply couldn't believe that he wasn't.One charge that hangs over his head is misogyny.  With regards to "Les Diabolique" this is simply ridiculous; with regards to "The Wages of Fear", I can see how one could harbour the uncomfortable feeling that there is, perhaps, something in it.  But what, really, does the evidence amount to? The fact that one of the heroes is inexcusably cruel to his girlfriend? It's not as if the film endorses this, or invites us to take pleasure in it, or even, for that matter, allows us to.  The characters are all flawed, and the film doesn't seek to deny it.  It does, however, make an attempt to explain it.  That town in the middle of nowhere is, we feel, really in the MIDDLE of nowhere; it must be the dustiest and most demoralising place on Earth.  After a while we feel as if we could start kicking someone, just to break the monotony.There's no doubt that the initial monotony gives the rest of the film half its strength.  William Wyler once said that if you want to surprise or shock an audience the best thing you can do is bore them half to death beforehand - and although I can think of absolutely no reason why this should be so, allowing for a little exaggeration, it's true.  The seemingly aimless opening sequences help make every single frame, from the moment the nitro-glycerin is mentioned, electric.So much is, in retrospect, amazing.  There's the way Clouzot manages to show us the humanity in these seemingly squalid people.  (Even the oil magnate, just when we think he's the world's most heartless capitalist, reveals he has a heart with an unexpected remark, and yet the remark doesn't feel at all out of character - it's the kind of masterful characterisation film-goers live for.)  Then there's the obstacles these drivers must face. All are memorable; most are so perfectly realised they deserve to be called mythic.


                
you sit on the edge of your seat. You can read the plot of the film on the many other postings here. Once the story is reduced to two men each in two little sardine can truck cabs 'strapped' to nitroglycerine, you are glad you put up with some anti-imperialistic claptrap at the beginning. The director uses one standard shot, head-on of each truck crew through their windshields with alternating close ups of faces as they talk and we learn more about them and just when we have had enough 'getting to know you' some crisis erupts: an impassable turn, a boulder blocking the road, and finally the pool of oil.With what mastery Clouzot sets up that scene: the trucks do not travel in tandem but a mile or two apart. By the time Mario and Jo come upon the boulder-blocked road, the others have already conceived a plan to use a bit of their cargo to blast the rock away. The fuse is lit; the men scramble as suddenly they realize debris could hit their trucks and set off the nitro anyway. Rocks fall all about them but all is safe; they continue on their way, released and relieved. They smoke, and the German character begins to shave as the truck rumbles along, his truckmate marveling at his nerve as he explains how Nazi prisons made him the way he is. The director cuts to Mario and Jo, following and chatting, our eyes following their conversation through the windshield. A noise is heard and eyes bug out. A column of smoke on the road ahead. Their mates are gone, and in one of the most frightening scenes in film, Mario must pilot the truck through the oil left by their departure while Jo guides him.I recall Life Magazine, I believe, had a spread on this film when it came out with many photos. Two years before, I'd lived in an oil refining camp in Eastern Venezuela and while it was on the Caribbean, occasionally we would take a jungle road to a beach away from camp. This made it seem all the more realistic. This film deserves the highest rating.
A director of several terrific detective movies made in the forties such as "le corbeau" (1943), you can consider Henri Georges Clouzot as one of the best French film-makers specialized in suspense. Here, he broaches a new topic for him: the adventure movie with "le salaire de la peur" (1953) and this is a stunning movie.You can divide the movie into two obvious parts. The first one focuses on this bunch of men who lives in this Mexican small town cut disconnected from the world, even the time. If this part is a little uninteresting (but essential in the way that Clouzot emphasizes on their boredom and the mission to carry nitroglycérine with trucks to an oil well is an unexpected opportunity for them), on the other hand, the second part justifies the vision of the movie. When the four men have accepted the mission, they aren't out of the woods: there are a lot of dangerous situations where death can arrive at any moment. Clouzot manages to maintain the interest thanks to an asset whose he is the master: the suspense.A brilliant and absorbing movie still just as good as it was more than fifty years ago.


                
"Wages of Fear"   is without doubt a true classic - a film you can watch again and again.  Four desperate men on a journey that will reveal their true character as every turn in the road brings a new challenge to test their mettle.  This film is so good that avid fan such as myself derives as much pleasure from watching first timers viewing it as from seeing it again myself.  The suspense is such that their faces cannot but contort and wince in anticipation, their eyes as big as dinner plates are absolutely riveted to the screen as the action unfolds.  The tension in this film is palpable so check your pace maker before pushing the 'Play' button.  By the way, it is an ambition of mine to track down the location of the scene where the trucks back out on to the platform.  I simply cannot depart this earth without having stood on that very spot.  Can anyone help?  I believe some of the scenes were shot in Venezuela and others in El Salvador.  Any leads would be most appreciated


                
In general I steer clear of foreign films, not just because I dislike reading subtitles, but also because I never feel as comfortable viewing them as I do films from my own culture. Perhaps I don't like to stretch myself as much as I should. I approached this film with trepidation. From the first second of this film I was absolutely absorbed into the world it created - a world dominated by desperate men from disparate cultures trapped in a sordid backwater. Without money, passports and marketable skills, they spend their time indulging in drunkenness, indifferent sex and mindless violence until they are offered an escape through a trial by fire, survivor takes all and the chances of survival are slim indeed. Wages of Fear provides the ultimate in suspense, character development, physical and psychological action. It is a visual masterpiece, not because of the beauty it displays but because of the complexity, depth and darkness of the world it portrays. It reminds me so much of Treasure of the Sierra Madres, an examination of courage and character under the most dire circumstances. A wonderful feature of this film -- there is absolutely no background music which increases the reality and suspense because the viewer cannot anticipate the action. You get to sweat and tremble along with the characters as they drive over washboard roads and crumbling mountain paths. The acting is superb, and this from a person who has in the past dismissed Yves Montand as a frivolous song and dance man. Highly recommended.


                
On the short list of best films ever made. One of those films that you get so wrapped up in you forget you're watching a film. The acting is superb and the cinematography first-rate. I love the shot near the beginning of the film where Linda is crawling across the floor to Mario, soft light from outside playing across her body, breasts partially exposed; he fondles her hair sorta petting her like a dog or cat. A perfectly crafted short little sequence that explains their relationship and perhaps Mario's attitude toward women in general better than pages of prose ever could. But the movie is really about the struggle for existence in an unforgiving world where any display of cowardice costs your claim to manhood, and as such, the action and suspense scenes are among the most finely crafted in cinema history. If you're a fan of international cinema, SEE THIS FILM!! BTW, the Criterion Collection edition is first-rate.


                
So many good words have been written about this brilliant film that it seems unlikely that any more are necessary. However, there are a couple of points which occurred to me as I watched it again yesterday.Firstly, the language. This is a truly multi-lingual film, and one of its chief joys for me is the wild multiplicity of thoroughly mangled foreign accents and the earthy, slang-filled dialogue. It's great to hear Italians and Germans and Americans talking in French, Frenchmen and Russians in English, Englishmen in Spanish. Eet iz as if I wurz to write ze 'ole of zis revieew lyik zis. And when the two French guys (Mario and Jo) are together, their speech is peppered with really down-to-earth slang and obscenities.The subtitles of my copy (although good) didn't always manage to convey the exact sense of the rough talk. One instance was blatantly censored; as Jo and Mario are leaving the depot with the laden trucks, O'Brien shouts a very male "Merde!" at them for luck: the subtitles' "Break a leg!" misses the muck a little. O'Brien tries again, with a more human "Good luck, boys", but Jo's response, hidden in the roar of the accelerating truck is, "Et un Coca-Cola dans le c*n!" For non-French speakers, men don't have one.The second point, neatly enough, follows on from that. Although movies can be "about" almost anything you want, Wages Of Fear presents us with an intense, highly-charged subtext of what it means to be a man and how men relate to each other. There is a whole load of unacknowledged sexuality just below the surface of this film - hey, Mario even gets to kiss Luigi - and I feel that any accusations of misogyny levelled at this movie need to be interpreted in a slightly wider context.I first saw Wages of Fear at an after-school film club over thirty years ago, where we were lucky enough to be introduced to a number of movie masterpieces by a teacher who simply adored good film-making. He would talk coherently and intelligently beforehand about each film for a good ten minutes (without notes) and this was one of his all-time favourites. He was right, of course. Thanks, Tony. 10/10
This is what film making is all about.  This movie combines unique character development, a great script and direction, with entertaining and suspenseful scenes.  This is definitely my favorite movie.  This is one that even if you do not love, EVERYONE is guaranteed to like.


                
The first time I saw this amazing film I was first fascinated by the photography, the locale, the development of the all-too-human characters, and as the plot thickened I became glued to my seat, then wriggling with the unbearable suspense. After it's all over, you're left with a lot more than a sigh of relief--it leaves you thinking, and you remember the characters as if you knew them. One of the top ten movies I've ever seen for its ruthless existentialism coupled with pure entertainment value. The second time I saw it it was....almost as good.


                
Gripping, dark, intense <U+0085> never has my heart's resistance been so challenged. Once the trucks took off to their hellish journey, I was literally grabbed, accompanying these four unsung heroes, like another passenger ... along with the haunting presence of death<U+0085> Henri-George Clouzot, Hitchock's most valuable rival, made suspense films with a sadistic nerve and a humanistic genius, he defined suspense even better than the Master. Hitch said when two fellows are dining in a restaurant, and the table explodes <U+0085> you understand there was a bomb underneath. It's surprise, but no suspense. Suspense is, according to Hitch, when you KNOW there is a bomb, and you want the two guys to leave the table, because you know WHEN it will explode. I humbly and respectfully disagree <U+0085> For me, suspense is precisely when you know there is a bomb, BUT you don't know when it'll explode. It's suspense when any second can take you off your seat. And in "Wages of Fear", four men volunteer to transport nitroglycerin by trucks. Any blow, any shock, and they're gone <U+0085> they know, we know, the only unknown here is <U+0085> "When?""When?" illustrates the truth that fear is an emotion connected with the future. Past can be repressed, present is a soon-to-be past, but future scares. And when you know, you drive a truck that can explode at any moment; you're tormented between two contradictory feelings: that you might die and that you can't die. Self-preservation is a so incompatible instinct for such a mission, that the only character we understand is Jo, Charles Vanel in a breathtaking performance. Jo perfectly embodies the idea that fear is a fear of the future, his past; his gangster past is used as a mask to impress the others. He even fools us in the beginning as we believe he'll be the ultimate bad-ass, contrasting with the kindness and romantic side of Mario, Yves Montand as his partner, the joviality of Luigi the Italian, and Bimba, the Dutch whose laconic tone, and avarice of lines, draw a perpetual enigma in his face. They're the courageous drivers of the trucks of doom. Jo is the bravest before the mission, but when it starts, the inconceivability of his death makes his nerves finally crack, in a pathetic cowardice that doesn't belittle his manhood anyway."Wages of Fear" is a fascinating character study about how far, desperate and jobless men would go. I know I should have started with the beginning, but I don't think I have as many time as Clouzot had to plunge us in this fascinating universe, this South American town in the middle of a desert, populated by foreign workers who spend their time, trying to find a way to spend it, a rich and colorful, multicultural atmosphere that makes us forget about the mission <U+0085> we get used to this boredom, a kind of 'Hustonian' melancholy where the losers, don't lose this pleasant ability to be themselves, despite the adversity <U+0085> and flirting with a pretty girl, who likes to acts like your little cat <U+0085> Vera Clouzot as the sweet and innocent waitress Linda, is like a female incarnation of these men who're the real sheep in a land when the wolf is the unethical American Southern Oil Corporation (SOC), a Sierra Madre whose only treasure is a suicidal mission, rewarded by 2000 dollars.SOC will play the pivotal role by hiring men for the suicidal mission. Transporting trucks of nitroglycerin to the Oil fields ignited by a gigantic fire, which only an explosion can extinguish. It takes a lot of guts to accept this mission, the men are so eager to leave the town; you wonder how they came here in the first place. I think it's because they don't belong to anything, no country, no union, no family <U+0085> their lives are maybe more uncertain than their death, which at this point looks more promising. But self-control and determination have to be proved during the mission. As one Texan said, fear inhabits you forever. Later, Jo reminds us of the way, fear is an emotion that you can't talk about, only live it <U+0085> and it takes a non-heroic but no less admirable courage to reckon his fears, like Luigi when he didn't want to fight Jo, like Jo when he admitted he was scared <U+0085>And during this captivating road to an imminent death, the imminence of an explosion is always teasing your thoughts, on the 'washboard' road, it's probably the most suspenseful movie sequence ever, the two trucks are about to collide, one can't accelerate before one point, the look on their eyes, the sweat on their foreheads, and me, holding my breath, waiting for the explosion <U+0085> then they met a platform above a precipice, a boulder blocking the road, and the explosion, well, let's say that <U+0085> even though I expected a truck explosion, it managed to surprise me, and to shock me. THIS is suspense <U+0085>If you read this, you know how it ends, and I guess the ending works as a the second plot twist, the first one being Jo's real personality <U+0085> life in its splendidly despicable irony, you literally waltz with death until it dumps you at the unfortunate second you lower your guard <U+0085> Was he stupid to be so dangerously jubilant? I think it depends on how we see things, if you know, you'll die, you're scared, if you think providence will spare you now, you're screwed. Tragic, it's the film noir, noir like nowhere, the nihilistic optimism that inspire the most heroic but ultimately tragic actions. And how ironic to realize at the end that fear is not necessarily bad, Jo was probably the most intelligent because he valued his life, where the others, sick, lunatic or romantic didn't see the danger ... I guess that was the viewer's department.
Four desperate outcasts in a seedy tropical village volunteer to drive a pair of trucks loaded with volatile nitroglycerin over unpaved mountain roads to a remote oil field, where a well is burning out of control. Henri-Georges Clouzot's stark, pessimistic adventure contains enough pure suspense to pull any viewer to the edge of a seat, but until 1992 the film had never been seen (at least in this country) in its uncut, original form. Before it was first released, scissor-happy censors trimmed nearly 45-minutes of footage (mostly from the early, introductory scenes) to help soften the strong anti-American subtext, but even in the truncated version the bias must have been obvious. American oil (and the need to keep it flowing) is still the monument under which every character is ultimately buried, a point made explicit when one driver is crushed beneath his truck in a pool of crude. The director's restored cut is even is incredibly downbeat (note the vultures hovering over every other scene), but the film still packs a thrilling, unforgettable punch.


                
The Wages Of Fear is a damn near perfect suspense thriller. The story concerns four men, broke, desperate, and stranded in a small town somewhere in South America (Venezuela, I presume). They are offered a way out of their miserable existence when an oil well catches fire three hundred miles away and the oil company needs four men to drive the nitroglycerin to the site to blow it out. The trouble is that the three hundred miles they have to drive is some of the most rugged, hostile terrain imaginable.The tension and suspense is palpable during the driving scenes, but what takes this movie to a whole other level is that it takes the time to familiarize the audience with these men. We feel like we know them, and sympathize with them before the journey starts. The whole cast is great and believable, and it wasn't long before I truly forgot I was watching actors in a fictional film. These men made it real, as did the brilliant direction of Henri-Georges Clouzot. Clouzot's style is gritty and realistic, with cuts between the trucks and close-ups of their actions (hands on the shift lever, feet on the pedals, etc) serving to heighten the tension. The lack of a musical score also lends a sense of realism and helps to bring home the sense of loneliness and isolation felt by these men. Highly recommended.


                
"You're getting paid to be scared." Just one of the great lines in this great movie. I am constantly amazed at how suspenseful the movie is ... even with repeat viewings.  So -- with my more recent viewings (of the excellent Criterion DVD) -- I began to consider some of the themes.What if the men were rich?  Would they have not even considered taking the risk?  If that is so, then why do very wealthy men and women (like Martha Stewart etc) still take risks engaging in insider trading, accounting scams, and tax evasion?  Could it be that some people take risks because ... in addition to the rewards ... they are thrilled by the risks?
At one point, Luigi says to Bimba, something like, "After tomorrow, we'll be rich ... if we are still alive. And if we are not, then it is all over anyway." So is this a story about courageous men who risk their lives for money? Or it is a story about men who are prepared to die ... and perhaps prefer to die ... if they cannot get what they want? And is that the attitude that can get us through each day ... and get us what we want? "Do or die?" Or it that the moral position that justifies injuring others to get what we want?What if it were me? Would I have taken the job? At what point would I have given up? Perhaps I would not be afraid of dying. But would I be ruthless...and would I be unwilling to quit when the obstacles appear to be insurmountable?"You don't know what fear is.  ... It's catchy like smallpox.  And once you get it, it's for life."Why is it that more men than women like this film?  The leads are men who face danger.  On the other hand, these ruthless and dnagerous men begin to crumble with fear ... not just the fear of dying, but the fear of failing. You'd think that women would appreciate a movie commenting on the foolishness and inconsequence of male fantasies.


                
I had been hunting this one down for a while until I managed to get my hands on a copy. Luckily it was the original director's cut and not the edited American version. I went into this movie with extremely high expectations and I was not disappointed in the least. The performances were uniformly excellent. I was drawn in by Mario's unfailing tenacity as much as I was repulsed by his willingness to commit a reprehensible act in his drive to accomplish the mission (see the movie to see what I mean). I sympathized with Jo, who, although a whiner and coward, was the wisest of the bunch.The cinematography is alternately beautiful and bleak, capturing the graveness of the situation wonderfully. The oil slick scene is amazing. The tension builds to almost agonizing levels, and then goes a bit further. I'm a Hitchcock fan, but I don't think Hitch ever directed anything that reaches the level of suspense of The Wages of Fear.People have said that they thought the introduction went on too long, but I'd have to disagree. The long introduction serves to firmly establish the characters and give weight to their actions. The full 148-minute version is the one to see if you enjoy strong character development, but the 131-minute version is available for those with less patience.And yes, there is not a happy ending. Some might say it was a letdown. I admit to feeling that way for a minute or two until I started replaying the movie in my mind (and this is a movie that stays with you, guaranteed). I came to appreciate the bleak ending, and in fact, relish it. I found it to be--and I believe that this was the director's intention-- just desserts.


                
This film runs along the traditional template of any story - a beginning, which unhurriedly and deliberately sets the scene, a middle section that carries the plotline, and a brief ending that resolves everything to no one's satisfaction. The beginning paints a picture of a world unimaginable to anyone from a developed country, of corruption, poverty, and oppression. It simultaneously describes the main characters - a bunch of immigrants who have strayed to this miserable little town, and for whom there is little chance of escape from the baking heat and unemployment. There is Mario, the happy-go-lucky scrounger, Luigi, his hard-working Italian pal, the comically tyranical tavern owner, his much abused maid, and Jo, the suave and dangerous French gangster. Homosexuality, racism, and the oppression of women figure prominently, but are never commented upon directly, as various prison motifs are evident in the lighting and set construction. Suddnly there is a change - a way out for a 'lucky' four of the deadbeats. There has been an explosion at an oil well on the other side of the mountain. The oil company needs to put out the fire with explosives, which are stored in the town. But its nitro-glycerine, and there is no time to get specially-fitted trucks to carry it over the rough mountains roads. Rather than risk their own employees, the oil company offers a large reward to four volunteers. Cue the action as first the men compete for the places on the two trucks, then as the winners embark on their terrifying journey, where every bump could spell instant death. On the journey their true characters emerge. One, Jo, is broken by the ordeal, but is eventually redeemed. 'How exciting could a simple road trip be?' you might ask, but the one and a half hour screen journey is petrifyingly spellbinding. Fate seems to be stacked against these bedraggled heroes, but it is their ingenuity, effort and bravery which captures our hearts. I won't reveal the details or the ending, which is tragic and some say its only flaw. It's in black and white, and mostly in French, but it will never be old-fashioned. The best film I have ever seen - and I've seen a few.


                
Hitchcock's primary rival, the French prodigy Henry Georges Clouzot, defined a new type of thriller with "The Wages Of Fear" and a new type of fear. Oh yes, it wasn't the Ray Harryhausen sea monsters of stop motion, nor was it aliens from outer space or Nosferatu or more sinister, the blonde Hitchcock Femme Fatale. No, it was much more real than that. Even a valuable lesson perhaps. Don't, and I repeat, don't carry Nitroglycerine around. You might get hurt. No film portrays being careful with dangerous substances quite so well as this film, because it give you the feeling that YOU are handling it. And that's the unsettling thing about it. Like James Coburn said in Sergio Leone's "A Fistful Of Dynamite", "if this falls, you'd have to alter the maps". Precisely so with the substance in question. Nitroglycerine. Who would be crazy enough to handle that. That's precisely what our film's protagonists may have thought had the pay not have been so big as to persuade them. On top of the unbearable, nail-biting, teddy bear clenching suspense, this film is one fantastic character study. Character revelations, weaknesses and heroics all come into play as the Nitro changes all their lives.It's South America. A remote village in the middle of God's nowhere. Outcasts, wanderers, desperadoes, fraudsters and nobodies from all around the globe work for peanuts in factories and mines, staying hopeful as to their unpredictable futures, for maybe one day they'd have enough money for a flight out to start a new life. Many await an opportunity for even a sign of work. But one thing's for sure - the desperation among the men make them very competitive. To the point where everybody is such a tough guy. Things change however when a very confident and tough French man named Jo comes to town. Mysterious but well dressed, he easily attracts the attention of a fellow French man named Mario. The two get along instantaneously, reaching a type of partner-hood that leads to neglect of the other men in town. Almost straight away, Jo is seen as a force not to be reckoned with. The tough guys of late are no more. People keep their mouths shut. He is established as a cutthroat with bad attitude, while Mario always keeping himself quiet. A wise man indeed. But among all men, human nature will always prevail.One morning the news comes out. In a remote oil mine far far away, miners have been killed in an explosion and a fire is consuming all the oil and environment around it. The fire must be stopped and the damage repaired. The mining company comes to the harrowing conclusion that Nitroglycerine is the only way at their disposal. There is only one problem. Who would be crazy enough to drive Nitro across some of the most difficult and death defying terrain through South American rain forest to the oil mine? Normally this would apply to everybody. But the job becomes like a one off chance to see Willy Wonka when the pay is announced. It comes as no surprise that every man jumps at the chance, life second to the smell of money.Following many tests, trials and errors, four men are selected to drive the two trucks. Mario is the most fit for the job. A German named Bimba and an Italian named Luigi drive in the other truck. Cheating was the only way Jo could drive with Mario as he was unqualified for the job. Then one night, the trucks are loaded with barrel upon barrel of Nitroglycerine. The trucks begin their suicide journey at snail pace through the streets of the town and into the murky hills of the rocky, muddy, slippery hills. For one slight bump could be the difference between life and death. A small disturbance in the substance would create such a powerful explosion as to rock the landscape miles in every direction. Are these men heroes or cowards? The tension breaks them as it breaks us, and we find out more about them as each bump raises the blood pressure in our veins. Clouzot's patient direction and masterful editing gives the film's title a whole new meaning. It's fantastic. But nothing beats the human study and the poignant message: Are men as tough as they appear? Although Clouzot didn't make as much of an impact on film as Alfred Hitchcock had and not nearly as many films, he was however a worthy competitor. With this film and Les Diabolique, Hitchcock's jealousy retaliated with the master works Vertigo and Psycho. Everything about this film is patient suspense. And nothing beats patient direction to make you feel uncomfortable - Something Hitchcock mastered long before. The power house actors namely Yves Montand as Mario brought the film to life. Charles Vanel as Jo had the most complex character and he molded him brilliantly. We feel sorry for him, we hate him, we like him and we identify with him. The actors absorbed their roles so well that by the end of the film, you feel as though you've been on a journey with these men, and rightfully so. Human emotion on the whole spectrum is showcased in great method, realistic performances. And the script was so well written - the dialog achieving a kind of audience disconnection that puts emphasis more on real conversation between actors. Very tense indeed. But this film wouldn't have been half as good had it not been for the claustrophobic editing.A technical achievement in itself. Flawless in every respect.Please, do yourself a favor. Go and watch this film right now! Adventure/suspense at it's most unbearable....
The simple premise of four out of work men driving two truck nitro glycerine laden trucks across a forest to cut off the fire at a burning oil field is turned into a two and a half hour masterpiece, with some of the best character development ever filmed followed by some of the most tense action scenes in cinema history.The fact that this film does have a full hour of characterisation before it gets going is enough to see off most modern audiences. Unfortunately I didn't watch this film alone so the room wasn't free of shouts of 'NOTHING'S HAPPENED! THIS IS BORING!' Even though this is an action film, and one of the best of the 1950s at that (which pits it alongside the terrific works of Japan in this decade), it should not be treated as something to watch half drunk of a Friday night. After this first hour you will know just about everything regarding the personalities of the four men who are going to be the ones selected for the dangerous task, which makes the journey's change from friendly contest to a desperate competition where the men will do anything to be the first to reach the oil field and receive the reward all the more obvious and affecting. A huge corporation exploiting the working class in this way undoubtedly leads to many people reading into this film quite a lot. But even with this aside, once the film enters its second hour it showcases some of the best action scenes ever filmed. The recklessness the men develop over these scenes ultimately lead to their downfall, especially that of Mario. Overall this is too essential to miss. Many people will be bored stiff by the first hour, which is ironic because they are depriving themselves of the second half's awesome action that they were probably craving in the first place. Along with The Seven Samurai, this is the ultimate action film of the 1950s and one of the most tense films ever made.


                
Think that space invaders, aliens, dinosaurs, cyborgs, or monsters of one sort or another are needed to make a film a thriller? If so, I recommend you watch Henri-Georges Clouzot's 1953 black and white masterpiece The Wages Of Fear (La Salaire De La Peur), about the evils of runaway greed and capitalism, all in the name of oil. It'll change your mind. Over half a century later, and in light of the current American war folly for oil in the Middle East, the film is remarkably resonant and cogent- even down to the loudest criticism of American profiteering and imperialism coming from<U+0085>.the French. However, when they're right they're right. If one wants to know why 'Ugly Americans' are loathed in the Middle East it's not because of the rhetorical claptrap about a 'clash of cultures', nor Evil vs. Freedom, but because of decades of exploitation where a select group of mainly American corporations, unanswerable to anyone, get rich off of exploiting the masses where they swoop in. It happened in the Middle East, as well as in Latin America- perhaps the only place in the world where anti-Americanism (really anti-American corporate imperialism) rivals or surpasses that in the Middle East. As a minor character in the film rails, 'Wherever there's oil, there's always Americans.' But, if all this film were was an anti-American screed it would still not grip viewers today. What it is, is a great portrait of the extremes that human beings- OK, men, will go to just to have things, and to what lengths their machismo will drive them.The film's screenplay was adapted by Clouzot and Jérôme Géronimi (Clouzot's brother Jean's pseudonym) from a novel by Georges Arnaud, and, despite its nail-biting nature, as well as Clouzot's reputation as 'the French Hitchcock'- aka 'The Master Of Suspense', for such great thrillers as Diabolique (Les Diaboliques), this film is far beyond merely the technically great cinema that was Hitchcock's stock in trade. That's because it is not merely well made, but provokes deep questions about the fundamental nature of existence, human nature, and fraternity. It's far closer to something like John Huston's The Treasure Of The Sierra Madre (although it's a greater film), and its influence can be seen in many later films, such as Sam Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch- in an opening shot of a naked child torturing cockroaches on a string, and Sergio Leone's Once Upon A Time In The West, when we experience a good few silent minutes of opening shots on the squalid Latin American town, Las Piedras, the film is set in, just to get ambiance. Reputedly, the film was shot entirely over the course of a year, in southern France, in Camargue, with a few imported palm trees and cacti to give it a South American look, but one could not tell it from what is on screen. Clouzot is at his very best when drawing out the suspense, which, by definition, is the time between big events, the possibility of danger or horror, not the thing itself, which is usually anticlimactic. What the viewer imagines will always be more frightening than the reality, which is why the best suspense or horror films are usually those that are the least action-packed, show little of the monster, or are not dependent upon mere special effects. Yet, even when we know what will occur, the scenes are filmed so well as to draw the viewer in. This is particularly effective and true when Mario is shown slowly pulling the truck up off the bridge, and a metal hook from its side catches the bridge cable, and as the truck gets fully on the road, the bridge breaks below him. This sort of scene has been done many times before. Will it or will it not break? In a film as great as this, where all four main characters end up dead, to expect the cable to last is, at best, a crapshoot, or wishful thinking.It is the writing that sets the tenor of The Wages Of Fear, and what makes the suspense/thriller aspect of the film so great. Yet, what raises the film into the high art category is its blunt, simple, but never ham-handed, portrayal of the evils of corporate greed, and the sacrifice of human life so a select few can get rich, as well as the nihilistic despair that drives those who willingly play into their exploiters' hands. As rough as Clouzot is on the exploiters, he's even harsher on the meekly hypocritical exploited. Let Politically Correct Hollywood try that in one of their didactic screeds, and maybe there will be hope for American film. Till then, The Wages Of Fear should always find gainful employment in a cineaste's library.
A superb French film, with an easy basis for a terrible job! Four Europeans, stuck in South America, are offered a chance to work - at a price. Driving volatile explosive over dangerous, hot terrain. Can you imagine doing this, or being offered to do this yourself? There are fine performances from the characters, building up the tension regarding the 'cargo' and of course the human interest in the band being brought together.A very good film and a shame it's not seen on the TV (At least here in Britain) often enough. Every ten years would be good, but I've only seen it 20 years ago! Still, British TV used to be the best in the world, but sadly 'reality TV' has taken us over. Long live classics like this for the schedules!
Wages of fear is a big lesson for action filmmakers who use a lot of technology but are largely unable to recreate an element of human sentiment in their action films.In all seriousness they can learn a lot from a great man who was more popular with his Gallic Hitchcock acronym :Henri Georges Clozot.In 1953,when he made this film,he did not even have one tenth of the kind of technology which is employed by today's technology savvy filmmakers.Wages of fear is a great film with existentialist undertones whose first half is a bitter depiction of nothingness for its four protagonists who languish in hot South America. It is in second half of the film that we witness a flurry of meaningful action.It is quite odd but due to heavy masculine presence Clouzot decided not to have much room for female characters except for a sensual role played by his wife Vera Clouzot.It is a true fact that before this film human misery,desperation and hopelessness were never shown in such vivid details as shown in this film.The sadness depicted in Wages of fear can still be felt in our contemporary world.


                
While I don't normally enjoy movies with subtitles, this one kept my attention when I didn't want to watch it.The movie is in English, Spanish, and French... and all these subtitles. The movie is in Black and White. There are no really attractive people in this movie (other than Yves Montand).But this is one INCREDIBLE story! This is a real white-knuckle story! Every time I wanted to think 'Ok, it's going to be alright now', instead, something else happens to scare me.The fear is not based on special effects, or on eerie music. There are no monsters.Just FEAR. And fear that is tied to money. The Love of Money is the root of all evil, and it will also get you to try to get past your fear.Wages of Fear is an incredible movie. See it from beginning to end. Don't get up for popcorn or sodas or the telephone. Don't take your eyes from the screen, either. When you think those guys are safe... they probably aren't.


                
In the Forum des Images in Paris in addition to the regular screenings and irregular previews, lectures, etc the movie buff can also enter a room containing about two dozen monitors, each supplied with its own keyboard and armchair with built-in speakers. Here the buff can choose to view one of the more than 6,500 titles available. There is, however, one proviso; every title, be it silent or sound, black and white or color, documentary of feature is either set in or has a strong connection with Paris. Selection is up to the individual, theoretically it can be alphabetical if one had the time to scan 6,500 titles. The usual method is to key in the name of an actor, director, writer and/or a genre. When one keys in Yves Montand and qualifies further by adding 'fiction' there is a choice of around ten titles and these include Le Salaire de la puer, which by now everyone knows takes place in South America despite being shot in the South of France. When I brought this to the attention of a staffer it was explained to me that Mario - the character played by Montand - carries around a ticket for the Paris metro. Viewers of this classic tend to carry around for years afterward a mental phial of nitro, such is the impact it has on initial screening. It is impossible to praise too highly the taut script and direction, the just-right acting of slow-starter Montand (after a few brief appearances mostly as himself in pot-boilers he took a beating in his first starring role and concentrated on filling Domestic and International stages with his singing. Even after this triumph it was almost a further decade before he really got into his acting stride via Compartiment tuer. In their wisdom both video and DVD distributors often pair this with the same director's equally definitive 'Les Diaboliques featuring Mrs Montand, Simone Signoret (and again the director's other half, Vera Clouzot). This is an unbeatable parlay and should be snapped up by anyone with even a peripheral interest in what makes good movies. As for this. Magnifique! 10/10


                
