This show is awful. I don't understand what is wrong with everybody. The only reasonable conclusion that I can come to is that there was some sort of mass hypnosis, whereby everyone was convinced this show was funny. Friends never took any risks, tried anything new, or even attempted to expand the norm. Every week it was the same plot, with some wacky jokes by Phoebe, some moronic jokes by Joey, some boring jokes by Ross and Rachel, some anal retentive jokes by Monica, and some mildly charming jokes by Chandler. I realize, that this inherently is not a bad thing. Not every show is meant to push the boundaries of television. However, if you're going to rest on your laurels, and bring nothing new to the table, you should at least do a damn good job of it. Rarely was any joke a surprise, or was there ever a truly laugh out loud moment.It was not funny. This show does not deserve an 8.8 average rating.


                
It is quite simple. Friends is a comedy of very basic humour aimed at teenagers and young adults, with unsophisticated sense of humour.It is also painfully obvious that towards the end, they were desperately trying to make it last 10 seasons, most likely so they could say they beat Seinfeld's 9 season run. The trouble with this is, Seinfeld had 9 amazing seasons with great writing, Friends had (and I'm being very generous here) at most 5 or 6 OK seasons and then 4 abysmal seasons.It became a soap opera with recycled humour and recycled character traits that weren't that good so start with, then got worse at the 100th time you saw them. I find it so hard to understand why people rate this so highly. It is truly awful.


                
TV does influence society...just look at the surge in popularity of cappucino shops after this shallow little piece of work debuted.  Besides, real people who look as good as these people do don't have any problems.Besides, does anyone really believe that these people can afford to live in a nice Manhattan loft considering what they do for a living?  NBC just loves to insult the viewer's intelligence, even if they're just around Gump's level.  I know a person who makes $100,000 a year as a web designer and lives in a tiny one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan that costs $2200 a month in rent.  I'd like to see a show called Phriends, where it's six ugly nobodies in dead-end jobs, living in a crummy neighborhood where sirens constantly wail and someone gets mugged every week...and then the landlord jacks up the rent.  Now THAT I would watch.


                
UGH.... I know I can't be the only person to find this show absolutely retarded! It was incredibly unbelievable and ridiculous even by comedy standards. I liked non of the characters and just hearing the song at the beginning of the show ruined my whole day. If I couldn't reach the remote in time to turn it to ANY other channel I became miserable for the remainder of the day.... I have no clue how this show was loved by many people. The only thing I can thing of is mass hypnosis honestly. Like with other shows like Desperate Housewives when one person says they like it they other will believe they do just to "fit in". I for one do not try to "fit in" and always tell the truth about how I feel about things. As for this show on a scale from 1 to 10 I give it a ZERO.


                
After force-feeding myself a half-dozen episodes of "Friends," I was reminded of H.L. Mencken's observation that "No one ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American public."This is one of the most contrived shows ever produced. I have to assume that the people who find this series so riveting only do so to live vicariously through the lives of the characters. Either that or they are immature yuppie wannabees whose sensibilities have been compromised by gamma rays. The effusiveness of most of the positive reviews made me want to throw up.Friends" reeks of nauseating sexual innuendos that are spat out like projectiles from a tennis ball machine.When it comes to dealing with sex, "Cheers", Frasier" and "Seinfeld" were far more clever, witty and intelligent. "Seinfeld" co-creator Larry David wanted his show's humor to be based largely on real experiences. The show broke one barrier after another and either originated or popularized numerous expressions. "Seinfeld's" sexual humor was clever and original; on "Friends" it was on the same level as smut.On "Cheers," Ted Danson as babe hound Sam Malone was far more endearing than any of the male characters on "Friends." The show never ran out of hilarious one-liners, which was quite a feat considering that the show didn't often venture outside the confines of a bar."Frasier" was both cerebral and jocular (how many TV shows make references to the Algonquin Round Table?) Kelsey Grammar's Frasier Crane was sidesplitting as he pursued one failed relationship after another, but he never descended to the low-level sexual innuendos that were characteristic of "Friends." Unlike evergreens such as the "Dick Van Dyke Show," 20 years from now "Friends" will have been consigned to the dustbin of forgotten TV shows alongside "Meet Millie" and "Hey, Jeannie." We'll see.


                
"Friends " ,a idiotic show about a group of(unfunny ) morons that talk a lot of stupid (and unfunny ) things that nobody will say in real life.Basically it tries to be a adorable romantic comedy ,but the whole result is just annoying ,inane and unrealistic . This show isn't charming at all is just stupid . I can't believe that some people compare "Seinfeld " with this monstrosity . Just to comment ,here are some differences :1- Seinfeld is funny , Friends is not funny at all . 2 -Seinfeld is clever , Friends is only stupid . 3- Seinfeld characters are likable ,Friend characters are annoying (and unfunny )Please ,don't think that my hate is to the members of the cast (unless they collaborated to made the horrible script ) ,is just that I can't believe that a show so bad as this could last so long ( I just see some episodes of the first and the second season and I hated it ) Did I mention that it was unfunny ? This show was the most overrated thing on television.


                
This is the worst show. Buntch of grown up acting like kids no humor nothing. Even Sesame Street has better humor and more adult than friends "Friends" may be the worst thing I've ever seen on television and I've been sitting in front of the tube observing Friends" simply does not stack up well to other, contemporary series. It lacks the smartness of "Seinfeld" and the wonderful self-ridicule of pomposity that is the hallmark of "Frasier". The characters in "Friends" seem designed to make them repellant dullards. This incestuous group of neighbors makes my flesh crawl.The unintelligent show is completely without an edge of any sort. The characters are caricatures of caricatures and the writing is sophomoric -- though intentionally so. (It might be interesting to observe a writing session since the writers may have to slave to aim lower than their capabilities so as not to confuse the loyal friends of "Friends".)


                
It's an abysmal show. I've never ever got the popularity of this, especially outside of America.In each of the last 3 houses I've lived in over the last 10 years at least one person in each house has been an avid 'Friends' fan, so I am fully exposed to it, and have seen many episodes. It's also on tele every day.Where do I start? The title is as good a place as any. I can imagine the producers discussing that: "Right, we've got a comedy about a group of friends, we need a name? How about Friends" If that's the imagination it doesn't leave much hope for the story lines.I know it's a lighthearted sit com but come on? How old are they supposed to be? They were too old for that sort of lifestyle in series 1, here we are ten years later & nothings changed. They're all approaching the big 40! yet they're still living the lives of 18 year olds.And how the hell do they afford those penthouses? They change their jobs like I change my underpants, Monica worked in a kitchen, Joey can't get any acting work. The rent would be thousands.Friends is nothing more than the equally benal & tedious 'Saved by the Bell' but for grown-ups. It's the old flogged-to-death "Three guys, three girls, all stunningly gorgeous, occasionally fancy or sleep with each other & with no friends whatsoever outside of their little group."The only thing funny about about Friends is unintentionally funny. Those parties they occasionally have in their flat (penthouse). The so called guests they invite, who stand in the background desperately trying to fit in & pass themselves off as close companions of the characters, when it's clear to the entire watching world that they've met for the first time at the start of the shot.It's a combination of many little things that contribute to the problem. It's the most unrealistic portrayal of New York in history. No black people, Chinese or anyone ethnic for that matter, even with minor parts. It's New York! One of the most multi cultural cities on the planet.Admittedly there is one funny aspect I have omitted. Chandler. The guy is enormously talented, makes the entire show, and seems solely responsible for what laughs or comedy there is.Rachel & Monica are likable characters & not annoying, but nor are they funny. But the past stories of either of them not being able to get a man. Come on? Please. Don't treat the viewer as a two year old.Joey is likable but is given no script to work with. Too many comedies think that by putting a thick character in they will automatically be amusing. Wrong. Trigger is Only Fools & Horses was thick but funny with it, because of the timing. He's comments were made at exactly the right time. Joey's are not, & unfortunately for a good actor & potentially very good character, he comes over more as irritating than anything else.But the real problem with Friends are in Ross & Phoebe. The only applicable description of Ross is that he needs a good kick up the back-side, to put some oomf (?) into the bloke. He's a drip. He just drones on & on in that slow dull manner, series after series. In any real life situation a Ross & a Rachel would just not be a couple. A Rachel & a Brad Pitt would be a couple, somewhat appropriately.But even he can't beat Phoebe for irritation. It's not the actress at all that's the problem, it's 100% the character. I just don't get her. The Floor Manager must hold up the "Laugh Now" board for the audience after every line she says. For the life of me, I just don't know what she says that is funny.And in the equally irritating coffee lounge. (Why are the sofas always empty? Never once have they had to sit somewhere else or wait for some other people to move), those scenes where she plays her guitar. I've been to funerals funnier than them. All she does is sing in coherent songs that don't rhyme, or make any sense whatsoever. Anyone could write a sketch like that.I also cannot sit through any show where people walk into other people houses without knocking on the door. No-one I know would put up with that, even from their Grandparents. Nor people who say "Hey" instead of Hello, but thats getting as tedious as the show now.


                
I don't really understand what it is about this show that sticks out as one of the greatest sitcoms in America. I'm pretty sure I'm in the minority when I say this show is boring, with forced comedy, annoying characters and uninspiring stories.This show does not send any notable or important message to audiences - just delving into the lives of six friends living together, offering no substance, purpose or compelling stories. All you get is goofy jokes, silly mishaps, off-the-wall plots and boring entertainment. Some of my cousins love this show. One would always put this show on during house parties and I've tried to watch and give this show a go. But, this TV series does not click with me, as I've found it extremely unfunny, ludicrous and uninteresting.I believe the quality of sitcoms peaked in the late 1980s, and it went downhill ever since. It is very unfortunate that Hollywood has continued to dish out shows like "Friends" or worse. And, it is even more unfortunate that some people actually find these shows entertaining.I'm sure that everybody has different tastes. But, I do believe that, in general, the quality of television has overall declined since the 1990s. Sorry to any fans out there, but "Friends" hit rock bottom for me.Grade F


                
Oh har har har, this show rules man, oh what a hoot. NOT.'Friends'...............wow, how incredibly interesting, a sit-com about 'friends'. What a total bore fest.Like many people who hate/hated this sit-com, I just can not fathom how it was so popular.All the characters are extremely bland and dull and self centered and.....I could go on and on.I absolutely hated it when one of these utter morons said a line, which apparently is supposed to be really really funny, and then the canned laughter immediately kicks in after the gag (what gag?).It is all forced fed to you. You are told to believe this is funny with the assisted canned laughter or fake on cue audience laughter.Friends is unbelievably pretentious.Every so called actor in this is a complete tit.All these hollow characters do is go to coffee shops, acquire the same seating every time, talk about utter drivel, there's the mind numbingly boring relationship crap, this mundane rubbish goes on and on.No thanks. 5 minutes of an episode of Bottom is better than the whole Friends series, mainly because it has balls and originality.Friends is nothing more than a plastic, sad excuse for entertainment for the robots and brainless dorks of society.
Throughout this show's tenure and being in the age category that this show was supposed to appeal to, I could never understand why it was so popular. Re-watching one or two episodes in syndication years later, my opinion hasn't changedUnfunny and forced humor, weak dialogue,awful acting, annoying characters, inane story lines -this show literally had it all. How did this unfunny drivel find an audience? This is probably the worst attempt at comedy I have ever seen and that's saying something Also the suspension of disbelief needed for the premise of this show to work is amazing. These people have jobs that would pay an average salary at best, yet they can afford to live in a plush Manhattan apartment. Give me a break. And notice the lack of African-Americans and other minorities on this show? In a multicultural melting point like New York? You'd think they were living in the segregated South during the 1940s rather than a modern, vibrant, culturally diverse city (To be fair, I'll give David Schwimmer credit where it's due because he seems to have been the sole cast/crew member who actually realized the stupidity of all this and to that extent he actually lobbied for the inclusion of an African-American character, leading to the casting of Aisha Tyler for at least a few episodes. But it's sad to think that he's the only one out of the whole cast and crew who didn't just blindly accept the absurd premise on which this show was based during its whole decade of existence) Ugh...to think this was on for almost a decade. Defies belief


                
How do I hate "Friends"? Let me count the ways:Firstly, it rated an "F" with the test audience (don't believe me, check The Smoking Gun).Secondly, it ran 10 years without being remotely funny ONCE (beating the record held by the completely laugh-free 8 year run of Full House, which, like this crap, was produced by a division of the Time Warner media empire, had three males and three females in a completely unrealistic version of a major American city, bland-looking guy of Mediterranean descent trying to get into show business, and a dumb guy named Joey).Third, that horrible theme makes NSync sound like The Beatles.Fourth, the cast couldn't act its way out of a paper bag (I thank one of the other posters for pointing out that Jennifer "I'm not a star, I just sleep with them" Aniston is Telly Savalas's goddaughter. Her father is also on Days of Our Lives. Can you say nepotism, boys and girls?).Fifth, the writers would eat up clichés like that last one I wrote as if they were brand new. And not only did they steal from the superior-by-default Seinfeld, they stole from Mr. Bean and even Punky Brewster! When Soleil Moon Frye, who really must have needed the money by that point, punched Chandler in the face, even that felt like a retread of a Punky episode where she punched Chad Allen in the face! Sixth, how can they afford an apartment like that in New York? They hold menial jobs yet they look like they could be living at Southfork. On other, superior, actually FUNNY roommate shows like The Odd Couple, Three's Company, Kate & Allie, and the grand dame of them all, The Golden Girls, they seem to look they are either living with their means or cutting back to afford to pay rent. I've seen fewer logical leaps on Gilligan's Island.What's worse is all the Emmies it got. Truly great shows like Bob Newhart's two classic sitcoms never won a single thing, yet this wins "Best" Comedy series. This show and Seinfeld (not a terrible show but an extremely overrated one as well) are the reason sitcoms are dead right now and will probably remain dead (the last time sitcoms were declared "dead" in the early 1980s was a golden age in comparison to today). As long as there continue to be reruns and DVD releases of classic, pre-1990s sitcoms such as I Love Lucy, The Dick Van Dyke Show, Bewitched, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, All in the Family, The Jeffersons, Soap, Cheers, Family Ties, Newhart, The Cosby Show, The Golden Girls, Married With Children, Roseanne, pre-2000 Simpsons, and countless others like it then I say let it die.This is truly the most vile, trite, unfunny, obnoxious television series of all time. I jumped for joy the day it was canceled, and I hope that future generations will see it for the garbage it truly is, because this one has been taken in by the snow job perpetrated by these hacks.


                
To me Friends is the most overrated show. The humor is weak and unintelligent, and the characters try too hard to be funny and act like everything is la-la land. Other than these major flaws, the show is just missing something else that many other comedy's have, and I think it's the lack of a good or serious plot along with humor. Other shows like Weeds and The United States of Tara are comical, but also have a strong plot and theme. I think the comedy in those shows makes it light in some ways and watchable, but also these shows are brilliant by highlighting individual people and society's problems. Even shows like Arrested Development and Grounded For Life apply more to the "good comedy but strong plot and theme."And if the writer or director's goal was not to have a dramatic plot, then they should have some warm meaning to the show. For example, Full House, The Nanny, and Golden Girls had a lot of the humor but gave great messages. The importance of family support in Full House, how true friends will always help you in Golden Girls, and how a full-time care take for children can really help a family and bring out the best in children whose parents are absent such as The Nanny. I think Friends tries too much to be like a Seinfeld for teens and young adults. However, Seinfeld has much better writing and humor. Every time I watched this show it always ended up boring me. I really don't understand why people like this show so much where there is so much better comedy television out there.


                
Friends is about 6 Friends who live in New York and have to solve all of life's problems to sex, to relationships, to... well... basically thats what its all about.The idea contains the same old friendships, relationship, babies, love, marriage, job, and materialism. Nothing to contribute to society... never once I see the characters face real problems of debt, psychological torture, or identity crisis (Like Chandler experiencing what being Gay feels like for a day, or Rachel hanging with the poor. Or even Phoebe living in an asylum?) And about the racial cultures... Usually I never see them date anyone else other than a few colors to "liven" the space. Oh, the token black person that comes out one or two episodes is not helping either. Seeing as New York is full of culture, they made it look like the other races are not important.Their lifestyle is perfect. They crapped money out of their really low-paying jobs and spend most of their time well, sipping their coffee, stalking about that hot guy or girl and plans to bang them later to the episode, ending with a break-up for the dumbest of reasons.Aside from Chandler, their jobs are almost impossible to ask why their apartments costs more than what they earn. Well, Monica has "rent control" but hey... no one tried to kick her out yet... Ross is still controlling his money after all the divorces he has been in. Joey, Rachel, and Phoebe gave a speech on not taking charity, but hey, they suck the living breeches of the first three and claiming paying them back was almost impossible.Okay, off with the plots, let's go to the characters...Character analysis: Chandler - He is apparently one of the more humorous characters. He is a sample of a realistic person who we can hang out in the office or sip some coffee or something. I don't have problems with him and Monica together, to the dismay of all the true-blue Frendsian fans.Phoebe - I like her for being a bit different in the first few seasons... but then after a while, she started being horny, annoying, and kind of a hypocrite. Okay, so she has a hard life... but people like her in real life, struggle to be as normal as possible. She just left that philosophy behind because of it. It's not even trying until the tenth season or so...Monica - She isn't a funny character, but she has been a person who actually is believable in ways that she is right, and she is apparently the mature one. Sadly, she is usually looked down upon because her other Friends think that her style is annoying. Sadly, her baby-freak, "I can be like anyone else" philosophy threw me off after like season one. I always wondered why she wasn't kicked out of the circle.Rachel - I hate her. She hasn't changed ever since day one, to be honest. Her personality is this "Me-Me-Me!" spoiled brat who went to the city, and a few jobs and a million boyfriends later... it's still all about "Me!" The relationship with her and Ross was somewhat annoying for and a mood killer for almost forever, and almost in the last episode of the series, BANG! They're together again. Can Ross just leave or slap Rachel for all the horrible things she has done to him? Oh Noooo... because Ross is too in "loooove" with Rachel... Reasons were almost to no idea... Having sexual thoughts with Chandler and almost having a short, useless hit-off with Joey was also not helping.Ross - I pitied his first season philosophy and hey, I liked him for being at least sympathetic there... just that he had two additional divorces that he became a screaming, yelling, irritating person who is smart and intelligent, yet acts dumb and immature for his age. The whole Rachel thing is lost of chemistry and yeah, they were on a break. Rachel is apparently responsible for all of the things that happened to them and then claiming after the whole fiasco that the writers make it say that it's Ross' fault anyway for Rachel's doing. Ross would be better off on a suicide for being with a devil woman.Joey - Dumb Actor who doesn't do anything to contribute to society. Oh yeah, his spin off may be the worst thing anyone has ever made... Even if I can feel things from the characters. He is a handsome guy, that's a contribution right? And Him having sex with 500 girls is considered a real good thing. In general, actors have to research their roles, and Joey... he just swoops in Shakespeare because hey... He's an actor! To conclude, I have been annoyed by the show... and I get why people love it so much. It's the art of Escapism of them in a Fantasy world that makes everyone love them so. But sadly, I have watched shows that actually make use of real life as a humor tool that makes Friends forgettable for me. For ten years, nothing truly EVER happened.. and parodies like "Furends" are apparently more of a short version of the whole rant.A 1 out of ten... Just because I can't give negative number rankings. :(


                
I just don't understand why everybody makes such a fuss over this sit com. Sure it's funny sometimes, but it's all bad! We can start with the cast and the acting: IT'S LAME! Did those boys and girls ever take acting lessons? If so, they must have had some pretty lousy teachers, because non of them can act. It's just constant waving and hysterical screaming and yelling. The producers should have hired clowns instead. And the actors got payed for that? And so many awards! Such a waste of time and money...And the plot. Does it say something? Well, yes, one thing - friends are very important and it's good to have them. And I totally agree. Sure, the atmosphere is warm and friendly, but there is nothing else they can tell. It's just sex, dating and stupid skeleton's coming out of Monica's stuffed closet.Just lame.


                
Having caught the odd episode, I've always considered this unwatchable drivel and avoided it. However a friend who's opinion I trust recently told me that the early seasons were much better, and since series 1 was available free on demand I decided to give it a go. I managed episode one and will never watch this again.There was absolutely nothing funny or even vaguely amusing, and the laughter track just added to my irritation. The characters are stupid, petty and vindictive. In one scene one of the women destroys a watch belonging to a man who persuaded her to sleep with him by telling her he hadn't been able to make love since his last relationship ended some years before. I fail to see the humour.So many people seem to love this, I just wish I could understand why.1/10


                
Well, where do I start. This television series (won't call it comedy) is the sorriest pile of rubbish I have ever seen. The funniest thing about this series is that it somehow is called a comedy. I can never see anything funny about it at all. The jokes are like those cheap ones you get out of Christmas crackers.I don't know if it's the American humour but I know there are other American comedies out there that are a lot better than Friends.They've taken a perfectly good song and ruined that too. When it plays up on the radio I feel physically sick.The acting is soooo cheap and tacky. The attempted jokes are basic and flat. I think the writers need a good lesson in comedy. Here's a good list:- Only Fools & Horses, Fawlty Towers, Keeping Up Appearances, The Office, Alan Partirdge and the list goes on. I think Friends is as enjoyable as having acid thrown into your face or maybe being strapped to a firework and sent miles up into the sky.


                
okay i do not know were to start on this ever so dreadfully painful experience that is called friends. this is one reason we need ugly people on TV cause all you horny freaks cant get enough of Jenifer. the humor is so bad you cant help but change the station and that god awful theme song at the beginning for me thats were the show ends. all the characters do is sit around on a couch or diner and yap saying things that are not funny nor entertaining at all why is this show loved so goddamn much i don't know watch a good humorous show like Dave chapel he will make you laugh not this garbage want a real sitcom there family guy and family ties not this trash!


                
Do not watch this T.V series guys.....its a complete waste of time.Starting from the first to the last episode I couldn't laugh for the jokes.They were repeating the same over and again.You wouldn't believe I had to pretend laughing near my friends who liked the series and recommended me to watch it:p.Some jokes r senseless and from the background u would hear the fake laughs which I have to accept made me laugh.Instead watch "Modern Family" the fake laughs make u laugh to tears than that of "Friends"."Friends" a gr8!! job,they mesmerized Millions of people in 10 years.I have 10 years of junk folders named "Friends" in my hard disk(shift + deleted).I hope u would take this as a advice and not offensive.'Guys have real FRIENDS'.....u wouldn't find a single friend of your's acting like that of the actors in the series.Please watch it if u have loads of time its good time pass cos u can practice fake laughing and that's yoga too:)


                
I feel like the only person ever who just doesn't like Friends, but I honestly think it's the most overrated show ever. It's not that funny. At all. Yeah an occasional smile, but nothing hilariously funny, and none of the stories are funny either. 99% of the main story lines are about who's dating who, which is more like a soap opera than a sitcom. And the small, single episode story lines are just not funny. Think of Seinfeld's genius single-episode story lines compared to Friends, and it's like comparing wine and tap water. It's just not funny. The male actors aren't all that great actors, and this is evident by their lack of success after Friends. Cheesy and not funny with lame repetitive story lines about who's dating who. The only redeeming quality is that it is still exponentially better than the sitcoms that followed and the ones that are currently on today. None of them are funny, including some other modern "classics" like Full House and That 70s Show are intensely overrated and just not funny. Seinfeld and Cheers reign supreme, while current sitcoms continue to flop, with the exception of a few like The Middle (hilarious and perfect, but lost steam in the past couple seasons), Arrested Development, and maybe Modern Family... Maybe Big Bang's early seasons.


                
I have given this show plenty of chances but I always find myself wanting to commit suicide by the end. This show is just not funny. The characters are just so annoying and say and do just stupid things. Not stupid funny but just so dumb. People always compare this to Seinfeld. There is not comparison. Seinfeld will always be one of the most creative and funny shows out there. And not to mention the intro, so so corny. I just don't get the hype.I really gave it my all to watch but it just doesn't make any sense how it's so popular. Lisa Kudrow and David Schwimmer are also two of the most annoying people. There voices, faces and antics.


                
Before watching the show, I was very fascinated about FRIENDS. At least when you see the title making room in IMDb Top TV by 40, why shouldn't one watch it? But it finally turned out to be a very lame series. The thing that surprised me much, how & why in the hell it has so much popularity. I stick with the series till the very last episode. Depicting lives of a friend circle of mid ninety's living in NY. There is no particular story anyway. Most of the goofy shots, which are actually meant to be humorous, are too lame and too forced. Only few episodes were funny in the whole series. But that can't save the trip. To tell you the truth, it's over-hyped overrated show. If you are planning to watch it, after a few times later you will understand how worthless this series is. Usually I am not intended to write negative reviews. But in this case, I just can't avoid the fact that it's a botheration.


                
This show was labeled a comedy but it never made laugh even once.The premise of the show is that three women and three men are all best friends.The most unrealistic premise ever.For some reason they needed to have two stupid people and they were both in the entertainment industry.That's the only realistic thing about the show.Anyway, the majority of the show is about them all having sex with each other and drinking coffee.Except when they flashback to the 80's, which happens in about half of the episodes.They flashback so much because the characters are extremely boring and they need them to be different for the show to have any content.You get beaten over the head with "one of us was fat" and "one of us was a nerd".It's truly pathetic.This show is only for people who think Bill Cosby,Ellen,Rosie O'Donnell,Robin Williams,Billy Crystal and Whoopi Goldberg are funny.Anyone who only likes real comedy will hate this waste of videotape.I would recommend never watching this.Trust me.


                
Well...I don't get it. How could this TV show become such an overrated hype?...it's because people are just as stupid as this show is.The whole thing about the show is just ridiculous and it simply fails in every simple category -the writing is pretty bad (kind of dumb punchlines along with some unfunny sarcasm for every joke...) ,terrible characters recycling every other sitcom's characters and bad plots (uninspired and unoriginal in everything...) ,not mentioning the terrible direction and awful cast which is unconvincing and unfunny at all.And besides -it's not even funny at all ,it's even impossible to crack a smile out of it...it's pure garbage ,a comedy without a comedy and a comedy without any humor at all... In conclusion- lame excuse for a sitcom: uninspired bad plots with unfunny terrible writing...pure garbage.
It probably isn't fair to judge this show when it has been off the air for several years but that is what the internet is for isn't it?I like certain superficial things about this show. The female characters are all physically attractive. They have very shiny hair, beautiful faces, great legs, tits, and eyes. When Rachel is bustling around in her designer clothes I just think no one on TV has ever looked so good. I love Phoebe's bohemian style and her complicated hair-dos that must have taken at least two stylists to arrange. Monica is played by one of the great beauties of this or any era.The male stars are appealing as well. Ross passes himself off as a nerd who never got girls but he is tall and handsome with movie star good looks and an unfortunate hang-dog expression. Chandler is funny and lively. Joey is a beautiful hunk and a great comic actor.I also like the sets. I feel that the girls' apartment influenced a whole era of home design. The rooms are adorned with a lot of stuff yet they don't seem crowded. If I were a young person aspiring to the lifestyle these people lead I would have studied that apartment for inspiration and I'm sure many people did either consciously or unconsciously. On the other hand there is much about this show that is hard to stomach.The romance between Ross and Rachel was what sparked much of the interest in this show, but as soon as they were happy together all the spark died out. Since the plots needed to be contrived in such a way that they would long for each other but never have satisfaction, we were subjected to some really dumb stuff. How much can you admire or care about a girl who only wants the love of her life when he is in love with someone else? She shows up at his wedding to Emily causing Ross to blow his vows and never set things right. We are expected to follow along with her when she never did the smart thing and always did the dumb thing. I give Rachel and Ross 10 out of 10 each on the annoying scale.Speaking of dumb things what about Phoebe? It is so hard to watch someone try so hard to be quirky and only succeed at being obnoxious. I realize that we are supposed to find Lisa Kudrow incredibly talented at playing someone so untalented but it just got old.Maybe if this show had only lasted 4 or 5 seasons I wouldn't be finding fault with it. But then there would be a lot fewer zillionaires in the world wouldn't there? "Just turn it off" I keep telling myself.
