it's never explained how Vandamm was able to use the estate without poor Mr. Townsend's knowledge. Why does Thornhill pulls the knife out of Townsend's back as he tells everybody "I had nothing to do with this"? And a photographer just happens to be there when he does? In his quest to rectify the case of mistaken identity, Thornhill assumes Kaplan's name and all but uses his credit cards? THAT makes no sense! Eve deliberately sends Thornhill off to his doom (the crop-dusting scene), yet a few minutes in her hotel room, and - after some barbs at the auction - all is forgiven? Give me a break!Hitchcock never could shoot mattes or studio "action" so they don't distract the viewer, made worse by the inconsistency in his exteriors (Eve at the plane was clearly shot in broad daylight, even though it's supposed to be late night.) And the Mt. Rushmore sets are so phony-looking. The script repeats information: Thornhill proposes to Eve as they cling to Mt. Rushmore, then calls her "Mrs. Thornhill" as he pulls her up a few minutes later. And Thornhill allowing two thugs to muscle him out of a crowded restaurant without so much as a struggle? One yell for help and the movie is over.
One of the big IL' movies. Hitchcock. Cary Grant. 8.6 here at IMDb! This move, along with a lot of other "golden oldies", are given much too high ratings at IMDb. I argue that the reason for this over rating is that people review movies as if it was sports and not art. Let me explain ;) When you review a world cup soccer match from the 50:s you must take into consideration that the game was much slower, the tactics simple, and that the players were not very well trained, compared to today that is. The world cup final between West Germany and Hungary in 1954 was top quality entertainment, performed by world class artists, if you looked at it 1954. If you look at it today the first thing that strikes you is how much everything has improved. Put simply,the world cup winners of 1954 would not win one match in any division two series in Europe today. But still we can look at the cup final from -54 and say, yeah that was a great game, considering it was played 50 years ago. With art, it's another story. You don't consider, or rather, shouldn't consider, age as a factor. You won't hear anyone say - Yeah, Picasso painted some good shiit back in his days, but he could never compete with today's artists. The same goes for Mozart, Beethoven, Leonardo, Michelangelo etc etc. My argument is that the movie art should be treated as any other art form. Let's apply this to the movie in question. Acting: I would like anyone that gave this movie a rating over 6-7 to look at the car chase scene one more time and tell me what they think of Cary Grants acting in that scene. I can tell you all that one of my friends, at age 15, acted drunk better than old Cary did here. (And nobody even believed that my friend was drunk.) It pisses me off when someone says that the acting is superb in this movie. It is an insult to all actors of today. Plot: I won't bore you with an analysis. Lets just state that the plot is unbelievable and some scenes ridiculous. Script: Hitchcock is said to be the master of suspense. In North by Northwest the suspense level is so low that not even a ten year old would get a pulse from watching it. The dialogue is however smart and funny. Conclusion: Bad acting. Unbelievable plot. Pretty funny. Extremely overrated. 4/10. If you are hungry for a Hitchcock flick, watch Rear window instead.


                
Now, I like Alfred Hitchcock as much as the next fellow but I can't for the life of me, figure out why this is such a tremendous success and so highly rated. This movie does not make a lick of sense and every bit is so contrived and unrealistic that I was constantly taken out of the film. For example, Cary Grant is in the middle of a dirt road near some crops when out of nowhere a crop duster appears and tries to fly over him and kill him. This is a classic scene but makes little to no sense. Wouldn't it have been easier to run him over with a car or something?Another scene where he meets the heroin is simply laughable. The dialogue is corny ("whenever I meet a beautiful women, I must tell her I want to make love to her" PLEASE!) and the plot twists are nothing short of offensively stupid. The movie has great sets, like the Mount Rushmore set, but seriously, if a professional knife thrower has a knife, why would he jump at you? Especially on a steep mountain.This movie is contrived and laughable the whole way through, the problem is that its a drama, not a campy 60's batman show. I wish I could be clever with this review but it seems unfair that I should have to put in effort to be clever when its obvious Alfred Hitchcock didn't put in effort to make a decent film.


                
Hitchcock's sterile universe of non-humanity certainly demonstrates its own limitations in this forgettable attempt at making a combined suspense/comedy. We are supposed to care for Cary, but I simply couldn't care less about this hologram of a personality who is about as implausible as the rest of the story.Furthermore, there are some dreadful flaws in the script: Our dear mr. Thornhill completely fails to wonder how on earth this completely unknown miss Kendall is able to know and even make contacts with the mysterious George Kaplan.There is nothing impressive about most of the camera work either. Apart from an extremely elegant pan from outside to inside the train, most scenes are quite ordinary.This movie is for film buffs and others who prefer hidden references to other events above the actual story. In my opinion this is one of the most overrated films on IMDb. In short: It takes a buff to appreciate this long flick. Others should go and watch an early James Bond instead!


                
Considering the amount of films i have seen over the years , i don't think i have come across a Cary Grant movie. A name I'm fully aware of but does he live up to the Hollywood superstar status he had back in the 40's & 50's ? Not on this performance. I was really disappointed with this , especially because it was a Alfred Hitchcock film. At times i was confused by the plot and at others i was just bored. Cary Grant's acting seemed wooden and the relationship with Eva Marie Saint was never convincing. The loves scenes were very cold and the 27 year age gap seemed very apparent. Plus points are that some of the scenes looked great , especially the aeroplane one and the performances of Mason and Landau are pretty good. Give me Psycho or Rear Window ahead of this any day.


                
In the good old days of movie making,the fifties and sixties, thrillers and horror were reliant on suspense and incinuations rather than the gore and hide from the killer type formula of today. This is, what the 'master of suspense', Alfred Hitchcock did so well. Not so with this film I'm afraid.Cary Grant is the leading man who is mistaken for somebody else. Causing some crooks to pursue him for, err a while. Grants love interest comes in the form of Eva Marie Saint. A rather implausible and predictable twist rears its head. If you think about it, you can probably guess it without even having seen the movie.Talking of suspense this just lack suspense. Compared to hitchcock movies such as vertigo. The bad guys just aren't threatening. They're just like cartoon monsters, they chase but they don't kill. This being pg entertainment and for the films time its understandable. Though bad guys shouldn't have been drawn in this way anyway. Surely Hitch realised that? I think that the films main downfall is that the bad guys are shown to much. Early on we know they're not threatening pursuers. Theirs no suspense damn it! The thing Hitchcock does so well in other films is disguising the miscreants, rather than showing them so much, which leaves little room for incinuations and the classic who done it question. Also the fear of what we the viewer do not know.The fact also remains that Cary Grant isn't that good an actor. He may have been good for romantic roles but here he feels out of place. Sure, he has some good lines, Which inject humour into his character, but unlike hitchcock regular James Stewart he can't do serious that well. He just comes across as bumbling, stupid and unable to solve the films final resolution. Making things more implausible.To conclude I'm surprised that the film is so highly acclaimed, as it really isn't a patch on the likes of psycho, vertigo or rear window.


                
While I enjoyed the visuals in the movie purely for escapist reasons and also watching the coolness of the late 1950's (looks a lot like the 1960's to me) I kept thinking, "How plausible is this really?" and if one is constantly thinking that despite a desire to have fun watching, that's not a good thing.Basically, my problem is, "Why is everyone behaving that way?" For example, the bad guys going after Thornhill at first instance just on the basis of a very flimsy move--just standing up really at the wrong time. You'd think experienced spies would look for far more clues, like following him home, checking his statistics in official records, etc. I know there was a paging at the time, but still.... I think in real life, the bad guys would have let him go after just a few minutes after realizing they were acting incredulously.Secondly, there was no reason for the femme fatale Kendall to be so friendly to Thornhill... okay, maybe she's attracted to him regardless, but a lot of the time she helps him and at other times she totally forgets him, even sends him to certain death (by the crop duster plane). What? There wasn't consistency. It was hard to believe she worried about him at all, and at the end she loves him? Please.Thirdly, it was so complicated for the bad guys to send Thornhill in the middle of barren countryside. Huh? Just gun him down in a dark alley, why go to such trouble. It seemed the entire movie was written just for visual effects, not on the basis of reality. Yeah, yeah, I know movies aren't reality, but still, this was so unbelievable that it left a hollow feeling inside me, wondering why it couldn't at least make sense. Another problem with sending Thornhill so far out in the middle of nowhere... the female agent Kendall tells him to go, right? Obviously the bad guys want him to go there to meet his end (complicated way of doing it, but anyway...). But at the same time, (spoiler, but it's been decades since this movie was out) she's a double agent, so why would under her "government agent role" she send him to his doom? She would at least pretend to fumble the instructions, but no, she cruelly and callously sends him to certain death (does anyone really think he would have escaped if this wasn't a movie?). And why wouldn't the government, if it wants to keep Thornhill alive, know of (through Kendall) or instruct Kendall to not send Thornhill to a fight he can't win? Baffling.Fourthly, I know security was far less in the ol' days, but Thornhill could go inside a United Nations building and meet a diplomat there, and the diplomat says yes right away instead of channeling through staff? Surely in the history of diplomacy in hundreds of years were far more professional and sensible than that. And the diplomats would stick around in waiting rooms where there's a crowd and anyone could have emerged from the gritty streets? They work in offices, and they're very busy, usually with weeks booked in advance.Fifthly, why did Thornhill keep going and seek the answer to all this? I know without Thornhill, the movie would have ended right there, but he doesn't have any personal stake in the outcome (true, he becomes attached to the safety of the female Kendall near the end, but that comes in pretty late in the movie) so I felt as if he was detached from what was really at stake in the movie. He doesn't passionately believe in saving America from secrets, nor is anyone in his family threatened, nor is he seeking fortune, so what was his motivation for hanging in so long at great danger? With him going through so many situations, with so much danger already happening in different ways, I couldn't understand why he kept going. All he had to do was hide out and stay with family or something. Yeah I know, it's a movie, so he has to keep going. That's the plot problem of using a main character as disinterested bystander who still discovers no personal stake as the movie drags on (as opposed to other movies where the unwitting hero starts to learn about and feel strongly about an injustice against a person or a group, or finds out secrets that could lead to personal fortune, or avenges someone close to him).Okay, so the scenes in the barren farmland and at Mount Rushmore, (Really? You can own a property on top of Mount Rushmore, just a ten minute run away from the famous faces!) okay, they don't make sense, but I think people like the movie because of these two scenes, without them, I think this movie would not be as famous today. I agree these scenes are exciting and original, and fresh to watch, but I have to cast aside disbelief to enjoy these (and I do enjoy). The problem is I can't cast aside my disbelief for the other scenes of the movie, about 90% of it in fact.Well, there's more, and I could go on and on, but those are the things at the top of my head. And why in some scenes do the bad guys hold back (crowds sometimes stop them, sometimes the crowds still don't stop the bad guys from extracting Thornhill away) and in other scenes do the bad guys act foolishly in eagerness. Very selective motives if you ask me. To please the writers.The movie was written for its visual effects and to make the story continue no matter what to make sure it was slightly over two hours. That's all I think it was. Excellent visuals at times (and the 1960's colour and "cool" styles and historical reference) and thrilling showcases of famous landmarks that aren't overused in other movies, though.
They had great cameras in those days, and from this comes the best points about this film - the cameras and how they were used. Very atmospheric, the cinematography is very well done and the visual editing very good.It's possibly better today at home in its excellent transfer to digital. (I rented the streaming film in SD, which was great quality on a computer monitor which is not large.)For me, though, that's nearly as far as it goes. The acting has a lot to commend it at times, and Cary Grant pulls off well what is very demanding - trying to tie the script's lack of conviction and film genre identity together.North by Northwest must be the most contrived of all spy films.It also fails as a typical Hitchcock entertainment piece, I think because the subject is always on the verge of real seriousness. But the film can never devote itself to such seriousness in the way that classic spy films do and in the way these subjects really deserve actually.Too far away from Sunday apple pie movie land to be endearing, too bitty, flimsy, theatrical and unsatisfying to be effective in basic thriller terms, and too unserious and kid glove hewn to be worth its salt amongst the lexicon of classic spy films.North by Northwest was a probably an impressive showpiece for cinematography and the potential of atmosphere and brilliance in the track from camera to cinema screen. But, like a beautiful damsel agent who flirts but is getting paid for her rehearsed attempts to win you, the film has little else of merit beyond its looks and moves.


                
