Hitchcock at his sharpest. Art and commerce in a delicious salad with all the right ingredients. A brisk screenplay by Ernest Lehman a Cary Grant that is just pure delight, Eva Marie Saint fresh out of her Oscar from "On the Waterfront" is an icy blonde with a brain. James Mason, the ultimate foreign sinister not to mention Jessie Royce Landis and Hitchcock brings Bernard Herrmann to wrap it all up in one of the most infectious scores imaginable. A real treat.


                
Wedged in between the making of two very serious, psychological suspense films, "Vertigo" and "Psycho", director Alfred Hitchcock created a very different kind of thriller, one consisting largely of comedy, both subtle and obvious, thanks in part to the talent of scriptwriter, Ernest Lehman. Hitchcock and Lehman started with three seemingly unrelated ideas, (1) a mistaken identity, (2) a chase scene through the United Nations, and (3) a spectacular finale at Mount Rushmore. They then wove these three events into one cohesive product, a fascinating creative process by itself.As to the acting, I have seen Cary Grant in many movies, including a number of mediocre items and even worse than that, but he provides the perfect Roger Thornhill with his dry, natural wit and suave, elegant appearance. Whenever I am faced with life's adversities, I only need to recall how Roger would approach the situation with his coolness and muted sense of humor. The fact that Grant did not understand Lehman's script only authenticates his genuine state of confusion as he is pursued from New York City to Rapid City, South Dakota by way of Chicago and some very dry Illinois cornfields. As the mysterious Eve Kendall, Eva Marie Saint is a very different woman indeed from her Oscar winning performance as Edie Doyle in "On the Waterfront", and she never ceases to intrigue us as a woman who is far more independent and sexually assertive than we would normally expect in 1959. And who could deliver those caustic, cynical lines as well as James Mason in the part of the deceptively "respectable" villain, Philip van Damm?Throughout the film, subtle, peculiar undercurrents flow beneath the surface, including Thornhill's curious relationship with his constantly undermining mother (Jesse Royce Landis), which may by itself explain his previous two divorces, and the quirky jealousy of van Damm's assistant thug, Leonard (Martin Landau). When I first viewed this film at the innocent age of ten, I didn't appreciate the symbolism of the speeding train through the tunnel at the end, but I was nevertheless very impressed by the overall visual power created by Hitchcock, not only here but in many of his other productions as well.There were many memorable cinematic moments in this film, including an extraordinary aerial shot of Thornhill escaping from the United Nations building, a sudden showdown between man and a speeding oil tanker, which was immediately followed by a spectacular crash of a menacing crop duster with the same tanker, and several, breathtaking shots from atop Mount Rushmore. As was the case with the Statue of Liberty in "Saboteur", the monument serves as a symbol of the freedom that the evil elements in the film want to undermine and even destroy.The success of "North By Northwest" is shaped by a combination of winning attributes, including a very gifted director, a sharp, snappy screenplay by Lehman, superb cinematography by Robert Burks, an effectively moody musical score by Bernard Hermann, and first-rate acting.


                
"North By Northwest" is another of Alfred Hitchcock's thrillers where an ordinary man is put into an extraordinary situation. As in most of these movies, the hero has to quickly adapt to his situation or perish. This time it is Cary Grant who is thrust into a world of international intrigue when is mistaken by villain James Mason for an American operative named George Kaplan (the film's "McGuffan" by the way). Along the way he is seduced by Mason's mistress (Eva Marie Saint) while being pursued by Mason and his cronies from New York to Chicago to South Dakota and ultimately to Mount Rushmore for the film's climax. "North By Northwest" is full of classic Hitchcock moments. First,there is Grant's frustration and fear as he tries to explain to Mason that he is not the person they are seeking. Next, the scene in the cornfield where Grant is isolated and attacked by a plane is pure Hitchcock. Then we have the art auction where he cleverly escapes Mason's henchmen and finally, the finale at Mount Rushmore in a scene reminiscent of a similar one in "Sabotage" (1942) (which took place at the top of the Statue of Liberty). The cast, as in most Hitchcock films is excellent. Grant is understandably confused and frightened as the the hero, Eva Marie Saint has never been sexier as the femme fatale, James Mason is suave and sinister as the villain and Martin Landau in an early role, is good as Mason's chief henchman. Hitchcock regular Leo G. Carroll is cold heartedly sinister as the "professor". Jesse Royce Landis as Grant's mother (she was about Grant's real age) is wasted and unnecessary to the plot. The only problem that I have with this and other Hitchcock films is his over reliance on back projection and soundstage "exteriors". Other than that. "North By Northwest" has to be considered as one of Hitchcock's best. Watch for Hitchcock's hilarious cameo appearance at the end of the opening credits.


                
For many years, I regarded "North by Northwest" as a chaotic assemblage of action-thriller vignettes for the sake of an unsubstantial plot, using the casting of an aging Cary Grant as a sorry excuse to grab more fans, definitely not worthy of its reputation. After a second viewing, I concede I didn't have the right mindset to appreciate the hidden brilliance of "North by Northwest".Let's start with the plot: Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant) is an advertising executive, mistaken for George Kaplan, a secret agent, in reality, only a decoy to distract the villainous mastermind Vandamm (James Mason) from the real agent who happens to be his mistress Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint). Yet for the two thirds of the film, neither Grant nor the viewers are aware of these subtleties. For all we know, Grant is the "wrong man" whose attempts to prove his innocence worsens his case even more, from driving a car over a cliff after being severely imbibed and pulling a knife out of the back of a UN diplomat who's just dropped in his arms, Thornhill is the constant victim of the most unfortunate circumstances.Alfred Hitchcock directs the film as if understanding the plot was not a priority, he knows the mystery effectively conveys the nightmarish karma of Thornhill, the pawn of a game with unknown rules. For all we know, it's the Cold War and he's torn between two kind of secret agents, the good and the bad ones, Hitchcock doesn't embarrass himself with more details and uses the actors like living props to put in the most extreme and spectacular situations. When Thornhill confronts Vandamm, he pretends not to be 'George Kaplan', to which Vandamm, with Mason's deep and mellowest voice, answers "Games? Must we?". Thornhill is victim of the innocent-man syndrome, using the same rhetoric than a guilty one, inevitably preventing Vandamm to say more. Thornhill can't talk because he doesn't know, Vandamm can't because he doesn't believe Thornhill, at the end, it's only Hitch effectively keeping his little secret.But this secrecy is not gratuitous either, it effectively induces the paranoid feeling of the story, tapping on one of fear's most effective forms: the fear of the unknown, reaching its thrilling paroxysm in a scene set in the middle of nowhere. For eight minutes, nothing happens, Thornhill is just waiting, for whom, for what? We don't know, and we wait. The suspense is carried by our own interrogations, until a crop-duster comes, not with the friendliest intentions, contributing to the most defining moment of the film. The nightmare goes on and gets so intense that Thornhill would rather get himself arrested by the police. He doesn't know what he's escaping from, but he knows enough about his enemies. Yet the unknown can also come in the form of a beautiful creature like Eve Kendall (Eva Maria Saint) popping out in the middle of the chase and hiding Thornhill, in her bedroom after a dinner with enough sexual innuendo to make good old Grant lower his guard.But if one can't face the unknown, he can leave it nonetheless. And ironically, Thornhill is given a chance to leave until he's told by one of the 'good' agents, played by Leo G. Carroll, that he endangered Eve's life. Thornhill finally detaches from his passive status by becoming a player and making his own rules. The key is not to 'find the truth', at that point, we know everything, but the point is to stop being Hitch's puppet and finally act like a hero , for a last thrilling confrontation <U+0085> and to get the girl in the process. No room for subtlety, this is not "Vertigo" or "Rear Window", this is pure hormonal Hitchcock. And Cary Grant is never more at ease and charismatic as during the last sequence, accomplishing the only act that could conceal the paranoia he endured for days, he doesn't escape from the enemy, he goes to it, his direction changed and so did Hithcock's.In a nutshell, I would say "North by Northwest" is like the tale of an amnesic James Bond. And Hithcocks anticipated all the ingredients that would build the secret agent's legend : the henchmen with killing methods as sophisticated and elaborate as they're ineffective, escapist settings, car chases, a suave and distinguished villain, a sensual lady and naturally the ultimate climax in Mt. Rushmore, the very sequence that catalyzed Hitchcock's desire to make the film. Ernest Lehman, who wrote the screenplay, intended to make the "Hitchcock picture that would end all the Hitchcock pictures." (and unintentionally pave the way for James Bonds' flicks) "North by Northwest" reassembles every Hitchcockian ingredient: the blond, the mistaken identity, the villain, the paranoia induced by the enemy's invisibility, the claustrophobia, even Martin Landau as Leonard is not your typical one-dimensional hit-man and has a sort of "Rope" vibe behind his sensual eyes.And the film magnificently concludes with one of the riskiest and most memorable ellipses of Cinema's history, the transition from Thornill trying to pull Eve from the Mt. Rushmore to the upper bunk of a train was classic enough, the icing on the cake concocted by Hitch himself was the penultimate shot of the train speeding up to the tunnel, whose symbolism needs no explanations. "North by Northwest" is undoubtedly the consummate Hitchcock movie, even more appreciated when we're familiar with his previous films. For the mark of a great director is to toy with his own trademarks and indulge himself to movies with less substance but never at the expenses of suspense and entertainment, magnificently conveyed by Bernard Herrman's theme and unforgettable opening credits."North by Northwest" didn't end all Hitchcock pictures but the great streak of the 50's through a triumph of spectacular entertainment, explaining why, one year after, Hitch would turn to a less ambitious format, almost B-movie like, in black-and-white, for an obscure little film called "Psycho".
Masterpiece. Excellent. Brilliant. Film-making at its finest.None of these statements do 'North by Northwest' justice. It truly is indescribable. If anyone has ever doubted Alfred Hitchcock's ability then this is the film that should surely overshadow any of those opinions.Cary Grant plays the average man. But when he is mistaken for a spy his life spirals into an adventure that leads him to Mount Rushmore, crop fields and a beautiful woman (played ever so greatly by Eva Marie Saint).The story is captivating, exciting and is everything a great film should be. It has scenes and lines that have become classics in the world of film and the combination of Cary Grant and Alfred Hitchcock is unmissable.Ernest Lehmann has done an excellent job in writing the screenplay and this is by far one of his greatest achievements.Overall, this film is a must see for everyone. Even if thrillers are not your favourite, it still provides great entertainment for all. It is by no means overrated and it hasn't been surpassed by any films since it's release.


                
When Hitchcock Truffaut was asked about the little merit that gave this kind of movie to benefit dramas like Bicycle Thieves, and Truffaut himself loved the script of this incredible movie, for that matter, for being terribly absurd, Hitchcock replied that the taste for the absurd wore it entirely religious. When one gets to see With North by Northwest, sets and does not stop. Because, unlike other films of the teacher, this starts at 2 minutes. And it's something as absurd as a mistake. The McGuffin elevated to masterpiece.As I said, based on the most absurd of all, an error in a phone call, Hitch builds a kind of parody spy film, based on one mistake after another, from one absurd fact followed by another fact even absurd. But the success of this film is not taking itself seriously. It is still a very great Hitchcock joke, a tease the viewer. Probably, if the great script by Ernie Lehmann had fallen into other hands, would have ended up as a mere spy movie, with good and bad clearly differentiated. but with the teacher becomes a comedy that borders on pure moments of surrealism, like the fact that Cary Grant's mother was only 10 months older than him, or the drunken scene at the police station or the auction are pure anthology surrealism and absurdity free. But none like the plane. With nothing to fumigate, Hitchcock gives us a plane in the middle of nowhere, the most absurd of killing someone, and get it is great, because another director would have made us stupid with this free sundries the image.With a prodigious Cary Grant, James Mason and has become the iconic bad Hitchcock movie, and Eve Marie Saint, who despite being less Hitchcock girl all his movies in the '50s, was never more seductive than here, Alfred Hitchcock once again proved that he is a master in the casting, and then replacing some of their concerns at stake, as the false mother guilty or somewhat peculiar, again proved he was the greatest coach in history. Each of his films has a unique touch that gave him both in the staging, as in the soundtrack, the main theme as indicated by where they air the shots, and of course, with Bass credits, which then would be exceeded in Psycho.
Roger Thornhill (Grant) is mistaken for another man by a group of foreign spies and after a few unfortunate events, finds himself on the run.North by Northwest is recognized as one of Alfred Hitchcock's finest films and with the adrenaline soaked narrative and a great central performance it is easy to see why.Cary Grant (Charade) delivers a sensational portrayal of advertising executive Roger Thornhill, a simple man who is mistaken for someone else. Thornhill is wonderfully sarcastic, very charismatic and plaudits must go to Grant who has created an original hero, an ordinary man who turns himself into an action hero within a short space of time in Alfred Hitchcock's wonderfully realistic world.Hitchcock's action styled direction is picture perfect for this fast moving thriller. The British director cements the realism down to the ground with his cutting edge close shots and the fast sweeping direction, most noticeable in the landmark plane scene in the fields.It is easy to overdo action in modern day films and Hitchcock has expertly managed to balance the action alongside the everyday events of the protagonists.This film is close to resembling a Bond styled genre, though obviously was made before Bond films were. The cocky yet sophisticated Thornhill is well directed by Hitchcock to create the ultimate action hero in a sharply written narrative that is more realistic and entertaining than the Bond spy genre.The reason this 1959 thriller works is down to all the genres it covers. Through Hitchcock's action and realistic direction, viewers are thrust into action sequences, romantic moments and crime sequences to, providing viewers with the ultimate adventure. Covering different genres is not a stroll in the park as recent films show and can be appreciated here with Hitchcock's wonderful balance.The balance of the action and romantic genres works well with the whole mystery concept of what is happening to the central character.The settings are well executed and further add to the intensity of the plot, particularly the field and the climax on Mount Rushmore.North by Northwest is a top notch action thriller, made so by Hitchcock's direction, great writing and a fine central character.


                
North by Northwest: The feeling I got during North by Northwest initially wasn't a great one. I couldn't focus on what was being shown to me on the screen, something about the story was off-putting, even the directing didn't settle with me at first. Once I relaxed into my chair and gave it a go, I had no regrets and enjoyed myself. As I watched it I realized how much of an impact this single movie had on the industry at the time of its release. Some of the stunts are incredible and the magnitude is just bigger and better than what was in movies at that time. It's Hitchcock's biggest film; it's not bloated, but it covers the territory necessary to best an iconic action thriller. Hitchcock stages everything well here, making the action feel innocent enough to not fall into the "Action Movie" stereotypes of today clichéd blockbusters. The roots of the action pieces are in suspense and timing. North by Northwest had great scope with unexpected instruments in the plot to further the film. Rating: AGrade: 9/10


                
If you are a Hitchcock fan, as I am, then this may be the best Hitchcock of all. "North By Northwest" has a little bit of everything: suspense, love, mystery, thriller intrigue, danger, and justice. Eva Marie Saint (Eve Kendall) has never been more beautiful, or more endearing as she is in this movie. Years ago I didn't really care for Cary Grant, but he has a way of growing on you, movie by movie, and he is never better that he is in this role as Roger O. Thornhill. I loved James Mason and a young Martin Landau in this movie as well. Well worth the 2 hours and 16 minutes of your time.


                
North By North West was made in 1959. You can enjoy it many ways. Let me enumerate: 1. It a predecessor to the James bond films with oily villains with interesting accents, and questionable sexuality out to kill in imaginative ways, always toying with their victims rather that simply shooting them outright. Cary Grant plays a character who likes brave clever repartee with his captors, though he has none of Bond's lethality, just his confidence.2. it is a love story, with lots of clever repartee.3. it is a comedy. Grant's cleverness and unrestrained originality at getting out of scrapes is amusing as is the existential strangeness of the predicaments.4. It is a period drama. It was filmed in 1959 with a cast of tens of thousands, all in accurate 1959 period costumes, and accurate period cars, in accurate period hotels, restaurants, streets and taxis. All this was much cheaper to do then. It is a treat for the eye.5. It is an adventure story with a car chase, explosions and the famous crop dusting scene, but because the special effects are somewhat dated, this aspect would not have the punch it would originally.6. It is a mystery with all manner twists and terms making you guess who is working for whom. It would probably take at least three viewings to begin to figure out the motives for each character at each point in the film.It is an oldie but goodie.


                
Why can't we do that kind of movie anymore? ... a lot of tension, many humor, a little violence and great but simple story, a recipe we seem to have lost!There is a lot of Vertigo tension and some idea of the futur humoristic ton he will use in Marnie, but there is especially one great couple of actors. One of the best acting part for Cary Grant and the villain played by James Manson is actually a nicer guy than the introducing Thornhill. There both majestic and the little blond in the middle is both a woman and a girl, adjusting the tone perfectly. The characters are full of surprises and mysteries, they all played some double game ...in a game for freedom!The idea is basic -some twisted identities- but the shots and the tense music are still amazing! You can recognize Hithcock work everywhere: he spends as much work on the form and the background of his movie and this is a true lesson of Cinema.We still enjoy his movies at this point and this is quite a collection of master pieces!


                
Together with "Psycho" and "The Birds", "North by Northwest" is among Hitchcock's most famous and praised films. It has been said that this movie marks the beginning of the action/thriller as we know it today, and not without reason as this film takes Hitchcock's favorite plot (ordinary man in unbelievable adventures) to the extreme in an epic adventure across U.S.Cary Grant plays Roger Thornhill, an ordinary man who is mistaken for a spy and suddenly gets involved in a series of intrigues and adventures that will take him from Washington to Mount Rushmore as he tries to put an end to his problem. James Mason plays Phillip Vandamm, the international criminal who believes that Thornhill works for the U.S. government and desperately wants to kill him. Eve Marie Saint is Eve, a mysterious woman who helps Roger but has a secret agenda of her own.It is obvious that Hitchcock wanted to pleasure his audience after the mixed reviews he received in "Vertigo", as he gives thrill after thrill in this roller-coaster but always with class and elegance. Thornhill goes from one peril to another and the suspense is always on the rise. Also, his dark humor returns and Cary Grant definitely is the best man to deliver it.Cary Grant is perfect as Roger Thornhill, and it is probably the role of his lifetime. It is very well known the fact that James Stewart was the first choice but was rejected after the failure of "Vertigo". Even when personally I consider Stewart a better actor, Cary Grant was the perfect actor for the lighter Hitchcock; with his suave persona, good humor and classy elegance, Grant shines here as well as in "suspicion" and "To Catch a Thief". On the other hand, Stewart was more apt for the darker side of Hitchcock in films like "Rope", "Rear Window", and the masterpiece "Vertigo".Eve Marie Saint joins the ranks of the icy blonds in the Master's films, as the beautiful and mysterious Eve. There was clearly good chemistry between her and Grant, and the sexual innuendo is brilliant. One can really believe that they are a couple of lovers in the middle of the international intrigue. Martin Landau and James Mason complete the cast as the villains and they surely give brilliant performances. The young Landau was set for a bright future and he demonstrates it in this early role.Many things can be said about "North by Northwest", but one thing is true; while this movie is basically a series of scenes of danger and adventure, Hitchcock's masterful touch separates it from the rest and puts it in a superior place. His perfect camera-work and the score by the always effective Bernard Herrmann created immortal scenes. Sure, "Vertigo" is a superior movie, but it is easy to see why this one succeeded where "Vertigo" failed: "North by Northwest" was designed to please the audience.Honestly, "North By Northwest" is not a perfect movie, it has its flaws and it is definitely not Hitchcock's best film. However, it has a lot of something special that can only be classified as "magic" that one can't help but enjoy the 136 minutes of thrills and adventure that the Master of Suspense prepared for us. 9/10


                
"North By Northwest" is probably well.. many things! Probably the best mistaken identity film ever made, the film with the most exciting chase sequences (Man vs. plane!), the most awesome set pieces made (Mount Rushmore!) the funniest "goof" on screen (kid holding his ears when the gun goes off!) and probably my favorite Hitchcock movie ever. Cary Grant is just amazing in this totally insane plot of mild-mannered ad executive getting thrust into a ridiculous game of underworld espionage, where he's forced to run from planes, gets tied up in a drunk driving rap, is nearly run over by a semi AND has to fight off James Mason and Martin Landau! Ah well, if you're gunning for a blonde as smoking as Eva Marie-Saint, wouldn't you? A lot of this is so over the top to be taken totally seriously, and mostly it's just pure popcorn fun. And cinema doesn't get any better or snarkier then the auction scene. A must see, if you're foolish enough for not having seen it yet.


                
Great roller coaster ride of a movie with a few minor flaws. First, I can't imagine a more inept criminal justice system than in Glen Cove: (a) cops crashing their car into a fleeing drunk driver (b) detectives that easily could have exposed the phony Mrs. Townsend (hard to believe they did not already know that the real one was deceased) with a few basic checks, such as the supposed arrival of Thornhill by taxi, his companions at the Oak Bar, the time and circumstances of the theft of the Mercedes, the party guest list, etc. (c) a lawyer letting his client without objection to go to trial on felony charges only one day after the preliminary hearing, and (d) a judge permitting such a quick trial, then letting Thornhill out on bail if his story was supposedly so phony. Second, the scene involving the "United States Intelligence Agency" (staying so secret by being conveniently plopped right in the middle of the National Mall with the Capitol background shot) could have been deleted, leaving the mystery of Kaplan's identity for later resolution; the plot would have been enhanced that much more. Third, the scene in the Chicago train station with the cops checking all the red caps was a bit of a stretch; my recollection of 1950's America was that most of them were of a different ethnicity than that shown in the film.But in spite of these and the many other minor flaws and goofs that have been well documented, this is still a great film with superb acting, direction, photography, overall plot and suspense that has aged well, like fine wine. I especially liked the little non-verbal nuances, such as: (a) the expression exchange between Thornhill and the other man shaving in the train station, (b) the looks of skepticism by the New York state cop to Eve Kendall, (c) the flabbergasted look by the Chicago cop when Thornhill is suddenly whisked away by the professor at the airport, and (d) Thornhill looking at the farmer (thinking he is Kaplan) across the road, waiting for him to make the first move. The little snippets of humor in the middle of normally suspenseful or dramatic scenes further added to the enjoyment of viewing the film. How many other cops would admonish a murder suspect with "you ought to be ashamed of yourself?" Well worth the rental and viewing time for a good entertainment escape.
Cary Grant never ceases to amaze me. Though I haven't seen a whole list of his movies (Only two: This and Charade), his wit and cool demeanor makes me realize that if I was a movie go-er in his time I'd pick him as the person I'd want to be like when I grew up. The movie's only downfall was that it seemed kind of on the long side, and once or twice I caught myself closing my eyes about 15 minutes from the end, but Grant's ability to keep me interested in this movie surpasses the idea that this was even a Hitchcock film. By the middle I'd completely forgotten, because the style seemed so different from all of Hitchcock's previous films I've seen (Psycho, Rope, Vertigo, et-al), and I was happy with the end result. A must see for fans of Bond movies, because this is the completely implausible way of telling the same kind of story.


                
This is acclaimed by many as one of Hitchcock's best films, but it is also known as one of his biggest blunders.  It is generally agreed that `The Master of Suspense' stumbled badly by revealing the identity of George Kaplan early in the film, in the scene where the CIA members discuss what to do about Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant).Thornhill is a heady advertising executive who is abducted at gunpoint and taken to a man named Vandamm (James Mason) who asks him cryptic questions and keeps calling him George Kaplan.  Thornhill responds that he doesn't know George Kaplan and that they are confusing him with someone else. Through this entire sequence, we are never sure whether he is Thornhill or Kaplan.  The film would have been far more intriguing if this were left a mystery until the end, rather than having it cleared up twenty minutes into the plot.It is thought that Hitchcock believed that the introduction of Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint) would replace one mystery with an even better one. However, Eve's motivations are too transparent and even of the dullest of viewers can discern that their meeting on the train is no chance encounter. Eve is far too forward and obvious, especially for the 1950's.  It is hard to believe there is anyone who wouldn't be a tad suspicious at her behavior. Though we are left with more than a few questions about Eve after the love scene, imagine how wonderfully confused we would have been if Kaplan's identity weren't revealed so early in the film.  We would know only what Thornhill knew about why he was being pursued and seduced, which is next to nothing.Despite these flaws, the film is still intriguing, with a number of unpredictable twists.  The second half of the film is much tighter, and the chase scene on the face of Mount Rushmore is one the classic suspense scenes in the history of film.  Hitchcock tried to get permission to shoot the scene on the real Rushmore, but he was refused.  Not to be deterred, he had his own Mount Rushmore set built that was indistinguishable from the original earning an Oscar nomination for set decoration.The acting is excellent.  Cary Grant is at his debonair best as the acerbic ad executive who is beguiled by Eve's beauty and charm.  Eva Marie Saint is best known for her movie debut as Edie in `On The Waterfront', but she is every bit as good in this film.  Hers is a very complex character, duplicitous and devious, yet vulnerable and torn, and she handles it with facility.  James Mason is enigmatic and elusive as VanDamm and a youthful Martin Landau does a nice job as VanDamm's tough lieutenant.I enjoyed this film, but I don't believe it attains the level of excellence of Hitchcock's other renowned films (`Psycho', `Vertigo' and `Rear Window'). I rated it 9/10 with a point deducted for blowing the Kaplan question. Even so, a bad day for Hitchcock is like the best day for most directors.


                
Over the course of his career, Alfred Hitchcock has made many highly-regarded works and every film of his was treated like an event. After a very successful decade of the 1950's which includes famed works such as Rear Window and Vertigo, Hitchcock closes out the decade with perhaps his greatest work, 1959's North by Northwest. After the dark erotic film that was Vertigo, Hitchcock decided to make something more fun, action/adventure-oriented, and something light-hearted in general. This film is essentially the first James Bond film, even though the first James Bond film would be produced several years later. This is an incredibly tense and suspenseful spy thriller that boasts two of the most memorable scenes in cinematic history-the crop duster scene and the dramatic rescue upon the rocks of Mount Rushmore. This film has lots of incredible talent working on camera and behind the scenes. In addition to Hitchcock, we have great acting from the likes of Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint. The film was written by one of the greatest screenwriters of the era, Ernest Lehman. The film has a distinctive look because of Robert Burks's camerawork and texture is given to the sound of the movie because of the eerie score of Bernard Hermann's. This movie is a tense spy thriller, a screwball romantic comedy, and a tale about the Cold War/paranoia/government spying all in one movie. Cary Grant plays Roger Thornhill, a successful Manhattan advertising agent who is abducted by two strange men at the Plaza Hotel. Thornhill is taken to the mansion of a foreign spy Phillip Vandamm (James Mason) where he is believed to be an undercover federal agent named George Kaplan. Thornhill denies it, and he is forced to drink bourbon and to ride in a car down a twisted, winding road. He escapes the planned execution, and the police refuses to believe his story. He eventually gets framed for murder and now is on the run. He takes a cross-country train to make his escape where he runs into the mysterious, cold femme fatale, Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint). It is unclear at first why she wants to aid him, but we later learn she may be more than meets the eye. From the train, we then head to those famous scenes involving the murderous crop duster airplane in the cornfields of Illinois and the harrowing escape from Mt. Rushmore. The acting is very good, but that really should not be a surprise given the names of the cast. To this point, Cary Grant had a very long career. This might be his best performance. The contributions he added to the film is wonderful. Eva Marie Saint, who made an impression acting opposite of Marlon Brando in 1954's On the Waterfront, adds elegance and class to the role of Eve Kendall. James Mason plays a convincing villain and he does seem like the prototypical James Bond villain. His henchman, Leonard is played by the wonderful Martin Landau. Landau would go on to have a wonderful late-age career, but let's not forget that he was in an Alfred Hitchcock film. There are so many Alfred Hitchcock films to choose from when it comes to naming his best film, but I can say without a doubt that North by Northwest is his most entertaining film. In addition to making the spy genre more accessible to the audience, Hitchcock and Lehman added a little bit of everything. We have quirky and funny dialogue, great action/chase scenes, and some lovely romance. Also, I really need to discuss the crop duster scene. That scene was made so well, and my heart wanted to explode because of how tense that scene was. I felt scared for Cary Grant's character. I am quite amazed at the technical achievement that went to making that scene, and even by today's standards. Are there themes/motifs behind the film? Both Hitchcock and Lehman said no. However, given the time of the film's release, there are some central ideas regarding Cold War paranoia and government spying. If you like James Bond films, you have this movie to thank. Come for the (multiple) twists, stay to see an entertaining spy thriller. My Grade: A


                
Just as Hitchcock used the elements of suspense and timing in Psycho, they are at work here again in North by Northwest. Grant, the lead character, is in the middle of some giant spy thriller adventure, running all over the country ( scope the different venues - the UN building, an auction house, farm fields, trains, and the thrilling climax at an American landmark...) In Psycho, what the audience thinks is the lead character is killed off early in the movie... here in N by NW, it's a different kind of timing experiment - the hero of the movie (and the viewer!) are kept in the dark, caught up in the intrigue until three quarters of the way through the movie. When Cary Grant (and the viewer) are filled in on what is really going on, it's an easy transition to complete the rest of the movie, and the plot sort of changes over to a "will the good guys beat the bad guys ?" plot, and the viewer has to be able to buy into some of the things that happen... I think this is another of Hitchcock's experiments in timing. As usual, there are the usual inside jokes planted here & there through-out. The love/hate relationship between Eva Marie Saint and Cary Grant makes for an interesting love story, and what a spectacular ending!


                
"North By Northwest" is an exceptionally entertaining spy thriller with something for everyone. Its heady mixture of suspense, romance, humour and intrigue make it a real crowd pleaser and its action sequences are delivered at an exhilarating pace. The wonderful locations chosen for many of the scenes are stunning and add enormously to the visual impact of the whole movie and the original screenplay by Ernest Lehman is sophisticated and witty and contains numerous quotable lines.This is a movie which undoubtedly appeals to a broader section of the public than any of Alfred Hitchcock's other offerings and also features one of his favourite themes i.e. a man who's falsely accused of something and then finds that his life descends into chaos as a consequence. Its story of mistaken and shifting identities is particularly engaging to audiences as it depicts how an ordinary man copes in a number of extraordinary circumstances and how he manages in a number of very dangerous predicaments from which there often appears to be no way out.Cary Grant is superb as the suave, fast talking Roger Thornhill who's kidnapped, jailed, framed for murder and made the victim of a number of attempts on his life. His skills are so versatile that he's equally convincing whether he's involved in a dramatic scene, an action sequence, a comic episode or even the type of risqué dialogue that he indulges in with Eva Marie Saint's character.Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint) is an elegant looking woman who makes both Roger and Vandamm (James Mason) very suspicious of her and also on some occasions finds herself in extreme danger. Eva Marie Saint projects Eve's mixture of mystery, humour and vulnerability in precisely the right measure for each situation and in so doing provides a very creditable performance. James Mason is also great as the cultured but utterly ruthless Vandamm who has a marvellous capacity for remaining completely unruffled at all times.The opening title sequence by Saul Bass is strikingly original and makes a great impact as does the use of the various high profile locations (e.g. the United Nations HQ, the Plaza Hotel in New York, Grand Central Station and Mount Rushmore) which contribute so strongly to making certain parts of the movie so memorable and so enjoyable.
There's something so timeless about "North by Northwest" and it's not necessarily that it will echo with any generation. Cary Grant's Roger Thornhill, for example, feels a little foreign among today's thriller protagonists (accent aside) as a 50-year-old everyday man thrown into a mess of a government situation. The action is certainly not big- budget like modern films either with the exception of one explosion. The "it" that "Northwest" has is something more unique and a lot of it stems from great thriller writing and of course the direction of Sir Alfred Hitchcock."Northwest" follows the story of how Thornhill is taken against his will and accused of being a man named George Kaplan. These men try and kill Thornhill and have concocted elaborate cover-ups, to the point that Thornhill has no choice but to do whatever he must to prove his innocence, which actually leads him deeper into the mystery of George Kaplan. The writing of Ernest Lehman is absolutely terrific and it seems a shame that Hitchcock never collaborated with him again. The dialogue is not only very pointed and helpful to the plot, but also the plot movement with its twists and turns and clever way of revealing information to the viewer is simply classic Cold War spy thriller stuff, the skeletal structure that would later become synonymous with someone by the name of James Bond, despite "North by Northwest" predating Bond by three years.Although Roger Thornhill has nothing on James Bond, "North by Northwest" gets to boast Hitchcock's signature directing. No one seems to choose better moments to employ certain shot techniques than Hitchcock. He knows how to turn the best parts of the film into highly memorable and often times unforgettable scenes. The crop-duster attack is easily one of the greatest scenes in thriller movie history, specifically the shot where he's running as the plane gets larger and closer in the background. The difference between Hitchcock and the rest when it comes to a cross-country thriller like this is largely editing and length of takes. Hitchcock creates intensity by letting things build, like lengthy takes of the cars driving down the highway or the plane circling around to make another pass.From Thornhill's drunken escape to the cropduster sequence to a finale on Mount Rushmore, so much of "North by Northwest" remains unique, even to this day, even after all the Bond movies modeled after it and despite archetypes like Eva Marie Saint's femme fatale character. It has a certain inventiveness (and a certain director) that will always allow it to stand out.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more*Initial review revised on February 17, 2017.


                
Classic Hitchcock tale of the 'wrong man'; a mild-mannered businessman (ultra-suave Cary Grant) is mistaken for a spy and kidnapped at the very beginning, and it's away we go from then on. There are so many great and iconic scenes in this film – the crop duster chase of course, and also those at the United Nations and Mount Rushmore. Hitchcock is brilliant and puts tension in scenes at each and every opportunity, as opposed to devolving a great script into silly chase scenes which lesser directors may have done. It feels like a more masterful 007 movie, and James Mason and Martin Landau are both outstanding as villains. I'm not wild about Eva Marie Saint and only feel real chemistry between her and Grant in the line "Shall I climb up and tell you why?" in response to his wondering why she's so good to him, but the final shot of the train speeding into a tunnel was a nice bit of tongue in cheek symbolism from Hitchcock. Despite a long career he was still at the height of his powers, and in the following year would make Psycho.
Alfred Hitchcock dished something up more then fifty years ago that would change the way cinema looked today. North By Northwest was that film, and whilst at the time I can only imagine it was fantastical, it still holds up today, trumping most films that come out in the twenty first century. It's fast paced action, it's mystery and twists and turns and all the charm from its actors are what carry this film into cinematic history. North By Northwest is one of the greatest films ever made, both for its historic placement and it's utterly great story. It proves to be something more then a film, it's more of an adventure for the audience; we travel with Roger through this fantastic thriller, becoming apart of his venture. Possibly the greatest action adventure film ever made.


                
North by Northwest is another one of Alfred Hitchcock's greats, a story where advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill (Cary Grant) is mistaken for a government agent by foreign spies. Therefore, he gets pursued across the country and tries to evade the spies, as well as the police who thinks Thornhill has committed murder.Hitchcock keeps the suspense going throughout the film, filling you with intrigue and making you eager to know how Thornhill will get out of his debacle as we see him face one misadventure after the other. Hitchcock brilliantly combines drama and thrills in the movie with no boring fillers that captivates the audience from start to finish. There is also humor in abundance, most notable being Cary Grant's quick comebacks and wit, which puts in added charm and laughter to this thriller. And, speaking of charm, his on-screen chemistry with Eva Marie Saint is spot-on and touching, especially since she is a mystery woman throughout much of the film and her purpose is ambiguous.Robert Burks did a great job on the cinematography, especially in achieving the brilliance in the refreshing aura, atmosphere and detailed scale of the Mt. Rushmore scenes, and Bernard Hermann gave us a chilling music score.For the first time watching this 1959 movie in 2015, the story still looked refreshing and captivating to me and it is highly recommend to any fans of crime thrillers.Grade A


                
Cary Grant is just so darn charming! In everything he does, he creates a memorable character, but none of his roles are better than the ones he has when he works with the great Alfred Hitchcock. North by Northwest is arguably Grant's best role, as well as one of the best from Hitch. It is a case of mistaken identity that leads Roger O. Thornhill, played by Grant, from Manhattan all the way to Mount Rushmore. Two goons are lead to believe that he is a Mr. Kaplan, and this mistake leads Thornhill to a meeting at the United Nations where he is framed for murder.Besides the leading man, the best part of this film is the engaging script. The story came out of a few interesting ideas that Hitchcock wanted to use for a film. A screenwriter was hired to put the scenes together, which is how we get this film that moves quickly and travels through major monuments of the country. In spite of all the fantastic settings, I consider the scene at the auction to be one of the most impressive scenes in the film. Thornhill confronts the villain, Phillip Vandamm, in which neither of them can fight.Eva Marie Saint does a great job as Thornhill's romantic interest with a secret, Eve Kendall. She is a classic Hitchcock female foil, with blond hair and an icy stare. Even before her identity is revealed, the audience senses that she is more than just a woman sitting at a table on a train. The sexual tension between Thornhill and Kendall is palpable in every scene, which makes the finale all the more climactic.I highly recommend this film to anyone. It has action, romance, suspense and humor and is crafted by arguably one of the greatest directors of all time.


                
My favourite director, Alfred Hitchcock has directed many classics like Psycho, Rear Window and Vertigo, and I will say that this deserves to be up there among his best. I absolutely loved it! The best aspect of this movie is the always charming Cary Grant in a brooding and entertaining performance as Roger Thornhill, a man wanted for the murder of a diplomat. Solidly supporting him all the way are the lovely Eva Marie Saint as Eve Kendell and oily James Mason as the villainous Vandamme. They are further advantaged by some excellent camera-work and a wonderfully atmospheric music score. The script is focused and suspenseful, and Hitchcock's direction ensures the film rarely slips, even if some of the complicated plot does fly over people's heads. The climax though is simply the icing on the cake. Overall, a hugely enjoyable film, which I will give a 9.5/10. Bethany Cox


                
