Despite clichés, and a very depressing finale, this is one of the best-made films of its era and genre.The strengths of the film include an odd relationship between the two lead cops, who seem loosely based on the two lead cops of the "Lethal Weapon" series, but who (thankfully) never play for laughs, and never really become "buddies" - the young cop is too arrogant, and the older cop has too much experience, which the young cop refuses to acknowledge. The two characters are also brilliantly acted by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt (probably his best performance).There's one odd flaw in the film - about half-way through, I found that I had learned to "expect the unexpected" from the film, which meant that the rest of the film was predictable in a bizarre way - simply decide where the expected move would be, and then expect the unexpected move instead. The most obvious instance of this is in the finale itself, which could be guessed at least 5 minutes ahead of time.Normally, this would be a formula for disaster - but fortunately, the high quality of the film-making twists the film into an edge-of-the-seat suspenseful waiting game as we watch with horror the one cop's encounter with the insanity of pure evil.I didn't want to admire this film (to be honest, I dislike Brad Pitt something fierce), but I'm afraid I must - very professionally made, it delivers its promised suspense all the way.


                
Somerset, (Morgan Freeman) a deeply Intellectual Detective, with barely a week left until his retirement and Mills, (Brad Pitt) the new cop in town, who is a pretty weak detective, are thrown together to investigate what at first appears to be another Homicide.After a second Victim is found, Somerset realises that this is no open and shut case, and requests that he is relieved, in light of his impending retirement. Mills gladly takes over the case and plunges himself in way over his head.As the work of a Crimally insane genius continues, Mills grows more and more erratic, and Somerset simply has to remain, to guide his young partner through the case, which ultimately leads to one of the finest climax's in movie history.With Wonderful Performances from both Freeman and Pitt and a really dark and morbid direction from David Fincher, the movie is crammed with suspense, intrigue and Excitement.My Favourite scene is John Doe (Kevin Spacey) tearing into Mills in the car, driving towards the Climax, the acting is simply perfect as Pitt's character is torn apart by the genius of the Criminally insane, and Freeman interjects with insightful rationality, demonstrating his superior mind. The Scene Carries such intensity, and at the same time encapsulates the primary characters basic elements. Most actors can't achieve this level of character depth, but these are three of the finest actors of our time. 9/10
This is one of those dark movies, where it's constantly raining and wet and where the light always seems to be dim. Appropriately enough, this changes to bright and shimmering heat in the very end. As a kid, I hated dark movies. But perhaps it is appropriate in this case, because Seven attempts to be a statement about humanity: no one is without sin.The seven deadly sins are gluttony, greed, sloth, pride, lust, envy, and wrath. Prime examples of people committing these are being punished one by one, brutally and efficiently, by a psychopathic killer. Detectives, and reluctant partners, William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and David Mills (Brad Pitt) are assigned to track down the killer. Needless to say, the job gets accomplished. While some might argue it is done surprisingly, I'd argue otherwise.For once, I wasn't impressed with Pitt's acting. I thought Freeman did a great job. As usual, the villain, John Doe played by Kevin Spacey, provides a chilling performance, even though he is not given as much center stage as, say, Anthony Hopkins was in Silence of the Lambs. In fact, the whole movie seems to hurry through without giving key characters enough time to build up their emotional worth, particularly Mills' wife Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow).In the end, Seven does manage to get its point across effectively. While watching the movie itself, I thought it a bit anti-climatic, but when mulling it over later, the images echo very strongly in my mind. One of the most disturbing films I've seen.
After the Alien-debacle Fincher proved all the critics wrong. This film is one of the best in a genre that hasn't been very innovative for a long time.Everyone know's the story by now, so I won't waste time telling it. This film was trend setting with it's dark, gritty look and opening sequence. We still see it copied in movies and TV-series today. Everything is great about this film. I guess if anything, the weakest link in the film is Pitt, who is grossly overshadowed by Freeman. But let's not look for flaws when there really aren't any. The script is intelligent and uncompromising. The direction is innovative en daring. The production-design and cinematography are top-notch.Fincher is one of the big boys in Tinseltown these days. Seven is the reason why.


                
After years of experiencing dull, formulaic, clichèd so-called thrillers, it's always satisfying when a genuinely great movie comes along. I have absolutely no hesitation in proclaiming 'Se7en' to be such a film, with director David Fincher <U+0096> after achieving a somewhat mixed result in his cinematic debut, 'Alien³' <U+0096> firmly proclaiming his place as one of the 1990's most promising new talents. It's somewhat surprising that the movie had managed to elude me for so long, since I'd been wanting to see it for a while, and it was only last week that I managed to get my hands on a DVD copy. And so, without further ado, I invited over a friend, who has an equal partiality towards good thrillers, and enthusiastically promised him one of the best of its decade. 'Se7en' didn't disappoint.The film takes place in a dark, gritty, unnamed metropolis, where it is always raining and danger looms ominously from every alleyway. Reserved and hardened Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) has seen it all in his lifetime, and is finally preparing to retire to the country, away from the madness of the city. His replacement, impulsive Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt), has transferred here at his own request, and is eager to make his mark, even though his career choice could be harming the wellbeing of his lonely and vulnerable wife, Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow). Both detectives are soon drawn into the case of a serial killer, John Doe, who is ritualistically murdering his victims according to the Seven Deadly Sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, pride, envy and wrath. As the murders begin piling up, the two detectives' investigation becomes an obsession, and the inevitable outcome will drastically change the lives of both. Throughout the film, Brad Pitt provides most of the comic relief, none of which detracts at all from the horrors we are witnessing on screen.David Fincher has a unique visual style that is simply thrilling to watch. Despite the thematically dark tone of the story, the film itself is positively brimming with invigorating and vibrantly-contrasted colour and lighting. The graphic murder scenes appear to splash out of the screen, before our very eyes, enhancing the feelings of dread and repulsion that accompany John Doe's horrific acts of murder. The rich, highly-stylised use of colour also helps create a memorable atmosphere of sheer foreboding; the imagery is sure to stay with you for many years to come. Even as 'Se7en' abandons the gritty setting of the city for the final act <U+0096> shifting the action to a starkly-lit open field beside a trail of electric power-lines <U+0096> the film loses none of its potency, the isolation of the climactic arena seemingly leaving our main protagonists even more helpless and vulnerable than before.Our villain is anonymously titled John Doe, and is played with delightful creepiness by Kevin Spacey, who only agreed to the part under the condition that he remain unbilled in the promotion and opening credits of the film. Unlike your typical serial killer, John Doe is not a crazy, impulsive and stupid mad-man, but something rather more terrifying: he is intelligent, patient and methodical. In one particularly ghastly crime, he keeps a convicted drug dealer chained to his bed for an entire year, removing his hands and his tongue, and regularly paying his rent so as to not arouse any suspicions. John Doe's entire life has been dedicated to Mankind's obsession with committing sin, and, through orchestrating his crimes, he wishes to preach to the society of their transgressions. John Doe, rather uniquely, is given a large portion of the film's final half-hour, and so he becomes a character that we come to know very well, as opposed to the half-constructed serial killers who usually turn up in the final five minutes only to be shot by the hero. Spacey is very good in the role, though I can't help but feel that his performance would have been even more effective had I not been familiar with much of his later film work.The most exciting scene in the film is undoubtedly the hectic foot-chase that ensues when John Doe arrives home to his apartment, only to find Detectives Somerset and Mills waiting patiently outside his door. However, the film's climax is also well worth mentioning: though many interpretations have been floating around, my view is that the final two victims are John Doe himself ("Envy") and David Mills ("Wrath"). In order to prevent himself from being labeled a hypocrite, as Mills had suggested during the car-ride, Doe allowed his own deadly sin - envy - to result in the death of Tracy, and so enticed Mills to shoot him, simultaneously becoming the sixth victim and prompting Mills to commit the seventh sin. Some have argued that, since Mills didn't die, he can't be perceived as one of Doe's victims, but is being left alive in these circumstances perhaps even a more diabolical punishment?
`Se7en' is all about harsh style and gruesome substance <U+0096> while it's probably not a film for everyone (particularly the squeamish), it is one of the most moody, memorable films made in recent years.  A sense of absolute dread pervades each and every scene, either from the powerful words and deeds of the characters or from the dreary sets and atmosphere created by director David Fincher.  There's a quote from the film `The Crow' that goes, `It can't rain all the time' . . . well, in the world of `Se7en', it can <U+0096> and it does.`Se7en' is the story of world-weary police detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman), a man who's probably seen more terror and sadness in his lifetime than any man should ever be forced to see.  Partnered with the young cop David Mills (Brad Pitt), Somerset is assigned to find the serial killer known only as John Doe.  The horrific crimes of Doe are patterned after the Seven Deadly Sins <U+0096> for Gluttony, one victim was literally forced to eat until his internal organs exploded; for another, Greed, the victim is forced to cut an actual pound of flesh away from his own body.  John Doe is a highly literate, intelligent killer; but so is Somerset, and an astounding game of cat-and-mouse filled with unexpected twists ensues as the hunt for Doe gets underway.Andrew Kevin Walker's script for `Se7en' is absolutely dazzling.  It's smart and powerful, and doesn't pull any punches <U+0096> the bodies, maimed and tortured, inexorably begin to pile up in graphic fashion, and Somerset and Mills aren't allowed to minimize the horrors they're forced to find.  Each new corpse brings a true feeling of revulsion . . . and of dread, as the realization hits that another body will be forthcoming unless John Doe is found.  The story is filled with misdirection and red herrings; just as the audience starts to think that the unfolding events of the film are starting to become predictable, the film lurches further into the unknown darkness, keeping the edge of uneasiness that pervades `Se7en' fresh . . . and constant.  Kudos also to David Fincher's stylish direction <U+0096> this may be Fincher's best film to date.  The entire look of the film is dark and gloomy, almost a suicidal form of 1940s film noir, evoking a despairing atmosphere that never relents or shows a glimmer of optimism.  Combine that with Fincher's knack for turning even the most mundane scene into a nailbiter <U+0096> `Se7en' features a scene with Somerset and Mills standing together in an empty field, and yet the scene is still incredibly tense <U+0096> and `Se7en' becomes an exceptionally powerful, disturbing film that's difficult to turn away from.The cast?  Also excellent.  Pitt is perfect as the cocky young detective Mills, mixing together the right amount of bravado and testosterone at the start of the film, and then later tempering that swagger with cynicism <U+0096> and fear <U+0096> as the movie progresses forward.  In a way, Mills is a surrogate for the audience; he starts out thinking that he knows exactly what's going to happen but as events slowly unfold before his horrified eyes, it starts to dawn on Mills that he is mentally unprepared he is for a maniac like John Doe.  Pitt handles the decline of Mills from overconfident to completely paranoid with great skill.  The killer John Doe (I won't reveal his name here; the actor's uncredited in the film, so I won't mention it either on the off chance that you haven't read it elsewhere) is simply great.  He's a quiet, intense figure who is Machiavellian with his calculated words and actions.  Many other actors might've just mimicked Hannibal Lecter to portray John Doe . . . but the awesome performance in `Se7en' of the uncredited actor is actually better <U+0096> and more unsettling <U+0096> than Lecter himself.  The best performance of the film, however, may belong to Morgan Freeman as Somerset.  Freeman is perhaps the only person capable to tracking down John Doe, simply because he has seen so much sadness and horror before. Nothing Doe does, no matter how vile,  is able to derail the detective's efforts.  As Somerset, Freeman imbues the character with a certain tired, weary attitude . . . but still lying somewhere beneath that attitude is hope, and that small glimmer of hope, along with the wisdom of experience, is what prevents `Se7en' from spiraling into complete despair.   Somerset's hope, small as it is, becomes the audience's hope as well.With the possible exception of the very end of the film <U+0096> for all its daring audacity, Fincher chooses to play it a little too safe at the film's conclusion <U+0096>  `Se7en' proves to be an uncompromising tour de force of modern horror.  If you're not easily bothered by graphic horror and gore, then go watch this film.  You certainly won't be disappointed.  Grade: A
When audiences went to see the latest production of a tragedy by William Shakespeare at the Globe Theatre, there was a universal reaction by the spectators to what they were seeing on the stage. It was one of sadness, anger, sympathy and relief. The sadness was normally due to the innocent victim (who was usually a beautiful woman) being murdered in an unjustified fashion, such as Desdemona in 'Othello'; the anger would have been directed towards the villain in the play whose dastardly deeds had resulted in the deaths of heroes and heroines - here we have Iago, arguably the most evil character in the history of literature ('Othello' again); sympathy was not for the devil, but for the poor people who had overcome the denouement but had to deal with its consequences (Horatio perhaps in 'Hamlet', or maybe Father Laurence in 'Romeo and Juliet'); and lastly relief was felt because the audience had survived the play's violence and could thank their lucky stars that they did not have to live in a world so cruel. Now stay with me here, because there is, in fact, a point to all of this. I believe that Fincher's 'Seven' is the modern Shakespearean tragedy, the modern 'Titus Andronicus', if you will. The feeling that washes over you when the credits roll in Seven (which are damn good credits I might add, start and finish) is on a par with a great Shakespearean tragedy, and it is for this reason why I think that films such as Seven should be considered as more serious in a literary sense. Not only that, but the film even introduces the audience to legendary texts such as Dante's 'Inferno' and Geoffrey Chaucer's 'The Canterbury Tales' - so I would be inclined to try and influence more English professors to watch this film. Now here's the part where I say 'Yeah Seven, woo, it's awesome! Yeah!'. I'm just going to go out and say it: this film has everything that you could possibly be looking for when watching a movie. The script, for one, is great. Original, funny in places, exciting, sexy...the list is endless really. Well played Andrew Kevin Walker; the boy done good. Next we have the acting which, to put in a Romantic sense, is sublime: people may argue that Morgan Freeman can only play one character, but I think it's similar to the situation with Hugh Grant (his one persona may be a bumbling, lovable fool, but he is damn good at it) and it's the same for Morgan. Here he is at his fatherly, worldly-wise detective best, and the comic double act of Freeman and Pitt is essential to the film. Pitt's performance is probably just about overshadowed by his portrayal of Tyler Durden in Fincher's other chef d'oeuvre 'Fight Club', but in no way is this a demeaning statement to Pitt. He is, or was, one of my favourite 'younger' actors (that's the Ed Norton, Johnny Depp ring, as opposed to the Pacino/De Niro/Hoffman circle of expertise) until 2005 came about - Ocean's 12, to put it mildly, disappointed me greatly. However, let's think positively: with Seven and Fight Club and Snatch, I'm sure Brad has something in store for fans like me. Gwyneth Paltrow is probably the unsung hero, or heroine, of the film and ironically she's the one who gets it worst (or does she? Refer back to tragedy point about sympathy). The words 'never better' spring to mind when thinking about Paltrow's 'Tracey'. There's someone else I'm not mentioning here, despite the 'contains spoiler' tick, but let's just say he/she/it provides, in my eyes, the greatest twist OF ALL TIME. Last but not least, David Fincher is where it's at. His undoubtedly cool style is the reason why this film is so...cool, for want of a better word. Thanks to him, Morgan Freeman is cool, Gwyneth Paltrow is cool, the man who works in that horrible place where the 'Pride' crime takes place is cool, even the man/woman/thing with no name is cool (to a certain extent). To conclude, there are certain films that when the credits appear at the end, you think to yourself 'That has to be the best movie I've ever seen'. 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'L.A. Confidential' are prime examples. In my opinion, 'Seven' epitomises this type of film.
"Se7en" (1995) Dir: David FincherThere's no cinematic theme I can think of that has run the gamut from Trash to High Art (via Blockbuster) quite like the Serial Killer movie. Throughout the history of the medium, many of these films have failed to captivate large audiences the way that "Se7en" did and continues to do, usually because they were either shamelessly exploitative or far too deliberately psychological in their approach for most viewers. It's a tough balance for a filmmaker to strike, but with "Se7en" David Fincher made it look so simple. It is one of the best Serial Killer movies ever made.Part of the reason film-goers consider Freeman, Pitt and Spacey so highly today is because of "Se7en". All three actors excel in their roles. Freeman's Detective Somerset is a week away from retirement when he becomes involved, alongside his own replacement Detective Mills (Pitt), in what is surely the most horrific multiple murder case of his long career. Mills is determined not to shy away from his first case in town, and is shown to be more impulsive than the erudite Somerset, who immediately connects the killings to several great literary works including "The Divine Comedy" and the writings of St Thomas Aquinas. They are always lagging behind the killer, walking solemnly through endless downpours to survey the crime scene of these increasingly sick murders, barely able to grasp the calculated depravity of the man they are chasing.There are brief meditations on human apathy by both Freeman's character and the killer himself but aside from these, "Se7en" is essentially plot- and character-driven. This works to its great advantage - too much philosophy would have affected the momentum of the film, which is expertly weighted and allowed to accumulate at the right points. Nothing is clichéd, and there are no simplistic 'red herrings' to stretch the action out. It is a thoroughly modern crime film that borrows the religious themes from Horror and parts of its aesthetic from Film Noir, successfully widening its appeal in the process.I've learnt to slightly concede in my critical judgement over years of watching silent films, art films, propaganda films, slow-moving European epics, counterculture movies et cetera, and so part of the reason I enjoyed "Se7en" so much is that I didn't need to concede anything while watching it. Quite the opposite, I was never anything but totally gripped by it. This is the power of really decent American film-making when it successfully balances visual style, directorial control, individual performances and, above all, a great story (which I won't spoil for you any further by elaborating upon in this review!)
This story takes you where it wants you to go. The proof is that while there are some gruesome acts in this movie (you only see the aftermath, no action), the most disturbing crime in the movie is the least gruesome. There are very few movies that pull-off a mix of repulsive crime and psychological involvement as well as this one.The character development was done very well with while not distracting you by burying you in the personal life of each characterInitially, I felt the main detective character was a little unbelievable a bit too methodical. As the character developed though, you start to see that as a part of his personality, the element that levels the playing field between him and the criminal. In the end, I found him to be as diabolically analytical as the criminal.The chess game between the main detective and the criminal was flawless. Had they got the criminal into custody any other way than they did.. it would have ruined the movie.


                
This is an outstanding movie. Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey are pitch-perfect, and Brad Pitt is solid. Pitt actually had a lot to do with this movie's success outside of his acting. He forced the studio to keep the original ending, and he forced them to shell out the money to get Spacey. It is fortunate that he did, as those two elements are central to the movie's greatness. Spacey played the killer so chillingly that it makes his message seem all the more unnerving and, perhaps, correct. The uncompromising ending leaves the viewer shocked and reeling. This movie could not have worked without it. Outside of those obvious elements, another key to the film is Freeman's character. His outlook on life is and how it is affected by the murders and by his new partner is a key subplot the film. It brings more weight to the picture. Also, David Fincher's dark, dreary direction adds to the film, somewhat similar to the way Ridley Scott's dark vision adds to Blade Runner. The constant rain is a nice touch, especially when it ironically recedes after the killer shows up. I was never a Nine Inch Nails fan, but their dark brand of music fits this film well, as evidenced in the opening credits. Overall, I think this is one of the great films of all time. Watch it if you can handle grisly images and if you like unnerving endings.
Se7en is a reflection of our everyday life, we live in a world filled with media & information technology which makes people often live beside each other instead of with each other, even though the serial killer is portrayed as the devil in this movie i can empathize with his feelings/opinion about seeing sins on every corner of the streets. The intellectual, patient personality that's Sommerset & the young rebellious "let's dance" Mills really contrast each other, creating interesting character development.We as the audience are confronted with biblical/religious statements throughout progress of the film concerning homocide cases, if Sommerset had to choose a playing card then he'd retire as soon as possible, he's been doing detective work for way to long, but however he does get motivated by the unusual case of 7 sins that are about to unfold including all the plot twists & turns.Se7en has been directed with unusual grimmy & dark look, during the film it's constantly raining, as if time never seems to change the mood is captured with great directorial vision, the dark & wet apartments that seem to be abandonded for ages, a combination of brown & black colors recreating a new kind of innovative film noir, consciously leading us to unique cinematographic history.Sommerset comes to terms with our serial killer John Doe & even though they might agree on certain points when it comes to the subject of everyday life, these 2 characters are worlds apart at the same time, in a sense that John Doe murders his victims using the 7 deadly sins.Pacing of this movie is nice but if you're expecting a big action movie, perhaps you're better of watching a vin diesel (XXX) movie. We're invited by the director to be intellectually stimulated, while the story develops we must think along, asking ourselves new questions about every single horror murder committed as we go.With that said the film is in my humble opinion highly recommended, especially if you're a fan of the acting skills of Brad Pitt & Morgan Freeman, it's got quality(not much though)action, dark mood, acting, story development, character development, mystery, among others. Even though not for the faint hearted, since some scenes of the committed murders are visually shocking to say the least (adult rated), Se7en is a great police drama by director David Fincher. * * * * * * * * * 9 OUT 0F 10 STARS !


                
There was tension throughout the entire movie and in significant doses and the mood was set just right. Great acting, too. The juxtaposition of personalities and life philosophies between Freeman and Pitt were great with Freeman showing a jaded, wise, and cynical character and Pitt showing a more rash dreamer.Most significantly, I feel the tone and underlying themes were incredible. An insane killer turns out to be incredibly smart and manipulative and ironically the most rational one (in his twisted way) in the end, while Pitt allows himself to be manipulated into becoming Wrath.I feel Spacey was great and logical in his twisted way. I feel he pretty much had the cunning and wit of Joker (Dark Knight) and the twisted modus operandi and philosophy of the killers in the Saw series.At first, I felt the pacing in the beginning and sudden thrust into the action was too fast, but by the end, I felt that this was a good move, as it helped keep a swift and ugly pace and tension.The ending was also ingenious. Clever on the part of the writer, I feel it wraps up nicely.Finally, I will definitely remember the last lines of the movie: Ernest Hemingway once wrote, "'The world is a fine place and worth fighting for.' I agree with the second part."
David Fincher's best movie until date, Se7en is a dark portrayal of a genius psychopath killer, brilliantly played by Kevin Spacey. He is on camera for no more than last 30 minutes of the movie, but so dominant is his character that the entire movie seems to be cast around his uncanny-ness.The hero of the movie though is neither he nor Brad Pitt nor Morgan Freeman <U+0096> the two detectives entrusted with the task of tacking him down. It is the plot and the script, extremely brilliant though very murky and enticingly morbid. You see gory murders that leave trace of heart-rending torture, but all that it makes you do is become more inquisitive about the killer. The killer is the sole obsession with the detectives too and the contrast between Brad Pitt's edginess and Morgan Freeman's poise is very well portrayed. It parallels the contrast between the killer's poise and the edginess of the action sequence.The climax of the movie is startling, revealing and disturbing. It characterizes the essence of Se7en, a movie that stirs you and makes you sit up and take note of it. Calling Se7en a psychological thriller is understating its significance. It is a movie that goes well beyond that, making you aware of the morbid possibilities that exist in human mind. The movie is also remarkable for the fact the cinematic climax does not provide you any catharsis, it just sets your mind thinking <U+0096> not in the least about what it takes to craft a script as this and to make a movie as disturbingly poignant as Se7en.
Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is about to retire. He is teamed up with a young new detective David Mills (Brad Pitt). Together they try to find a serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his M.O. Meanwhile Mills' wife Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow) fears for her husband's life and is very depressed.Dark and depressing but just fascinating. Director David Fincher shots the entire film in dim light and shoves the victims mutilated bodies in our face. The grimness of the tone wears you down but that's appropriate considering the subject matter. No humor either. It all leads to a truly harrowing ending. There was supposed to be a happy ending but they (wisely) chose not to do it. Freeman and Pitt work very well together and both give excellent performances. I even thought Paltrow (who I hate) was good! Kevin Spacey is very good too in a small role.If you have trouble with blood, gore and disturbing subject matter stay far away from this movie. But if you can handle that, watch this one. It's depressing and unpleasant but riveting.


                
The serial killer movie is one of the (if not the one) concise genres of the 1990s. David Fincher started his feature film career in the 90s with "Alien 3", a good but not great sequel to the "Alien"-series. But this film already revealed his sensitive instinct for threatening scenarios. With "Se7en" he made one of the best thrillers of all time, an archetypal film for the word 'genre-defining'. So many films copied the style of it in the following years until now, that this style ultimately became nerve-racking for me in every new film. This is the one problem I felt while re-watching it. New audiences may not even be able to really understand what made this movie so great when it first came out. But its qualities are still visible today. The character of John Doe is a masterpiece of evil man-characterization. Kevin Spacey owns the screen his whole screen time, but I also like the characterizations of young hopeful cop and old cop, who has lost his faith in the good of life. As I said: One of the best thrillers of all time.
Seven is by now more or less a modern classic. The movie is so dark that I almost felt depressed when I left the cinema. I disagree with another reviewer who calls it "One of the most overrated "thrillers" of all time". The only point this reviewer has is that the camerawork is great. Good acting, good story, great camerawork. Bottom line; If you are looking for suspense you will get it here. You might even get a depression, but that's for free.One of David Fincher's (director) best films. Fincher is very talented but probably also very depressed considering the movies he has made. Except for Panic room (there is a turkey for you) he has made a couple of very interesting and unusual movies (Fight club, The game).
Thriller rating: 8/10 Movie rating 7/10


                
The movie's dark and haunting atmosphere never leaves you out of its grasp. Once you immerse yourself deeply into the movie's plot, you would be confused about what makes you more uncomfortable, the murders or the atmosphere of the movie. The dialogues written for Morgan Freeman's character, Somerset were poetic and often brought calmness to the otherwise eerie movie. While I was not very convinced with the performance of Brad Pitt or the chemistry between him and Morgan Freeman in the beginning, I got the hang of it and appreciated Mill's character as the movie progressed and we were made a part of the deep conversations that Somerset and Mills shared during their investigations. Then there is Jonathan Doe of course! What can I say other than "Detective!!!!".A well made movie with great performances, Seven is a classic and surely has inspired many movies that followed it and continues to do so.


                
This is an excellent serial killer thriller. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt play police detectives who together are tracking a serial killer who kills people who have each committed one of the seven deadly sins in a way that's relevant to the specific sin. Kevin Spacey plays the killer.


                
Se7en is one of my favorite movies. I guess that says a lot about me. I can't pass it by when flicking through my cable guide. Every time I watch it I see or hear something new. Morgan Freeman is superb as a tired and emotionally beaten down cop getting ready to retire. Brad Pitt is very convincing as a young new detective running his first serial killer investigation with all the nerves and ambitious recklessness you'd expect from having to partner with a veteran on his last case before retirement. The duo face a witty killer who kills based on the seven deadly sins. The real stars of this movie are the writer, director and set designers for presenting incredibly intricate and graphic murder scenes and making all the characters likable. The writing is deep and you have to pay attention to every detail. As the bodies mount you find yourself counting down each deadly sin to the incredible climax and shocking but truly awesome ending. You can't go wrong with the cast assembled in Se7en. It's a great movie for whodunit fans that like a little more tension and voyeurism in their crime dramas. It will not disappoint.


                
I developed phenomenally as a person when I saw this movie. Although not my favorite genre, but the plot is immaculate. I don't know how it can conceived this way. Was it a real story that was the inspiration behind. I don't know but just amazing. The performances, the direction, the editing, color grading, title- everything is near perfect. I became a fan of David Fincher, initially I thought it was a little talky but the movie is just hard to forget.


                
...and it was STILL STELLAR! Fincher's mid-90's crime drama SE7EN got a whole bunch of hype when it first came out, and deservedly so. Pitt was still on the upswing of his career, "Gwyn" was still not yet a household name (which was a good thing for this role), and of course Freeman was at the top of his game (see SHAWSHANK, UNFORGIVEN, OUTBREAK, etc.) once again playing the voice of reason to perfection. And throw in Spacey, who was still in the last stages of being a THAT GUY (albeit, one of the very best THAT GUYS-- he would pick up a Supporting Actor Oscar the next year for THE USUAL SUSPECTS), and you've got one helluva cast.But it wouldn't have all mattered if the story wasn't any good, and this one, written by Andrew Kevin Walker, is top notch. I guess my only real beef is that we wait too long until we actually get involved visually with Spacey's John Doe. But once he shows, the movie is even more riveting down the stretch. The chase scene and then finally the car ride scene are tremendous, as is the final showdown which I won't spoil here but I think every movie buff is familiar with by now.WATCH IT AGAIN WHEN YOU CAN!
My Personal Rating - 8.5/10 - This Film is also great the acting the atmosphere is good. especially the ending, i won't spoil anything, just watch this film if you love suspense, mystery, a little bit horror in my opinion. and as always this film might not be for everyone obviously it's no mickey mouse kinda movie that a kid can watch. it's dark.


                
As the title of the movie suggests , there are 7 sins and watching a masterpiece ain't one of them. This movie has everything,a wonderful and a talented cast, a great director and the center of it,a story. It has a Gothic horror movie vibe to it but at the core it's a psychological thriller.This movie isn't for the faint-hearted as it contains a few disturbing scenes.


                
Bleak, gruesome, brilliant. These are a few of words that come to mind when I think of David Fincher's 'Se7en'. In lesser hands the concept (two detectives on the trail of a serial killer committing stylized murders based on the Seven Deadly Sins) could've been nothing more than a gimmick, but here it's a deftly crafted game of cat and mouse that pulls you in, even as it makes you want to turn away. But that said, it's not what I'd call an exceptionally graphic film. More is implied than is shown, and we fill in the blank spots in our mind's eye. A far more effective technique than the cheap gross-out route.The cast is excellent, lead by the inimitable Morgan Freeman. I can't believe Freeman didn't get an Oscar nod. I would cite genre bias, but then I think of 'Silence Of The Lambs' getting everything but the kitchen sink just a few years before at the Academy Awards. Co-star Brad Pitt is no Freeman, but he more than holds his own with the veteran here and the two have an exceptional chemistry. The killer, whose identity I will not reveal lest I ruin the surprise for those who may not have seen it, is brilliant in his few brief scenes.It's not a pleasant film, and at the risk of spoiling it, there is no happy ending, but it's a filmmaking and storytelling clinic, and one Hell of a good movie.
One of the best thrillers I've ever seen. It's too bad that most of this genre movies aren't produced anymore during the last years. Best thrillers, in my opinion, are the ones from the '90s and early 2000. Why's that? Aren't there any good screenwriters? It's hard to find now days a good thriller that can blow you up. Most of them are at a 6 average mark or below and quite short (not so many over 1h30 min). Se7en has, almost everything that a thriller needs: action, emotion, curiosity, a good screenplay, good actors, unpredictable end and it is not a short movie. We have here a young Brad Pitt, that plays very well, a mid age Morgan Freeman as his mentor and a "sick" Kevin Spacey (in a good way, of course).


                
