This film is flawless and one of the highlights of the Montreal World Film Festival 2014. It also was recognized with many international prizes in Europe, North America and even Israel. It captures the incoherence and inhumanity of war from the point of view of innocent civilians and of dehumanized soldiers. The pace and plot are crisp, compact and conscious-elevating with a spectacular, yet simple screenplay. The cinematography and music match and enhance the emotional and philosophical human drama. The acting from the all-male cast is poignant and powerful in its restraint. Zaza Urushadze's text comes to life like a play in this sometimes claustrophobic confine which only heightens the inherent tension between the protagonists. The directing does however balance this with the sad beauty of rural Abkhazia conflict zone. The simple sets set the mood and this movie is shooting for the moon.Alexander Kuranov returns as the editor after teaming up with Zaza Urushadze for the excellent multiple story Three Houses (2008) and gets every cut and emotion right. The dialogue, like the film, is raw, unpredictable, mysterious and profound. It brings you the very core of humanity's hopes and fears. The theme of pointless war has rarely been portrayed so perfectly. It surpasses even seminal South Korean The Front Line (2011) and does so in a intellectual and emotionally effective way. Beyond that it is a human drama about people stuck in a conflict and how they decide to deal with it and each other. Is there a glimpse of hope or some guidelines we can learn from?Be sure that I will be looking for Zaza's previous and next work. This is cinema at it's best.


                
I don't normally give 10/10 to films, but this was easy. This isn't a slow artistic movie where nothing happens, critics laud and regular people don't get. This is something so good everyone can agree on. Everything counts for something, there is nothing there for nothing. And not for mere symbolism, but everything has a reason to be in the film - there are no stock characters, no stock conversations and no stock props.Every word counts for so much that you couldn't cut out one second of the film without flinching. It is neither slow nor rushed, neither pro-Georgian nor pro-separatist, neither pro-settlement or pro-exodus... very few people could've made this same movie with this same script without ruining it with political biases like anti-Islam, anti-Russia, anti-Georgian, anti-Caucasian, anti-Communist, anti-separatist sentiment (or pro any of those). This movie is about the people in it and it does it well without the director getting caught up in tit-for-tat us-vs-them situation nor does it show some premonition of what is to happen 10-20 years from then.It's a story about the early 1992, not 2001 or 1941. It's a story about an Estonian man living in Georgia. I personally know directors that would see this script and add so much history and awareness of the future that it would ruin it. This director goes without cheap attempts at referencing bigger historical events for the sake of contextualization.Everything here is weighted and is kept in the movie after careful consideration, from the car to the cassette, from the photo to the guns, from the shrapnel to the shish kebabs.No clichés, no stock characters, no distractions - just a great story.If I had to say a bad thing about it - the music (the main theme), although great, gets repetitive after a while.Easily film of the year and in my personal top 10.
Every human being should see this movie. Not that it's against the horror of war. Not that it's so little like our lives are as little in the universe. Not that if it wins an Oscar cause it's been nominated in the category for <U+0430> foreign movie this year would change something. Not that you can see yourself there. Not that it's bigger than all religions in the world. Not that it's a drama and you don't like drama but your life is a drama. Not that you will not like it or like it. Not that it's a movie from 2013 but its distribution has been delayed for 2 years."Not that" too many times to count BUT because if you don't see it you will miss a lot. I know that.


                
There is no more to add...the ratings say it all - this is cinema at its best, a riveting drama, no cgi pretenses, free from excessive action, stripped of aesthetic camera shots, just powerful, pure, raw humanity here.It reminds me a little of "Before the Rain", 1994, starring the incomparable Katrin Cartlidge.The acting from the main characters is utterly convincing, there's not a single instance of emotional excess to detract from the unfolding story, and what a story it tells, to remind us about brotherhood, that there is so much more that unites than divides us, about what it means to live and love life, to be human.The pace is slowed, to allow us to know and connect to Ivo, Margus, Ahmed and Nika, such that whatever happens to them matter, regardless of their background and which side of the war they stand.As we are drawn deeply into their presence, the sudden explosions and noises that remind us that a war is ongoing become terrifying, as we sit at the edge of our chairs, realizing that our protagonists are vulnerable, as all of us are fragile.Highly recommended if you are seeking an intense, haunting cinematic experience.


                
One of the few 5/5 ratings I gave, out of the 41 movies I saw at the recent Santa Barbara International Film Festival.It's the kind of story that you feel everyone should see--that there would be less war and strife in the world if people did see this film. Enemies on opposite sides of the Georgian war find themselves recovering from injuries they've inflicted on each other, in an almost deserted farming community. The man who takes them both in does no preaching, makes no judgments, but still they learn that their common humanity gives them a tie that is stronger than who they have been fighting for.The acting has dignity and humor and restraint, as does the script.My only criticism is that the song at the end needs subtitles--it's more than an outro (as the director explained at the Q and A session that followed the movie), it actually adds a layer of meaning to the final scene.


                
Reviewed by: Dare Devil Kid (DDK)Rating: 5/5 starsSmall-scale and poignant with an accessible antiwar statement: that if two soldiers or just about anybody from opposite warring factions are brought together through circumstances, and lack of better alternatives make them stay in proximity over a few days, bonding over soup, shashlik, and a hard-boiled egg,; they'll eventually cease to care about the animosity and conflict uninitiated by them, set their differences aside, and if not become friends, they'll at least have each others' backs. "Tangerines" is a most effective antiwar movie with a simple yet profound message expressed lucidly and explicitly.The film takes place during the 1992 civil conflict between Georgia and the autonomous state of Abhkzia within Georgia (though its autonomy was not recognized by the UN at the time the film is set). Once ethnic/nationalistic strife commenced in the wake of the Soviet Union's dissolution, a large local minority of Estonians who lived in the area but returned to their homeland. Save for two men – Ivo and Margus – an Estonian village within the mountains of an Abhkzian province has been completely vacated; carpenter/grandfather Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) has stayed behind to help neighbor Margus (Elmo Nuganen) harvest his annual tangerine crop. While they are going about their business, they get caught in the crossfire between two small bands of rival soldiers. Two of the fighters survive – Ahmed (Giorgi Nakhashidze), a Chechen mercenary on the Abkhazian side, and Niko (Mikheil Meskhi) a Georgia soldier. Both are badly wounded, but Ivo takes them in and nurse them back to health. Although the two rival combatants vow to kill each other once they have recovered, their time spent convalescing softens their belligerence – the long period of forced cohabitation during recovery has a humanizing effect. While the protagonists can't prevent the outside world from wreaking further havoc, they gradually grow connected to each other in ways that transcend geographic, ethnic, and religious demarcations.Although the subject of civil war within the former Soviet countries has been tackled in other movies, this retelling is one of the most concise and affecting. Perhaps the reason it works so well is because it crystallizes the entire tragic history of the region by focusing on a few characters. And all the four actors chosen for these meticulously crafted characters leave lasting impressions."Tangerines" balances humor and seriousness in deft fashion. Shot in the western Georgia region of Guria, the film, with its gorgeous landscapes, further underlines the pointlessness of organized human bloodshed in the larger context of nature's bounty. Writer-Director Urushadze films the rural landscapes with a poetic but unsentimental eye, so that when the bucolic scenes are blasted by gunfire, the impact is even greater. The wistful, melancholic score by Niaz Diasamidze subtly enhances the film's power.I'm pretty sure I've never seen an Estonian film before — or a Georgian one, for that matter; this is a joint production — but if they produce films even remotely similar in quality, I look forward to many more such gems in future. "Tangerines" is a great example of how powerful and universal small but well-crafted stories can be. It slaps an honest, emotional sincerity and a dry, almost humorous pragmatism in the face of macho posturing and identity tribalism.
This is where a good foreign film will always wipe its feet on the gumph we see coming from mainstream movie making empires.Quietly, slowly, this film lulls you and then startles you and then does it again. The brilliance is that you have no idea what any of the outcomes will be. Masterfully done by keeping it low key, ordinary and real.Grimy, grim, small on script and made with few real words (compared to the ongoing chatter of nothing that many movies work with,) this is utterly compelling because the slow pace is actually a ruse.Acting brilliance... a few men in a once-loved-and-cared-for woman's cottage, with the mundanities of life after war wounds are healed, this war story is a film of human significance and beauty, remarkably.


                
No one should miss this film. I agree with other reviewers here, it's an easy 10. Sets out to accomplish a valuable goal, and does so very convincingly, very gracefully.Each character is very interesting and well acted. As in any significant narrative, the characters actually develop before your eyes, and change.The setting, the landscape is very beautiful. Excellent music suiting the region. Nice, subtle touches of humor despite the grimness of what transpires.Hope this one becomes more well-known, by word of mouth.


                
I gave this movie a 10/10 with out hesitating for a second. Why ? Because it is one of the most touching films I've watched in my life, if not maybe the most touching one. Only 5 actors and a small village where only several scenes where rotated were needed for this movie to be perfect. It tells a very sensitive story and brings a very moral message.
Few are the times that I have so clearly and strongly felt what the writer wants to say while watching a film. True and crystal explanation of what a war is and how complete strangers who have nothing against each other will find themselves as enemies in a battlefield and try to kill each other just because this is what their leaders ordered them to do. Every person with a common sense will understand this after watching this film. For those who can't get the message here there's truly no hope of salvation. Such stories should be taught at schools in order to make this world a better place. Fanaticism and blind odium, wherever they come from, is the real problem. This is what the film is talking about and it's doing it spotlessly.
I considered using a summary of "One of the best war films of all time" but this is beyond that. I usually only review under-reviewed (ones with less than 15 reviews) but for this I'll make an exception. I wouldn't say that this film is underrated, it is rated 8.3/10, although I'd give it 9.5/10, this film is still an unknown gem. 60% of voters on IMDb gave it 9 or 10. It is only a matter of time until it enters the IMDb top 250.This film reminds me a lot of No Man's Land, but this one lacks that absurdist Balkan element. Balkan films have strong threads of absurdism, comedy and tragedy coming together, but this film doesn't have that. It's a darker, more somber piece. This film is not a moralizing sermon that's against war. It is not a contrived Lifetime/Oxygen movie that plays like a public service announcement or some educational film shown in schools.It's a real film, cinematic and subtle. It has the perfect balance of dialogue, action/events, space/pacing and music. It is not an action film with a moral message between battles. It is not a sermon interrupted with events. It is not a music video showing the beauty of the country. It is a film, it is what cinema everywhere should be.This film is also not tragic porn. A lot of films just add tragedy after tragedy to pull at our heartstrings. It doesn't use sad music to manipulate you, doesn't have this pile-on of tragedies to make things sad. No orphanage for mentally handicapped cancer kids getting hit with artillery strikes.It's a simple, yet very powerful story. It is a snapshot of time. People criticize films like this for not being encyclopedias of a conflict. They want all sides of the story to be represented and given equal time and weight. "Why didn't they This is pointless. This film is not an encyclopedia of all sides, it's just a single chapter in the life of a man, or three men, when all their lives intersected.Perhaps the target audience for this film is limited. Not many people know where Estonia is, forget them knowing of Abkhazia and what all these things mean. I see that the highest rated bad review talks about "cardboard villain characters of Russian soldiers", even though there are no Russian characters in this film. I highly recommend this film. Watch it with someone who knows a bit about the Caucasus if possible or brush up a bit on the history of that conflict post USSR. You don't need a history degree to understand it. It's a clear cut conflict, it's just that for many, it's an unknown conflict from an unknown part of the world. No rounding up. This is 10/10.


                
I wasn't familiar with Estonian cinema before Mandariinid (Tangerines), but I will definitely be keeping my eyes open for Zaza Urushadze's upcoming projects because this was a fulfilling experience. I know the Academy doesn't always get it right, but at least it gives me a chance to check out films that I wouldn't have heard of otherwise. Urushadze's greatest strength as a director here comes from focusing on the story, which he also wrote. It is a simple anti-war film with a powerful narrative and strong performances that benefit from an interesting premise. Urushadze doesn't try to astonish the audience with great visuals or overload us with gruesome action scenes like most war films, but rather focuses on the humanity of each character and does so by centering the story in a small local community where only two men remain. He reduces the Civil War taking place in the Apkhazian region and focuses it on how it affects two local Estonians who have decided to stay in their farmland instead of seeking safety back in Estonia. Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) and Margus (Elmo Nuganen) are neighbors who work together. Margus has a tangerine plantation (which explains the somewhat terrible title) and Ivo is a carpenter who makes the boxes for their transportation so they collaborate together. Since the war broke out, everyone in the land has returned to Estonia, but these two men have decided to stay. Ivo is a determined and wise old man who doesn't take sides in the war. When a conflict breaks out in front of their home, two soldiers are seriously injured and Ivo takes them into his home. The soldiers (Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi) are enemies and we are expecting the tension to break out once they fully recover. Ivo knows this, but he also believes he can teach them a lesson through his acts of kindness during this terrible time of war. The film is effective and accomplishes its purpose of delivering its anti-war message by focusing on the humanity of each one of the characters.Lembit Ulfsak delivers the best performance of the film. He gives a quiet and calmed performance. Despite all the hate and hurtful things the two soldiers say to each other, he is always the voice of reason reminding them that they all share the same land and have equal rights. Ulfsak expresses this inner peacefulness very well from the opening scene in which some local soldiers come searching for food. He is the kind of person that would help anyone, even those that consider him an enemy. Elmo Nuganen is also solid as Margus who has a strong relationship with Ivo and looks up to him. When the two injured soldiers appear at their doorsteps the balance is disrupted and the war comes knocking home. So we clearly see how war takes its toll on everyone, even those who have nothing to do with the fighting, affecting their business and their lifestyle. Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi deliver solid roles as these enemies who call a truce out of respect for Ivo while they are in his home. I found the simple premise for this film as a strong way to carry out its message by reducing the big scale of the war to a small local village, but still portraying it as something terrible. Some might consider this too simple of a story or too improbable, but I think it was a quite affecting way to deliver its message. I enjoyed how Zaza Urushadze decided to approach this material and would definitely recommend it.


                
Can't say that performances of actors were stunning or that script was amazing. Furthermore, i may even call it a bit predictable. But somehow it all goes to the background and doesn't make this movie worse. It touched me. Isn't it the most important? I laughed, i cried, i worried about characters and i really enjoyed watching this movie. It's a thought provoking movie. 'Anti-war', 'despite different nationalities our values are the same' kind of movie. It sounds banal, we all know that, but it the movie it is shown more subtle. Few days later i still remember it and think of fate of Ivo.Despite all my critics i still think it is definitely worthy of being watched and give it a ten.Talking about Oscars Not sure if it is really worthy of being nominated for Oscar. To be fair, the only movie worthy of being nominated for Oscars was 'Leviathan'. 'Leviathan' is has better cinematography, more impressive scenes. Tangerines is noticeably inferior, than Leviathan movie. However it beats all other nominees.


                
What a wonderful film to watch. Amazing characters amazing story.


                
I've always been of the opinion that if you took any number of children at birth of diverse nationalities, ethnicities and religions, and allowed them to grow up together without any preconceived biases, they would grow up respectful and tolerant of each other, and more importantly, attain a friendship among themselves. I think that's what's at the heart of "Tangerines" once you strip away such connotations as 'Chechen', 'Georgian', 'Abkhazian' and 'Russian'. Because after all is said and done, people are just people, and have no reason to hate each other at face value. It's only when one's particular background is revealed that someone of a differing circumstance begins to exhibit prejudice and bias. The film, and the actions of Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak), Margus (Elmo Nüganen) and doctor Juhan (Raivo Trass), in overlooking the enmity between Chechen Ahmed (Giorgi Nakashidze) and Georgian Nika (Misha Meskhi), help the two enemies see each other as humans on the opposite side of a struggle for which there will ultimately be no winners or losers when it comes to the finality of death. Particularly poignant is the final scene, in which we learn the reason why Ivo will not return to Estonia, while offering his assurance to Ahmed that he would just as soon have buried him next to his own son in the same manner as Nika (only a little further away, to add an element of ironic humor to the story). I thought this was a thoughtful and provocative film with a discernible message of tolerance in a hate filled world, though at the same time, I have no illusions that a message as simple as the one delivered here, would have any impact on the those whose ideologies take precedence over humanity.
This movie shows how a small event can gradually create a vast heart of humanity. People must understand that, they fight nobody's war. Someday they will!


                
Daha once bir film nasil mukemmel olur diyorsaniz, iste o budur.If you say how perfect a movie before, that's it.


                
