I wasn't planning on writing a review for this one, but when 39 of the 41 reviews written thus far are positive about Tangerines, I have to show the other side of this. I was certainly looking forward to seeing it, as it got an Oscar nomination for Best Foreign Film, and it was listed as only being 87 minutes. But once it started, it was slow and boring, and I almost fell asleep numerous times. No new ground broken here...another user reviewer compared this movie to "No Man's Land," and thought "No Man's Land" was much better. I found that comparison really interesting, because as I was watching this, I thought of "No Man's Land" too, and thought it was much better than Tangerines. I hope the Oscar nomination was a shot in the arm for film-making in Estonia, and that's always a good thing. But the film itself? Skip it, and watch "No Man's Land" instead if you're in the mood for a film like this.Finally, at least in the DVD in the United States, the subtitles were super-small, making it difficult to read.
If you have not seen No Man's Land you better spare your time and watch it instead of this piece of nothing. What I didn't like: - Very poor acting apart from probably the main actor who also didn't really set the world alight as the very old man he was supposed to be. - Unconvincing story. The attitude of the characters changes in a rather naive and illogical way. It is a bit difficult for the viewer to get involved if the characters do not act in a credible way. - The message of this film could easily be put into about 4 words. Nothing wrong with that in general but in my opinion the crew failed to deliver it in a convincing way. - The special effects were laughable. I normally do not care for these things but still - if you cannot do it the right way just don't attempt doing it at all. - The final scene. While I am not a great fan of American cinema I believe that even the worst US film making crew would have shot that far better. - Music. Does the soundtrack contain only one tune? For the first 15-20 minutes I believe it was played 3 times. If the director attempted to create some sort of mystic by doing that he failed. - The dialogue is so flat. I mean you don't necessary have to listen to some words of wisdom every now and then but at least one remarkable sentence would have been alright. I wouldn't classify this movie as utter crap - at least it is not pretentious, the camera work is fine and... it is Estonian. Therefore 5 stars in my book and quickly forgotten.


                
I was looking forward to watching this movie. I tried to watch a few minutes of it, and then threw it out. Why? Because I could not read the sub-titles. They are too small and often, are on a white background.I find it incredible that any movie producer could be that stupid as to include sub-titles that are indiscernible. I would have had to have gotten maybe 2-3 feet from the television set to read these subtitles, and even then, I would not be able to see the ones that are on a white object in the movie.Is this a trend in foreign films? To include sub-titles that are 1/2" tall and we are supposed to see them from 20-30 feet away? I would really like Mr. Urushadze's comments on this. I find such incompetence very unsettling.


                
