First, let me say that I am not by nature a peacenik. That said, I was thoroughly charmed by this anti-war film. In the same vein as films like "Enemy Mine," this film explores the well-trod ground of war and how it affects individual civilians and combatants alike, but does so on a much smaller, more intimate stage than usual war films.The story throws together men with different ages, nationalities, and religions, and asks whether there is something more basic or more important than these distinctions. What happens when the faceless enemy in the woods becomes a man with his own thoughts and problems? Kudos to the director and all of the actors for portraying realistic characters and for allowing us to believably grow with the characters. Lembit Ulfsak is particularly stellar as Ivo, the "moral man." I think that scriptwriters too often give their characters weight and authority by giving them some defining moment or backstory. Not here. Ivo is defined, instead, by what he does and says in the confines of the film, and it is his moral compass that lead the rest of the characters, and, by extension, us to question our own prejudices.All in all, a beautiful story beautifully told.


                
This film is flawless and one of the highlights of the Montreal World Film Festival 2014. It also was recognized with many international prizes in Europe, North America and even Israel. It captures the incoherence and inhumanity of war from the point of view of innocent civilians and of dehumanized soldiers. The pace and plot are crisp, compact and conscious-elevating with a spectacular, yet simple screenplay. The cinematography and music match and enhance the emotional and philosophical human drama. The acting from the all-male cast is poignant and powerful in its restraint. Zaza Urushadze's text comes to life like a play in this sometimes claustrophobic confine which only heightens the inherent tension between the protagonists. The directing does however balance this with the sad beauty of rural Abkhazia conflict zone. The simple sets set the mood and this movie is shooting for the moon.Alexander Kuranov returns as the editor after teaming up with Zaza Urushadze for the excellent multiple story Three Houses (2008) and gets every cut and emotion right. The dialogue, like the film, is raw, unpredictable, mysterious and profound. It brings you the very core of humanity's hopes and fears. The theme of pointless war has rarely been portrayed so perfectly. It surpasses even seminal South Korean The Front Line (2011) and does so in a intellectual and emotionally effective way. Beyond that it is a human drama about people stuck in a conflict and how they decide to deal with it and each other. Is there a glimpse of hope or some guidelines we can learn from?Be sure that I will be looking for Zaza's previous and next work. This is cinema at it's best.


                
Though generally categorized as a war drama, the newest picture from Georgian director Zaza Urushadze only uses war as a background to its moralizing and mightily effective story. There is a war, but it takes place within one household and is fought with words not weapons. Tangerines takes place in 1992 in a small village during the infamous War In Abkhazia, in which the mentioned country is trying to separate itself from Georgia. Only two men live in this secluded place, Ivo and Markus, Estonians whose daily lives consist of picking tangerines from the trees, in order to sell them later and earn money that will help them get back to Estonia and survive the war.One day, just in front of their homes, a fight ensues. After it's over, it seems that the only survivor of the deadly battle is Ahmed, a Chechen mercenary on a mission to keep Georgians out of the Abkhaz soil. The two villagers take the wounded man home and decide to bury the rest, but suddenly, in the middle of the burial, they realize that there is another survivor - a young Georgian soldier. They place him under the same roof with Ahmed. What follows is an intense and intelligent, but also spot-on hilarious, bloodless war between two fierce enemies, all the more engaging due to the fact that although there aren't any effective explosions or gunfights, the splendidly story knows how to keep the blood pumping.Tangerines is filled with many unexpected laughable situations and amusing taunts, but at the same time has some intense scenes that remind the viewer of the war that takes place off screen, and a few heartbreaking moments that may easily bring tears to one's eyes. But the most important aspect of the whole scenario is the bonding between all the characters. Under Ivo's watchful eye, the two enemies gradually become close to each other when they finally recognize the true power of compassion and kindness. It takes time, but after lots of insults and death threats the two men begin to see that prejudice against people is only a fictitious creature made by hatred and it can be quickly defeated by opening one's mind to new experiences.The moralizing side of the whole story might seem simple, yet the way it's delivered through that really well-written script is imaginative and profoundly touching. By seeing the enormous change that the characters go through in those tough times, one might actually ponder the true meaning of humanity as a entirety, without any boundaries caused by such trivial matters as different nationalities, races or religions. It's actually quite fascinating to observe how universal the story really is, and how easily adaptable to all sorts of flash points in our hate-ridden world.The premise is interesting, but the final effect is truly stunning. Honestly, I consider Tangerines to be the most captivating European feature I saw during Warsaw Film Festival this year and it should definitely be screened in more countries. By the time I finished the review, I knew that Zaza Urushadze won the festival's best director award, which is well deserved considering how his visionary approach to a hard and controversial topic made the movie an enormously enjoyable treat.Patryk Czekaj, Contributing Writer
Greetings from Lithuania."Mandariinid" (2013) is very good movie. Very realistic (well, maybe bonding between two characters was a bit to quick), with beautiful cinematography, very strong acting, tight and simple but very involving script and top notch directing, this is a true movie gem.The story itself isn't complicated, although the background in which it takes place maybe is not very well know in Western countries. Nevertheless, it is told with simple and universal language.Overall, "Mandariinid" is not much a war movie - it's antiwar movie in every sense. The isn't much action, but at running time 1 h 22 min this movie is superbly paced, doesn't drag for a second and is very enjoyable for those who like quite but powerful stories.


                
Zaza Urushadze gives the highest priority to his story. It's a very powerful story carrying a strong antiwar massage. And Urushadze tells it as if he's not there. As if we're watching the actual events taking place before us. This isn't a result of inaptness, this is a deliberate decision to let the story stand in the limelights on its own and avoid anything that could divert the viewers attention from it. You won't find any elaborate shots, any amazing breathtaking sights, no fireworks showing the director's technical mastery. Urushadze tells us about the follies of war and he makes sure that's what we'll get when we see his film. He's aided by superb actors, mainly Lembit Ulfsak playing the strong minded Ivo, a man of few words that makes every word of his count. Reserved, strong willed and determined, a role calling for acting of the highest quality and Lembit Ulfsek is up to the task. In fact there's nothing else to speak about regarding this movie, only the actors, and the director's lean approach to cinematic story telling. Thing is, even when that's all there is if it's done at such level of perfection it's a must see movie.


                
more than a war film, it is a peace manifesto. so, important is not the story itself - one from many - but the science to give delicacy and force to its levels. a film about solitude, hate and reconciliation with yourself. about survive in harsh time. powerful and poetic, cold and precise,human virtues in a special angle. a basic story and a lot of pieces who presents the best way to be more than part of a crisis. Ivo is a remarkable character for the virtue to remind old known truths. it is the merit not only by actor or scriptwriter, director or image. it is a merit of viewer who see the wise man who drives , always, the tensions from a space of conflicts to the necessary end.a film of silence and words as signs of it. a film who impress. for the smart manner to not be a lesson or only a good movie. but a necessary parable. about the deep essence of life.


                
Ethnic and/or religious armed conflicts are always particularly painful, "realpolitik" vs. history, perceptions vs. actual circumstances, victims vs. profiteers, etc. The War in Abkhazia (1992–93) was one of the first post-Soviet gory confrontations, with tens of thousands dead, ethnic cleansing, and included the biggest successful rescue operation so far by the Estonian government to save compatriots, not even citizens, as their forebears settled there in 19th century... Many smaller nations, like Estonians, did not choose sides, they just tried to survive and carry on, splendidly expressed through tangerines in the film, but remote weaponry reaches everywhere and does not ask questions (Estonians were not considered hostile by both sides). All this is nicely presented in this Estonian-Georgian film, where Estonian actors used are all famous film actors (the Georgian ones were unfamiliar to me, but they were convincing), and characters seem very realistic. As far as I know, the topic of honour and keeping word are holy among the Caucasus nations, enabling to depict scenes and events odd and even improbable among the Western, "civilized" nations. The venue is limited to the remains of a village, but as everything is so properly constructed and performed, you do not feel embattled, and can follow and emphasize with all characters, significantly widening the audience and letting ponder on and over the essence of warfare. PS The film is totally "male", only actors were present, no actresses, but the less than 1,5 hours pass tautly.


                
I don't normally give 10/10 to films, but this was easy. This isn't a slow artistic movie where nothing happens, critics laud and regular people don't get. This is something so good everyone can agree on. Everything counts for something, there is nothing there for nothing. And not for mere symbolism, but everything has a reason to be in the film - there are no stock characters, no stock conversations and no stock props.Every word counts for so much that you couldn't cut out one second of the film without flinching. It is neither slow nor rushed, neither pro-Georgian nor pro-separatist, neither pro-settlement or pro-exodus... very few people could've made this same movie with this same script without ruining it with political biases like anti-Islam, anti-Russia, anti-Georgian, anti-Caucasian, anti-Communist, anti-separatist sentiment (or pro any of those). This movie is about the people in it and it does it well without the director getting caught up in tit-for-tat us-vs-them situation nor does it show some premonition of what is to happen 10-20 years from then.It's a story about the early 1992, not 2001 or 1941. It's a story about an Estonian man living in Georgia. I personally know directors that would see this script and add so much history and awareness of the future that it would ruin it. This director goes without cheap attempts at referencing bigger historical events for the sake of contextualization.Everything here is weighted and is kept in the movie after careful consideration, from the car to the cassette, from the photo to the guns, from the shrapnel to the shish kebabs.No clichés, no stock characters, no distractions - just a great story.If I had to say a bad thing about it - the music (the main theme), although great, gets repetitive after a while.Easily film of the year and in my personal top 10.
That's what a nomination from the Oscars can do to a foreign-language film. it can build hype, put them on the spotlight, let so many others see films that might have not otherwise been seen by people who usually don't go out of their way to see foreign films. It's a rather lovely film, despite having subject matter that would be seen as glum or dry. Surely, it's not a "happy" film, but it's lovely in its themes that it reinforces by the end and what it's ultimately trying to tell us. In that way, it succeeds greatly and it offers as a reminder of our own problems and our own flaws, and that humanity, despite so many reasons to not care about others, can prevail in the end and make you really care for someone.


                
I never watched any Georgian movie before 'Mandariinid'. So first experience was really so convenient and remarkable. This movie leads me to step forward in Georgian cinema crowd.The tenderness of this movie give peace to the audience. The certainty of this movie contain peace,sympathy,humanity,courtesy,generosity.This cinema is one of the most influencing visionary art of anti war. This cinema has a ability and eligibility to persuade the audience into morality. A Georgian war cinema where Abkhazia want to depart from Georgia. A story of two enemies who hates each other but deep inside a little humanity grow after they passed some time in a house of a old man 'Ivo' who saved their life.The character Ivo is established as a cue of virtuous. There are another guy who works with the old man who harvest the crops of tangerine. It is definitely a good anti war movie. The cinematography,music,editing composition was upstanding. Specially, cinematography language was established strongly. 'Zaza Urushadze' i will definitely memorize the name.


                
The Storey takes place during the war in Abkhazia when Georgian government forces Vs Abkhaz separatist forces behind the Russian Interests.Tangerines makes Deep impression onlooker, great performance by Lembit Ulfsak who played Estonian actor Lembit Ulfsak, especially role (georgian soldier) plays Mikheil Meskhi And Giorgi Nakashidze - Ahmeda.Tangerines is Rich with many laughable situations and Interesting dialogs. Film is full moralize Zaza Main message said Through Ivo persona What is the point of war?This film is actually Best Work Made In Georgia During last 20 Year, Zaza Urushadze knows how make an impression.


                
Crafted poignantly by writer-director Zaza Urushadze, Tangerines is a simple but gripping look at human side of conflict. Set in 1992, it tells the story of an Estonian tangerine farmer who is awaiting harvest when the battle between Georgia and Abkhazian separatists comes to his doorstep. Although set in a specific time and place, the film's message about human life is universal.Right at the peak of hostilities, we are introduced to two Estonian immigrant farmers - Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak, both commanding and compassionate in his performance) and his partner Margus. While most of the population has escaped to safer ground, the pair stay to harvest their tangerine crop. It's an almost impossible task for two, but it's one they tackle, not for financial gain, but because it would be a travesty to see such a fine crop left to die. Their farming woes are trumped when a skirmish outside their homes leaves several dead and one wounded soldier from each side: Ahmed, a Chechen mercenary; and Niko, a Georgian volunteer. Ivo takes in both injured men to tend to their wounds, bringing the ethnic tensions under one roof. His only rule is that they must set aside their instincts to kill each other until both are healthy. The film hardly ever strays from its one set location - Ivo's farmhouse looking like a leftover from another century - allowing the tension to brew unobstructed as both men slowly regain their health. It's during the healing process that the men begin to look past political manifestos, religious doctrines and social convictions to see that they really aren't that different. The mutual ceasefire forces the soldiers into a pocket of peace – the same peace they've been fighting for. Despite threatening to kill each other once they are ambulatory, their enforced propinquity fosters tolerance if not friendship, in a mutual show of respect and gratitude towards their savior.With this simple premise in place, Tangerines uses its small scale to say something big, converting the initial suspense into something more thematically and philosophically powerful as the hypocrisy of war is smoothly laid bare. Except for brief outbursts of violence, Tangerines is, like its hero Ivo, a stoic and introspective thing. The story moves slowly and methodically, tempering the expected rapprochement between enemies with a more acerbic outlook about human nature. Although there are moments of quiet humor, Tangerines is mostly a tragedy, told via looks exchanged between heated adversaries and their imperturbable intermediary. Over the course of the film, those looks soften from glaring mistrust to acceptance to heartbroken endurance in the face of the meaninglessness and inevitability of death.For anyone looking for an uncomplicated anti-war argument painted by historical insight, superb performances and airtight direction, 'Tangerines' is a must-see. Just like a tangerine, it is a delicious mix of sweet and acidic flavors.


                
Every human being should see this movie. Not that it's against the horror of war. Not that it's so little like our lives are as little in the universe. Not that if it wins an Oscar cause it's been nominated in the category for <U+0430> foreign movie this year would change something. Not that you can see yourself there. Not that it's bigger than all religions in the world. Not that it's a drama and you don't like drama but your life is a drama. Not that you will not like it or like it. Not that it's a movie from 2013 but its distribution has been delayed for 2 years."Not that" too many times to count BUT because if you don't see it you will miss a lot. I know that.


                
In a world so ravaged by endless wars & poisoned with people hating one another, Tangerines (also known as Mandariinid) arrives as an elegantly crafted & sensibly told morality tale that exquisitely demonstrates the futility of war, hate & conflict and shows that beneath all the things that divides us, there lies a humanity which isn't exclusive to any one demographic.Set in a rural village during the 1992-1993 War in Abkhazia, Tangerines concerns an Estonian pacifist who brings two men from opposing forces to his house after finding them gravely wounded in a recent conflict. Nursing them back to health, he tries to dissipate the tension between the two enemies living under the same roof, both of whom have vowed to kill each other once they've recovered.Written, produced & directed by Zaza Urushadze, the film takes a simple premise and turns it into a thoroughly compelling drama that spikes in tension every now n then. Urushadze's approach to his material is grounded in realism as he handles the anti-war themes with precision and allows each character to chip in with their own views & beliefs which then finds a common ground as plot progresses.There are only four people that matter in the film, each exhibiting a certain depth & well-defined arc, and what the story pursues is the unity that develops between the two enemies as they slowly discard their prejudice after getting to know each other a bit more and learn to value the humanity in each other. The final act may not pack as strong a punch as expected but it nonetheless drives the point home.Despite the conflict raging nearby, the remote setting has a very serene feel to it that is further elevated by tangerine trees that infuse life into the deserted town. Camera is silently operated, often employing long takes, and allows each scene to unfold at its own pace. Editing is relaxed while the score beautifully complements the drama from start to finish. But the main highlight is the solid performances.Leading from the front is Lembit Ulfsak as the elderly & wise Ivo whose house is where the drama unfurls. His performance has a calm demeanour to it and it's an admirable work from the senior actor by all means. Giorgi Nakashidze & Mikheil Meskhi are in as the Chechen & Georgian soldier respectively and both play their part responsibly while Elmo Nüganen does well with his role as Ivo's neighbour & friend.On an overall scale, Tangerines is a thought-provoking, riveting & compassionate story of moral, honour, humanity & harmony with its heart at the right place. The nail-biting tension evident in the scenes involving the two enemies sitting in front of each other do make up for the film's finest moments but what really makes it a hopeful & rewarding experience is its timely, topical & universal themes. Well-deserving of a broader viewership, this Estonian gem comes highly recommended.


                
I'm not aware of the political, historical, religious & ethnic differences between the people depicted in the movie, but I can still relate to them. I mean not in the literal sense but just on human level.I think, almost always, majority of the people who are fighting a war are not personally affected by its cause. It's something that's just inculcated in them. They are taught to hate the opposite side.This movie, with a handful of characters, in just so little words, in such a short time, makes you realize that you can empathize with anyone. You should just have the will to do so. Humanity is capable of so much love that there can be no place left for hatred, but sadly we're too busy fighting, every day, every where, in one or another part of the world.This is a captivating movie from the first frame to the last. The background score uplifts and complements the mood of the movie so beautifully. The acting is sublime, the direction is top notch. The story is really simple and all the charm is in the storytelling.It makes you question yourself. Whatever your hate is, if you can learn to empathize, then you've lived a life.


                
There was a brief opening text of the locality and year of this conflict, but little to nothing about the ethnic parties involved and the personal histories of individuals we see in the film as well as a general background into the reasons for the conflict. It seems as if we have Russians, Abkhazians, Georgians, Estonians, Chechens (also calling themselves Caucasians, I think) involved. How Estonia comes to be a home base for extended families living in Georgia is not explained as it is as far from there as are China, India, France and Somalia. The story revolves around two Estonian farmers (tangerine farmers) who are staying put until the last harvest is in while their Estonian neighbors have left for Estonia and as the conflict escalates. A wounded Georgian and a Chechen end up recovering in the farmhouse. The rest of the film centers on mediation (by the Estonian) of the hate between Georgian & Chechen as well as, a perhaps, a shared understanding, but <U+0085> An aside: Perhaps American politicians can learn a lesson from this film and spend less time coming up with reasons to hate differences, and more in understanding the roots and unique values in differences between people.


                
I live in New Zealand but assume that it would be the same in other English-speaking countries. The subtitles translated the mandariniid as clementines all the time where you could clearly see these fruit are not clementines more like tangerines and the title has translated like Tangerines. I thought there might be a double meaning in it but does not seem so, just sloppy but it makes it strange as the fruit is so essential. Producer/translator, please change it to tangerines in all the subtitles as that would really improve the overall connection :) Otherwise it is a movie that starts off tense in a quite wild muddy natural outlandish and old-fashioned Russian winter land but in the end draws towards peace thanks to the immeasurable maturity and respect for the old man who really is the hero in his gentle strength. A great Midwinter Christmas movie.
Mandariinid, known as Tangerines in the US, is a thought provoking Estonian anti-war film set in the early 1990s.An Estonian elder named Ivo has stayed behind in the Apkhazeti region of Georgia despite the advancement of the war around him. Most Estonians have left the region for their homeland, but Ivo remains and is helping his friend Margus who is staying to harvest a large crop of tangerines.With the battle between Georgians against the Abkhazian side closing in around them, their homes become caught in the crossfire that leaves two surviving fighters from opposing sides badly hurt but alive. Opposed to the brutal siege and futility battle, Ivo takes both men into his home to nurse them to health. As they recover the tension and desire for vengeance returns. Vowing to respect Ivo's home and refrain from shedding blood under his roof they resume the animosity with a verbal onslaught, opening a dialogue to compare their similarities as members of humanity.There is something about the film Tangerines (Mandariinid) that is immediately unnerving, which must be a deliberate decision from the writer and director Zaza Urushadze for this obviously anti-war film. The perilous reality of war in what is supposed to be a safe and tranquil countryside sets a looming tone of dread. Certain shots and scenes seem to foreshadow imminent malicious actions between the characters and that the film will simply not end well. In Urushadze forcing the viewer to feel unease he simultaneously forces the viewer to become engaged and invested in the characters and their story.Initially I did not want to watch this film. The summary gave me great anxiety and quite frankly, I watched enough war films and there is enough war going on in the world that I felt I reached my threshold. Luckily, Tangerines is not really a war film and is, in fact, far more broad of an intellectual examination regarding wartime, and the nonsensical nature of it all within its tangible confines. Further, in being more philosophical, the film allows almost any viewer to relate and take a message from it. You don't need to know about the region or the specifics regarding the War in Abkhazia to understand its sentiment and intentions.Tangerines is a beautiful gem of a film that feels more like a play, and unfortunately they do not make films like these anymore. The setting of the story is rather small, almost constrained to the small quarters of Ivo's quaint home. There is a minimal quantity of characters and the plot resides in the simple but thought-provoking dialogue exchange between these disparate individuals. The relationships between the characters are complex, distinct and fully-formed and compelling, thanks in part to he acting of Lembit Ulfsak, Misha Meskhi and Giorgi Nakashidze.Though the film is about war, and the war never truly dissipates entirely to the background, there is a dry humor to the film. In its simplicity and clear vision, Tangerines succeeds in examining extremely complicated and tense subject matter with a heart felt and resonating effect.All I can say is I hope it wins for Best Foreign Film at the Oscars against other films with more exposure - because it is a stand out as a gripping feat of thought provoking cinema.Please go to our WEBSITE to read all the REVIEWS of recent releases and awards contenders.


                
"What is wrong with you, young men? All the time, I will kill, I will kill... Who gave you the right for that?"I wasn't familiar with Estonian cinema before Mandariinid (Tangerines), but I will definitely be keeping my eyes open for Zaza Urushadze's upcoming projects because this was a fulfilling experience. I know the Academy doesn't always get it right, but at least it gives me a chance to check out films that I wouldn't have heard of otherwise. Urushadze's greatest strength as a director here comes from focusing on the story, which he also wrote. It is a simple anti-war film with a powerful narrative and strong performances that benefit from an interesting premise. Urushadze doesn't try to astonish the audience with great visuals or overload us with gruesome action scenes like most war films, but rather focuses on the humanity of each character and does so by centering the story in a small local community where only two men remain. He reduces the Civil War taking place in the Apkhazian region and focuses it on how it affects two local Estonians who have decided to stay in their farmland instead of seeking safety back in Estonia. Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) and Margus (Elmo Nuganen) are neighbors who work together. Margus has a tangerine plantation (which explains the somewhat terrible title) and Ivo is a carpenter who makes the boxes for their transportation so they collaborate together. Since the war broke out, everyone in the land has returned to Estonia, but these two men have decided to stay. Ivo is a determined and wise old man who doesn't take sides in the war. When a conflict breaks out in front of their home, two soldiers are seriously injured and Ivo takes them into his home. The soldiers (Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi) are enemies and we are expecting the tension to break out once they fully recover. Ivo knows this, but he also believes he can teach them a lesson through his acts of kindness during this terrible time of war. The film is effective and accomplishes its purpose of delivering its anti-war message by focusing on the humanity of each one of the characters. Lembit Ulfsak delivers the best performance of the film. He gives a quiet and calmed performance. Despite all the hate and hurtful things the two soldiers say to each other, he is always the voice of reason reminding them that they all share the same land and have equal rights. Ulfsak expresses this inner peacefulness very well from the opening scene in which some local soldiers come searching for food. He is the kind of person that would help anyone, even those that consider him an enemy. Elmo Nuganen is also solid as Margus who has a strong relationship with Ivo and looks up to him. When the two injured soldiers appear at their doorsteps the balance is disrupted and the war comes knocking home. So we clearly see how war takes its toll on everyone, even those who have nothing to do with the fighting, affecting their business and their lifestyle. Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi deliver solid roles as these enemies who call a truce out of respect for Ivo while they are in his home. I found the simple premise for this film as a strong way to carry out its message by reducing the big scale of the war to a small local village, but still portraying it as something terrible. Some might consider this too simple of a story or too improbable, but I think it was a quite affecting way to deliver its message. I enjoyed how Zaza Urushadze decided to approach this material and would definitely recommend it.


                
There is no more to add...the ratings say it all - this is cinema at its best, a riveting drama, no cgi pretenses, free from excessive action, stripped of aesthetic camera shots, just powerful, pure, raw humanity here.It reminds me a little of "Before the Rain", 1994, starring the incomparable Katrin Cartlidge.The acting from the main characters is utterly convincing, there's not a single instance of emotional excess to detract from the unfolding story, and what a story it tells, to remind us about brotherhood, that there is so much more that unites than divides us, about what it means to live and love life, to be human.The pace is slowed, to allow us to know and connect to Ivo, Margus, Ahmed and Nika, such that whatever happens to them matter, regardless of their background and which side of the war they stand.As we are drawn deeply into their presence, the sudden explosions and noises that remind us that a war is ongoing become terrifying, as we sit at the edge of our chairs, realizing that our protagonists are vulnerable, as all of us are fragile.Highly recommended if you are seeking an intense, haunting cinematic experience.


                
One of the few 5/5 ratings I gave, out of the 41 movies I saw at the recent Santa Barbara International Film Festival.It's the kind of story that you feel everyone should see--that there would be less war and strife in the world if people did see this film. Enemies on opposite sides of the Georgian war find themselves recovering from injuries they've inflicted on each other, in an almost deserted farming community. The man who takes them both in does no preaching, makes no judgments, but still they learn that their common humanity gives them a tie that is stronger than who they have been fighting for.The acting has dignity and humor and restraint, as does the script.My only criticism is that the song at the end needs subtitles--it's more than an outro (as the director explained at the Q and A session that followed the movie), it actually adds a layer of meaning to the final scene.


                
The Georgia-Abkhazia War of the early 1990's is an historically underrecognized bloodbath born of a barbaric struggle over traditional land rights and ethnic freedom. The extraordinary film "Tangerines" chronicles the grim atrocities of this vicious Eastern European conflict. At the same time, however, the story brings to bear the uniquely insane folly of a civil war. In this case it is one in which many of the combatants on both sides are unaware of the history of the people tens of thousands of them will die fighting for.Lembit Ulfsak is remarkable as Ivo, an elderly woodworker and tangerine grower. Ivo remains behind in a small village while the rest of his family have fled to Estonia. After the war literally comes to his front door, he winds up taking in and caring for a pair of soldiers morbidly wounded in a deadly gun fight. The two men are bitter enemies. Each wants to finish the job on the other. In his own quiet manner, Ivo strives to inject humanity into a crucible of hate and resentment. "Tangerines" may well leave you asking, "Were it this simple?" Or perhaps, as Director Zaza Urushadze impresses here, the question will rather be this alternative."Why CAN'T it be this simple?"


                
a piece manifesto. subtle, wise, powerful, impressive, touching, special. admirable script. high performances. old theme.the levels of a story about the science to discover the other.a film about hate, solitude and reconciliation with yourself.about survive. and about a form of victory who has not precise definition but a huge potential to transform the other as tool for yourself definition.poetic and precise, it is more than a film but a kind of window to the contemporary world.Ivo's virtue is to remind old basic things who defines each existence.the viewer discover well known truth in a new light, from a new angle. and that fact transforms Tangerines in an experience who has not only the artistic form. a film of silence using the words as marks of it. a film who impress.as a necessary parable. about the deep essence of life as only tool to solve the crisis and to use the good intentions in the right gestures. a translation of the spirit of East. as answer to each challenge of history. because, more important than ideals and wars remains the salvation of human being from yourself.


                
Backstory heard from the producer: the movie was done only with <U+0080>600k budget and had no big expectations...originally they struggled to get festival invitations but once they did they won several awards. So they decided to do screenings in USA too and hired a PR firm which specializes in promoting foreign language movies for Academy Awards.Nevertheless it seems this movie has achieved a lot on sheer quality alone.Tangerines is still a bit more of a Georgian movie than Estonian one IMO although the movie which takes place in Abkhaz region is about 50/50 in Russian and Estonian languages. Georgian is not spoken at all.The story is simple. Two old Estonian tangerine farmers are the last inhabitants of their village (everybody else has left to Estonia because of the war). As the war comes to their doorstep (literally) they are forced to take care of 2 wounded soldiers from different sides of the conflict.It is quite slow-paced, depressing and lacks energy like most Estonian movies. But nevertheless it is worth watching. Lembit Ulfsak is brilliant, the two Georgians do fine roles too, Elmo Nüganen (who BTW is the director of the upcoming WWII movie 1944) is a bit overshadowed by the rest of the cast.The narrative is quite strong, all the many tension situations realistically and believably solved...what's the point of it all? Hard to say. Do most wars have any point?
With a nondescript title like "Tangerines", I did not know what to expect from this Estonian film nominated for the Oscar in the Best Foreign Language Film category. It turns out, unlikely as it may be, it is the film I will be rooting for to win the big prize come Oscar time.The time is 1992. It is a time of war in the Abkhazeti region of Georgia. In a mountain village, only two men have stayed behind while their family and compatriots have all return home to Estonia. Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) makes crates for the tangerines that his friend Margus (Elmo Nüganen) grows. One day, a deadly encounter happens in their village. Two men, Ahmed (Giorgi Nakashidze) and Niko (Mikheil Meskhi), were left alive when the battle was done. Ivo is forced to take them into his house and nurse them both back to health. Big problem though, because Ahmed is a Chechen mercenary, and Niko is a Georgian soldier. These were the two sworn enemies in this war.Writer and Director Zaza Urushadze has created this effectively tense fable with four main characters who need to interact within a very confined space of Ivo's house. The slow but steady development of the story built up to a very satisfying climax. The main topic of the story is simple, and the execution was elegantly direct to the point. Ironic for a film set in the midst of a heartless war, "Tangerines" profoundly showed us the meaning of humanity. 9/10.


                
