War certainly never changes. And no matter what reasons make people leave their regular lives and go kill each other, it all boils down to the blind rage and bloodthirstiness. There are no noble causes, no right and wrong, just "us" and "them" and killing them before they kill us.The ugliness of all this mess is best noticed when put against the pure beauty of the land the people are fighting for. Against the nature that knows no war and against people who only wanna live in harmony with it and reap what the land yielded for them. And that's the essence of the story behind Tangerines: a dying Estonian settlement in the Caucasus region, with only a few people left who try to gather the tangerines while there is still time, while the war breaks all around them about which country this land should belong to.The beauty of Tangerines is in its simplicity. It doesn't try to judge, to separate right from wrong, to label people for what made them go to that war - money or duty. It cares for none of it. The only thing that matters is that we are all human, and killing each other is a pointless and senseless thing per se. That the person you are so desperately trying to kill today might become your only friend tomorrow. Because that's what war does: it makes everybody blind, and the only way to start seeing again is to reject it altogether.The naivety of that pacifist message may be endearing, but it also demands for an oversimplification. Preaching peace is only possible if you ignore all the complexities that led to the war in the first place. In fact, Tangerines tries a bit too hard to avoid any complexities at all, nipping them in the bud. Why are the Abkhazians fighting for their independence? Why are the Georgians so eager to keep them from getting it? Why are the Russians and their blood money involved? Why is Ivo so reluctant to leave his village and move to Estonia to his family? What will he do when the rest of the settlers leave? The answers to these questions are either blurred or not even hinted at, as if the whole world has suddenly shrunk to these two Estonian guys, their unexpected guests and a tangerine garden.And while that reclusiveness - both physical and spiritual - may be a powerful personal stance, it deprives Tangerines of a certain cinematographic depth. Of course, there may be no obvious solutions to all the big problems of our world, especially when it comes to war, but sometimes it's simply not enough to put a flower into a barrel of a rifle to fix it all. Even if it's a tangerine blossom.


                
There is subtle humor that overlays the tense drama about a pacifist Estonian who gives refuge to a mercenary and his war enemy, a Georgian, in the '92 war of Abkhazia.And that makes the viewing interesting. The story unfolds rather slowly, revolving around the pacifist's cozy house and a huge farm bearing tangerines (orange-like fruits). The message is clear - that war affects the innocent as well as the players, and the only way to react is to be a pacifist, just like our protagonist. Human relations are dealt with pure realism here, and that is propelled by some good writing.This is no extraordinary film, yet so captivating that you will ache for it. The characterization is very fine, and so is the attention to details. I won't say much about this all-male-cast film that is the most subtle yet deafening film I have seen in weeks.BOTTOM LINE: Tangerines aka Mandariinid will appeal to even non- speakers of Estonian/Russian, not because it is a clever message- conveying drama, but because it urges you to embrace the truth. 7/10 - recommended!


                
"Tangerines" (2013 release from Estonia; 87 min.) brings the story of a conflict being played out in the early 90s in the countryside of Georgia (the country not the state), involving Georgians, Chechens, and Estonians who have lived in Georgia for many years. As the movie opens, the fighting is going on and we learn that many Estonian families have returned to Estonia. Not Ivo of his neighbor Margus, however. Margus is about to harvest his crop of tangerines, and Ivo builds crates to held them. Then one day, small groups of Georgians and Chechens are fighting nearby Ivo's house and as it happens, one Georgian and one Chechen survive. Ivo sees no other solution than to take them both into his house. At this point we're a good 10 min. into the movie but to tell you more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.Couple of comments: first, despite the occasional fighting, please do not mistake this for a "war" or worse, an "action" movie. Most of the film plays out in Ivo's house and the burning question is: once they both realize what their situation is and, more importantly, who the other guy is, what will the Georgian and Chechen guys do? (No worries, I'm not going to spoil). So this movie has as much a feel of a theater play than it feels like a movie. Having now seen "Tangerines", I have now seen all 5 movies that were nominated for this year's Oscar for Best Foreign Movie, and I must admit that, given the strong crop of contenders, I'd probably rank "Tangerines" at the 5th of this group. That does NOT mean that "Tangerines" is not a good movie, it's just that the other 4 were even better.I saw "Tangerines" in early May at the Landmark Bethesda Row Cinema (suburban Washington, DC). The matinée screening where I saw this was PACKED, somewhat to my surprise I will admit. But I think this is great news, as it proves that there is an audience out there for top-notch quality foreign movies. If you are in the mood for a tense theater play-reminding movie that examines the human side of conflicts of war, I'd readily suggest you check out "Tangerines", be it in the theater, on VOD, or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.


                
Tangerines is a film neither character-driven nor plot-driven, instead it's a film powered by symbolic characters heading towards its moral. It compartmentalises the war in several rooms at Ivo's house, a neutral Estodian who picks tangerines for a living, as he cares for two wounded men both from either sides of the war. It's a very interesting concept for a film, perhaps one that would work very well for the stage, but it feels like it needs a wiser writer behind the pen. What could be thoroughly profound or feverishly tense is simplified and conflict is shown through passive aggression. However, it doesn't make the bonds of the men any less touching even if not as identifiable. Despite the majority of the film being calm and dialogue driven, its intense scenes certainly make up for it. The film's finest aspect is its rich photography, and the film knows it too as it constantly glides through the picture making the small scale very cinematic. I do wish the distracting score didn't cut through the powerful moments though, it was one step too far. Although Tangerines may be unfamiliar territory for some regarding the war, but its pacifist message is one that we can all empathise with.7/10


                
