Ethnic and/or religious armed conflicts are always particularly painful, "realpolitik" vs. history, perceptions vs. actual circumstances, victims vs. profiteers, etc. The War in Abkhazia (1992–93) was one of the first post-Soviet gory confrontations, with tens of thousands dead, ethnic cleansing, and included the biggest successful rescue operation so far by the Estonian government to save compatriots, not even citizens, as their forebears settled there in 19th century... Many smaller nations, like Estonians, did not choose sides, they just tried to survive and carry on, splendidly expressed through tangerines in the film, but remote weaponry reaches everywhere and does not ask questions (Estonians were not considered hostile by both sides). All this is nicely presented in this Estonian-Georgian film, where Estonian actors used are all famous film actors (the Georgian ones were unfamiliar to me, but they were convincing), and characters seem very realistic. As far as I know, the topic of honour and keeping word are holy among the Caucasus nations, enabling to depict scenes and events odd and even improbable among the Western, "civilized" nations. The venue is limited to the remains of a village, but as everything is so properly constructed and performed, you do not feel embattled, and can follow and emphasize with all characters, significantly widening the audience and letting ponder on and over the essence of warfare. PS The film is totally "male", only actors were present, no actresses, but the less than 1,5 hours pass tautly.


                
That's what a nomination from the Oscars can do to a foreign-language film. it can build hype, put them on the spotlight, let so many others see films that might have not otherwise been seen by people who usually don't go out of their way to see foreign films. It's a rather lovely film, despite having subject matter that would be seen as glum or dry. Surely, it's not a "happy" film, but it's lovely in its themes that it reinforces by the end and what it's ultimately trying to tell us. In that way, it succeeds greatly and it offers as a reminder of our own problems and our own flaws, and that humanity, despite so many reasons to not care about others, can prevail in the end and make you really care for someone.


                
In a world so ravaged by endless wars & poisoned with people hating one another, Tangerines (also known as Mandariinid) arrives as an elegantly crafted & sensibly told morality tale that exquisitely demonstrates the futility of war, hate & conflict and shows that beneath all the things that divides us, there lies a humanity which isn't exclusive to any one demographic.Set in a rural village during the 1992-1993 War in Abkhazia, Tangerines concerns an Estonian pacifist who brings two men from opposing forces to his house after finding them gravely wounded in a recent conflict. Nursing them back to health, he tries to dissipate the tension between the two enemies living under the same roof, both of whom have vowed to kill each other once they've recovered.Written, produced & directed by Zaza Urushadze, the film takes a simple premise and turns it into a thoroughly compelling drama that spikes in tension every now n then. Urushadze's approach to his material is grounded in realism as he handles the anti-war themes with precision and allows each character to chip in with their own views & beliefs which then finds a common ground as plot progresses.There are only four people that matter in the film, each exhibiting a certain depth & well-defined arc, and what the story pursues is the unity that develops between the two enemies as they slowly discard their prejudice after getting to know each other a bit more and learn to value the humanity in each other. The final act may not pack as strong a punch as expected but it nonetheless drives the point home.Despite the conflict raging nearby, the remote setting has a very serene feel to it that is further elevated by tangerine trees that infuse life into the deserted town. Camera is silently operated, often employing long takes, and allows each scene to unfold at its own pace. Editing is relaxed while the score beautifully complements the drama from start to finish. But the main highlight is the solid performances.Leading from the front is Lembit Ulfsak as the elderly & wise Ivo whose house is where the drama unfurls. His performance has a calm demeanour to it and it's an admirable work from the senior actor by all means. Giorgi Nakashidze & Mikheil Meskhi are in as the Chechen & Georgian soldier respectively and both play their part responsibly while Elmo Nüganen does well with his role as Ivo's neighbour & friend.On an overall scale, Tangerines is a thought-provoking, riveting & compassionate story of moral, honour, humanity & harmony with its heart at the right place. The nail-biting tension evident in the scenes involving the two enemies sitting in front of each other do make up for the film's finest moments but what really makes it a hopeful & rewarding experience is its timely, topical & universal themes. Well-deserving of a broader viewership, this Estonian gem comes highly recommended.


                
There was a brief opening text of the locality and year of this conflict, but little to nothing about the ethnic parties involved and the personal histories of individuals we see in the film as well as a general background into the reasons for the conflict. It seems as if we have Russians, Abkhazians, Georgians, Estonians, Chechens (also calling themselves Caucasians, I think) involved. How Estonia comes to be a home base for extended families living in Georgia is not explained as it is as far from there as are China, India, France and Somalia. The story revolves around two Estonian farmers (tangerine farmers) who are staying put until the last harvest is in while their Estonian neighbors have left for Estonia and as the conflict escalates. A wounded Georgian and a Chechen end up recovering in the farmhouse. The rest of the film centers on mediation (by the Estonian) of the hate between Georgian & Chechen as well as, a perhaps, a shared understanding, but <U+0085> An aside: Perhaps American politicians can learn a lesson from this film and spend less time coming up with reasons to hate differences, and more in understanding the roots and unique values in differences between people.


                
I live in New Zealand but assume that it would be the same in other English-speaking countries. The subtitles translated the mandariniid as clementines all the time where you could clearly see these fruit are not clementines more like tangerines and the title has translated like Tangerines. I thought there might be a double meaning in it but does not seem so, just sloppy but it makes it strange as the fruit is so essential. Producer/translator, please change it to tangerines in all the subtitles as that would really improve the overall connection :) Otherwise it is a movie that starts off tense in a quite wild muddy natural outlandish and old-fashioned Russian winter land but in the end draws towards peace thanks to the immeasurable maturity and respect for the old man who really is the hero in his gentle strength. A great Midwinter Christmas movie.
"What is wrong with you, young men? All the time, I will kill, I will kill... Who gave you the right for that?"I wasn't familiar with Estonian cinema before Mandariinid (Tangerines), but I will definitely be keeping my eyes open for Zaza Urushadze's upcoming projects because this was a fulfilling experience. I know the Academy doesn't always get it right, but at least it gives me a chance to check out films that I wouldn't have heard of otherwise. Urushadze's greatest strength as a director here comes from focusing on the story, which he also wrote. It is a simple anti-war film with a powerful narrative and strong performances that benefit from an interesting premise. Urushadze doesn't try to astonish the audience with great visuals or overload us with gruesome action scenes like most war films, but rather focuses on the humanity of each character and does so by centering the story in a small local community where only two men remain. He reduces the Civil War taking place in the Apkhazian region and focuses it on how it affects two local Estonians who have decided to stay in their farmland instead of seeking safety back in Estonia. Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) and Margus (Elmo Nuganen) are neighbors who work together. Margus has a tangerine plantation (which explains the somewhat terrible title) and Ivo is a carpenter who makes the boxes for their transportation so they collaborate together. Since the war broke out, everyone in the land has returned to Estonia, but these two men have decided to stay. Ivo is a determined and wise old man who doesn't take sides in the war. When a conflict breaks out in front of their home, two soldiers are seriously injured and Ivo takes them into his home. The soldiers (Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi) are enemies and we are expecting the tension to break out once they fully recover. Ivo knows this, but he also believes he can teach them a lesson through his acts of kindness during this terrible time of war. The film is effective and accomplishes its purpose of delivering its anti-war message by focusing on the humanity of each one of the characters. Lembit Ulfsak delivers the best performance of the film. He gives a quiet and calmed performance. Despite all the hate and hurtful things the two soldiers say to each other, he is always the voice of reason reminding them that they all share the same land and have equal rights. Ulfsak expresses this inner peacefulness very well from the opening scene in which some local soldiers come searching for food. He is the kind of person that would help anyone, even those that consider him an enemy. Elmo Nuganen is also solid as Margus who has a strong relationship with Ivo and looks up to him. When the two injured soldiers appear at their doorsteps the balance is disrupted and the war comes knocking home. So we clearly see how war takes its toll on everyone, even those who have nothing to do with the fighting, affecting their business and their lifestyle. Giorgi Nakashidze and Misha Meskhi deliver solid roles as these enemies who call a truce out of respect for Ivo while they are in his home. I found the simple premise for this film as a strong way to carry out its message by reducing the big scale of the war to a small local village, but still portraying it as something terrible. Some might consider this too simple of a story or too improbable, but I think it was a quite affecting way to deliver its message. I enjoyed how Zaza Urushadze decided to approach this material and would definitely recommend it.


                
The Georgia-Abkhazia War of the early 1990's is an historically underrecognized bloodbath born of a barbaric struggle over traditional land rights and ethnic freedom. The extraordinary film "Tangerines" chronicles the grim atrocities of this vicious Eastern European conflict. At the same time, however, the story brings to bear the uniquely insane folly of a civil war. In this case it is one in which many of the combatants on both sides are unaware of the history of the people tens of thousands of them will die fighting for.Lembit Ulfsak is remarkable as Ivo, an elderly woodworker and tangerine grower. Ivo remains behind in a small village while the rest of his family have fled to Estonia. After the war literally comes to his front door, he winds up taking in and caring for a pair of soldiers morbidly wounded in a deadly gun fight. The two men are bitter enemies. Each wants to finish the job on the other. In his own quiet manner, Ivo strives to inject humanity into a crucible of hate and resentment. "Tangerines" may well leave you asking, "Were it this simple?" Or perhaps, as Director Zaza Urushadze impresses here, the question will rather be this alternative."Why CAN'T it be this simple?"


                
Backstory heard from the producer: the movie was done only with <U+0080>600k budget and had no big expectations...originally they struggled to get festival invitations but once they did they won several awards. So they decided to do screenings in USA too and hired a PR firm which specializes in promoting foreign language movies for Academy Awards.Nevertheless it seems this movie has achieved a lot on sheer quality alone.Tangerines is still a bit more of a Georgian movie than Estonian one IMO although the movie which takes place in Abkhaz region is about 50/50 in Russian and Estonian languages. Georgian is not spoken at all.The story is simple. Two old Estonian tangerine farmers are the last inhabitants of their village (everybody else has left to Estonia because of the war). As the war comes to their doorstep (literally) they are forced to take care of 2 wounded soldiers from different sides of the conflict.It is quite slow-paced, depressing and lacks energy like most Estonian movies. But nevertheless it is worth watching. Lembit Ulfsak is brilliant, the two Georgians do fine roles too, Elmo Nüganen (who BTW is the director of the upcoming WWII movie 1944) is a bit overshadowed by the rest of the cast.The narrative is quite strong, all the many tension situations realistically and believably solved...what's the point of it all? Hard to say. Do most wars have any point?
The movie tells us the story can happen in any war / place on this earth .. but Unthinkable anyone .. simple story in the idea .. deep in content .. sad In forms .. That is why I advise everyone who love Drama blended with some sadness / misery and wars that see this movie Certainly will like it.Actors' performance was fantastic .. and also was directing .. just a small note was , Maybe is the only mistake in the film.-) a Muslim person (Ahmed) has turned around while he was praying This may not be the laws of Muslims during prayers at all.This was my opinion and my review of the film .. Regards


                
Plot Spoilers Set in 1992 we meet Ivo who is an ethnic Estonian living in the Apkhezeti region of Gergia. The war has driven most of the village away but Ivo remains with his friend Margus to harvest a tangerine crop. The war soon arrives at their doorstep and Ivo and Margus are faced with two injured soldiers – one from either side. They take them both in and care for both.The problem is that Ivo has now brought the war under his roof and he will have to deal with the consequences as best he can. Now this is one of those films' that is both simple and complex. Simple in that it is dealing with the often seemly black and white situation of a conflict – you have to be on one side or the other. And it is complex in that it shows the very complex issues of 'grey area' that arise when kindness and decent humanity are placed before all.This is a genuinely moving film that has a great anti war message at its heart but it is also very positive in many ways. Brilliantly acted by all – Lembit Ulfsak as Ivo is particularly effective. It is also simply but effectively shot and is a testament to small budgets that can be devastatingly brilliant. This is why World cinema and new European cinema should be applauded – absolutely stunning.
(major spoilers)Directed and written deftly by Zaza Urushadze, "Tangerines" is one of the best foreign movies I've seen in the last several years. It certainly is one of the best anti-war movies I've ever seen. Urushadze succeeds in his theme so well because he does not pull punches at all. Without giving away specifics too much it is a sharply written character drama with Lembit Ulfsak anchoring as a needed patriarch and mentor for war-torn foes, both Chechnyans and Georgians. Ulfsak's character's language is simple and sparse, though the real journey is for the Ahmed character, who by the end of the movie has an emotional enlightening, and through this we are wrenched with sorrow.
Mandariinid is a, mainly, psychological film co-produced by Estonia and Georgia, and is focusing on the themes surrounding the futility of war and the importance of peaceful coexisting. War is, by nature, like a childish play. The causes and the reasons are there, but they can never justify losing a human's life over their successful completion. A war is, always, initiated for imperialistic causes disguised as matters of national spirit. The only meaningful approach to a born juxtaposition between two or more nations, always, is a mature discussion on the matters concerned. So, one of the things that this movie manages to portray skillfully is this exact nature of war. The presentation of the two "enemy" soldiers as children fighting with each other under the same roof and under the surveillance by a considerably older and wiser individual, reminds us of this nature.However, war is an important worldwide phenomenon. It never seizes to exist, and as much time humans exist, there will be war. Another of this film's strengths lies in successfully establishing this brutal truth, when simultaneously manages to land a strong blow of satire and dark humor concerning the main theme. Even if it feels conceited midway through, in the last half you realize that, even though there is hope for human coexisting, the dehumanization of war always prevails.In addition, the acting was superb. When tackling an important theme like war in a bold and satirical manner, considerable acting talent is needed. Fortunately, the pre-established requirements are met with the chosen cast. All of them manage to give a career-defining performance, considerably fleshing out their characters and making them intimate and multi-dimensional. Of course, the highlight is Lembit Ulfsak's performance as Ivo, a kind old man that tends to help anyone in need without any doubt, while his wisdom is critical on making the other characters reflect on their past actions.In the end what makes this film important is not only the virtuosity of cinematography and composed music displayed or the exemplary acting, but the inspired portrait of humanity's ever changing mask: It can represent a peaceful coexisting, leaving a sweet taste, or a dehumanized atrocity that is war, leaving a bitter taste. But<U+0085> doesn't this bittersweet taste remind you of freshly-cut tangerines?


                
Tangerines is a simple story of people trying to hold to the normal life when everything around them is not.In one of the scenes an old character Ivo replies "Cinema is a big Fraud" to a notion that truck explodes when fell off the hill in cinema. The scene is simple yet gripping one, where all three characters (Johan, Margus and Ivo) are trying to hide the truck but they don't want to be seen.Margus a simple man trying not to ruin/ left a corpse of Tangerines in the war zone. Ivo, the main character, is helping him out but in doing he is trying to find a normal life. Everyone else has either left or about to left (like in case of Johan, the doctor). Then there is Ahmed (Chechen mercenary on the Abkhazian side) and Niko (Mikheil Meskhi), a Georgian volunteer. Because of fire exchange both are badly wounded and Ivo is not taking care of both of them. Both lives in Ivo's house with one condition where they won't kill each other in his house and after some time both want to let each other go. An indication of the deep desire of Ivo where he wants things to move back to normal and for some time they do seems normal but for only a short time.Every things changes when some passing Russian soldiers stop to inspect Ivo's house and they falsely accuse Ahmed of being on the other side and decide to execute him on the spot. Niko sees this from the window and opens fire on the armed soldiers in order to protect Ahmed. During the gun fire exchange a stray bullet kills the innocent Margus, and Niko is also killed after he steps out of the house thinking all are dead but was killed by a wounded officer laying on the ground. Ahmed then finishes off the wounded officer. Ahmed and Ivo then buries Margus and Miko.The movie shows us a desire of a normal person against the desire of waging war. Forgiveness versus ruthlessness. Humanity verses Incomprehension. Brotherhood and hatred are thrown together by the situation and we start questioning what is gained by fighting.Acting is very good but special praise for Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak), Ahmed (Giorgi Nakashidze ) and Miko (Mikheil Meskhi ). So as the sound track. And one must appreciate the landscapes used in the backdrop of story.


                
First I like movies with a few actor for example 4 5 five main actor. second I like this movie because I hate war in all of kind. this movie was like so soft peace in a green area with an exprienced old man. of course I predicted that Nika maybe will be killed but it was very great movie from Georgia.
Georgian director Zaza Urushadze's Tangerines (a co production with Estonia) works best as a quiet, humanistic antiwar film. Whatever one might think about the Soviet Union, its collapse in 1991 created a lot of human suffering and conflict. One of these conflicts was the Abkhazian war of 1992, between the newly independent Georgia and the breakaway Republic of Abkhazia (which is not recognized as a sovereign nation by the international community).Ivo (Lembit Ufsak) is an elderly Estonian carpenter living in a isolated house in Abkhazia. Most Estonians living there have left the place, but Ivo has stayed building wooden cases for the tangerine crop of his Estonian neighbor farmer Margus (Elmo Nüganen). But the war reaches their immediate surroundings when a gunfight occurs between Georgians and Chechen combatants fighting for Abkhazia, that leaves three dead and two wounded. Ivo and Margus bury the dead and care for the wounded: Chechen fighter Ahmed (Giorgi Nakashidze) and the more seriously injured Georgian Nika (Mikhail Meskhi), whom Ahmed is bent on killing at first opportunity in retribution for his fallen comrades. However, Ivo has declared his house a neutral zone, and both men give their word they'll respect it. And as they convalesce, Ivo's house see a tense truce between the two soldiers.Heavy on dialogue, Tangerines probably should have worked better as a stage play than as a film. Despite this, it is well made, though even at a running time of less than an hour and a half, it seems unnecessarily extended.


                
