First, let me say that I am not by nature a peacenik. That said, I was thoroughly charmed by this anti-war film. In the same vein as films like "Enemy Mine," this film explores the well-trod ground of war and how it affects individual civilians and combatants alike, but does so on a much smaller, more intimate stage than usual war films.The story throws together men with different ages, nationalities, and religions, and asks whether there is something more basic or more important than these distinctions. What happens when the faceless enemy in the woods becomes a man with his own thoughts and problems? Kudos to the director and all of the actors for portraying realistic characters and for allowing us to believably grow with the characters. Lembit Ulfsak is particularly stellar as Ivo, the "moral man." I think that scriptwriters too often give their characters weight and authority by giving them some defining moment or backstory. Not here. Ivo is defined, instead, by what he does and says in the confines of the film, and it is his moral compass that lead the rest of the characters, and, by extension, us to question our own prejudices.All in all, a beautiful story beautifully told.


                
Though generally categorized as a war drama, the newest picture from Georgian director Zaza Urushadze only uses war as a background to its moralizing and mightily effective story. There is a war, but it takes place within one household and is fought with words not weapons. Tangerines takes place in 1992 in a small village during the infamous War In Abkhazia, in which the mentioned country is trying to separate itself from Georgia. Only two men live in this secluded place, Ivo and Markus, Estonians whose daily lives consist of picking tangerines from the trees, in order to sell them later and earn money that will help them get back to Estonia and survive the war.One day, just in front of their homes, a fight ensues. After it's over, it seems that the only survivor of the deadly battle is Ahmed, a Chechen mercenary on a mission to keep Georgians out of the Abkhaz soil. The two villagers take the wounded man home and decide to bury the rest, but suddenly, in the middle of the burial, they realize that there is another survivor - a young Georgian soldier. They place him under the same roof with Ahmed. What follows is an intense and intelligent, but also spot-on hilarious, bloodless war between two fierce enemies, all the more engaging due to the fact that although there aren't any effective explosions or gunfights, the splendidly story knows how to keep the blood pumping.Tangerines is filled with many unexpected laughable situations and amusing taunts, but at the same time has some intense scenes that remind the viewer of the war that takes place off screen, and a few heartbreaking moments that may easily bring tears to one's eyes. But the most important aspect of the whole scenario is the bonding between all the characters. Under Ivo's watchful eye, the two enemies gradually become close to each other when they finally recognize the true power of compassion and kindness. It takes time, but after lots of insults and death threats the two men begin to see that prejudice against people is only a fictitious creature made by hatred and it can be quickly defeated by opening one's mind to new experiences.The moralizing side of the whole story might seem simple, yet the way it's delivered through that really well-written script is imaginative and profoundly touching. By seeing the enormous change that the characters go through in those tough times, one might actually ponder the true meaning of humanity as a entirety, without any boundaries caused by such trivial matters as different nationalities, races or religions. It's actually quite fascinating to observe how universal the story really is, and how easily adaptable to all sorts of flash points in our hate-ridden world.The premise is interesting, but the final effect is truly stunning. Honestly, I consider Tangerines to be the most captivating European feature I saw during Warsaw Film Festival this year and it should definitely be screened in more countries. By the time I finished the review, I knew that Zaza Urushadze won the festival's best director award, which is well deserved considering how his visionary approach to a hard and controversial topic made the movie an enormously enjoyable treat.Patryk Czekaj, Contributing Writer
Greetings from Lithuania."Mandariinid" (2013) is very good movie. Very realistic (well, maybe bonding between two characters was a bit to quick), with beautiful cinematography, very strong acting, tight and simple but very involving script and top notch directing, this is a true movie gem.The story itself isn't complicated, although the background in which it takes place maybe is not very well know in Western countries. Nevertheless, it is told with simple and universal language.Overall, "Mandariinid" is not much a war movie - it's antiwar movie in every sense. The isn't much action, but at running time 1 h 22 min this movie is superbly paced, doesn't drag for a second and is very enjoyable for those who like quite but powerful stories.


                
Zaza Urushadze gives the highest priority to his story. It's a very powerful story carrying a strong antiwar massage. And Urushadze tells it as if he's not there. As if we're watching the actual events taking place before us. This isn't a result of inaptness, this is a deliberate decision to let the story stand in the limelights on its own and avoid anything that could divert the viewers attention from it. You won't find any elaborate shots, any amazing breathtaking sights, no fireworks showing the director's technical mastery. Urushadze tells us about the follies of war and he makes sure that's what we'll get when we see his film. He's aided by superb actors, mainly Lembit Ulfsak playing the strong minded Ivo, a man of few words that makes every word of his count. Reserved, strong willed and determined, a role calling for acting of the highest quality and Lembit Ulfsek is up to the task. In fact there's nothing else to speak about regarding this movie, only the actors, and the director's lean approach to cinematic story telling. Thing is, even when that's all there is if it's done at such level of perfection it's a must see movie.


                
I never watched any Georgian movie before 'Mandariinid'. So first experience was really so convenient and remarkable. This movie leads me to step forward in Georgian cinema crowd.The tenderness of this movie give peace to the audience. The certainty of this movie contain peace,sympathy,humanity,courtesy,generosity.This cinema is one of the most influencing visionary art of anti war. This cinema has a ability and eligibility to persuade the audience into morality. A Georgian war cinema where Abkhazia want to depart from Georgia. A story of two enemies who hates each other but deep inside a little humanity grow after they passed some time in a house of a old man 'Ivo' who saved their life.The character Ivo is established as a cue of virtuous. There are another guy who works with the old man who harvest the crops of tangerine. It is definitely a good anti war movie. The cinematography,music,editing composition was upstanding. Specially, cinematography language was established strongly. 'Zaza Urushadze' i will definitely memorize the name.


                
The Storey takes place during the war in Abkhazia when Georgian government forces Vs Abkhaz separatist forces behind the Russian Interests.Tangerines makes Deep impression onlooker, great performance by Lembit Ulfsak who played Estonian actor Lembit Ulfsak, especially role (georgian soldier) plays Mikheil Meskhi And Giorgi Nakashidze - Ahmeda.Tangerines is Rich with many laughable situations and Interesting dialogs. Film is full moralize Zaza Main message said Through Ivo persona What is the point of war?This film is actually Best Work Made In Georgia During last 20 Year, Zaza Urushadze knows how make an impression.


                
Crafted poignantly by writer-director Zaza Urushadze, Tangerines is a simple but gripping look at human side of conflict. Set in 1992, it tells the story of an Estonian tangerine farmer who is awaiting harvest when the battle between Georgia and Abkhazian separatists comes to his doorstep. Although set in a specific time and place, the film's message about human life is universal.Right at the peak of hostilities, we are introduced to two Estonian immigrant farmers - Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak, both commanding and compassionate in his performance) and his partner Margus. While most of the population has escaped to safer ground, the pair stay to harvest their tangerine crop. It's an almost impossible task for two, but it's one they tackle, not for financial gain, but because it would be a travesty to see such a fine crop left to die. Their farming woes are trumped when a skirmish outside their homes leaves several dead and one wounded soldier from each side: Ahmed, a Chechen mercenary; and Niko, a Georgian volunteer. Ivo takes in both injured men to tend to their wounds, bringing the ethnic tensions under one roof. His only rule is that they must set aside their instincts to kill each other until both are healthy. The film hardly ever strays from its one set location - Ivo's farmhouse looking like a leftover from another century - allowing the tension to brew unobstructed as both men slowly regain their health. It's during the healing process that the men begin to look past political manifestos, religious doctrines and social convictions to see that they really aren't that different. The mutual ceasefire forces the soldiers into a pocket of peace – the same peace they've been fighting for. Despite threatening to kill each other once they are ambulatory, their enforced propinquity fosters tolerance if not friendship, in a mutual show of respect and gratitude towards their savior.With this simple premise in place, Tangerines uses its small scale to say something big, converting the initial suspense into something more thematically and philosophically powerful as the hypocrisy of war is smoothly laid bare. Except for brief outbursts of violence, Tangerines is, like its hero Ivo, a stoic and introspective thing. The story moves slowly and methodically, tempering the expected rapprochement between enemies with a more acerbic outlook about human nature. Although there are moments of quiet humor, Tangerines is mostly a tragedy, told via looks exchanged between heated adversaries and their imperturbable intermediary. Over the course of the film, those looks soften from glaring mistrust to acceptance to heartbroken endurance in the face of the meaninglessness and inevitability of death.For anyone looking for an uncomplicated anti-war argument painted by historical insight, superb performances and airtight direction, 'Tangerines' is a must-see. Just like a tangerine, it is a delicious mix of sweet and acidic flavors.


                
I'm not aware of the political, historical, religious & ethnic differences between the people depicted in the movie, but I can still relate to them. I mean not in the literal sense but just on human level.I think, almost always, majority of the people who are fighting a war are not personally affected by its cause. It's something that's just inculcated in them. They are taught to hate the opposite side.This movie, with a handful of characters, in just so little words, in such a short time, makes you realize that you can empathize with anyone. You should just have the will to do so. Humanity is capable of so much love that there can be no place left for hatred, but sadly we're too busy fighting, every day, every where, in one or another part of the world.This is a captivating movie from the first frame to the last. The background score uplifts and complements the mood of the movie so beautifully. The acting is sublime, the direction is top notch. The story is really simple and all the charm is in the storytelling.It makes you question yourself. Whatever your hate is, if you can learn to empathize, then you've lived a life.


                
Mandariinid, known as Tangerines in the US, is a thought provoking Estonian anti-war film set in the early 1990s.An Estonian elder named Ivo has stayed behind in the Apkhazeti region of Georgia despite the advancement of the war around him. Most Estonians have left the region for their homeland, but Ivo remains and is helping his friend Margus who is staying to harvest a large crop of tangerines.With the battle between Georgians against the Abkhazian side closing in around them, their homes become caught in the crossfire that leaves two surviving fighters from opposing sides badly hurt but alive. Opposed to the brutal siege and futility battle, Ivo takes both men into his home to nurse them to health. As they recover the tension and desire for vengeance returns. Vowing to respect Ivo's home and refrain from shedding blood under his roof they resume the animosity with a verbal onslaught, opening a dialogue to compare their similarities as members of humanity.There is something about the film Tangerines (Mandariinid) that is immediately unnerving, which must be a deliberate decision from the writer and director Zaza Urushadze for this obviously anti-war film. The perilous reality of war in what is supposed to be a safe and tranquil countryside sets a looming tone of dread. Certain shots and scenes seem to foreshadow imminent malicious actions between the characters and that the film will simply not end well. In Urushadze forcing the viewer to feel unease he simultaneously forces the viewer to become engaged and invested in the characters and their story.Initially I did not want to watch this film. The summary gave me great anxiety and quite frankly, I watched enough war films and there is enough war going on in the world that I felt I reached my threshold. Luckily, Tangerines is not really a war film and is, in fact, far more broad of an intellectual examination regarding wartime, and the nonsensical nature of it all within its tangible confines. Further, in being more philosophical, the film allows almost any viewer to relate and take a message from it. You don't need to know about the region or the specifics regarding the War in Abkhazia to understand its sentiment and intentions.Tangerines is a beautiful gem of a film that feels more like a play, and unfortunately they do not make films like these anymore. The setting of the story is rather small, almost constrained to the small quarters of Ivo's quaint home. There is a minimal quantity of characters and the plot resides in the simple but thought-provoking dialogue exchange between these disparate individuals. The relationships between the characters are complex, distinct and fully-formed and compelling, thanks in part to he acting of Lembit Ulfsak, Misha Meskhi and Giorgi Nakashidze.Though the film is about war, and the war never truly dissipates entirely to the background, there is a dry humor to the film. In its simplicity and clear vision, Tangerines succeeds in examining extremely complicated and tense subject matter with a heart felt and resonating effect.All I can say is I hope it wins for Best Foreign Film at the Oscars against other films with more exposure - because it is a stand out as a gripping feat of thought provoking cinema.Please go to our WEBSITE to read all the REVIEWS of recent releases and awards contenders.


                
With a nondescript title like "Tangerines", I did not know what to expect from this Estonian film nominated for the Oscar in the Best Foreign Language Film category. It turns out, unlikely as it may be, it is the film I will be rooting for to win the big prize come Oscar time.The time is 1992. It is a time of war in the Abkhazeti region of Georgia. In a mountain village, only two men have stayed behind while their family and compatriots have all return home to Estonia. Ivo (Lembit Ulfsak) makes crates for the tangerines that his friend Margus (Elmo Nüganen) grows. One day, a deadly encounter happens in their village. Two men, Ahmed (Giorgi Nakashidze) and Niko (Mikheil Meskhi), were left alive when the battle was done. Ivo is forced to take them into his house and nurse them both back to health. Big problem though, because Ahmed is a Chechen mercenary, and Niko is a Georgian soldier. These were the two sworn enemies in this war.Writer and Director Zaza Urushadze has created this effectively tense fable with four main characters who need to interact within a very confined space of Ivo's house. The slow but steady development of the story built up to a very satisfying climax. The main topic of the story is simple, and the execution was elegantly direct to the point. Ironic for a film set in the midst of a heartless war, "Tangerines" profoundly showed us the meaning of humanity. 9/10.


                
It was one of the best films I've ever watched due it's hologram of simplicity and depth at the same time. The soundtrack that was used during the film was really deep with its pauses, reflecting the unknowness that cover the human nature and at the same time tapping into the original human good will but not original sin. Watching it reminds how the world doesn't matter and most of our values that we have created are only to protect the "us" from the "them" by engaging in a mercantilist kinds of way. What is religion? who is religious? what is war? does it matter to live? and so on are only parts of the questions that were put forward in the movie. The theme of death and religion is approached with eyes of a simple farmer living in a stranded village where the war for Ivo, to put it in his words, " nobody's war"


                
"Tangerines" is a war film quite unlike any other. It deals with the war in the Apkhazeti region of Georgia in 1990 and centres on an old man, a farmer growing tangerines, who gets caught up in the conflict. It's a very simple picture and a very humanist picture. The old man, Ivo, and his neighbour Margus don't want to take sides; the soldiers who die on their doorsteps are not enemies but simply other human beings, deserving of their care and respect. When two soldiers from opposing sides are wounded, Ivo tries to save both of them.It's a reasonably short film and it has the feel of a good short story and although set in the not-too-distant past it feels remarkably prescient, perhaps depressingly so for while the film deals with good people doing what they can for their fellow man, that goodness is not replicated elsewhere. A remarkable piece of work that should be mandatory viewing.


                
This is the first time i see a Georgian movie and i find it to be an amazing debut for me to get into Georgian cinema. At first i thought it was going to be a normal war movie, but while the movie kept running I was more and more into it. The film stars Ivo an old man that loves his land and doesn't want the war to affect the way he lives. He lives next to Margus who seems to be his life-friend. Margus a middle-age man that loves life and his tangerines. The war has come and both of them are the only ones remaining in their homes since their families have left to Estonia. It's fascinating how these two man keep loving their village even though they are running a big risk of get killed. My favorite scene comes in shortly after they hear fire-guns near their houses. Here appear the characters that make this movie show us how wise, peaceful, pacifist, kind, Ivo is most importantly wise. Here we have to know an important fact and it's that the war was between Abkhazian and Georgia in the 90's. Ivo and Margus see two young mans laying on their war buses wounded almost dead, Ivo decides to take them both home and heal them. Ahmed whose in side with Abkhazian it's told by Ivo that the other guy they saved, Niko whose Georgian, it's laying on the other room but hes even more hurt. Ahmed at this point can only think of killing the Georgian Niko, but Ivo makes him promise that under his roof they won't kill anyone. I gotta say that i find the music of this movie lovely in such a situation. My favorite actor it's gotta be Ivo, the way he makes these two guys see how stupid fighting for a land is, and how frustrating can get to be for people like Ivo and Margus who are living a peaceful life, but even like that Ivo has not complains about them, he knows they are young and he wants to make them see how human everyone is, even if they are Georgian or Chechen. While the movie keeps going both of them get to see Ivo as the wise old man that he is and they understand that killing each other won't do anything. I loved Ivo. I give this movie a 9/10 simply because i don't speak the language, and you may find this as an stupid excuse to not give it a 10 but i think that movies can be stronger when you understand the game of words. Other than that i could say this can be one of my most favorite movies, the acting is simply amazing, the movie is not too long which I find it nice. Everyone should see this movie, it has an strong message on war, on how we get to forget we are all the same, the same specie, and that we should always give the hand to anyone that needs it, since they may be needing that push from reality that some have. Touching movie.
I'm using IMDb for years and this movie is the one which makes me to want to write a review. This is one of the most meaningful movies I have ever watched. Actors are great, all four of them. Zaza Urushadze is also great as a director and also as a scriptwriter. This movie shows us how stupid the wars are without being didactic. I visited Georgia last year, I see that most of the people watching Turkish TV series. I thought Turkish series are mostly very bad mostly because of long durations (mostly an episode is longer than 2 hours and they show them weekly.) When I this movie I am ashamed of that TV series. You Georgians can do better and can watch better things also! I also want to congratulate Estonians on this project. And I want to congratulate Zaza Urushadze for Oscar nomination and also for a great movie. I think only the ending a little bit far-fetching but other than that it's great. By the way I'm not a Chechenian, Georgian or Estonian, I'm from Turkey but this movie has a universal message. Everybody must see this movie. I hope we can see more Georgian movies in the forthcoming years.


                
Some people see only racism in all aspects of life and some people see only hatred between nations. Some seek for revenge and some want to better themselves by letting others down. These are the examples of weak personalities. They cannot be more wrong. This is totally a matter of their perspectives and inner problems. This film can be a simple story of war but it can also be a great story about compassion and forgiveness. That way Lembit Ulfsak who plays Ivo, becomes the humanly, father figure of mankind, someone we all need to ask for advice or just to talk to. He always has the answer ready for you. The other characters actually kind of help to bring the message to the viewers, simple Margus and the two wounded guys representing the enemies.


                
I couldn't but write something after watching this title.This film embraces the inherent vulnerabilities of a person and has an uplifting aura.It has a tragic sense of persistence .Apart from being tragic, eyes of that old sophisticated man are unbearably piercing that search for the darkest chambers of a human heart so as to illuminate them. 
I wouldn't just categorize this as an anti war cliched thing but as something more, something deeper and humanizing.


                
