Bland, boring, predictable animated pseudo fairytale of two Japanese girls and their father who move to the country to be nearer to their ailing mother's hospital.One day, they meet a forest spirit whom they call Totoro.Looking like an overweight rabbit with short prick erect ears, this non-threatening harmless character leads them through a series of bland, Disney like adventures that makes even "Dora the Explorer" look like Shakespeare's " Mac Beth"-and we don't even get to see Totoro until a half hour into the movie! Thats about it. This is probably the most over rated film from Miyazaki, the uber over rated Japanese anime director.Its all done in a pastel tone animated style that looks like an a painting by a first grader, yet some of the backgrounds do have a certain charm to them.There is no edge, conflict, sense of menace or real emotion or drama in this pablum coated film to engage the audience. Even a 3 year old would become bored-fast. Done by Studio Ghibli-a sort of Japanese Disney studio, this turkey has earned much yen since its release. Not to mention the merchandising it has inspired that, fortunately is not too readily available in the United States. And can anybody please tell me what is so great about Miyazaki? He's just another "in it for the money" artist like Tim Burton, Spielberg, and Murakami. As a matter of fact, I have a hard time distinguishing Miyazaki from Murakami.. Even Spielberg's "ET", a film that I thoroughly hated seems enjoyable and well made when compared to this. Do yourself a favor-watch it only if you have to. Not worth your precious time.For some reason, this was one of the the highest grossing film of all time in Japan until Titanic came along. I can't see why.


                
In the animation community this movie is considered something of a masterpiece. No one ever lists why, just that it's perfect and amazing and America could neva. I never felt the need to see it. I finally did see it (Disney Dub) for the first time a few weeks ago. It wasn't painful to watch, just horribly boring. It felt like nothing happened. I didn't enjoy anything about it. On the plus side the kids I watch love it and will sit though the whole movie. So, it's a good thing to put on when making lunch or dinner. And the song at the start and end is god awful.I truly hate that song.


                
I have to say that this is the worst film I have ever seen like seriously why did they put whiny characters in this?? god it has had given me a headache! Also that scene where the father and the girls are in the bath. Whats more disturbing is that the little girl looked as if she sat on his genitals. I swear like you call this a child's film???? OK so I know it said that in the east that the bathroom can be shared with the family but at the same time, you think to yourself, is he a good father after all? Like you would hope he doesn't turn out to be a pedophile because those girls are quite young! Honest to god, I think this film is very bad on the eyes especially mine, I wouldn't show this to kids, god no!
I agree entirely with little-bird-2. When I was growing up, I would borrow this movie from my local library. I loved it so much. Years passed, and I ended up in a relationship with a person who actually had it on VHS! I was so excited about it, I told her we HAD to watch it that night. Well, fast forward another couple of years... I bought the special edition DVD, and I couldn't wait to watch it. Pop it in, and the first thing I noticed was the opening credits had a different singer. I was a little mad about that, but it was OK. But then the dialog started. I wasted $22.00. Everything was just too strange. The original voices were perfectly fine. If they ABSOLUTELY HAD TO change it, why couldn't they just keep the same dialog at the VERY least?


                
This used to be an incredible movie. It was one of my favorite movies as a child. my VCR decided to eat my tape a couple of months ago so i got the new one on DVD. SUPER pumped, i popped it in my machine. GUESS WHAT!!! They re-made the whole thing!!! The picture is still right but they dubbed over the voices!!! Dakota Fanning and Elle Fanning did a horrible job covering Satsuki and Mei's voices. Or should i say "Satski's" voice. They don't even say her name right! Why would they "fix"what was never broken?! They changed half of the lines and butcheredthe rest. There are also subtitles in it. Pointing out things that you may not understand. Like when they were unpacking a box, they had a little note that said "tea" at the bottom of the screen. WHO CARES WHAT IT IS?! I WANT TO WATCH THE MOVIE!! If you are considering this movie,please, please, buy or rent the original. You will absolutely love it. DO NOT get the one above, it is a waste of your time. Thank-you for reading my rant.


                
