My favorite Miyazaki's movie is "Princess Mononoke" on a graphical scale. But on a "charming scale", this one is really the best.Even the Disney movies are not so charming than this movie. Poetic, charming, cute, I can't find the words to describe the good this movie made to me. Miyazaki brings us into the wonderlands of the children, better than "Alice in wonderland" or "Peter pan".In fact, Miyazaki makes us loving children. In the movie, the children run, shout all time, laugh, cry, and so on. In the real world, I hate this. In normal movies I hate this too. But, here, every actions of the two little girls touch us deep in our heart. We learn to love children's world.Every one of us will have a smile on this face, from the beginning to the end of this movie.My favorite scene is the first encounter between Mei and Totoro. It's fun, poetic, and charming. Miyazaki succeeds to make a movie enjoyable for the very little kids (4 y.o.) and for the adult audience. It's very rare to succeed doing that !Really, a masterpiece !10/10 !


                
I first watched this film in Japanese with a 12 year old translating for me and I still thought it was incredible. There are so many wonderful touches, like a tin can in the stream while the kids are fascinated by a fish, or the flying scenes (I'm convinced that Ang Lee thought of Miyazaki when he made The Hulk, just in terms of the jumping scenes) that show a curious mind at work throughout the picture. I also love the sense of magic and innocence (and the lack of violence) which pervades the movie. It is a real antidote from the Disney formula which always involves a villain being trashed at the end. This is a film about the wonder of being a child and experiencing something incredible which adults can't see but recognize nonetheless. It works for any age as well. Enjoy.


                
There is no compulsory villain in this wonderfully animated film, no moral lessons, no standard blue print story, and the characters will definitely not break out in a song. Thank God! It's simply a great film for all ages. Don't mind if the soundtrack isn't dubbed to your native language, my kids (4 and 6 years old) could easily follow the story with just a few helpers. Japanese is a wonderful language. The film has great direction, beautiful backgrounds and a mystical, pleasant aura throughout. There's nothing like this, I promise you. It's idyllic, for the most part, but still with an exciting story that unfolds into something very unexpected.


                
From the brilliant "Walt Disney of Japan", Hayao Miyazaki, comes a wonderful soothing film that everyone will simply embrace. Featuring stunning animation, endearing personable characters, and a heart-tugging storyline that's simple, enchanting, and even dramatic.Sometimes you feel like you're not watching an animated children's movie, because the characters (particularly the children) and the storyline seem so realistic. There's no bad guy, no song numbers, and no references to pop-culture. Most cartoons (especially Disney) feature these and it gets old and routine. Here we have a break from all of that and get a real masterpiece.Miraculously, Totoro doesn't talk, and yet you can still understand what the lovable furry creature is thinking with his endearing actions. And the six-legged CatBus is undeniably one of the most imaginative characters in animation history. And the human characters are also remarkable. Mei and Satsuki act like little girls, not like kids who are smarter than adults (a routine toons today are guilty of).I loved Totoro when I was a small child and I always will. When I have children of my own someday, I will show them Totoro instead of toy commercials like Dora and Elmo's world.BOTTOM LINE: A masterpiece... pure and simple.


                
Like all Miyazaki films, this one is absolutely sacred. Some parts are reminiscent of Laputa: Castle in the Sky and Spirited Away (and Alice in Wonderland by extension), but Totoro stands out as probably the most unique of them all.The premise is nice and simple, which works brilliantly because the plot is established as a foundation without hindering the experience of the movie itself. The viewer is allowed unrestricted access and exploration of the messages offered by the film.In addition, Totoro is not bound by any rules of traditional storytelling. Instead, it presents occurrences that touch on a fundamental human level that is so deep and profound that it will have you feeling a range of emotions. There are so many layers to this movie, each one meaningful and special. From community building to the love of a family to sibling relationships to facing the unknown; everyone can take away something personal from this movie.Perhaps the most sacred aspect of the film, however, is that it reminds us that life is magical. Not all of us have a neighbor like Totoro, but we are all fortunate in different ways. Each of us has something to treasure, something that brings joy and comfort.Totoro is special in that it frees the viewer to be a child again and to contemplate the world through a perspective that we have perhaps forgotten. Everything is new and interesting and beautiful, from a crumbling porch to an acorn seed. We live in a magical world, and it is definitely worth taking the time to appreciate this.


                
I first saw "My Neighbor Totoro" when I was maybe seven.At the time, I thought that it was really boring(that was still when I liked Disney movies). Years later, when I discovered "Princess Mononoke" I learned that MNT was by the same director and watched it again. And I find that I appreciate this film a whole lot more now then I did when I was seven.The animation is absolutely stunning(as with all Miyazaki films)and the story is deceptively simple, told with patient, subtle attention to detail. The best example IMO is the scene where Mei falls asleep on Totoro's stomach.It's fruitless to try and describe it;you have to see it for yourself.In closing, I would just like to say that I can't wait for a decent DVD to arrive so I can view this quiet masterpiece in widescreen in Japanese with subtitles.


                
I absolutely agree with Roger Ebert who called "My Neighbor Totoro", "One of the most beloved of all family films". Its colorfully bright and sparkling animation is enchanting. It is incredibly realistic and at the same time makes us along with two main characters, the young sisters ready for a miracle to happen any minute. The gentle story is touching, uplifting, funny, and tender without being overly sentimental or didactic. The film takes place in the early 50s, when 10-year-old Satsuki and her baby sister, curious and energetic 4-year-old Mei spend one summer in an old house in the country side with their University professor father while their mother recovers from a serious illness in the nearby hospital. The great master Hayao Miyazaki remembers well what it is like to be a child, to see magic in the everyday life and be always ready to encounter it. This ability usually disappears as the child becomes adult but it stays forever in a few chosen, and they become the visionary Artists - just like Miyazaki himself. The film is partially autobiographical for the writer/director/storyboard artist. "When Miyazaki and his brothers were children, his mother suffered from spinal tuberculosis for nine years, and spent much of her time hospitalized. It is implied, yet never revealed in the film, that Satsuki and Mei's mother also suffers from tuberculosis. He once said the film would have been too painful for him to make if the two protagonists were boys instead of girls." (From the IMDb film trivia)Totoro of the title is an adorable funny blue forest spirit who lives in the nest beneath a huge tree and makes the trees grow and the winds blow. Totoro becomes the friend and protector of the sisters and one day he sends them on the bus journey that is like nothing they and the viewers could ever imagine. I wish I could ride that cat bus. What a wild and kind imagination an artist should have to create it. How much happier we all are knowing that Hayao Miyazaki exists and makes his amazing films at the Studio Ghibli for which King Totoro is the mascot.


                
I watched this movie when I was a kid, and while it never caught my attention as I do other commercial movies, I think it had a quiet and subtle effect on me over the years. Sometimes I think about that film, but I never knew why. So, after watching it again as an adult I realized why this movie stay within me: Totoro is a rare film that manages to capture the essence of a child's emotions and vision without being filtered through the adult's tendency to editorialize it, to insert a moral judgment, or to sugar coat it. Mei's behavior is naked, showing raw happiness as well as anger. Her movements are strong and her voice fierce, she thinks she lives in a world without limitations and not binded by adult's notion of etiquette. Satsuki is at a crossroads between adulthood and what remains of her innocence, we see her anxieties and we identify the world of the movie through her eyes. Totoro's physical characteristic is actually menacing and otherworldly, and our first impression of him (through the girls' eyes) is a natural mix of fear and amazement... the same reaction any human would have when confronting something foreign. But then something magical happens: Totoro moves and behaves just like Mei. We identify with this raw, pure energy of joy and imagination. That Studio Ghibli managed to express this idea visually, through character design, storytelling, and animation, is a rare and special accomplishment. This effect cannot be described during a script meeting with a committee of marketing execs.A typical American studio would be worried about presenting its main character as frightening, would redesign Totoro as a "cuter" character as a safe strategy, and would certainly make the father more of a one-dimensional, stereotypical "adult" character for dramatic purposes.But in this movie, we see the background story of the characters by deceptively simple closeup shot of the pebbles in the stream, or the details of the bathtub.But the most telling moment of the movie is actually early on: when the girls tried to push down the rotting wooden support of the house. At first only playing around, they then gave a serious effort to try to bring it down. But it doesn't fall. Seeing that the support stays, they simply move on. That establishes the tone and the world they inhabit: Life is unpredictable. Adults must learn to expect the worst to happen in order to deal daily with the real world. But the child has not yet fully learned this skill, so through their eyes, we see what we were, and what was important to us, long buried but not forgotten.Kids should see this movie as an alternative to the shallow mainstream entertainment. Whether they like it or not is irrelevant; its lasting impact is worth more that the toy of the month. Adults should see this movie to re-look at themselves and what they were, who they are now, and what they want to become. It doesn't preach anything, it's a simple story that you will enjoy when you can stop and have time for yourself and for the people you care about.


                
What can I say ? It's a really endearing movie, and even though it's a children's movie, I found myself captivated. The story is about two children, who move to the village with their father. They come into contact with various lovable spirits/ghosts.Before watching various Miyazaki movies, my view of Japanese animation was that it was mostly full of violent animated serials, with a smear of science fiction. Seen them one, seen them all. I know that most people love to watch these type of animations. But I've never really been a big fan of these. One exception being "Final Fantasy - The Spirits Within".I watched this movie, because it was directed by Hayao Miyazaki. I had already seen "Sen to Chihiro No Kamikakushi" and " Neko No Ongaeshi" (thanks to these being rated in the top 250 on IMDb) and found it to be a wonderful movie. The same applies to this movie.The animation is stunning, even though it was done in 1988. I guess that's because since the entire animation is hand drawn, it doesn't get much better than this.The story is captivating, and keeps one wondering as to what will happen. I have a 2 year old niece, and when I watched the children in this movie, I was constantly thinking of how well the director has gotten into the skin of children. Their various facial expressions, cries and antics are uncanny. Many of the scenes are just magical, and I was really amazed at the creative imagination of the director and animators. Even the title song is very hummable.After watching these movies, I have now realized that the best Japanese animation is not the type that is shown on "Cartoon Network".A must-watch movie for all children, and adults too!


                
This film is intended for small children, so Miyazaki says. I was thirty-six when I watched it. I was so charmed that I showed it again to my father, who was then seventy-seven. He was so charmed that he insisted we must show it to his grandson, who is four. I have seen more exciting films, or funnier films, but none which gave me more sheer delight. It is a great shame the world isn't really as nice as this, but when you are four, like Mei, or even eleven, like Satsuki, this is how you want it to be: everyone bigger is kind and can be trusted completely, and everything always comes right in the end. Knowing a little boy of Mei's age I can vouch for her being highly realistic, from the obsessive looking through a hole in a bucket to the scowling and sulking! The most touching moment is when Catbus' destination board changes to "MEI", showing Satsuki that he knows exactly where her little sister is, and that he's going to take her straight there. My only criticisms, if you can call them that, are that the DVD doesn't contain the legendary sequel "Mei and the Kittenbus", in which Mei meets and goes for a ride with Catbus's little son, and that I can't ride in Catbus myself. As a cat lover and occasional bus user I feel I was born to do that, and it's a disgrace he's only imaginary!
What more can be said about MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO? Get this movie. Immediately. Without a doubt one of the best animated features ever made, Japan or otherwise, TOTORO is an outstanding original creation from Hayao Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli. It's about two sisters -- Satsuki and spunky little Mei -- moving with their somewhat scatterbrained but loving father to a new home in the Japanese countryside. But the place isn't just deserted; wonders galore lie within their household. Tiny, fuzzy black balls of soot ("Soot Gremlins") scatter every nook and cranny of the walls, frightened away only by laughter. A tall, luscious camphor tree towers above the other trees in the back yard. And, lastly, the Totoros themselves, absolutely adorable little creatures who look like a cross between a raccoon, rabbit, owl, and guinea pig (a personal bias here, since I owned such a pet who reminds me so much of the Totoros here), live in this very forest, carrying acorns, making huge trees grow at night, and playing ocarinas on the branches of the trees. There is even one really BIG Totoro who sleeps under the tree, so cuddlesome and gentle that you'll swear that he's the equivalent of your pet. Of course, he doesn't just allow Mei to snuggle on his chest. He lets out thunderous roars, shake the ground by jumping with full force, grins as wide as a Cheshire cat (albeit with warmth and generosity), helps others when they're in trouble, and gives acorns wrapped in bamboo leaves in return for gifts. The story isn't all hearts and flowers, however. An emotionally charged subplot involving the sisters' ailing mother (shades of Miyazaki's personal life here) gives TOTORO a dramatic edge. This is particularly evident in the third act, when the girls receive a distressing telegram about their mother. Both Satsuki and Mei are extremely traumatized by this as any real child would be if such a situation occurred in their lifetime. What follows is a tearjerking sequence that builds to a truly happy ending. This mixture of real-life situations, emotions, and magical discoveries found in your nearest back yard make TOTORO feel authentic (even with its fantasy elements). One cannot help but find this quality in any of Miyazaki's films, this one included. MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO was not a box office success in either Japan or America, but the film has won over millions of children around the world as well as animation buffs for its gorgeous animation style; the backgrounds are lavishly detailed and imagination is galore in much of the sequences. (It was KIKI'S DELIVERY SERVICE that would catapult Miyazaki's animation company, Studio Ghibli, into box office success status.) The movie was originally dubbed into English by Carl Macek and his infamous company, Streamline Pictures in 1993. Believe it or not, this was one of the "best" dubs they've ever produced. As Disney has acquired the rights for Ghibli's movies, though, it was inevitable that they would produce their own version. This has infuriated many, but as someone who fell in love with TOTORO with the Mecak version, I have to say that this new Disney production offers charm and emotion on its own ground. The script is a fresh new translation from the original Japanese (clarifying the origin of Totoro's name), and remains faithful to the meaning of Miyazaki's screenplay, despite a few line changes here and there (nothing major, though). At first, I was a little worried about hearing Dakota and Elle Fanning as Satsuki and Mei, but both ended up captivating me from the start; personally, I think it was great for Disney to cast two actual sisters to play the young girls--it helps their chemistry come alive. The other actors, including a warm, understated Tim Daly, and delightful Lea Salonga provide similarly top quality work. My favorite performances? Pat Carroll, displaying maternal charm and whimsy as Granny (not sounding anything like her most-famous role, Ursula from THE LITTLE MERMAID), and Frank Welker, who does outstanding vocal foley for both Totoro and the Cat Bus. The OP and ED songs have the same lyrics, but are sung by a different singer (Sonya Isaacs), who may please some and annoy others. I'm sure that there will be many who will draw comparisons between the two dubs to the very bitter end, but I think it's great to have more than one adaptation of a beloved story, especially when done by folks who obviously love Miyazaki's works.As far as the long awaited 2-DVD set from Disney goes, the widescreen visual transfer is absolutely gorgeous--Miyazaki's visuals really shine with pristine clarity on the screen, and the Japanese language track features literal subtitles, too. The extras are the same-old voice talent featurette, storyboards, and trailer we saw on most of the other Disney-Ghibli DVDs, which is sparse to say the least, but better than nothing.Folks who want the old dub will obviously flock to the FOX pan & scan DVD, but personally, I'd suggest getting both the FOX and Disney releases--the former for nostalgia, the latter for a more professional sounding upgrade. Either way, however, MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO is far from just another kid's story. With a little bit of luck, grown-ups (and those who consider themselves too "sophisticated" for cartoons) will enjoy it too.
I first saw this movie when I was very, very young. I loved it then and I love it now. It is like a beautiful painting. The visuals are fantastic, the plot charming, and the "totoros" are adorable (not to mention Mei). Miyazaki has refused to follow in the footsteps of other Japanese film-makers and do those awful anime movies that are, unfortunately, popular among many of my friends. Instead, he has made animated films that look and are captivating. I love how he did the fantasy element in this movie, with the totoros flying and doing magical wonders and Satsuki and Mei looking like they're having the time of their life. My favorite part is when Satsuki and Mei sneak outside to see the totoros and they make the trees grow (and their father has no clue!). The enchanting music during that part was what made it memorable. A must-see for all little kids.


                
I was initially skeptical on the quality of this one, but surprisingly this film was both engaging and beautiful from start to finish. Loosely based on Miyazakis own childhood, My Neighbor Totoro is a simplistic story with a kind of charm, depth, and broad appeal that makes it irresistible. When two girls move to a new farmhouse to be closer to their ailing mother, they have to deal with some of life's more eccentric experiences, that of impending death and incredible magic. At its heart, its about the uninhibited curiosity of childhood, and the innocence in accepting everything without question, to such an extent that magic is a very real reality. The otherworldly in this film, comes in the form of Totoro, an animal spirit who is the guardian of the forest near the girls home. Overall, this film is absolutely spectacular. Kids will love it, though some of the deeper meaning will be lost on them. Adults will also love it, as a nostalgic ride through childhood and for some of the more profound themes running throughout the film. Technically, though made in 1988, the animation in this film looks every bit as stunning today. Totoros forest and the many quiet landscape shots are absolutely gorgeous. Disney, eat your heart out. The film is paced slow, letting the film unfurl at a relaxing pace through its scant 86 minute runtime. The lethargic pace, along with Miyazakis expressive camera pans and attention to detail lend the girls discovery of their home/the forest, the famous cat bus scene, and every moment with Totoro a very 360 degree, hypnotic feel. The new English dub is well done without losing much in translation, retaining the witty and lighthearted exchanges from the original. Overall, this films serves as a great introduction into the world of Miyazaki, and remains a timeless classic in its own right. Miyazakis most lighthearted venture also remains his most introspective and grounded work. Even without the whimsicality of Spirited Away and Kikis Delivery Service, this is by far his most engaging and charming film. Essential viewing.


                
The movie is from Japan and it is 20 years old -- it feels fresh as if done yesterday and there is no cultural barrier whatsoever. The drawings of the landscape are fantastic and are alone worth watching this movie: the reflection of the sun on the leaves of the trees, the reflection of the sky in the rice paddies, the high summer clouds, the flowers detailed and colorful.Two girls, maybe four and ten, move with their father into their new house in this landscape. How they discover, befriend, and master their new environment is shown in a detailed, loving, but not sentimental way. Watching these girls create their own adventures and act and react in them, is delightful. Even more, they reveal something deeply human; and the audience can rediscover its own humanness by watching and identifying with them.


                
I have never sat through a complete Hayao Miyazaki animated movie despite all the good vibes, reviews, recommendations I got from friends. Actually I have Spirited Away on DVD just waiting to be watched, but for some reason it still sits on my desk amongst others. Well, a good friend from up north passed me THREE Miyazaki DVDs, and given I'm going to where he is tomorrow visiting someone who mentioned during a visit to the previous movie set, how the scene was reminiscent of My Neighbor Totoro, I thought I'll pop that DVD and give it a watch.I was blown away. This IS animation, with a story suitable for kids to understand, and for adults to get a kick out of given its fantastical pieces. I shan't spoil the movie by spelling out the storyline, but suffice to say it centers very simply on a family, the father a professor who has recently uprooted his family of two girls, Satsuki and Mai, to the countryside, to provide a healthier environment for their ailing mom, currently in the hospital, to recuperate in. Thus begins the children's adventures in the country, with its lush greenery, and of course, with their new found friend, a giant ghibil known as Totoro, with seemingly magical powers of flight and fantasy.And it is in its simplicity where its beauty shines through. It is always said that children can see things that adults don't, and hence, there's a constant question as to whether Totoro is real, or not, and if so, how its interactions with the kids are possible. It's not just Totoro itself which is out of this world, but I totally like that grinning cat-bus.This is the kind of animated movie that our local animation production houses should be looking at. First and foremost, the story. While it doesn't contain huge battle sequences, complex or multiple characters for the sake of stuffing the movie, it goes to show that the story matters, in its ability to touch and resonate with audiences young and old (while the young ones go to the cinemas, don't forget the adults have to bring them too, and somehow you have to entertain them as well without being too complex for the little ones to understand).The character designs are also kept simple, but nonetheless effective. The animation here is top notch despite it being 2D, as are the cast who voiced the characters. The acid test here is whether the movie can stand the test of time, and watching it close to 20 years after it was made, the answer is a resounding yes, it passed with flying colours. There are plenty of moments where you go "so cute!" without it being saccharine, or trying too hard, and that is indeed remarkable. Characterization is superb, especially Mai, whom I think everyone who has a kid sister, would be able to relate to. That's how realistic I thought she was!Everything in this movie works well together, like a fine orchestra performing its pieces with precision yet with lots of heart. I do feel compelled to pop in and watch all the other Hayao Miyazaki DVDs I have in my collection, but I have to travel tomorrow and be away the next few days. You can be sure however, I will be back and complete watching them all real soon!I like Tonari no Totoro, certainly one of the best movies I've seen!


                
Hands down, 'My Neighbour Totoro' is far superior to any film ever produced by Disney and that's including my personal favourites 'The Lion King' and 'Hercules'.It revolves around two young girls Satsuki (aged around eight) and Mei (aged around three) who move to a new house while also coping with their mother's illness in the resilient, sweet way young children have in dealing with problems. They then discover these furry totoro creatures only ever seen by children and through their new friends, they are able to face their fears.You can actually feel the magic when you watch this. The totoros are adorable and their haunting silence only intensifies their beauty and the two children are so innocent and captivating that you completely empathise with their delight at meeting these fabled creatures.Although I watched it a few times when I was around 12, I rediscovered this in Disney Land (Disney own the rights now) and walked from the Britain exhibit in EPCOT back to Japan to buy the cuddly Totoro toy which is now my most prized possession from that Florida holiday. At the moment, this excellent film is not on DVD in Britain for some criminal reason, I hope now that Disney own it they will release it soon enough. I would certainly reccommend it to anyone of any age.


                
Last night, I went to a rave party. Because of that, I can't sleep tonight, even as tomorrow is my birthday. So I decided to watch some anime. Tonari no Totoro had been given a very nice average score here at imdb, so I settled for it. It seems fortune itself has decided to give me this birthday present that is the pure joy of watching this movie. I mentioned in a review of another anime (Kiki's Delivery Service), that it reminded me of Astrid Lindgren's "Pippi Longstockings" which I was fed with as a swedish child. This movie is just about as fine! It gives me an insight of what it must've been like to be a child growing up at the countryside in the japanese 50s (which I guess is the setting for this movie), and at the same time it reminds me of what it was like for myself to grow up back when I lived in a house in the suburbs of Stockholm with a fairly large garden.I started smiling after watching this movie for about ten minutes, then I kept on smiling unto the worrying part (you will know what I mean if you have seen/will see the movie). How about that, by the way? An anime for kids that gets a 22-year old like me worried when the plot becomes saddening? Anyway, when the credits started rolling by with a beautiful, playful song in the background, I was smiling once again. This movie deserves no other grade than a 10, and that's what I'm about to give it :)Johan


                
Hayao Miyazaki is a genius. Most critics and moviegoers will second that notion. My Neighbor Totoro, one of his earlier features, is evidence of that claim. On several occasions when recommending this film to friends they have asked me, "Well, what is the movie about?" And, well, that is mostly hard to explain. There is no set plot, structure, nor is there much conflict; the film simply follows the lives of two little girls that meet the King of the Forest, Totoro. The film is from the perspective of a child, which, in my opinion, is the core of this film's brilliance. You can't help but watch the film without being imbued with a sense of jubilant wonder, joy, and warmth. This movie is older than I am, but still feels new and original. Everything from the music to the scenery to the dialogue is top-notch. I would recommend getting the 2005 English version with Dakota and Elle Fanning, Pat Carroll and Tim Daly, though both English dubbings are great.


                
That one line summary refers to, basically, what it feels like to be a kid and get delighted by a story and characters that are (to use an overused word) enchanting. In fact, this film to me represents the kind of enjoyment I had as a very young tot watching the Winnie the Pooh films. It is so in touch with the innocence and escapism of children that it actually works for the adults too. As a man already in his twenties, I was really taken aback by how adorable all of the little woodland creatures are- the "King" Totoro, the Cat bus, the other little creatures alongside him- and how it wasn't annoying or nearing that. This is the kind of Japanese-export that puts an entertainment like Pokemon, which is all about conflict and defeat and trying to save the end of everything from some super-chu or whatever, as the fun if shallow stuff that it is. Here is a story that works much more like a fairy tale, where there is almost no real conflicts that are impending or spelling deep trouble, only the exaggerated thoughts and occasionally distraught emotions of kids 4-10 years old. Hayao Miyazaki is really, truly in touch with these feelings that go about with kids like these.If anything might be lacking in the film it's a 'plot' or sorts, as there really isn't any- a story it does have, however loose with what goes on. It's a pure kind of feel-good story about two young girls who have moved into a new house with their father so they can be closer to their mother who's at a hospital. After finding their house might be haunted, the younger of the two Mei searches around a gigantic tree to find Totoro and his buddies, who help make things grow in nature and are generally just there to act like fuzz-balls. Aside from a bit of trouble that arises in the third act, which does hold some overall significance to the implicit message in the film, it's really got nothing on its agenda except to give the little kids a big smile and some laughs in some of the cuter, odder moments. If some American kids might not get it or latch on to it like the homegrown animation of late, it might still work for their parents probably watching it with them.And this message I mentioned- which is also connected with Winnie the Pooh on some fundamental level- is that its essential to have this kind of lively dream-life for children, to have a section of the world just for them where nothing bad or upsetting can protrude through. But, like Miyazaki's other films, this isn't a message crammed down the kids throats. It's also for me (damned if I'll say it as a guy who's usually into more mature dramas and such) one of the most charming and cute pieces of animation to ever come out of Japan, and I would give it such a recommendation that the Pooh movies meant for me- as a first movie for a little one to see and maybe get addicted to.


                
If you see a movie like 'My Little Pony', you think "CUTE!" and feel like puking. That's a common trait in children's movies today. Too many bright colours, boring and dumbed-down dialog, and tired and boring concepts.This usually stems from the problem that only grown-ups make movies. But this movie is also made by grown-ups. So what's so different? I think Miyazaki has very good contact with his inner child. It sounds corny, I know, but he's spot on with every line, every movement, in fact everything the wonderful two sisters do in this movie.American child heroes are usually very grown-up. They speak pretty much like an adult. They remind more of the kind of children we see all the time in horror movies(the kind who has black makeup under the eyes and says eerie things to the main character) than real children. If they're not like that, they're painfully cute and stupid. But not in this movie.The plot is wonderful as well. It's magical enough to appeal the children and serious enough to affect grown-ups. It's a rare mix. Most importantly, it's gripping. You really care for the characters, you feel happy when they're happy and you feel bad when they're in danger.In conclusion, Totoro is a really cute movie but not in the usual brain-dead way we Westerners have become used to. It's as good as Disney in its prime, and in some ways better. It's easily the best movie you can let you children watch made in the latest 20 years. Mom and Dad might want to turn off the dubbing and watch the Japanese version as well.


                
Two little girls, Satsuki and Mei, moves into an old house in the Japanese country with their father. Their sick mother is at the hospital. The two kids meet the gentle and flute playing Totoro, a hybrid between a gigantic rodent and a bear. The movie's style is quite different from most Western animations, and only a few Disney movies can hold their own to Tonari no Totoro's amazing and poetic expression. The bus stop scene is brilliant, and so are many other similar scenes where only few words are spoken. Disney animations are often too restless to create an atmosphere like this. Pardoxically the two children are a bit stereotypical at times, but in the end of the movie they become more complex. At this point in the film a cryptic message from the mother's hospital, makes the children suspect that their mother has died. After an intense drama they are being flown to the hospital in Totoro's bizarre cat bus. But it turns out that the mother has only had a cold and that she's going to comeback to them soon. This is, though a foundation for a happy ending, a bit of an anticlimax. I couldn't help but wonder if the movie would be better if the mother was dead from the start of the film. Not that I'm a sadist, but as it is, the children are living a great life in a beautiful place, and when their mother comes back, all is practically well, this would make it seem so perfect, that you don't feel like you have to pity the kids, which makes their attempt in finding comfort in their friendship with Totoro less touching than it could be. If the mother was dead, the movie would probably touch some deeper feelings. But this is only a thought. However, a psychological interpretation could be that the mother really is dying, and Totoro only is a delusion made by the children in their grief. But this would however be too cruel. Perhaps the perfectly happy ending is the best way to end the film, though a sad future awaits the children when they get too old to see Totoro. Though I'm not a big fan of the manga style I must admit that it's masterfully animated, and the imaginative pictures make the movie seem like a beautiful dream.
We really enjoyed the spectacular movie! Dakota and Elle Fanning did a fine job! We still have the theme song stuck in our heads, after watching it seven times already! We feel as though Totoro does exist in this world! We loved the the soot-sprite's! They were awesome, dog! This movie is a great heart-warming fantasy! I truly recommend this movie to anyone! Bling, bling in the house, yo!RandyTruly amazing! I loved the skirts!-PaulaMost amazing movie ever! The theme song is better than any songs on American Idol that the contestants sang so far!-SimonHaha, just kidding! We are just kidding about the American Idol thing! Great movie, still!


                
I have never been so happy whilst watching a film, after a film and even at the beginning of a film. I found myself smiling all the way through. The characters are all so lovable, I marvel at Hayao miyazaki's ability to create something truly imaginative out of every standard object. The film is visually beautiful and wondrous. What was also heart warming was the relationship between the father, mother and kiddies, it's everybody's ideal family unit. It reflected well the older sister younger sister relationship, leaving the viewer feeling very nostalgic. The cat embodied everything that a child desires from a companion. The film managed to capture the world that children live in and take you back to what it felt like to be a child living in your own idealist environment. Basically i feel it's impossible for anybody to watch this film and be left feeling cold. It warms you from your toes to the tip of your head, you'll be smiling for days.


                
I love Totoro, Mei and Satsuki. I have been seeing the movie many times without getting bored while I become tired of seeing other movies easily right at the second or third time. I can't imagine how the director can create such real and cute characters. Notice the way Mei goes upstairs and downstairs, showing Myazaki to be very observant about children's actions. They are amazing compared to conventional move of Waldisney's as well as of many other animated movies. The movie is a simple story with normal circumstances of daily life, about a family with 4 members, the father is a university professor, the mother is in hospital because of suffering from a disease unknown and the two children of 10 and 4 years old are still very innocent. The family is as ordinary as most of real families around us but described within several selective days. That is when they move to a new house in the beautiful countryside. The fresh scene encourages the two children to discover everything they see and this leads them to meeting with Totoro. Totoro is only a character of imagination but more real than any other imagined characters. He looks like a bear and may symbol children's belief in good things of life. One of the scenes i like best is that of the three people bathing together when a very serious storm goes through the area, shaking the house and scaring the two children, so warm. And the scenes of field, hills remind me of my childhood as if it was just yesterday. For me this is Myazaki's best animated movie and one of the best animations of all time. Voted it 10 stars.


                
Hayao Miyazaki didn't go extravagant like he did in his most critically acclaimed works such as Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away. My Neighbor Totoro is simple but still imaginative like all his works, and it is quite simply a masterpiece. Even though Totoro doesn't seems he wanted to be lovable, even though he looks scary because of his huge eyes and large mouth, he remains to be one of the loveliest characters of Hayao Miyazaki, quiet but unforgettable, he is like a Teddy Bear. If Satsuki and Mai was amazed when they saw Totoro the first time, well I'm astonished when I saw the half-cat, half-bus creature, it is magical to see that. He didn't go far in this one, but it's the first film that I've seen from him that has a heart.


                
