Fascinating and wonderful cartoon movie by the genius Hayao Miyazaki . This magnificent cartoon movie concerns Japanese legends , and forest spirits . Exciting and rather good film set in the fifities about a Japanese family moves to country , being formed by the University professor father and his children : Salsaki and her younger sister Lucy whose new house in the country is filled with magic , including strange creatures as some black dusty balls and especially by Tororo . It is a cuddly , friendly animal that can fly , if weird mix of bear , owl , cat and seal with a gentle rear and whiskers . Naturally , every time the two sisters get into mischief , the sympathetic Totoro is there to rescue then . Meanwhile their mummy recuperates from Tuberculosis in hospital and only gradually becomes aware that something's hanging in the trees outside .This wonderful film is plenty of fantasy , adventures, spectacular images and with ecological message . The picture is narrated with sensibility and sense of wonder and being quite entertaining . This is the animated movie that first brought Miyazaki international attention , it remains as a cartoon movie achievement almost without parallel. The first half delicately captures both quietness and mystery as two little girls move with their daddy to remote new mansion in the countryside , inhabited by strange spirits . While younger spectators will adore the funny creatures : Tororo , Kodamas , the twelve-legged cat-bus that can be only seen by kiddies ; adults will perhaps best appreciate the movie's delicate rending of atmosphere and its attuned understanding of the wonders and anxieties of infancy . It contains a great sestimentality and sensibility , it will be utterly refreshing to those raised on a diet of Walt Disney . The protagonist animal , house-sized Totoro steals the show , it is a giant cat-alike that can fly and has a magic bus which only can be seen by children . This stunning and superbly imagined film will appeal both , children and adults .The motion picture was splendidly realized by Hayao Miyazaki , he personally corrected or redrew more than 80,000 of the film's thousands animation cels . Being accompanied by sensitive music score composed by his usual musician , Joe Hisaishi. It packs up a big resonance , weight and delicacy that make it all an awesome film . Never remotely didactic , the movie is ultimately a children fantasy that touches brief thoughtful issues dealing with sintoism religion , ethical , ecological and kiddies psychological themes . It has some self-biographic elements as Miyazaki's mother suffered TB for 9 years , and she standed in hospital . It followed a Short movie , titled ¨Mei and the cat-bus¨ it is only exhibited in Ghibli studios . My neighbour Tororo premiered in cinemas along with ¨The tomb of glowworms ¨ (1988) by Isao Takahata and failed at boxoffice . However , later on Tororo has turned to be a real classic movie . As Tororo is an icon or brand in Ghibli Studios , getting a great merchandising . No other Word : a masterpiece
Miyazaki wasn't yet a culture hero in Japan when made this animated mythic adventure ; later on , he directed ¨Princess Monokone¨converted the first of any kind to gross over the box office in Japan and around the world , it raised him to a status approaching living national treasure . Miyazaki also directed other excellent cartoon movies as ¨Lupin¨ (1978) , Castle of Cagliostro¨ (1979) , ¨Nausica of the valley of wind¨ , ¨Howl's moving castle¨ , ¨Laputa castle of the sky¨ ,¨Porco Rosso¨ , ¨Kiki's delivery service¨, ¨Chihiro¨ or ¨Spirited away¨: the highest grossing Japanese film ever , and this cult movie : ¨My neighbour Tororo¨ .


                
I keep watching Studio Ghibli films like this one expecting that in all the films that they've made, there's got to be one that just doesn't hold up. Well, My Neighbor Totoro isn't that one.This is a beautiful and exuberant story story about a pair of kids that move into the country with their father and meet some of the less visible residents, including some lively dustbunnies and the giant Totoro. Although this could just be a story about kids meeting the magical residents of their rural community, the story deals a lot with the relationship between the two young sisters and their parents as well.One thing that's absolutely charming about this film is the realness of the relationship between the sisters, with the younger Mei commonly copying her older sister Satsuki, getting upset and bratty and unreasonable in addition to being ridiculously cute at times, while Satsuki gets worried and dutiful. It makes some interesting observations about different family roles and I found myself surprised at how it made me re-examine my role in my family.I wouldn't say it's a remarkably deep film, but the little observations that it makes causes it to be a lot more than just simple children's entertainment. The characters are complex and multi-faceted and surprisingly real for animated images.The voice acting in English is decent, but still doesn't fully connect with the Japanese dressing. Hearing a "Yes!" in English just doesn't have the same sort of exuberance that the Japanese kid shouting "Hai!" has. But it's good enough that the dubbed soundtrack won't be distracting.All in all, I have to say this is a remarkably enjoyable film and wonderful for children and the older folks that watch with them. (As well as the child in you.) 8/10.


                
This culturally significant Kodomo anime has become one of the most endeared of all family films without ever having been much popularized or sponsored, which is a testament to its magic. This is one of the tenderly hand-crafted works of Hayao Miyazaki, perhaps the greatest of the Japanese animators, yet his collaborator at the Ghibli Studios, Isao Takahata, who fashioned Grave of the Fireflies, may be his rival. Miyazaki has not until quite lately used computers to animate his films. They are drawn a frame at a time, the time-honored way, with the master himself providing tens of thousands of the frames.Miyazaki's films are in particular viscerally entrancing, using a watercolor look for the backgrounds and working within the unique anime tradition of characters with big round eyes and mouths that can be as minute as a fleck or as enormous as a cave. They also have an spontaneous authenticity in the way they mind minutiae.The movie tells the story of two young sisters who share a wonderful bond. As it opens, their father is driving them to their new house, near a boundless forest. Their mother, who is ill, has been moved to a hospital in this community. Now think about that. The film is about two girls, not two boys or a boy and a girl, as all American cartoon films would be. It has a resolute and loving father, in contradiction to the recent Hollywood affinity for selfish or absent fathers. Their mother is sick: Does sickness happen in American family cartoons?A neighbor boy later tells them their new house is haunted. But not haunted in the American sense, with ghosts or forbidding creations. When the girls let light into the shadow, they get just a peek of little black fuzzy dots scampering to refuge. ''Probably just dust bunnies,'' says their father, but there is an old nanny who has been employed to look after them, and she suggests that they are ''soot sprites,'' which like empty houses, and will pack up and leave when they hear laughter. Perhaps I'm reading too much in, but during this scene, I feel like I caught a brief reference to Ingmar Bergman's Through a Glass Darkly, as one sister stares transfixed at a crack in the wall.Assent to how the father composedly receives their account of arcane critters. Are sprites and totoros for real? They surely do in the minds of the girls. So do other hilarious beasts, such as the Cat Bus, which bustles through the forest on eight fast paws, its big eyes working as headlights. Instead of letting the children be scared of hauntings and the soundness of their own minds, the elders teach them to like and enjoy it all. They go along with it rather than irrationally making them feel silly.While it's not necessarily clear whether or not the adults actually consider them, not once does Miyazaki trot out the relic children's literature adage of The Adults Who Think The Child Is A Liar, So Child Is Going To Have To Save The World Without Them. This welcoming approach to accustomed Japanese spirit-creatures imparts a telling distinction between our two cultures. In America, there must always be something to fear, always a scapegoat, always something or someone to antagonize. No matter how equally violent or aggressive the history is of Japan, they do not thrive on fear factors. It is a beacon of great hope and pleasure to me that family films are the rudimentary place where cultural difference is easiest to discern in the movies.My Neighbor Totoro is made of existence, location and expedition, not on rivalry and danger. This is made crystal in the engrossingly extensive sequences involving totoros, which actually are not Japanese myth, but were indeed created by Miyazaki specifically for this movie. In these sequences, Miyazaki gets no mileage out of any trite ideas about the dark and dreadful forest. It's only nature. Is the film sometimes corny and absurd? Yes, but it knows when to be quiet and real.One of the funniest scenes I think I've ever seen on film occurs when the girls go to meet their father's bus. But the hour grows late and the woods grow dark. Without a sound, matter-of-factly, the giant totoro joins them at the bus stop, standing to one side as if it's been there the whole time. It starts to rain. The girls have umbrellas, and give one to the totoro, who is fascinated by the raindrops on the umbrella, and jumps up and down to render free a downrush of drops from the trees. Watch how coolly and constructively the scene has been handled, with the night, the forest, the lateness of the father seen as a circumstance, not an omen. The movie needs no villains. I remember that Winnie the Pooh also had no evil characters at first, but that in its new American version evil weasels have been interposed into his benevolent setting.But it would never have won its worldwide audience simply owing to its fuzzy heart. It is also full of mortal humor in the manner in which it perceives the two exceptionally authentic, realistic little girls, and I refer to their characterizations, not their physicality. It is side- splitting in the scenes involving the totoro, and in the scenes with the ridiculous Cat Bus. It is a little tearful, a little hair-raising, a little out of the blue and a little enlightening, just like life itself. The film expresses a refreshing ideology with Miyazaki later deepens and defines in his more recent films. Look at the minimal amount of external things in these girls' lives, or their father's, or the nanny's. Their story exists as a situation rather than a plot, and suggests that the uncertainty of life and the makeshifts of invention afford all the enterprising escapades one needs.


                
Most animated movies, for children and adults, have a hero or heroes and at least one great villain. With 'My Neighbor Totoro' it is different. This movie shows us a wonderful world of animation without a villain. This does not mean the movie is boring or nothing is happening. A lot is happening. There is comedy, drama and suspense but this movie does not need a villain. The only villain there probably is, is the illness the mother of Satsuki (Noriko Hidaka) and Mei (Chika Sakamoto) suffers.I can be short about the story. A father moves with his two daughters to a new home, close to his wife who is sick. The children discover spirits in the forest, not visible for adults. An adventure with the children and the spirits is what follows, with Totoro as the leading spirit.'My Neighbor Totoro' with its friendly and original story is entertaining from start to finish. Hayao Miyazaki, the great Japanese animator, has created a wonderful world with his imagination and animation. Definitely recommended.


                
This is probably the simplest story I have ever seen in a movie, told in a way to be quite delightful. Lots of times where the silence or lack of music or dialogue lets the visuals speak for themselves. I usually prefer the soundtrack in the original language, but these voice actors were just perfect for the parts. The girls' boundless energy was infectious.This is not just a movie for young kids, although they will probably find it quite enjoyable. Adults can appreciate the youthful exuberance exhibited by the girls. There were lots of little touches that made it seem "real". I especially like the way they showed the odd way the boy was propelling the bicycle because he couldn't reach the pedals from the seat.


                
When 4 year old Mei moves to a house in the country, in order to be closer to hospitalised Mum, with Dad and older sister Satsuki, she discovers Totoro in the vicinity - creatures like obese rabbits of various sizes.This charming tale from Studio Ghibli is reminiscent of the British stories of Rupert Bear, where everday life rubs shoulders with high fantasy in a world where both are unremarkable. Couple this with an ability to see the world through a child's eyes, and an easy and undemanding narrative leads us through a series of events of extraordinary ordinariness. It looks lovely, and leaves you with a smile on your face.
To be honest, people sometimes not notice that anime can go deep in thoughts and be philosophical. I love how this movie shows the meeting of a strange creature have a friendly relationship with a human. I adore the creative aspects in it and how it tries to explain some things in life in a super natural imaginative way. We don't see Totoro speak but his presence just gives us more liking to him.
It's pretty fair and the story line is well made and the characters are lovable. It's mostly a calm movie to watch wit your family. and the animation is it is smooth and good vibes.
We all love My Neighbor Totoro, and there's many reasons why. It's an adorable children's film with a lot of heart and soul, it's the first film people conjure up when they think of Studio Ghibli, and it's one of the most recognizable Japanese animated films of all time. Out of all the films by Hayao Miyazaki, this one just might be his most popular, even more than his greatest accomplishments like that of Spirited Away and Princess Mononoke. I mean, Totoro is Ghibli's mascot after all. But what does make this film special and worth this much praise for over 30 years?When one gets down to it, this film doesn't really have much of a concrete narrative. The whole film centers around two girls named Satsuki and Mei who move with their father to the countryside to be close to their ill mother, and the rest of the feature is about them embracing the wonders of the forest around them, as well as befriending a giant bunny only they can see. Now from that concept alone, this film could have easily failed, as there's no full on narrative to gravitate towards and we mainly watch the children run around in their home, go to school and hang out with Totoro. However, in execution, it actually works as a visual showcase of childhood wonderment.Apparently, Miyazaki based this film off his own life growing up in post WWI Japan around the ever growing urban development near big cities. Similar to Satsuki and Mei's mother, Miyazaki's mother suffered from tuberculosis, so the depictions of the children's astonishment and activities around their country house feel very much like how any given child would act. In addition, the dynamic between Satsuki and Mei feels very genuine, as even during their biggest arguments, they're no less different than any sibling rivalry that we've all faced growing up. For a film entitled My Neighbor Totoro, the film really is about these two girls' mundane lives, and there's a lot to appreciate about just how peaceful yet alluring their fantasies play out in contrast to their daily lives.That being said, the closest element of the film that resembles a plot is during the third act when Mei runs away to the hospital after hearing that the mother has to stay a little longer. A real sense off drama comes through and yet despite it feeling very emotional, we all know things will be just fine with Totoro around. In fact, this act alone pretty much wrapped up the arch of the girls worrying about their mother, and one can tell Miyazaki really felt proud about this addition given his autobiographical influence that led to this conclusion.There are many different mythological beasts of Japanese folklore, and I think Miyazaki has created a new one for the ages. One of the best scenes in the whole film is centered around our two protagonists waiting for their dad at the bus stop while Totoro waits for a cat bus. Setting aside just how luxurious that cat bus is by both design and motion, there's a real sense of fantastical mystery that comes from seeing such a strange albeit friendly creature that children can gravitate to in becoming one with their surroundings. Overall, My Neighbor Totoro is a genuinely sweet, optimistic and downright admirable family film that reminds us how friendliness can triumph over grimness.
The way the movie shows those kids emotions and the level of details they considered for each scene makes this animation a masterpiece.


                
This film is not only for kids . Infact , I don't recommend it to anyone below 13 . Most of the cartoons movies have a simple single plot. This one has two major plots and some sub plots too. I think it's a little complex for a children film.There is a scene where a father and his two daughters bath together which not okay for such a film. Maybe it's a culture in Japan but it can be disturbing for foreign viewers. Furthermore, there is a subplot of a love story between two kids. I admit that cartoons(And Animes) are also for adults but still this is a little too much for animation film.This is case with other Miyazaki films .Coming to the story , it starts with tatsuo kusakabe buying an old house . He lives with his daughters satsuki and Mei while his wife is sick and is in a hospital. Satsuki and Mei discovers that the house is haunted . They soon meet forest spirits and befriends them . First 50 minutes are wonderfully entertaining . It's a highly imaginative film. The bizarreness of the storyline keeps us engaged for entire 50 minutes. But after that the story goes downhill . It becomes confusing . The repetitive incidents fails to entertain . It drags for another thirty minutes.It does not have much of a storyline . It's a combination of sub-plots with a high amount of imagination which is best suited for kids . Miyazaki has a wide understanding about children's mind . More than any of us. But as I said earlier , its little too much complex . The idea of mother's death is dark for a children film.


                
I can't describe how delighted am I after I've just finished watching this movie. This is the best movie that captured the childhood very accurately. The children characters behave so realistically that I couldn't believe my eyes while watching them play, cry, laugh, or doing anything. I didn't felt like I was watching a child in front of me, but I felt like I was watching my younger self. I felt like I was watching myself as a child. As if my childhood memories were being displayed before me. Even if I haven't done that thing the characters did, I feel that my younger self would do the exact thing. That doesn't mean anything but that Hayao Miyazaki is a real genius!But the greatest thing about My Neighbor Totoro isn't how realistic it feels, but it's the fabulous message it delivers, and the thing that is more fascinating is the way it delivers this message. I really shouldn't spoil anything about this gorgeous film, but it delivers a message about facing the fear; the fear of everything, and the fear in all its kinds and levels. Miyazaki merged this message with this story that almost has no plot! I shouldn't call it delivering the message, instead, I should call it merging or combining the message with the story, or rather I should say that Miyazaki created an entire story from a message!Hayao Miyazaki proved that it's not even necessary for a movie to have an antagonist, or at least not a common one, as I mentioned above, the story itself is about a message about facing the fear. And I didn't feel at any time throughout the movie that I need a common antagonist or a usual problem to be invested in the movie. I was engaged and hooked from the very beginning of the movie till the end credits scene, which is very cool, by the way. The thing is that at the third act the movie changed completely in terms of the plot; it turned from a plot-free movie to a movie that has a real plot and a very serious problem. The plot and its problem didn't come from nowhere; they are attached very well to the story from its beginning, and it's been appeared later that the plot is kinda share the same message of the story, but the problem is that the movie changed a great deal when it moved from its second to the third act. It was like the movie betrayed itself after promising that it well keep the audience on the edge of their seat without using any problem or obstacle. Yes I've been engaged again and invested in the story with its plot because I cared about every single character, but it took me a little time, and I really felt disturbed and annoyed with this inconsistency.Overall, I can say that My Neighbor Totoro is an imaginative tale that every parent should take his child and watch it with him or her. Because it's message is actually more important to the adults.I prefer My Neighbor Totoro to Spirited Away, but let's face it, Spirited Away is the best Miyazaki movie!(8.5/10)


                
Ghibli films from an outside view may seem like childish cartoon films meant for a young audience, but everything from the visuals and scores have the intention to please for every audience.
I really like how the movie managed to be so fascinating. It's timeless considering that what it shows doesn't really get confined into a certain time period. Children's imagination will still exist as there's still children, although provided that they are well brought up. It's a very nice movie to keep a copy of, just to show your kids how to have fun outdoors and let their imagination thrive, instead of playing with the electronic gadgets and get cooped up indoors like many kids do these days. The movie doesn't show any hostility, although it shows real kids' bickering. The characters are soothing to the mind of the audience, who may just got bored of having to face shady people in real life. I am lucky to get a copy with the Japanese original voice. The voice work really is an integral part of the mood building.


                
When a man moves with his two young daughters(who are credible, with their child-like energy and their enthusiasm, that does give in to fear and doubt at times) to be closer to his hospitalized wife, the girls both begin seeing nature spirits. As they try to deal with their mother's illness, they experience amazing things with the imaginative creatures, including King Totoro, a large, fuzzy teddy-bear that smiles a lot and the many-legged Catbus. I suppose the main argument against this is the lack of real conflict(and without that, you don't really have a story), and the fact that the 10-year-old Satsuki(gesundheit) and the 4-year-old Mei can be rather obnoxious. Some will say that this doesn't need it; it's about the enchanting world(and it certainly is that). In addition to the magic, this does paint a convincing picture of the situation. This builds an atmosphere so effortlessly you barely believe it. The animation is smooth and "feels" real, including the setting of rural Japan, decades ago. There is a nice level of expression to the faces, especially the eyes. A cynic of many years, I will admit that this *did* win me over, yes, it is cute, the youngest of the 2 siblings is adorable(at times). There is some realistic kid dialog in this. The acting is great. If this does not tug at your heartstrings at least a bit, it may be time for a checkup. This is a truly well-done, sweet film that you can show children and they may love it, and it *isn't* pure garbage made with the sole intent being profit. There is nothing offensive in this. The DVD comes with a trailer for this, one for Kiki's Delivery Service and one for Howl's Moving Castle. I recommend this to any fan of fantasy. 8/10


                
In my mind, there are only two films that truly capture the essence of a child's imagination. One is Danny Boyle's vividly beautiful Millions, and the other is Hayao Miyazaki's sweet, tender, and utterly gorgeous My Neighbor Totoro.The story is of two young girls who move to the Japanese countryside with their father while their mother is being treated in the hospital. After settling in, these two children discover that where they live is anything but ordinary. They find a hidden path into the forest, and soon meet Totoro, a giant, furry, and lovable creature.The film is told strictly from the point of view of these two children. What adults may see as harmless and silly, the children see as amazing and very much real. When the children go on about how they can see "Soot Gremlins" and "Totoro", the adults simply say that they saw them when they were children as well.This formula is certainly one we've seen before, but thanks to the genius of Hayao Miyazaki, My Neighbor Totoro takes on a feeling of unbridled imagination never before seen on celluloid. The world he creates is an intimate yet expansive one. The fact that this is one of Miyazaki's most beautifully animated features certainly doesn't hurt this. Everything is gloriously vivid, colorful, and bursting with life.The manner in which Miyazaki presents the narrative is nothing short of brilliant. The whole time watching the film, we as an audience realize that the girls' mother is suffering from some kind of serious affliction, but this is never really addressed directly. The children don't think about it that way, so the film doesn't approach it that way. This subplot never really develops at all until a sequence near the very end of the film, and this is a very powerful sequence. In order to avoid spoilers, I won't reveal the details, but it certainly struck me with its bittersweet honesty. However, this is still a tender family film through and through, and the ending is one that is sure to bring a smile to your face. And unlike most family films, My Neighbor Totoro is sweet, but never reaches the point of being saccharine. It's an honest, beautiful masterpiece, and I give it my highest recommendation to anyone who can still manage to keep in touch with their inner child from time to time.


                
A great and creative story. It is about two girls named Satsuki and Mei. Them and their dad move to the countryside. Their mother is in the hospital because of illness. They meet Granny, who helps them to move in the house and is a farmer. The reason that they moved there was because of a gigantic camfer tree.( which looks like about the size of the Empire State Bulding.) When they move in, they find dust bunnies, little creatures made of dust.(of course.) One day Mei Finds a little white thing that can turn invisible. Later, she sees a medium sized blue one with a sack of acorns. Then she goes into the forest and finds the large gray one. The totoros take the two on adventures, and help them deal with their mother in the hospital. A great film and is highly entertaining. In the beginning, the dialog is very annoying.
This is definitely one of those astonishingly high-spirited movies that you can simply sit back and enjoy, mainly due to the heart-warming tale and beautiful animations. Hayao Miyazaki did an amazing job, delivering one of the prettiest pictures that any kid or grown-up can love right from the start. One might even say that it is better than classic Disney pictures.It doesn't provide a strong and elaborate storyline, like Princess Mononoke or Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, and doesn't imply any moral guidance or specific messages. And that's a very good sign, noting that the movie is supposed to bring out all the positive emotions in the viewer through its magical aura and all those enormously joyful characters and creatures appearing on-screen.Looking at the two young girls, Mei and Satsuki, jumping freely and laughing about no particular things made me want to be a child again. Miyazaki is able to move our minds and make us see that childhood is the most fantastic time of our lives, and being able to use the full potential of one's imagination should be glorified.Even though it has an element of sadness, with the girls' mom staying in the hospital, it is so neatly placed in the storyline that it doesn't spoil the tremendous fun of watching My Neighbor Totoro. It's simply an idyllic tale, accompanied by a taste of magic and fantasy. Tell me, who won't be able to adore those fluffy Totoros and their marvelous abilities? Every time they appeared I wanted them to stay a little longer and mesmerize me with their sparkling glow of glee.The English dubbing is very decent, the voices were chosen appropriately so that they would seem like they were taken straight out of the Japanese version.All in all, I must say that My Neighbor Totoro really tickled my dreams of being a child all over again with its hypnotizing beauty. It was able to show me yet again that the fantastic world of Japanese anime genre has so many wonderful pictures to offer. And if you really want to start your adventure with Miyazaki, I bet that watching this picture will be the best possible way to do so.


                
How in the world could Disney have the presumption to change the voice actors for the release of the DVD? "Totoro" was created in 1988 and Disney's original version came out in 1994. Clearly, the love of "Totoro" and its fame since its premiere was not due to some top name voice actor. Most people didn't even recognize that it was Tim Daly's voice as the Dad."Totoro" was the one of the very few Japanese anime that I enjoy (and most others enjoy) the dubbed version as well as the Japanese version. Did any of the public complain that there was not a high-billed voice actor in its cast? Clearly, no.Then, why in the world would Disney decided to change the actors and cast DAKOTA FANNING and her sister, ELLE FANNING, as Mei and Setsume?????AND, what about the original voice actors? Don't they have a say in this matter? Is anyone fighting on their behalf?If I had known Disney did this, I would have never bought the DVD and now that's already open, there's no way I can take it back. Thank God, I never threw away my original VHS version.


                
It has been said that My Neighbor Totoro is actually based on a famous murder case called "The Sayama Incident." This case occurred on May 1, 1963 in Sayama City, Saitama Prefecture, Japan, when a man kidnapped, raped, and killed a 16-year-old high school girl.This conspiracy theory has been around for a long time, actually. It got really heated on the internet, and then finally Ghibli had to make an official statement. In 2007, they did just that, denying that the urban legend was true.Read about the similarities with the incident and then re-watch the movie, you'll see it in a very different perspective.
Professor Tatsuo Kusakabe moves his daughters Satsuki and Mei to an old house in the country near the hospital where his wife Yasuko is convalescencing. The girls find tiny soot sprites scurrying away from the light. Mei discovers forest spirit Totoro sleeping in a giant tree. The girls are waiting for their father at the bus stop. He's late. Mei is falling asleep when Totoro shows up. Satsuki gives him an umbrella and he's overjoyed. He gives the girls a gift of acorns as he boards the cat-bus.It's a gentle story with cute characters and an adorable spirit from legendary animator Hayao Miyazaki. The drama isn't that heightened but it's a great coming-of-age story nonetheless. Totoro discovering the fun of raindrops on the umbrella is pure joy. There is simply an endearing gentleness that extend even to the closing credits animation.


                
Satsuki and Mei move to countryside with their father. This area has a wood, Totoro, a ghost or monster, stay there. Mei finds Totoro and they exchanges. Satsuki also find Totoro. Satsuki and Mei are helped by Totoro several times. This story is that the sisters' contacts with Totoro.What impressed me in this movie was that this movie doesn't many dialogue. On other hand, sound effects are various and cute, I think. Sounds of running Satsuki and jumping Totoro are cute and funny. These are effective in bringing out an attraction of the animated cartoon. Moreover, Mei's voice and portrayal are very cute and just a little child so darling.This movie released in 1988. After about 30 years, we can get friendly with Totoro and Totoro is famous and popular even now. I think the reason why this is so popular is simple development of story and charming characters. This movie made me happy and cheerful.


                
My Neighbour Totoro is another wonderful effort by Studio Ghibli. It is a brilliant examination of childhood exploration and leaves you longing for simpler days. The animations were great and Totoro and the Catbus were great creations. They were absolutely adorable. I would love a life-size Totoro cushion or Totoro onesie. The music in my Neighbour Totoro was also great. I was just a little sad that this film was as short as it was. Totoro is such a great character that it would have been nice to learn more about him. But then again, perhaps not knowing anything about him is what makes him such a great character. Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/CImmIA


                
My neighbor Totoro is an incredible film. Its about two sisters, who have this awesome dad and a sick but loving mother and how these two sometimes float into this mythical world where various nature spirits exit. One of the things i noticed was that the creators have given crucial amount of time to make the movie detailed. Like when one of the sisters trip and fell, they have dirt on their knees when they rise, like how strikingly similar features these sisters have like their parents. Watching this film, i had a smile on my face all the time. It has a calming effect which make you look away from all the tension in the world and just enjoy the adventures those girls are facing.I think it is an amazing and a must watch movie for kids.


                
I've seen 4 Studio Ghibli films now (This, Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke and The Wind Rises) and they are miles ahead of DreamWorks and nearly every other animated studio. Their films are just as visually stunning as the CGI ones and uniquely magical. My Neighbour Totoro is another enchanting film about 2 girls making friends with the forest spirits and having various adventures. MNT is widely regarded as one of the best animated movies ever and it should be. It's not as good as the other Ghibli films I've seen. It's very short and there's not that much of a plot. Therefore, it feels slighter and briefer than the others. There is a slight lack of structure. Those shortcomings demote it from a five star movie to a four star one, but there's plenty to love about this movie. The visuals are great and there is a real sense of wonder and amazement. It's colourful, dazzling and the anime looks just as realistic as Pixar's animation does. Hayao Miyazaki is pretty much the current ruler of animation, and only Walt Disney can rival him in the animated world.MNT is a very soulful and sweet movie that feels genuinely magical and enchanting. Various scenes such as the bus stop and the cat bus are awe inspiring and wondrous, and the script has plenty of sentiment but feels genuine and charming. This is a film where only the most cynical and hardened film viewers will dislike it, as the film has likability and charm in spades. This children's film lacks what many children's films are sorely lacking: A sense of innocence and elegance. It may not be the best movie by Studio Ghibli but it has some of the most memorable moments from their filmography and some of their best images. The forest spirits are beautifully designed and there's good reason why a Totoro toy appears in Toy Story 3. This is a more relaxed picture from Miyazaki and while his other movies have their frightening bits this is pretty much devoid of them. A delightful animated movie with plenty of sparkle and dazzle. Younger audiences will be enthralled, but it'll speak to adults as well.8/10


                
Honestly, I am a little constrained to review this film as it is the trademark film of Studio Ghibli. This film is constantly regarded as one of the best animated film in the world and the company even have Totoro as its company logo. There is so much love for this film and it certainly has large following.However, I will review equally as usual and I hope I won't be misunderstood in any way - I love this film.My Neighbor Totoro (1988) is a lovely film. It is imaginative yet so realistic in a way so original that its naivety and novelty still captivates its audiences to date although decades has passed. It preaches us to believe and respect the nature and spiritual world. It is charming.Aside from being light-hearted most of the time, this film is also comical. I certainly smiled at several points of the film while they adapt country side life because the characters are adorable and I absolutely loved the yokais created by the director especially Totoro and Susuwatari. You have no idea how much I loved supernatural and mythical creatures, fictional or not <U+2665>On the other hand, if I am to choose the best 1980s animated feature film from Studio Ghibli, I would certainly go for the lesser known film Grave of the Fireflies (1988) though. This is because of its powerful impact and I also liked Setsuko more than Mei. Spare me, Totoro's fans. *<U+571F><U+4E0B><U+5EA7>*Nonetheless, if you have not watch this film, you should and you will also be able to find out why My Neighbor Totoro (1988) has charmed thousands of fans worldwide!
