Picture if you will, a 27 year old male, scanning through his dvd collection, trying to figure out what to watch, on a boring night at home. Suddenly, he stops at My Neighbor Totoro and smiles.  Well, that's a pretty typical happenning around the house here.Miyazaki created a true masterpiece with this film.  It has everything a person, of any age, could want.  There are points that it is hilarious, a few points where it makes one slightly nervous, the animation is outstanding (as with all Miyazaki films), and aside from lacking a little bit in plot (what movie doesn't nowadays?), the story is wonderful.One of the things that makes this film shine, at least for me, is that there is absolutely no antagonist role.  No bad guy whatsoever, and only a genius like Miyazaki could pull that off.Is this a childrens movie?  Yes, of course it is.  Is it a movie only for children?  Well...  maybe for the inner child inside all of us.  There's humour in this movie that the young will laugh at, and there's a bit of humour in the movie that only adults will fully catch and appreciate, without it being "adult humour".I would reccommend, and have reccommended this film to anyone that would listen.Thank you again Miyazaki Sensei.


                
Miyazaki's My Neighbor Totoro is a film that should be able to put a smile on any viewers face, and without a doubt, it'll take you on one of the most whimsical and fantastic journey's ever.My Neighbor Totoro is a story that definitely something children can relate with, as i watched this with someone, they immediately paused the film and asked if this reminded me of being 4 years old again. This film really connects with people. But it's far from a quality nostalgia piece, it's well animated, beautiful, avoids cliché stereotypes (from both typical of the Anime genre and Children's Fantasy films), and is beautifully filmed (see scenes such as the girls waiting for the bus with Totoro and the scene where the magic nuts and seeds grow with the help of Totoro).Even the English dub done by Fox isn't as bad everyone states. I've seen the Japanese version, and i'd have to say it's a mixed-bag between having Mei's voice sounds a bit too bratty for the English version, or having the Father's voice sound a bit awkward and perhaps not as caring in the Japanese version. Disney is said to be releasing a re-dub in mid-to-late 2005, so perhaps that will even out the controversy.This film may not reach the heights of other Anime classics (mainly it's double bill with Grave of the Fireflies, or Miyazaki's other masterpieces Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away), however this will definitely be high on any film lovers list, and is definitely a high water mark of it's genre.A solid 9/10, This film is next to impossible to watch without it pushing a smile out of your face.


                
This movie, set in Japan in the early fifties, is director Miyazaki's tribute to his mother (who suffered from tuberculosis, just like Satsuki and Mei's mother), his childhood home, and childhood innocence.  Although some people who watch this movie wonder where the Americans are (this is post-WWII Japan, after all) and why so little screen time is spent on the girls' mother, but that may be partly due to the dubbing.Americans: First of all, the house the girls move into is rather European in design (with doorknobs, and an attic, and a front porch) despite the Japanese style bath and occasional sliding door.  Secondly, Mei and Satsuki are really into Western fairy tales (the are brief glimpses of Japanese translations of The Three Billy Goats Gruff and other stories, along with Mei inadvertently re-enacting scenes from Alice in Wonderland and Chronicles of Narnia).  On top of that, according to Helen McCarthy and other Miyazaki experts, the name "Totoro" is little Mei's mispronunciation of the Japanese transliteration of the English word "troll" ("tororo," which the Japanese would pronounce like "tololo" because they do not distinguish between r's and l's).  This is why an accurate dubbed version is nearly impossible (like any little girl, Mei mispronounces a lot of words).The Mother: I think this movie is entirely about the mother.  Throughout, you see them subtly (almost too subtly at times) change from completely carefree to terrified with each scene involving the mother.  This parallels Satsuki's coming of age subplot (she's ten and like anyone that age she is self-conscious about believing in Santa, or in this case Totoro).  There's a little bit of both in the culturally-shocking--though completely innocent--bath scene (both girls take a bath with their father during a wind storm).Really, though, My Neighbor Totoro is less about story than it is about the imagination of children.Although the animation is a little dated and a bit jerky at times, the direction is absolutely top notch.  There is enough visual creativity to rival an average Hitchcock film (Miyazaki's a huge fan of Hitch: check out the long wait at the bus stop, which is reminiscent of North by Northwest). Highlights include a Mary Poppins-esque ride on an Oriental top, a beautifully animated storm, Mei's nap on the slowly rising and falling chest of the giant totoro, and a cat-bus complete with headlight eyes.


                
After seeing both Chihiro (2001) and Howl's Moving Castle (2004), I instantly became a Miyazaki fan. I am especially fascinated by the mix of western and non-western mythological worlds, in which the different characters are developed. As a fan, it is IMO a must to see all of his films.My Neighbor Totoro (1988) is one of his most beautiful and charming works, and I recommend this particular piece to first-time Miyazaki-viewers as an introduction to one of the greatest storytellers in the history of cinema.While this story is simple and not as wildly imaginative as some of Miyazaki's recent works, the storyline has a slightly more emotional touch.The story is about two sisters who are moving to the country side with their father <U+0096> the mother being permanently in the hospital. The story takes off, when the youngest girl unintentionally falls down into a deep ravine and finds the protector of the forest - Totoro. Together with this wonderfully, flighty and friendly forest creature, the children experience one of the most fantastical journeys, physical as well mental.If you have watched Miyazaki's latest productions you will know that his universe - social deliberated, humorous and ecological - appeals to children and adults alike. This is also most certainly the case with My Neighbor Totoro.I give this movie 9/10, as it is one of the best family films ever made.


                
I took my six-year-old son to see "My Neighbour Totoro" at a film festival recently and about halfway through he loudly announced to the full house that "This is a GREAT movie". A somewhat embarrassing moment for me, but I think few of the 500-odd crowd would have disagreed.It must surely rate somewhere at the apex of the cartoonist's art. The scenes are magnificently detailed, and the action portrays real humans of the kind we all know and love, seamlessly moving into the fantastic realms that we would all _like_ to know and love.Aside from the beautiful artwork, the music supports the action all the way through, and there are several good stories woven into the movie as well.The copy I saw was subtitled in excellent English and some of the younger audience may have trouble with that, although they would probably still find the movie very enjoyable.


                
This is a difficult film to pigeonhole. It is apparently simple, made up of the tiny, everyday events in a child's life, but unlike many films for and about children, it doesn't ignore the huge shadows those events cast in the imagination. Some critics have said that not much happens in My Neighbor Totoro, but discovering a new world, learning the cycle of nature, and facing up to the fear of death is more than enough action to sustain a film, especially in director Hayao Miyazaki's hands. The film is, of course, breathtakingly beautiful. The action may be small-scale but the vistas are incredible. Joe Hisaishi creates what may well be his greatest ever score, another miracle of seeming simplicity. In terms of story, design, animation, and music, this film achieves its aims so perfectly that it's almost absurd to give it a rating. Miyazaki set the film in the remembered landscape of his own childhood. Never sentimental, never dishonest, never preaching, and never failing to acknowledge the realities of life, he has made a film with more magic in it than any number of wizards and superheroes could create. The film became so popular that Studio Ghibli adopted Totoro as the company mascot.
I like this movie very much. Particularly I love the unique atmosphere in this movie's world. I think all of Miyazaki's films are unique. But this movie is most heart-warming one of his works. I would like to tell you why. First of all the story is almost realistic. In other words, it is about our ordinary life. We can see Japan's typical countryside and an ordinary life whenever we see the film, we feel peaceful. For even those who live in a big city, the movie might have relaxation effects? Second its music and pictures are very enchanting. Maybe almost all the Japanese know "Sanpo" -Totoro's theme song- the song is very very famous. It always makes us happy.The pictures are also popular. All characters have tender facial expression. I love their smiles. Everyone like them, don't they? Third, There are many silent without conversation. In such a scene, I can hear the song of birds, sounds of wind. I feel comfortable and calm .It is really Miyazaki's world. This movie will give you gentle, comfortable and calm mind. I can recommend this movie to everyone. Particularly I want to recommend this movie to those who are busy everyday. Maybe this movie makes such people smile.


                
My Neighbor Totoro is definitely one of the best films of its time. Miyisaki always to me brings original story telling and magic no western animation studio can match. I can see my critics enjoy it and how Totoro became the mascot of studio ghibli.I've also come to the fact that Miyisaki's masterpieces always has a heroine who learns a lesson that allows her to grow as a person.Practically all the Miyisaki films I have seen have left me cheering and " My Neighbor Totoro is no different.the it is shorter then most of them, it dozen't lose any of its magic and shorter is sometimes better for younger audiences. Definitely a must see.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."My Neighbor Totoro" (1988) is a one honest, not cynical and masterful movie. The story here is simple, yet superbly told. Never for a second was i bored nor involved into this movie. Script was very good as well direction by a master of genre Hayao Miyazaki. Overall, "My Neighbor Totoro" is just a joy to watch from the first minute. It has good story and great storytelling, you can't ask for more.


                
I watched Totoro in my English class. This is my favorite movie. First,storyline is great.This movie is fantastic and heart-warming. We&#12288;can learn the importance of family love through this movie. Second,all the characters are attractive.In particulars,TOTORO is so cute!When Iwas a child I really wanted to meet them.And it also has wonderful pictures and music.I like the scene they fly in the blue sky together.I can recommend this movie to everyone of all ages.I rate this movie at 9/10. I love it! You can surely enjoy this movie. This is the anime of Miyazaki's all works.


                
Fantastic, good for all tastes. I do not understand how this film can be for over 4 years, the film is a dramatic film that I doubt a child understands correctly, the story is fantastic, the animation very beautiful and the characters interesting. Highly recommend.


                
You know when you're a kid and you just want to be independent? You want to become an adult once and for all? And later on when you're there realize that being a kid was the best moment of your life? This movie, plus its great OST achieves making me nostalgic, making me feel like a little kid again. Yes, you have these high budget animated movies like The Lion King, but they're movies for kids, not a movie to make you feel that nostalgia. My Neighbor Totoro's main theme captures this perfectly. If you could only go back to those beautiful times, when nothing mattered, wen you could play all day and run around the house...
*sigh*
I love this movie!


                
"My Neighbor Totoro" movie of 1988, directed by "Hayao Miyazaki" and produced by "Studio Ghibli"; as well as a symbol of the aforementioned animation studio. Well, I have to say that this movie is really special; looks like a "little story", nothing too much architected (also seen the short duration), but soon reveals a set of great emotions. It is an "innocent" and "carefree" movie, suitable for everyone, colorful and very funny, but with interludes full of emotions. Finally ... what to say, if not to: go there to see if you were lost. Greetings and see you next review.


                
What a great movie that will appeal to people of all ages.


                
Hayao Miyazaki never ceases to amaze me, all his work is beyond beautiful and My Neighbor Totoro is no exeption. It's one of those movies that you keep pushing others to watch. It's timeless.


                
The Music Box Theater not too far away from my house was playing this movie as part of a week long celebration of Studio Ghibli. Being the opportunistic animation watcher that I am, I decided to make today a suitable view for this film, which was on my watchlist. So, what be my thoughts?The animation, as with anything spawned from Studio Ghibli, can only be described with rather bombastically high quality language. While the humans look familiar in style to other Ghibli films (not that it's a fault), Totoro and the other spirits have a design that I really enjoy. It's no wonder that Totoro ended up becoming the Studio Ghibli mascot. The environments are lush, which is a pretty major compliment to pay an animated film from 1988 given how Oliver and Company had really only one OK setting. The story is captivating, although there are some points in the script that I will say weren't done too well in the 2005 dubbing (Mei's cries don't sound like actual 4-year-old cries). The humor, however, blasts full force from both the script and animation, including the infamous Totoro jump scene. I was laughing a lot of the time and a smile remained on my face when the movie ended. As we go for music, it's surprisingly memorable for a movie that isn't a musical; I swear that I could get the main background theme stuck in my head if I watch this one more time. And for characters, I appreciated how Satsuki kept by Mei's side even when their relationship roughened based on their mother, which was a very great message. Most people would probably find Totoro cute (since his merchandise is EVERYWHERE), but I find him more hilarious and fascinating than actually adorable. I don't have much to say for the side characters except that they, like in previous Studio Ghibli movies, succeed in what the script has provided for them.Like almost every film Studio Ghibli has produced, this is a film that I can recommend to any family, otaku, or just the common audience. Just keep the volume down when you watch it, though; some parts of the film nearly slit my eardrums. Children may find Totoro somewhat scary at times, let alone too loud. Regardless, this is a premier family film, and no family deserves to miss it.
Miyazaki's movies demand more viewings, not because they're too complex, but because their narratives and visuals are so rich you can easily miss a detail. 
Still, "Totoro" looked startlingly simple and straight-forward, there wasn't much intrigue, or even character-development, it's not even a coming-of-age story, despite being a childhood adventure and while there's no villain, there's no conflict whatsoever to enhance the dramatic outlook.But it's precisely for these reasons that I watched it again, and this time, I had the proper key to open my heart and let the magic operate: my daughter who's the same age as Mei, four years (actually she just celebrated it today). We saw the cartoon together and I didn't miss any detail, I couldn't since each scene she asked me question, about the soot sprites, the haunted house, why are they laughing in the bath, why are their little dark things leaving the house? And I had to pay attention to all these tiny details because she wouldn't miss one, just like Mei... and then I realized that Miyazaki understood children.I said this is a children movie; less because it deals with children but because it's oriented toward children. And maybe it's because Mei is the smallest one that she could spot these rabbit-like ears in the grass and then discover a white little creature with the same role than the white rabbit in "Alice in Wonderland". But Miyazaki doesn't use that scene for a narrative purpose, if he cared for narrative, the titular Totoro would have appeared fifteen minutes earlier. Miyazaki sets the mood, he lets us contemplate the place, the house and the beautiful nature with that watercolor quality so typical of the anime style.As usual there are many long moments where nothing happens, or nothing special, which is the antithesis of screen writing but the essence of life, sometimes, things take time to happen. And we have almost thirty seconds where Mei is trying to catch the little rabbit and we see nothing else, except for a butterfly entering from the other side of a cabin and getting out from the hole Mei is staring at. I hadn't noticed that butterfly before and it didn't change much to my comprehension of the film but its adorable randomness made me smile. Never underestimate the appeal of 'insignificant' details.Finally, Mei spots the rabbit and he's following a bigger one, the two run away leaving nuts and seeds on the ground and after a chase across the forest, she finally lands near the hollow of a camphor tree where Totoro is sleeping. What a delightfully anticlimactic entrance! Myazaki's most iconic creation just lying there and being slightly disturbed by a small girl. We're not even sure his name is Totoro, it seems to be the way she interpreted his repeated roars... or yawns. Mei baptizes him Totoro and seems to be the only privileged kid to see her, for a while.But here again, Miyazaki avoids all the clichés of the genre, Mei's father believes her and explains that the creature is probably the master of the forest or some protective spirit. And her sister Satsuki while the voice of wisdom at the age of 10 and the substitute mother... envies her kid sister. Miyazaki understands children so much that he grasps the different layers of childhood representing them like the small and average rabbit, he knows a kid of four will be playful and incapable of reasoning or being reasoned while an older one will still be innocent but aware of the tough implications of the world.But once Totoro is there, Satsuki and Mei are both incarnations of the spirit of childhood, they literally jump at his tummy and fly together, this is a magnificent scene but we've seen flying already in Miyazaki, how about perhaps the most iconic moment where the two sisters and Totoro wait for a bus, and Satsuki gives him an umbrella. We talked about moments where nothing happens, whatever this scene is supposed to mean is secondary beyond the fact it inspires a wild smile and a certain warmth... and that it introduces the second iconic creation of Myazaki, the Chesire-like cat-bus. 
Only a mind that understands children can be that creative... and Miyazaki knows childhood with the same intelligence as he respects ours, he knows the kids won't jump in the cat-bus, they're waiting for their father. For all the magic and fantasy the film carries, it's only because it's rooted in the reality of the world, incarnated by the beautiful landscapes or the sickness of the mother or relationships between parents and children or inter-generational, that we're transported by Totoro. He only pops up when reality is sometimes too tough to handle, even for children.And I can't imagine any children not being responsive to the film, Walt Disney said that every film should have morale, for every laugh there should be a tear, that one scare or two can be stimulating but while "My Neighbor Totoro" has some dramatic tension, this is a film consistently gentle and sweet about its own material as if a world where Totoro didn't need villains or antagonists to make its point. As ifTotoro was the master of the film, spiritually. 
Miyazaki took that gentle approach we'll also find in movies like "Kiki" or "Ponyo", with a basic story and not too fancy animation but a huge emotional outlook just like "Dumbo" was the most popular Disney film while not as sophisticated as "Fantasia" or ambitious as "Bambi". But "Totoro" is more than a Japanese Dumbo, it's an icon so popular even the opening song (a catchy march tune) became a children rhyme. No wonder it became the Studio mascot. And since the name refers to an airplane engine. You have the essence of Miyazaki's creation in that blue cardboard opening in each of his films.


                
As a 17 year-old boy, I watched this movie for the first time in my life today and I am pretty sure it won't be the last time.Miyazaki's love of nature is fantastic. I loved the famous rain scene, and the tree growing scene which is -I think- the best scene of the movie. Also Totoro, symbolozing nature was lovely. I saw my family and my mum's village in this. The love between family members were so great. I watched like: "Yeah, that's my dad. Yeah this is how I love my mum." Also the neighborliness makes you smile. People care about each other. When Mei gets lost, everybody stops working and starts looking for her.Sastuki and Mei are well-created characters. Especially Mei, she loves her sister so much and she always tries to imitate her. Because she is too little, she is not capabele of of understanding some things. For example, she insists that her mother must come home. She is "innocent" and that's why she is the most lovely character. Her caring sister Sastuki is a mature child, because she looks after and tries to protect her sister during her mother's long absence. I loved Satsuki more than any other character(maybe that's because I don't have elder brother or sister, but I have a sister-that's why my emphaty for Satsuki were stronger than other characters-.I am sure Kanta loves Satsuki but he is embarrassed to talk to her. I can't express his feelings in English that's the end.Not as good as Spirited Away, but still one of the greatest animations of all time. A well-deserved 9/10.
This is a great animated movie, takes you to a whole new level of energy, adventures and magical experience. The Ghibli studios have done a great job. The plot and characters in this animation are well tailored that gives you immense pleasure and great emotional experience watching it.


                
My Neighbor Totoro was the first anime that I saw. It was also the first time I saw writing other than English. I found it so captivating that it fixed my impression on Japanese animation for many years.Two girls and their father move to the country side in rural Japan, while the mother is in the hospital for tuberculosis (Drafts for the film place the setting in 1958).The girls encounter what their father identifies as spirits, which only children can see. The girls call them Totoros. As far is plot and story, there isn't a lot that goes on. Most of the scenes involve the girls interacting with the spirits. On paper that may not sound like an interesting film, but like Disney, Miyazaki really knows how to make sequences like this very engaging and captivating.There isn't any significant plot until towards the end, where the girls are told, through a poorly worded telegram, that their mother is sick. The youngest one attempts to walk to the hospital herself to see her (a two hour walk through dense farmland) and loses her way. Ultimately, Totoro and the other spirits save the day in a thrilling and captivating climactic sequence.My Neighbor Totoro was released on the same bill as another Ghibli film "Grave of the Fireflys". No two films can be more opposite. Since the latter was about two orphaned children at the end of WWII, thus making it a depressing film, it was decided to produce a more lighthearted film to release alongside it. But ultimately, Totoro became the mascot of Studio Ghibli and has gained iconic status in popular Japanese culture and later American culture.Totoro is a film that ranks alongside the greatest Disney films. It's a film that can be enjoyed by the entire family.
I laughed and I cried as Totoru the wood sprite helped the two Children whose Mother was being treated at hospital. It is a wonderful film, full of hidden meaning at so many levels. I recommend it to anyone. It is an obvious classic from Studio Ghibli with meaning behind hidden reason within the whole story. As you watch remember to laugh and cry with the two young girls who move home to be closer to the hospital where their Mother is having treatment. All is good - in the end! Superb is probably the best word to describe this film.


                
I remember looking up on Amazon.com and seeing that this film was seemingly the most reviewed anime thing on the entire website! It was that alone that made me want to watch this. Yeah, I'm like that. I admit that I was confused as to how a lot of the movie didn't really focus on the title character. He didn't even appear until 32 minutes into the movie! Now, this is still a great movie. You simply can't go wrong with this animation from the creator of "Castle In The Sky" which I looked at recently. I am so impressed at how this artwork holds up after all these decades. Honestly, it seems on par with his newest stuff like "Ponyo"! I had no idea that they were actually going to get into some pretty deep issues here. This movie features two daughters whose mother is away sick. In this sense, it actually improves on better movies like "Spirited Away" because we actually get to see the supernatural stuff weaved into their everyday lives. It also helps that they have this awesome catbus. Yeah, literally a giant cat that's also a bus. It makes little sense, but dang do I love looking at that guy. I'm surprised at how short it was, seeing as how Miyazaki was known for making longer films. ***1/2


                
MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO's story is about as simple and wholesome as it gets: two little girls, having just relocated to the countryside, wander off and find strange creatures in the neighboring forest. But this thing is just brimming with heart. I was going to say the little sister (Mei) in her raincoat is the cutest thing ever, but that goes for all of her scenes. And Totoro, the eponymous no-neck cat/rabbit thing, while having no dialog, burst with likable personality. The animation here is nothing short of gorgeous. Even if you don't dig the character designs of Japanese animation, those painterly landscapes, clouds and lush greenery are eye-popping.It says a lot that MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO held my 5 year-old's rapt attention from start to finish. And this isn't short-attention-span fare. One of my favorite scene was the rainy bus stop. Very little happens here, but it's a terrific bonding moment between the main characters. You'll instantly see why Totoro with a leaf on his head is the film's iconic image.The movie's just an all-around winner, not much else to say. Precocious and full of wonder, it's like a shot of warmth to the ol' ticker.9/10
Childhood is a blossoming period of learning and developing one's own idiosyncrasies. It has always been a sedate stage in which little youngsters define themselves through their senseless antics—ones that appear innocent but are of an elusive nature, and are merely an inadvertent expression of the capricious phase that is childhood. However, since kids are so full of youthful tendencies, very few directors have managed to portray the rascals in a sincere and realistic manner. But among those select few is an irreplaceable Ghibli film which has become a sensation both within its native community and the western world—and that film is Hayao Miyazaki's My Neighbor Totoro.My Neighbor Totoro is, simply put, a child's imagination brought to life; fanciful tales that become reality, replete with picturesque wonders that reveal the magical and mysterious. Hidden from adult eyes, the otherworldly rewards only those of pure heart. Spirits and mystic guardians of the forest, they embody the creativity and candidness of children—content to experience the simple joys of life and the beauty of nature. With down-to-earth characterization, Satsuki and Mei are splendid lenses into the film's world, their optimism and enthusiasm ensuring every little discovery resonates with the audience—a magical tale that is an adventure for kids, and an opportunity to revisit childhood for adults; a genuine moment of reflection.Although the setting lacks depth, My Neighbor Totoro alleviates this by deftly weaving together fantasy and realism. Very little is explained and detailed, but its integration of the imaginary is both natural and unobtrusive. A big house nestled amidst greenery, uninhabited for decades, a likely home to the mysterious. Satsuki and Mei, true to their age, are explorers of the unknown—their interactions with the rich environment are not only a delight to observe, but also a reflection of the curiosity inherent within every child.Unveiled with mystique, uncanny soot creatures emerge from the house's floor and scamper into the shadows as the heroines enthusiastically tour the dark rooms of their new abode. Even if slightly scared at first, Satsuki and Mei's fear quickly gives way to curiosity, then excitement, and finally delight. The two adventurous sisters stumble upon a new world, and like any child would, wholeheartedly embrace its magic. This very sense of wonder is what leads them to the mythical spirit Totoro, protector and guardian of the forest. Intimidating in size, but gentle in nature, the fuzzy giant embraces the two of them with otherworldly tenderness. In an ever-so-subtle way, he becomes a link between the characters and the forest itself, introducing them to many of its magic wonders.In essence, My Neighbor Totoro is more about inspiring one's imagination—an honest message about the importance of childhood and a connection with nature—than creating a fantasy backdrop. Complexity is absent, but the presentation is delivered with finesse and flair. Much of this is due to the laid-back pace and the amiable guidance of the protagonists, slowly hinting at the mysteries that may be hidden in the nooks and crannies of dark rooms and lush forests. All the viewer needs to do is to sit down, relax, and enjoy the magic unfold.Allowing their daughters the liberty to go and explore the surroundings of their new home, Satsuki and Mei's parents are often absent physically, but present in spirit. As caring guardians, the parents concern themselves with their troublesome daredevils in an earnest and honest fashion. These carefree dynamics connect the otherwise distant adult world with the children's, instilling a sense of trust and intimacy among the family. In this sense, Miyazaki makes a conscious effort of displaying human relationships in a sincere and natural style.True to Ghibli's reputation, My Neighbor Totoro's visuals are masterfully crafted with great attention to even the most minute details. Rich with body language and facial expressions, the screenplay succeeds in the art of showing and not just telling, breathing nuance and realism into the cast's actions and interactions. These subtleties add striking believability to the characters, as adults and children alike look and behave according to their ages. The physical environments, too, are vividly detailed, setting the stage for the integration of the cast and fantasy—be it the cluttered rooms of a house recently moved into, or the green vastness and richness of the countryside.Likewise, the film's sound department is remarkably well-polished. Joe Hisaishi's compositions harmoniously blend with the mood of the scenes—the tempo is upbeat in situations of excitement and discovery, while smooth when tension is low. The timing is delicate, but more than anything, the tracks themselves are what stand out most. Charming and varied, the melodic tunes make extraordinary scenes even more memorable. The careful management not only soothes body and mind, but also permits the soundtrack to lace key scenes with vivid and meaningful tonality. Interesting to note, though, is that for most of the movie, there is no background music. Instead, focus is placed on environmental sounds, allowing the countryside setting to weave its own atmosphere. In concordance with the naturalistic tone of the story, this adds a more organic touch to the presentation—one focused on painting nature in its purest form.A tale intended for kids, yet a journey fit for audiences of all ages, My Neighbor Totoro is a splendid story that encapsulates the beauty of childhood. The film's wonderful portrayal of Satsuki and Mei's imagination conveys a true sense of jollity present in most children. Beyond its realism, the film delivers a dazzlingly magical experience by way of its supernatural encounters with the manifestations of nature. But this occurs ever so gently, that one could consider it a dream-like tale that both begins and ends in blissful serenity. A true classic, My Neighbor Totoro will remain in the hearts of many as a heartwarming experience of one of the purest and most beautiful memories: a frolicsome childhood, never to be forgotten.


                
My Neighbour Totoro is probably the film that introduced many western audiences to the work of esteemed Japanese animator/director Hayao Miyazaki and his celebrated production house Studio Ghibli. It is a film that I have fond memories of, having first discovered it as part of a mid-90's Sky Movies double (alongside my personal favourite Miyazaki film Porco Rosso) when I was around nine or ten years old. It stayed with me for many years before unavailability led me to record it off the TV sometime around 2001, where I found, much to my surprise, that the film was every bit as touching, endearing and enchanting as it had first seemed so many years before.Finally, some kind soul has decided to re-release all of the Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli productions as a collection of re-mastered DVD editions, including everything from his Lupin III instalment The Castle of Cagliostro to the more recent epic fantasy adventure, Howl's Moving Castle (2004), which, like almost everything that Miyazaki has been involved with before, offer us a series of intricate story lines, breathtaking visuals, memorable characters and a general approach to bold, imaginative, unique and utterly compelling family entertainment that will almost certainly appeal to anyone between the ages of eight and eighty (urgh, sorry for the cliché!!). My Neighbour Totoro remains, perhaps, the definitive Studio Ghibli production, with Miyazaki here perfecting the visual style that would subsequently become his trademark, as well as developing a number of thematic devices that would be further explored in later projects like Kiki's Delivery Service, Porco Rosso and Spirited Away.The story takes place in the rural Japan of the 1950's, where two young girls and their father move into an old house near the forest in an attempt to distract the girls from the absence of their mother, who is recovering from tuberculosis in a nearby convalescence home. Whilst exploring the forest, the two girls discover a family of "forest spirits", the biggest of which they christened Totoro (a mispronunciation of "tororu", the Japanese word for troll), who allows the two girls to partake in their nightly adventures. With the film, Miyazaki and his team create a depiction of the perfect summer and the power of imagination, as they use the two children to act as a representation for the audience. Mei, the younger of the two sisters, comes to represent the youngsters within the audience, as she approaches the Totoro characters with wide eyes and enthusiasm and generally accepts each of their adventures to be a continuation of her imagined child-like sense of fabrication. Satsuki, the older of the two girls, straddles the line between childhood and pre-teen adolescence. Her character is often more cynical and level-headed than her younger sister, and therefore she is the perfect representation for an adult audience who may need to put aside their own sense of scepticism when approaching a film that is so shameless magical.The story is fantastic, with Miyazaki allowing the action to unfold slowly... bringing the girls (and the audience) into the world of totoro slowly so that the introduction of the "soot spirits" and the mythical king of the forest doesn't seem too jarring when dropped into a film that evokes such a plausible and believable depiction of reality (as with all the films of Studio Ghibli, Totoro has an almost obsessive attention to detail, with the texture of the locations and the use of light and shadow drawing you further and further into the film as a whole). The atmosphere throughout is perfect, whilst the characters (both in design and portrayal) are excellent, with the two young girls setting the template for Miyazaki's aforementioned later films, Kiki's Delivery Service and Spirited Away, whilst the design of the mythical Totoro would become an important piece of iconography within Japanese animation (he's used as the Studio Ghibli logo, and is available in a range of plush-toy incarnations!!).As with the majority of Miyazaki's work, Totoro has deeper themes lurking beneath the surface of the story... Here, it is the idea of childhood and imagination (and really the power of imagination, which is central to all Miyazaki's work) being worn down by the approach of adolescence. It has also been seen as a metaphorical piece, with the relationship between the girls and Totoro being an imagined one in order to take their minds off the temporary loss of their mother and their concerns over her health (a factor that probably accelerates Satsuki's desire to grow up?). Whether or not you choose to interpret the story on such a level is entirely up to you, with the film working just fine as a lovely piece of family entertainment, with a warm and ultimately uplifting story being elevated by that gorgeous design/animation, the larger than life characters, and the story that manages to create fantastical characters and enchanting underworlds, without feeling the need to view them with a crass irony or an air of damaging cynicism (something that can't be said about the majority of Hollywood animation).My Neighbour Totoro is an exceptional film... one that has the power to enthral children and adults alike (another woeful cliché... but it's true!!!) with its evocative story, memorable characters and shades of hidden depth. If you've never seen a Hayao Miyazaki film before, then this is a great place to start, and is really an essential purchase alongside Porco Rosso, Kiki's Delivery Service, Spirited Away, and Howl's Moving Castle.
