The title of this comment is as original as the writing of this programme, what is disguised as witty, alternate comedy is in fact old sitcom rubbish reinvented to create the illusion of decent new age comedy.What the hell is this!? surely channel 4 can put their money to better use? this really is the definition of lazy script writing and poor acting. Terrible, being a fan of "The Mighty Boosh" starring guest star of "the i.t. crowd" Noel Fielding I decided to tune in to watch this garbage. That was my first mistake, after the pilot I hoped it would get better, that was my second mistake. Don't waste your time. If you want to watch alternate popular comedy watch Garth Mareghis Dark Place or Mighty Boosh, steer clear from this.


                
I started watching The IT Crowd because of some strong advice from a friend, who loved the show very much and kept on saying how brilliant it is. I must say I'm completely disappointed with the show. First of all, the script is just plain awful. I mean, I like absurd stuff, I don't look for 'reality' in everything. But, this show is just out of bounds. The company seems to be run by completely insane people. You'd at least expect the IT guys to show some decent intelligence, right? They act like a bunch of idiots around ant yet, they keep saying the "Have you tried turning it off and on again?" line all the time. Secondly, the acting is very very poor, too. I think this show could be taught in acting schools as an example of overacting. I wanted to strangle the actors half the time I was watching as they think the only way of communication is yelling around in the room. Lastly, the laugh effects make the things even worse. So, if you haven't seen this show yet. Save your time and don't!


                
Hi !As a computer science undergraduate, I thought I'd give this show a try. Well ... it sucks ! Tried to watch the first episode ... barely made it ! After 19 more minutes of torment i just could not take it anymore. This show is full of sh*t, over-exaggerated and well ... full of bad British humor. There was not a single joke I found half-way decent. The guys are nothing like IT guys and I, as a future computer scientist feel insulted by how the producers of this show picture people in my field. Well f*** you !Thanks.P.S. it should go directly to /dev/null


                
Shocking to see how many were missing the canned laughs and the bad acting of the stereotype 1970s TV comedy show.


                
