After The Office and Extras revitalised British comedy, and after the success of disturbing Chris Morris works; BrassEye and Jam, The I.T. Crowd is a lofty step backwards for all involved. Morris, Noel Fielding, Richard Ayoade and Matt Berry have all been far better elsewhere. And while Graham Linehan's sentimental sitcom leanings roped in his surrealist writing partner, Arthur Mathews, to make Father Ted a genuine classic, without Mathews, Linehan is free to indulge in the sub-FRIENDS/Seinfeld sitcom he was always in danger of making. It fact, writing is so hackneyed and predictable that the series feels like a real life version of When The Whistle Blows.Graham Linehan said that I.T. was fertile comedy ground that no one else had cottoned on to. He used the analogy of a bag of money sitting in the center of the room which nobody had noticed and picked up. It never occurred to him that smarter minds than his had passed on the opportunity for a reason. Several in fact. Computers aren't interesting, office based comedy is obsolete after The Office, sitcoms are dead, everyone hates audience laughter (he insists that it is filmed in front of a live studio audience, but really, who cares! It's awful!) etc etc. Characters are broad and one dimensional, you can see the jokes coming, and there are only two standing sets. The majority of on screen antics take place in a grotty basement set, decorated to resemble a teenager's bedroom. Roy (the obligatory Irishman, certainly no Dylan Moran or Dermot Morgan) and his cohort Moss are played as children as adults. The 'catchphrase' "Are you 'aving a laug..." I mean, "Have you tried turning it off and on?" is about as far as the show delves into Information Technology. Jen the arbitrary female, and broad failed professional woman stereotype (obsessed with shoes, long suffering in a quest to find a man) is proof (if any were needed) that Graham can't write female parts. Expect many scenes where Jen laments her life while Roy plays video games.There are a few episodes that exceed the suffocating s(h)itcom format, and are funny, even quotable. But as the characters are stock, there is no room for any development or investment. Being British means that it is able to push things further than the American dross it apes, at times excel past it, but that really isn't saying much. The cast are more than competent, and do their best with what little they are given. It's a crying shame that Linehan didn't apply these scenarios and actors to another series of Big Train. And that Chris Morris didn't pen Nathan Barley earlier.


                
Definitely a poor sit com, nothing original about it in the slightest. Jokes could be guessed 5 minutes before they were told, shockingly predictable as they were. No idea how Chris Morris got roped into such a show - his name on the credits usually gives a seal of approval- brass eye, on the hour, the day today, Nathan Barley- not in this instance! A serious low point for the careers of Noel Fielding and Richard Ayoade. Something for them to put behind them!! Perhaps amusing for the mainstream audience who like the same joke told over and over again (I.E people who watch FRIENDS) but if you're looking for unpredictability, punchy lines and something new and inspiring, then keep well away from the drab that is the IT Crowd


                
This was a big disappointment considering the praise from other reviewers. This is exactly the kind of comedy show as the "When the Whistle Blows" that Ricky Gervais portraits in the excellent "Extras", that is a really stupid and quite boring kind of humor and an even more stupid and boring story. That TV show is a joke in itself in "Extras". which is telling considering.Compared to "Extras", "The Office" or "Silicon Valley" this is a nothingness of a TV show. Maybe if you're British there are things you've learned to think is funny, but I'd guess not. Not my cup of tea I'm afraid and there are many great British shows that I like. Not this one.


                
It is mildly funny. But I think it forces itself too much. As in, if you don't like it then its your problem for not getting the jokes. I do like Moss and Richmond, and Roy but most of the characters are actually caricatures, bad ones, especially that boss character - just boring.


                
Now we have 'The Big Bang Theory' (for better or worse) it's easy to forget that 'The IT Crowd' actually covered pretty similar ground before hand.It's not the great sitcom it was made out to be upon its launch, and didn't really ever get to that point, but it's warm enough, funny enough, and watched by enough people for it to be considered a success. So everyone's happy, right? I can't say it did a lot of me really,perhaps because I saw it only after 'The Big Bang Theory', but I recognise the quality of the performances given, and the writing.


                
