This is more then nerdy, it is great and nerdy, funny and strange, weird and wonderful. It has very nerdy characters their in each their own personal way is strange and wonderful at the same time.There are so many clichés and stories about how an IT department works and operate and this just makes everyone of the seem true and perfectly right :) This specific IT department contains two nerds and a manager, they are all wonderfully strange and really has a way about them that really fits the stereotype.It is a very fun series and it has great black English humor and that is really good, sometimes they take it a bit over the top, but it is mostly the strange characters of management that doesn't really fit in.


                
All the jokes may not be of the best taste but overall, this series is very funny. The characters are hillarious, the writing is perfect, and the ideas brand new. 
As I sadly was watching without paying attention at first, I am reviewing all the episodes again and find them even funnier.


                
Season 1 review (No Spoilers!) ... but this is not the reason why I didn't give it a higher rating.When I first heard about this series, I was hoping that it is full of geek jokes, computer stuff, and the like. When I actually started watching the series, I didn't get what I was hoping for, but it was a great experience - which lasted only for 3 episodes...The first episode was good. You really get to know the characters, and I have to say that Moss is brilliant! His accent is the best thing in this show! The jokes sometimes fall flat (especially after the third episode), but the first episode scored a 8/10 in my book. Then came the second episode, which I think is the best episode of the first season: it's a 9/10.Then the series went downhill so quickly, I wondered, what were the creators thinking. Lame situations and boring plots followed by dumb jokes. The Bill Crouse episode (the one in which Moss says that Jen is dead) is the absolute worst episode I've seen in any series ever. I mean, seriously, what was that all about? It wasn't funny, it was just stupid. I gave it a 4/10, because it had Moss and the others in it, but come on...Then came the closing episode with "Aunt Irma", and... it wasn't as bad as the previous one, but it wasn't good.I'm waiting to see Season 2, but I sincerely hope that the creators realize, what kind of humor they should do if they want to make good episodes.6/10 for the whole Season 1.
This British show focuses on the IT department located in the basement of the companies building. The IT guys are supposed to help employees with their computer problems. They appear to not be well respected in the company, ,and they are exaggerated versions of computer nerds.It took me watching the first episode to connect with the British humor, and I was hooked by the end of the second episode. Quirky characters with unusual mannerisms and hang-ups delight you with each episode as more of them are revealed. Lots of funny moments as they get themselves into and out of ridiculous situations. The humor style reminds me of a British show "Are You Being Served".


                
In search of recent-times laugh-out loud comedy, I was directed to Graham Linehan's (co- writer of "Father Ted"), "The I.T. Crowd" and have been laughing out loud ever since. Yes, the construction is reminiscent of "Ted's" three socially outcast oddballs in the middle of nowhere and there would undoubtedly be little to choose who was dumb and who was dumber in a competition between Moss and Father Dougal, but on the whole, the hilarity of the scripts and wonderful mugging by the three leads is what carries the day.I've just finished watching Series One which was frequently hilarious but was told to watch out in particular for the "theatre" episode from Series 2 which I've just viewed. Suffice to say I wasn't disappointed, the story taking in the handicapped, gays and theatrical types in one fell swoop. Besides the three leads, the supporting cast of the vampire-like Noel Fielding and barking-mad boss Christopher Morris, amongst others, keep the gag-ratio high.I've yet to watch an episode that didn't make me laugh frequently and long, its mixture of the absurd and surreal, grounded as it is in the nerdy but identifiable world of computer technicians, making this Channel 4 comedy a real hoot.


                
When I first saw the pilot I was thrown off by the IT jokes because some of them weren't that funny. Like all shows I continue to the next episode and I could not stop. I have a thing for laugh-track sitcoms where, well i just don't find them funny. As a kid, i always wondered about how everyone could laugh at everything. So, pointing that out, this is the best laughtrack sitcom comedy ever! British humor gets me off the rails which is complemented by Richard Ayoade (the mighty boosh, Darkplace). American comedy has desensitized us Americans with toilet humor and overdone slapstick. Though, I'm not enjoying the how i met your mother and Big bang theory shows even if they are supposed to be the best sitcoms today. they're meh!By far the coolest and funniest British comedy.Love matt berry. he's gold.


                
The good thing, these series are about IT stuff. The bad thing, these series have too little IT stuff.Yes, I do understand, the series should have jokes funny not only to die-hard IT fanatics and persons, who work in IT sphere, but I guess ratio should be greater than 50:50. For example, what does female new-shoes-mania have in common with IT? And they have whole episode about that... :/ On the other hand, the geekiness and nerdishnes (in the good meaning ;) of IT personnel are portrayed really straight and that's why i give my applauses :D P.S. yes, I definitely work in IT sphere. P.P.S. Have you REALLY turned it off and then turned it on again?.. ;)


                
I am not a computer fan/geek/... etc myself, but I have frequently worked among women and/or elderly whose knowledge of IT is similar to Jen Barber's in the series... Thus, I got to know the very basics and, as for many questions and situations, I felt my "joy" of recognition; moreover, decades ago when computers and Internet were expensive, lots of people virtually resided in their working places, with red eyes and strange new hobbies...Thus, the series in question is not so exaggerated as some people close to me not aware of those issues tend to think (apart from the management level, evidently). My biggest support goes to Richard Ayoade as Maurice Moss - both character-wise and actor-wise, he is just something distinctive. But Chris O'Dowd as Roy Trenneman and Katherine Parkinson as Jen Barber are very much up to their task as well. As for supporting actors, I liked Noel Fielding as Richmond Avenal most and Matt Berry as Douglas Reynholm least, the latter as owner of a huge company is least unlikely figure as well.And "only" 8 points as not all series and episodes are smooth and even - vis-a-vis Fawlty Towers, for example. Nevertheless, The IT Crowd is worth watching and laughing, with 20-something minutes per episode.


                
