The IT Crowd is an absurdist satire of office dramas, featuring those most indispensable of nerds, tech support geeks.The first thing I noticed watching this series was director Ben Fuller's patience. He has a willingness to let a joke build that evades most television directors. Some jokes are set up in the opening scene and wait until the final segment for the payoff.The show is further bolstered by great chemistry and timing between stars Richard Ayoade, Christopher Morris, Chris O'Dowd, and Katherine Parkinson. Each actor emits a brave willingness to take their characters to extremes for a laugh.It's all helped a great deal, of course, if you have a vague notion computer technology and its various sub-cultures, but for the most part, the audience is along for clever dialogue-related humour, not in-jokes.


                
This time, he's dealing with technology. The IT Crowd, with it's old-skool computer game style opening credits, immediately catches the attention.Roy and Moss are two IT staff working for a big company. But despite the size of the company, the two seem banished to the basement of the building. However, they seem to enjoy their locked-away existence, occasionally being tortured by moronic staff asking why their computer won't work, which is usually answered with, "Have you tried turning it off and on again?" The characters are likable, and the script is a joy. Further proof that Mr. Linehan has a good eye for great actors and actresses, and that his writing skills have not waned with time. After all of his previous successes (including Father Ted, Black Books and material for Harry Enfield And Chums, The Fast Show, Big Train, Coogan's Run, Brass Eye and Jam) The IT Crowd is another triumph.


                
If you wanna laugh out loud, watch The IT Crowd. It's one of my favorite TV Shows that I've enjoyed most watching. It's about two nerd that work as IT in a large corporation. They're surrounded with dumb people, and that's what makes it funny. A new department chief comes. A girl that has no idea with computers.The cast is great, Richard Ayoade as Moss is in my top 5 characters that made me laugh most. Also other characters are funny as well. There are no jokes at all. The dialogue is funny itself, the characters are funny in the way they talk, act and the way they live.I'm not a guy who re-watch TV shows. But this case, I'm sure that I'm gonna watch again IT Crowd.


                
For those who complain that "The Big Bang Theory" is too artificial and panders to mainstream audiences, there's a fantastic option for getting your geek/comedy fix in the U.K.'s "The IT Crowd". The sitcom, from writer/director Graham Linehan, is one of the funniest shows I've ever watched. In my opinion, sitcoms have always been a cheap form of laughs that cater to the lowest common denominator with themes reused over and over again for the same gags. But this one felt genuine and original with a fun twist on common life foibles as seen through the eyes of two antisocial computer techs toiling away in the basement of a major corporation. We introduced to their world in the beginning with the arrival of Jen Barber (Katherine Parkinson) when she's hired as the manager of Reynholm Industries' IT department. A computer- illiterate woman intent on faking her way to success, she meets Roy Trenneman (Chris O'Dowd) and Maurice Moss (Richard Ayoade): the company's crack IT team. Over the course of four series (and a total of 25 episodes), the three of them will endure everything from cannibalism to viral menstruation as they attempt to break out of their sheltered world and, you know, do things grown adults are supposed to do. The show has a fun balance of humor that will appeal to the more geek-centric viewers while keeping most of it broad enough that anyone can find something hilarious. This show is everything I'm pretty sure "The Big Bang Theory" wanted to be.What makes "The IT Crowd" so much fun? The characters. I freakin' love the characters in this show. All of them. The show manages to keep the roster down to a manageable four (five, when Richmond is around) to give each plenty of screen time for us to get to know them. Roy is the IT team's more<U+0085> social<U+0085>member, and that's not saying much. He has a general hatred for the common populace (which I can get behind) and finds most people to be blithering idiots, but he's also a lech who uses his position to try and troll the upper floors of the building for his next hot (unsuccessful) date. Chris O'Dowd (who I'd only previously seen in BRIDESMAIDS) injects the character with the perfect level of charm and exasperation. The fan favorite of the show is Moss and his endless list of eccentricities. He's a more prototypical nerd: hyper-intelligent, naïve, and utterly inept when thrust into social situations. He's the sort who'll faint at the thought of a woman opening discussing her unmentionables or find a website to aid in engaging in casual conversation with sport fans. Richard Ayoade is perfect in the role. Every time Moss is on screen, you can bet the best laughs will come from him. Fun fact: Ayoade was the only cast member to be ported over to the States to star in the American version and even he couldn't save the unused pilot from becoming an inferior copycat of the original that saw a fast, merciful death before reaching air. The final member of the IT crew is Jen. She's the "normal" one. She's got no computer experience (outside of checking her email) and she can actually engage in personal relationships. She's a manipulative go-getter who initially hopes her management role in the IT department could lead to bigger and better things. As Jen, Katherine Parkinson is the audience's vessel into this absurd show and the best moments are when it becomes apparent that she's become ingrained in the world of geek culture. The final character (or characters, I guess, since we went through two over the course of the show) is the big boss of Reynholm Industries. The first series featured Chris Morris as Deynholm Reynholm, a hyperactive man with a few screws missing and a passion for motivating his workforce. I honestly can't find the words to describe Morris's bizarre line deliveries and the quirks he brings to the character but they're awesome. Morris was with the show until the beginning of the second series when Matt Berry stepped in to run the company as Douglas Reynholm and we got a whole new level of insane. Rather than ape what made Morris's character of Reynholm so fun, Berry's Douglas is sexist (renowned for his collection of sexual harassment suits), melodramatic, and a total buffoon. While I can understand why people seem to love the character of Moss the most, I'm honestly torn between Moss and Douglas Reynholm as my favorite character in the series."The IT Crowd" is more than just it's fantastic characters. I was also impressed that its plot lines never seem to retread old sitcom ground. Each of the episodes felt more original than you're average TV comedy. Granted, most of the episodes are focused on the same thing: the IT crowd attempts to integrate/interact with normal people and it goes horribly wrong. The IT crew is invited to a dinner party at Jen's flat when her usual guests were unavailable. Roy establishes a bogus dating site profile to win a bet against Jen and prove that women only want bad boys. Moss and Roy become friends with a group of "real men" and bond over soccer, beer, and armed robbery. It's a common thread in the series, but it's not their only trick. Graham Linehan has got enough material that it kept the series fresh over the course of its four-series run. If I had to choose a personal favorite, I would agree with a good portion of it's fan- base and go with "The Speech", wherein Jen is award the title of Employee of the Month and must give a speech on technology to the company's shareholders. When Jen's ego inflates and the boys decide to have a little harmless fun with her acceptance speech, it's<U+0085>well<U+0085>it's just perfect. I can't recommend this show enough and only wish that it would've continued on longer than it did. Four series just wasn't enough.


                
The show's got a few episodes that bring side plots together for a 'grande finale'-esque bit, which is a very difficult style to pull off, especially for 22 minute episodes. The majority of the show is that awkward humor we geeks know and love so much. This show reminds me an awful lot of the cartoon series "Clerks" but with a more grown up feel. There are, as with any series, a few episodes that go so far over the top you groan from pain, but the chances of a deliciously laid out bit is well worth the endurance. Given the simple premise of the show, the script stays remarkably fresh. Brilliant acting on the part of the 3 primary leads and excellent writing make this an easy show to marathon over a weekend.


                
I'm writing this, assuming that people already know about the 1st series.Series 1 of The IT Crowd was good & showed lots of potential too. In series 2, it really comes alive. With the characters firmly established, Graham Linehan pushes them into wonderfully absurd situations & realises the full potential of the series.Episode 1 of the second series is probably the funniest thing I have ever seen. The office trip to the Theatre to see 'Gay' a gay musical is pure genius from start to finish. It delivers huge laughs throughout & I had to watch it twice because I missed so many bits of the episode through uncontrollable laughter. Many of the laughs in The IT Crowd arise from awkward social situations which are beautifully played out by the cast. The writing seems to be far more tuned into this aspect compared to the first series & everything gels together with apparent ease. The move away from obvious IT based gags will also broaden the audience but the show's unique identity is retained. A few jokes fall a bit flat, but every episode is packed with absolute corkers that easily cancel out the weaker parts. Other particularly good episodes are the 'Peter File' one & the one with the German Cellist.I'm constantly amazed by Graham Linehan's ability inject so much vitality & originality into the mundane sit-com format. However, a lot of credit has to go to the cast. They all play their roles perfectly & the characters compliment each other rather than competing for laughs. The dynamic is much like that of Red Dwarf, where every character is an essential part of the whole. Also, Matt Berry slips into Chris Morris' shoes with surprising ease as the new Boss & is delightfully mad.


                
I never was and still I'm not a big fan of American sitcoms. They mostly exist of lame jokes made by over payed actors for a conservative American audience.So that's why I like British humor. Silly, cynical, satirical, funny and the actors don't mind to make a fool of themselves. O yeah and the jokes are all very well written! The IT crowd is a show like this and it's so good that you will laugh almost all the time. Absolute a recommendation for lovers of British humor!


                
"The IT Crowd" is not a complicated show. There are a few main characters, none of who I had heard of before watching it, relatively few big set designs, and a generally sparse style. Yet with so little, the show is one of the funniest that has come out of Britain in recent years. It poke fun at both the foibles of big business and "normal" people while simultaneously skewering the quirks of "nerds."Yet despite its attempts at being topical, the show is at its best when it is just silly. One of my favorite episodes involves the IT department's hapless relationship manager, Jen Barber (Katherine Parkinson), being told she's giving a speech at the end of the week. The IT workers, Roy (Chris O'Down) and Moss (Richard Ayoade), decide to play a prank on her by giving her a box "containing" the Internet, straight from Big Ben. They assume that she will be mocked at her big presentation. Instead, when the box is destroyed due to the intervention of the episode's B-plot, the assembled middle management of Reynholm Industries descends into hysterical violence.It is not a serious show, but it is a very funny one that transcends social status, social skills, and culture to bring a message of silly humor and general mockery.(I watched this show in its entirety most recently in April 2017.)
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerThe IT Crowd has plot lines that vary from episode to episode. There are some jokes that are seen and heard through many episodes. The individual story's are hilarious and well thought out.The acting is great. The chemistry between Richard Ayoade, Chris O'Dowd, Katherine Parkinson, Christopher Morris, and Matt Berry is the best part of the show.The pacing in some of the episodes can seem a little slow but the director does this to set up joke that builds up.The episode length is good. Most episodes are about 22 minutes long. Each season is 6 episodes except for the final season which is just 1 48 minute episode. I do wish there were more episodes because of the great story telling and interesting characters.Pros: Great acting, hilarious individual story's, good chemistry between the actors, directors patience in building up a joke, and a short episode lengthCons: Some slow pacing and not enough episodesOverall Rating: 9.0


                
Does anybody work in a concern? "The IT Crowd" give you the answer: No! The hole day the three main characters get in trouble or strange situations or made themselves ridiculous. The two IT's are shown in such a stereotype way as unsettled and lonesome underdogs that you must feel with them every time. Especially if they get in trouble without their own fault, or better with no purpose and thats nearly always. Some episodes are a sequence of unfortunate actions from the characters. And exactly that makes the slapstick humor in this series and also give the great British humor with nearly no tabu and even the slapstick.


                
I've been a fan of British comedy for practically all my life. Monty Python to Black Adder to Mr. Bean, and now welcome The IT Crowd to the cannon. Really clever while completely goofy and slapstick. And yes, I know and work with lots of IT people, and this show only slightly exaggerates their eccentricities.Favorite moment: Noel Fielding's goth character. I'd never heard of him before, but thought he was so incredible that I looked him here on the IMDb and thereby discovered yet another great show, The Mighty Boosh. The opening credits and music always make me smile. I have a weakness for the 8 bit aesthetic.
If you have ever worked in the IT world this show will have you laughing off the bat. Each season starts off very well with some great episodes but the show coasts the predictable waters of mediocrity at times. "The Work Outing" First episode of season two is perhaps the most memorable. I spent most of my time rolling around the floor laughing so hard, that they should be a shorter way to say that! It wasn't until season 4 did the show gain some consistency, but the ride there was certainly fun. If you hit a few bad episodes, stay with it for the few gem moments, as it beats re-runs of the comedy classics, mostly!


                
I really like It Crowd because i had been working in it department since a few years. even in different country. same all the dialogues actions and problems, behaviors in the company. i most Laughed for first season, they described the it department what is. especially scenes of the answer machine was the best and toilet cleaners.... oh God... i m still laughing....


                
Pre-dating its American nerd-centered sitcom "The Big Bang Theory" by a year, the British take on geeks in the form of "The IT Crowd" is not only more original than its US counterpart, but also outrageously funnier. While you know exactly what you get in a US series which repeats the same recipe over and over again for more than 20 episodes per season and then continues to do so for several more until even the die-hard fans have enough of it, the complete "IT Crowd" only has 24 episodes to begin with. Some of them even don't work quite out, but the rest is pure indefinitely re-watchable comedy gold.Graham Linehan of "Father Ted" and "Black Books" fame wrote, directed and even shows up himself in the series, fearlessly tackling nerdiness, IT and relationship management issues always with his finger on the pulse of the times. Well, and wherever it suits him. As the humor is all over the place, is sharp, zany, occasionally absurd and has a directness and an edge to it that is sorely absent in comparable series. The IT trio consisting of the laid-back Roy (Chris O'Dowd), real-life challenged Moss (Richard Ayoade) and the naive head of department Jen (Katherine Parkinson) play so well off each other that stitches of laughter are guaranteed if you're accustomed to similar situations in your workplace. Another highlight is Noel Fielding as the dark presence called Richmond, and even though characters like Matt Berry (as Douglas Reynholm) push the envelope a bit too far, the overboarding aspects are easily forgiven due to the brilliant writing by Linehan. Never before have the words "Ich... bin... ein... Nerd" sounded so poignant than here.


                
This TV show is one of the best I've seen in years- it has such good material, the lines are written with style and wit and each individual character brings a distinct dimension to the show. It's a real gem and I was immediately hooked after the first episode. Some people would compare this show with BBT (Big Bang Theory) due to the scientific, technological aspects of the show, but I personally found this to be far more hilarious and less slow-paced or repetitive- all the stories are extremely original and the circumstances that the characters land in are, inevitably comical, so if you like really smart, intellectual humor, then you should definitely give this a shot!! (:


                
Graham Linehan is the best writer of comedy around. His comedy series are funny and intelligent and seamlessly put together. But best of all they have heart. Yes the IT crowd geeks are awkward dweebs but you feel for them, and you cheer on their little victories. The acting is all superb. You get the feeling Richard Ayoade and Chris O'Dowd could riff off one another for hours. And, just like on Linehan's Father Ted, there are lots of wacky side-scenes to keep you entertained, like Noel Fielding playing the Gothic hermit that works in the mysterious office that never opens, with the flashing computer lights that only he can decipher.


                
I never thought that the serials about the programmers may be so funny too. The three hapless people, Jen, Roy and Moss are the unsung heroes of the company and they sit in the basement and they seem to do nothing at all. But what they witness is so hilarious, so funny, so great and so clumsy. Jen is crazy about good shoes, and nice guys. Roy is always in blood and in trouble. Moss is deep into his Ward ideas and he is uttering so funny maxims and in his impeccable cockney slang. The serial is very light, very brisk and very easy to grasp. I think it does show that even in the dark dungeons people can be still funny and still very lively.


                
Stumbled across this awhile back and damn I did not expect it to be as funny as it was.
The 3 main characters are cast perfectly and together produce some really good comedic situations. It has good unsuspecting humor.
Also, My teenage daughter loved it as much as I did.** I also agree with the reviewer above that said "The Work Outing" episode was his favorite. That episode was off the charts hysterical, I was dying laughing. It's funny just thinking about it !


                
Hilarious and fun to watch over and over again. I thought at first it's dumb funny but actually it is in a witty way.


                
From the writer and director of Father Ted, Graham Lineham, this is a fantastic simple comedy with fantastic performers and some classic moments. Basically it is all about the three main characters working in IT and doing all the work, how they are not very appreciated, and their personal lives. The characters of the show are Chris O'Dowd as Roy, The Day Today's Christopher Morris as Denholm, Katherine Parkinson as Jen, and my favourite Richard Ayoade as Moss. The most hilarious episode I remember has to be the one when Moss lies about Jen being dead to everyone, and also tells Jen she has won an award, and it looks like her spirit has come back. Very good!
Granted I'm just a bloody American, but I freiking love this show. The 3 & or 4 leads are what make this show. The scripts are funny as hell & the acting seems completely natural too. I loved the boss they had in the 1st year or two & was sad when he jumped out the window? but the guy that replaced him is brilliant too. I've never been to England or the U.K. whatever they prefer it to be called, but this is as good as the American version of "The Office." It's not quite up to par w/the English version of "The Office," but it's damn close. I keep hoping I'll see the stars of this show in other things & I'm glad to say I just saw the main dude now in "Bridesmaids" w/Kristen Wiig & Maya Rudolph, (she was the last person I thought would have a career after SNL but she was so good w/Jim Kransinski of the American "Office" in "Away We Go,"It's quite thrilling for her.) I just think if you enjoy any sort of Ricky Gervais' type comedy you'll enjoy this little known series too.


                
Brilliant characters and setting this is a brilliant show and fantastically crafted with various settings and episodes parodying genre and shows the performances are on a different level shame it didn't last much longer, i highly recommend


                
In Canada, back in the early to mid-nineties, specialty channels began to flood the market, and, in their attempts to fill time-slots, we were offered a wide variety of brilliant British comedy. The Fast Show, Men Behaving Badly, The League of Gentlemen, Harry Enfield, Jo Brand, all had their North American debuts during this period. Unfortunately, the flow weakened, turned to a trickle, and, by the late nineties, all but dried up.Sure, there has since been the occasional flash of the old glory - Little Britain comes to mind - but, generally, we in North America seemed seriously deprived of British comedy gems (and, sorry, no, I do not think the Office or Coupling are gems). PBS was catering to seniors who could not operate a VCR, never mind a PVR (how many times can one see Keeping up Appearances, or When Time Goes By?),and even BBC (Canada) was content to dredge up all the old standards (Ab Fab, Only Fools and Horses, The Vicar of Dibley) or present limp or stale product best labeled esoteric.For those of us who suspected that, actually, the British had nothing more to offer, The IT Crowd is the answer: Oh yes it has! The IT Crowd has all the elements that made shows like Fawlty Towers and A Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy great; it takes a timely premise and layers it with mad characters and absurd situations. Sure, in IT's case some of the technical details are off - geeks talking RAM is barely 90s, never mind 21st century - but I bet that anyone in the hospitality industry would tell you that a Fawlty Towers would have failed and closed within the first month of operation.The IT Crowd makes an earnest attempt to get legitimate laughs from a situation rarely presented, and almost never presented accurately, on television, never mind in a comedy. It most often succeeds, probably because the writers know something of the IT world, geeks, and contemporary technology-driven culture, and know when to paint with a broad brush, and when to offer more detail.A perfect example of The IT Crowd's approach to comedy is the one-show running gag involving the character Peter File ("Whose a Pee-da-file?") - which cross-references modern phobias and paranoia, the word-association-like connection between computer culture(s) and the sexually perverse/confused/degenerate and cultural differences ("In America they say peh-doe-file"). Genius! And not a one off.


                
OK so i will admit when my partner wanted to give this a try when it was on TV i thought "oh no, not another boring programme" because every comedy i watch now days is not funny, is stupid and it is like the actors are trying so hard to make the viewers laugh that it just ends up showing them up.BUT this was a surprise, i mean it made me laugh and it is something i could watch over and over. The actors are great at playing each part, they make me laugh.All i will say is the female (one of the main people in the show) does seem to act too dramatic and go over board all the time, but i look past that and it is enjoyable to watch, i just think it would be better if she wasn't so over the top. One other thing i will say that ruined it for me... NOT ENOUGH EPS!!! i mean i really enjoyed watching them but then i watched them all and wanted to see more. I hope more will come out in the future and i would recommend people giving this a chance. IT'S GREAT.9 out of 10 from me and well deserved.
I never really liked British comedies, I found that it was sort of cheesy and the dialog was kind of hard to understand. But "The IT Crowd" proved me wrong.Thanks to it, I will now watch every single British sitcom available - well not really, but I want to - and hope that they all match the smart jokes, the brilliant characters, and the corny dialogs that "The IT Crowd" has.One thing that annoyed me though, is how each season only contains 6 episodes. I wonder how amazing it would've been if each one had around 24 episodes, certainly better! Being a computer geek myself, I was kind of disappointed that it didn't have a LOT of references to computer related subjects, but it had enough. And to be honest, the favorite part about the show to me was checking out Roy's T-Shirts; they were always awesome.So I urge every single reader out there to watch this show, and I'm sure you won't regret it.


                
