A very difficult show to review, overall I'd give Series 1 an 8/10, a very good show, strong characters, intrigue etc, however something happens in the second series and has continued through to the present day, since that very first episode of Series 2 (or in fairness Part 6 of the opening Series) Line of Duty has become the best thing on the box. The cast work together in a way that you don't often see in many shows, the degree of realism each of them injects makes the show feel very real. Dunbar, Compston, McClure, Parkinson etc are all utterly phenomenal, I think though, it was the performance of Keeley Hawes as Lindsay Denton that increased my interest in the show, she was utterly amazing.The transformation in the character of Steve Arnott has been intriguing, plaudits for Martin Compston, incredible actor, so diverse.I suppose you could argue it's made in the style of the Scandinavian noir, but it goes deeper then that somehow, offering even more for the viewers. The series treats the viewer as if they have a degree of intelligence, it's deep and intricate without being too clever for its own good.It comes as no surprise that the show's viewing figures have almost trebled, if you've not seen it, you have no idea what you're missing out on. 10/10Bring on Series 5


                
I watched series one last year, it was a good cop show, it came at things from a slightly different angle as it had the anti-corruption unit (internal affairs) as the 'good guys', so my rating was a solid 7.5... i enjoyed it enough to tune in to the second series which as i write this has one episode left to air and i have to say it has been TV at it's very best, from the opening few minutes it had me glued eagerly anticipating each weeks new developments, no spoilers here i only recommend you watch it for yourself to experience the shocks, the thrills and the suspense which it has in abundance, the casting of Keeley Hawes as DI Lindsay Denton was a masterstroke, the character is complex to say the least and she will trigger every emotion you have in your arsenal. Superb character acting, it really is. My revised rating overall is 9/10 but i'd give series two 10/10 after 5 of the 6 episodes...Well I thought I'd return for an update as I love this show so much now.. Needless to say season 2 finished as it had began.. sheer class and a great example of how good TV is right now.. Keeley Hawes we salute you.. now we are 1 ep into season 3 and Jed Mercurio has done it again the season opener quite literally blew me away I was so looking forward to it and it was like welcoming an old friend back into my life.. I can't wait to see where the show is taking me next


                
I am a crime story lover and by far this is the best (even better than scandi crime Bridges and killing)I have ever seen. The characters are complex and specially Tandi N in series 3, is the most clever criminal police woman ever! I cant say enough to justify watching this best of the British film making, so 100% try


                
I have been a huge fan of this show since season one and it's a rare feet when seasons 2 and 3 surpass the quality of the first. It draws you in and keeps you gripped never failing to end each episode on a cliffhanger which makes you desperate to see the next instalment. The cast is UK A list Aidrian DUnbar, Vicky Mclure, Martin Compson and Keely Hawes who gives the performance of her career in seasons 2 and 3. I'm not one to give plots away, but if your a fan of quality crime drama or Nordic noir I cannot recommend this show highly enough. Just one note of caution if your planning DVD series binge then expect some late nights!


                
Probably too well done to be a smash hit. But this is surely the best detective show ever produced. The incredible twists and turns in the plot line will keep you glued to your screen. Absolutely brilliant script writing supported by perfect casting and acting.Simply, as good as it gets.


                
The show consists of four series and whilst relatively short, the writers certainly have packed a lot into each series. I loved this show and would class it as one of the best series I've ever seen. The characters are brilliant and its very clever how you are kept guessing the whole way through. Each episode ends on a shock discovery so you are desperate to flick straight to the next episode. Nothing is predictable which only adds to the experience.After watching the first series I couldn't believe they managed to make the second series even better. I was on the edge of my seat for most of it! Fantastic writing. Jed Mercurio has his masterpiece and I can't give enough credit to him for managing to keep the momentum going.If you like fast-paced police dramas - don't miss this one.


                
This has been an amazing series so far (just finished season 3). It feels so real, so gritty. The characters are so nuanced and complex; they have good and bad sides to them, and you can't help but root for them at different points (both the 'bad' and 'good'). Most notable were Lindsay Denton and Dot Cottan as the troubled and complex characters. The main AC-12 team were all riveting to watch. Can't wait to start season 4!


                
best cop show ever. I can keep this short so you don't waste time reading this review and go ahead and start watching. twists, turns, action, drama, believable and binge worthy. great characters, completely original stories, well shot and focused on a part of law enforcement you wouldn't think would be all that fun to watch about. each season gets better than the last. i've recommend this show to all my friends and everyone i've recommended this to says they love it too. don't miss out on some seriously good TV.


                
Can't believe it hasn't had more awards or recognition. Every series is as good as the last. Blows the likes of The Bodyguard and Killing Eve out the water. The acting is so much superior with Keeley Hawes, Vicky McClure, and Thandie Newton particularly magnificent. Can't wait for series 5!


                
I hate most copper shows but Line of Duty has been receiving stellar reviews. I put on first ep and slowly found myself enjoying each episode of season 1. Season 1 was good. By the start of season 2 it was clear that this was a stellar series, unlike any other. Season 2, against Denton was really a performance and plot that was unmissable. It really made the series and defined the direction of not just your typical anti-corruption good cop/bad copy premise. There are some outrageous over the top scenarios but nonetheless, this is pure entertainment. Interrogation is my fave part of this show. No one even needs to do a car chase, whip out AK47s or wave a machete and this show delivers tension that mounts and topples over like an avalanche just from across the table! i binged all 4 season on Netflix and cant wait for season 5!


                
My favorite crime series ever, ever, ever! I just love the plot, the characters, the story telling. Everything. You wont regret it, for sure!


                
First episode I was unsure of this programme, purely because your given the guilty party from the beginning, so you wonder how can the story progress. By the second episode I was hooked, I literally binge watched it from then. Each series got more and more gripping!!!This show had me shouting at the screen multiple times in a good way , literally lived on the edge of my seat. I cannot wait for the next season!!!


                
I will not write much. This is one of the best 5 series I have ever watched and I have seen a lot! It is very under-rated in my opinion. Just for reference I consider no.1 The Wire.


                
I stumbled across this on Netflix four days ago. I think I'd heard it was good a few years ago but didn't take much notice. After all, every TV show seems to be good nowadays. I've watched all three series since. It's superb. And generally police/crime shows bore me senseless. I can give it no higher praise.


                
I just binge watched 4 seasons of this series and CAN'T wait for season 5. I am really beginning to love British television. I can't get enough of their series are crime, fantasy or drama. The writers of this show are incredible at the way they can create a great story line as like this one. Each episode is a different story but their is a back story that each episode is connected to.The writers have you glued to the screen, I just wish it was more than 6 episodes, maybe 8 but not so many that you get bored of it. It is a fast paced and suspenseful series. I LOVE LOVE LOVE it!!!! Koodo's to the writers, directors and actors, this is n AWESOME series, don't stop!!


                
I'm not one to score full marks for anything but this was the most entertaining show I've ever watched. For a long time I was looking for something to fill the gap left by Spooks and though this isn't quite the same type of show, it didn't disappoint. Twists, turns, surprises, gripping story line and epic action. I never felt like I knew what the outcome was going to be until the very last episode of each season. Brilliant.


                
Stumbled on this show, having never heard of it. The writing is incredible. Jed Mercurio is a stunning talent. Will watch every episode, and then go on to watching his other work. Season one - Lennie James, magnificent. Season two - Keely Hawes powerful performance. Was disappointing in the ending -- seemed Mercurio wrote himself into a corner and had to resort to flashbacks to wrap it all up, a bit disappointingly. But the rest of season was excellent. Onto season three, with a great start after second episode. Surprise, Surprise.


                
Series 1, 2 and 3 have it all: logical but endlessly twisting storylines, believable and deep characters who develop through the episodes, and literally breathtaking action. The best I've seen on DVD in years.


                
Great new angle on crime, every episode is thrilling right till the last second! Can't wait for Season 5!


                
If you like crime dramas that get more tangled with each episode, then you will love this series. I stubbed upon it and am glued; binging episode after episode. Kudos to the show team; writers, actors, directors...etc. Amazingly, there is depth that brings sympathy to the most despicable characters.


                
Best nail biting experience I've ever had.And the best interview scean ecer.


                
Tried this show after reading some reviews, and all I can say is "Wow." Has everything you could ask for in a police drama, plus the added benefit of a 5-6 episode season. Great to binge watch! Becoming a real fan of UK police dramas.


                
This is the best TV show I've ever seen. I've binge watched a lot of absolute toss but damn this series is on another level. S3 finale, daaaaaamn. The only thing that I love more is Star Trek. Longmire is fun and I love it too, but it's no comparison.


                
Talented cast, skillful show writers. I was 'glued' to the screen all 4 series. The Show is amazing!


                
One of the best dramas on tv ever - tension, great casting, edge of seat moments, depth and even the music is excellent. Do not miss any of the 4 series.


                
