This series had me hooked in the opening episode, and I quickly checked on IMDb to see it rated very well. However as the series progressed I had to ask whether the writer had any Police consultation at all, because there were so many holes in the plot and unbelievable actions it begged disbelief. The mere idea that anti corruption officers can just come and go as they please, trying to search staff cars, check their computers, smash office windows, waltz in and try and take part in any investigation is simply so far from the truth.To add to that I found Martin Compston and Vicky McLure completely miscast, insipid and unlikeable not to mention lacking credibility. I do not know much about these actors, but they simply were not believable in their roles. As I watched the demise of it episode after episode I rechecked on IMDb and read more reviews, quickly warming to the ones that awarded it a lower rating. Lennie James was good, and the stress and desperation of his characters situation came across brilliantly. That I am afraid is where the positives ended. I really enjoy writer Jed Mercurios Strike Back, while having some unlikely scenarios at least has some expert and experienced consultation, and Bodies is fantastic. But this??? meh<U+0085>.


                
Oh my god the dialogue is bad. It's like a really up-itself special edition of 'the bill'. The script seems to have been written using a random British cop show cliché generator. This doesn't reflect well on the quality cast - I really wish Gina McKee wasn't in it because I like her as an actor, similarly Adrian Dunbar, whose career is clearly not going as well as it should be given his acting calibre.'Hilton is the one who cares about ticking boxes -I care about cracking cases!' It really reminds me of the Mitchell and Webb TV drama makers. The problem for this sort of thing is that the bar has been set so much higher for TV drama these days. BBC needs to do better.


                
I watched this on the strength of the IMDb reviews but was a major disappointment.For me the biggest issue is the cast who are unconvincing and too weak to make up for the generally slow pace of the series.Compston is the main offender and I am baffled how he continues to secure headlining roles. He is better suited to the cameo NED type, think Sweet Sixteen, where his lack of acting is overlooked by the loathsomeness of the NED genre.Given the positive reviews by others, this show may just not be my cup of tea so I cannot wholeheartedly say it's not one to go watch.


                
This isn't a police procedural. It isn't like any US or UK cop show I've ever seen. This show has occasional car chases and shoot-outs but it is mostly office politics plus the lead detective cheating on his wife. The office politics and subterfuge is not my cup of tea. Who wants to spend their evenings watching people play mind games? I've pretty much watched them all and I can think of only one UK cop show that is worse. And I really hate the shaky camera that is always moving about.


                
