Last year the BBC brought us the superb, slightly strange police thriller 'The Shadow Line'; this year, the rather more conventional 'The Line of Duty' has aired. Aspects of this programme are quite good, although it never feels exactly fresh. Anti-corruption units, and undercover agents, have been on our screen before ('Between the Lines' - there's clearly something magnetic about that word 'line' and 'The Ghost Squad') - and some of the conspiracy elements seem both far fetched and perfunctory. Perhaps the greatest problem is that Lennie James' protagonist is a hard man to connect with: an almost-clean copper brought down by a bad friend, he remains a hard man to like, and while he appears to be driven by his own private sense of ethics, this moral code seems completely self-centred - he's torn when he fails to live up to his own expectations of himself, but it's hard to see why we should care. And the portrait of feral kids on the local housing estate seems both lazy, and again relatively loosely connected to the more serious crime in the background - if you're looking for the forensic detail of 'The Wire', you won't find it here. None of this actually makes for a bad series - it does all the standard things you expect a show of this sort to do reasonably well, but it doesn't add much you won't have seen before.


                
Line of Duty is a Brit cop drama that focuses on the tense interplay, between the anti corruption units, within the UK Police and the officers, they are tasked with investigating. Refreshingly, this drama, renders real characters, on both sides of the divide. No one is perfect, including the investigated and the investigators.The standard of casting and acting, as is typical with most UK productions of this kind, is of a high caliber. The convincing characterizations and the tension that mounts for the viewer, as the lives of often good people, who makes bad decisions, slowly unravel, is not always easy to watch. This is an engaging series, that works well.It keeps the viewers attention with storyline(s) that are, for the most part, believable. Often focusing on personal issues, that make their way into the workplace, as is so often the case, in real life. Where this series falls down somewhat, is some of the more implausible mistakes made by seasoned police officers. A ring from a glass left on a table, for example, taken by a compromised officer is inexplicable. As is, false claims, regarding a relationship, whilst knowing full well, that text records from mobiles, including intimate ones, are readily available. Any experienced detective would realize, in some instances, truth is less damaging than lies and may, in fact, better hide a bigger lie. The other shortfall, is how cold and often, unlikable, a good portion of the characters are. Injecting a little human warmth, into this series, would actually increase the impact on the viewer, when things turn sour. This, I think, is what stops Line of Duty from being an exceptional series, like the much loved, classic detective series, in the same vein, Cracker. Cracker is outstanding because it takes far more emotional and personal risks, with its characterizations. That said, for the most part, Line of Duty is a good series and still represents an intelligent, worthwhile watch. Seven out of ten from me.


                
Just watched my first episode and will be binging throughout tonight. He's well bent. Flash motor, posh totty, missus at home and kids in a bunk bed, while he drives a Jag. Which copper earns enough paper to afford a Jag?That said, like the premise. Casting appears good, as well. Don't own a telly and last cop show watched was Happy Valley, which was extraordinary! I mean brilliant. Bent cops should be nicked and should do more porridge than a usual villain. Live in America now and the bit at the start about the coppers covering up their mistakes are totally relevant here. Here they believe in nicking everyone, because it's all about results and they justify their criminality, by saying everyone has done something wrong in the past. More bent police here in America than anywhere else, it appears. When I grew up, the old bill was to be admired, but American influence has corrupted everything. He thought the crime was sexy and therefore his domain. I'm hoping less American references as the episodes continues. Us Brits need to realize, we actually are worthwhile and can do some things better than others! No need to import all the US tripe!Upper portion of this review was from watching the first episode. I have now watched both series. 1st series was good to great. Lead actor, Compston was poor however and wishy washy but otherwise a watchable series. Good plot, character driven parts and good, understated Brit direction.2nd series was excellent except for an anti climactic ending. Almost as if time ran out and a quick ending was required. Out of keeping with the entire series. Keeley Hawes was superb and in America would be in Emmy territory. Beautifully acted by her, completely overshadowing everyone else. Just such a pity about the last 15 mins. Lindsay Denton is such a complex character and her development was completely wasted. Her motivations and influences should have been the plot lines for at least the last two episodes. Her acting re those motivations and influences would have been something to behold. She nailed the complexity of the character and the confused madness of a scorned woman, just wasn't given the script to dazzle us with and still managed to dazzle. Complicated plotting that just fizzled. And what was Kate Fleming's marital woes about? It suddenly surfaced and exploded. No leading up to it. Almost as an afterthought.It's definitely worth watching just not brilliant but simply very good.


                
Good as ever, but this time around I'm not sure if it has been deliberately dumbed-down for BBC1, John Strickland is just not as good a director as Douglas Mackinnon or if Jed Mercurio is deliberately trying to give us red herrings?Overall it was anyway much less subtle than the first three series,with some of the "points" almost hitting you around the face with a huge wet fish, with blatant sexism from Hastings - almost as if they have to make it so obvious for a BBC1 audience and in the last ten minutes of the last episode it was virtually moustache-twirling, "mou-ha-ha" acting with furtive looks and "too-long" camera-shots to make us think that Hastings might be "dodgy" for the next series. Adrian Dunbar is a better actor than that and Mercurio is a better writer so I suspect (hope) that we are all thinking the wrong thing and it will all become clearer in series 5 and 6. However there is a lingering doubt as all of the nearly all of the twists and turns this time around were "telegraphed in advance" and I constantly upset my wife by saying "this is going to happen" or "that is going to happen" and being right every time so much so that in the end she insisted on watching it at a different time to me! (Can see the headline in one of those scandal mags now "Line of Duty Wrecked my Marriage and Made Me Kill My Husband")On the positive side, the ending of the series was better written and acted than the ridiculous running scene at the end of Series 3 and it the show is still ONE of the best things on TV - although it is like one of Sir Alex Ferguson's last couple of Manchester United teams; still good enough but not QUITE what was in its heyday. At the moment it is looking a bit like "The Fall" in that it should have stopped after the first or second series.Still, they have apparently signed up for two more series so what do I know?


                
Line of Duty – or Line of Corruption?The professional critics have pretty much gone into ecstasies about this very tense drama, and to a large extent I agree with the general sentiment – that it was a first class pieces of entertainment, well written and very well acted. However, it was far from perfect, and in this amateur critic's opinion, it simply isn't in the same league as really some great TV series, such as True Detective or indeed, the three series of The Bridge.In particular, the final episode left much to be desired. It was tense enough and rattled along at a fair old pace, but as the writer of the series himself admitted, incredibly, they 'ran out of time'; they were unable to completely tie up all the loose plot ends.Yes folks, crazy, but true<U+0085>This was in spite of the fact that a new scene was hurriedly written at the last moment to try and explain what had been going on, but ultimately failed to deal adequately with all of the plot twists. In addition, they resorted to the hackneyed, much-used device, (never before used in the entire series), of 'flashbacks' in an effort to tell us what really happened, but even these flashbacks were rushed and still left us confused and with unanswered questions. I am sure that I am not alone in having to read the reviews and 'recaps' before I completely understood all the plot twists and turns. In particular, the precise motives and actions of the prime suspects and exactly what they were guilty of. The critics knew exactly what was going on – well they would wouldn't they – they had nothing better to do than watch the episode 2 or 3 times, and probably even read spoilers and producers' hand- outs to make sure they understood; and then try to kid us that they're so clever that they got it all, first time round.I do hope they will learn from this, as the dismal failure to tie everything up in the final episode ruined the whole thing for millions of viewers. Surely the BBC could have agreed to have a requested extension to the final episode? But, apparently, they said 'No'. Unbelievable, ain't it? (Yet a few years later they did just that for the glitzy production of War & Peace.)I find as I get older, I have a driving desire for plots in TV dramas and movies to keep within the bounds of credibility, and whenever I find a plot 'coming off the rails', and enter the realms of utter incredulity, then I start to get a bit worked up. Of course I fully accept that unworldly coincidences are necessary devices in literature and drama, as without them there often wouldn't be much story to tell, but it's the other stuff that gets to me.In Line of Duty, it was the fact that every member of the police anti-corruption unit was, in some way, corrupt. Everyone had something to hide which might or did affect their judgement. Every single member of the squad – including the one that was utterly corrupt – was either engaging in illegal relationships with witnesses and /or suspects or was wavering with temptation due to the parlous state of their finances, (which for members of anti- corruption squads was a no-no and should have been declared as such.)Worst of all was the 'whiter than white', head of the Squad, the Northern Irishman chappie, who in series one would have committed hari-kari rather than do anything that might be considered the slightest bit ill-intentioned. Yet here he was, financially embarrassed, indecisive and sorely tempted to do less than his best to move the enquiry forward and find out who really was responsible, for fear it might affect a promised promotion.To me it was preposterous that every single member of a unit charged with rooting out police corruption, should have something to hide. Okay, I understand that it all adds to the excitement of not knowing who might be involved in the murders and so on, but it really was rather silly.After all, not ALL cops are corrupt<U+0085>. Or are they?
My wife and I are thoroughly enjoying the plot line of this series, but sadly whomever is in charge of cinematography thinks that cheap jerky-cam effects are something people want to see. It's distracting and unnecessary. Buy a tripod guys!!


                
I enjoy it- the storylines are engaging but it could be better - there's a lot of sloppy stuff.Most of my complaints are re the main characters - like, what's up with Kate and her family that we see for 2 seconds at the end of season 1? Too cheap to cast and show any real relationship and conflict? It's a hard cut from her happy reunion in S1 to her sleeping in a car in s2.And let's look at continuity - When she assaulted her neighbour, Denton approached via an alley - we saw the garbage bins..but in the final episodes we see she is in in a row house without alleys?!Also - Steve sleeps with every woman he meets? Please. And why are all of the woman with lines all stereotypically hot? The men sure as heck aren't. Not realistic and not cool BBC. Sorry. Finally, I am honestly not entirely sure how season 2 ended. (Despite the faux 'documentary style titles at the end, to me yet another sign of lazy writing.)
"Lazy Writing" is my theme for this series - brilliantly acted. Great overall arch. But yikes the details and characters need some help. Not sure if I will keep going into season 3...
