This is a review of both Season 1 & 2 of this wonderful British series. Although there is a different story line in each of the seasons, there is some continuity in the important characters: the actors Martin Compston, Adrian Dunbar and Vicki McClure, among others, appear in both seasons as the same characters. The story in each season deals with a conflict within a police department between the regular forces and the internal affairs or "anti-corruption" unit. Thematically, it is concerned with the moral ambiguities that arise when policemen investigate their own. I think this is one of the best British police procedurals that I have seen. The acting and the writing are uniformly excellent, and I hope it comes back for a third season.


                
In recent years, I have generally "moved on" from Poirot-Wallander type of series (usually 1 episode - 1 solved case) to more sophisticated and intertwined series where events take place in parallel and with flashbacks, and for full comprehension, one should watch all the episodes in sequence. It take more time and dedication, but there are more versatile characters and more complex situations where one can ponder on and over more intensely.Line of Duty is a really fine example of the above. The two series - so far - have been really catchy to follow, there is both mind-work and twisted turns, and they are more or less equal (in my opinion, One has a bit stronger performances thanks primarily to Lennie James as DCI Tony Gates, but Two has a bit meatier script). But anyway, I did really enjoy the course of events, the often thin line between cops and crooks (what about its actuality?), and nice round-up of things that really took place. I would juxtapose Line of Duty with e.g. Engrenages (France) and Ørnen: En krimi-odyssé (Denmark).I am looking forward to next seasons already.PS. 3 and 4 are meaty as well, please proceed :)


                
Line of duty is an exceptional police drama. My parents first found it on BBC2 which I find unusual by the fact that it is hidden amongst a less popular channel. Furthermore, the acting is brilliant and you'll be on the edge of your seat at the end of every episode - it is indeed one of the best police series I have watched yet. I suppose it could be down to the fact that it is very unique, in which the producers have found a huge gap within the crime genre of focusing upon AC12 which is an anti-corruption unit. This means that the entire series one and two focus upon entirely different story lines but withholds the same cast in both the first and second series. All I can say is it is a must-see and you will be hooked from the first episode - and I cannot wait till the third season!


                
This is a brilliant series. It is what I expect from the BBC, rather than the dreg they've been commissioning lately. The writing is tight and unrelenting in keeping upping the ante. It is complex, that is, we have great character arcs, as well as story arcs. The casting is so sublime that you would have to restrain yourself meeting those villains on the street and let's face it, drama is most often successful due to great villains. Shows like this, the tunnel, undercover, etc., make it nearly impossible to watch network TV in Amerika, where it is the same thing over and over again. The conclusion and arrest is telegraphed usually in the 1st five minutes. Kudos, and I don't give these freely, to the team that created this show. I look forward to more with baited breath. Bravo


                
I am really Enjoying this series. There have not been many really smart police dramas no mater what country you compare this with though you will find that this is going to meet all other crime dramas head on and without trying to protect itself, or the sensibilities of the people. They are holding up a sign to the world with this show, and written in bold is that they know they are broken, but they have not been beaten. What you liked about The Wire, and The Shield, the truth, and heart of those shows is here, and shining like a beacon. You will be on board in the first episode, and surely you will want more. There have been a couple of nice shows like By Any Means lately, and deep dramas like Broadchurch, however what you get from Line of Duty is the real world and the real problems that can derail a really good image that is only ever the fragile image that people want to see. It's only when you dig down to the veins, and fibers that you really see the whole story.
My wife, no fan of cop shows as such, was knocked out by this UK police procedural, as was I. Showrunner Jed Mercurio knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men, and for four seasons now his dauntless AC-12 (for anticorruption) unit has been hunting down a ring of "bent coppers" and their black-clad enforcers ("balaclava men") in an unidentified city in the English Midlands (sometimes played by Belfast, btw). Plots are intricate, just this side of bewildering at times, and cases take up at least an entire season.Subplots that aren't resolved right away carry over to the next one, and rumor has it that the long-delayed showdown between AC-12 and the ninjalike balaclava men is imminent. Season 5 starts (in the UK at least) in April; we can only hope that the story arc of the series is long and that it bends towards justice....Despite the show's overall complexity, the individual episodes have incredible momentum, and since the bent coppers are indistinguishable from the honest coppers, a Cold War atmosphere of tension and suspicion prevails, punctuated by occasional, expertly staged car chases and shootouts. The show's cynicism about corrupt officials and local elites--one of the recurring subplots is a mashup of the Jimmy Savile and Kincora Boys' Home child-abuse scandals--really seems to resonate in post-Brexit Britain. You don't have to be a fan of Antifa or QAnon, IMHO, to find this outlook appealing.The dialogue is sharp and the characters are complex, though thankfully not as "quirky" or "damaged" as some of their US counterparts. I couldn't put a name to any of the regular cast members when we first started watching, but they're all fine actors; faces familiar from Netflix and HBO turn up as guest perps and prime suspects--Lennie James (The Walking Dead), Kelley Hawes (Bodyguard), Polly Walker (Rome) and Thandie Newton (Westworld).


                
Although the initial ratings for this series were low I being interested in UK serials went ahead and watched it all. In the concluding evidence the story took an unexpected turn which makes one wonder. In fact it is quite scary if one thinks about it.It reminded me of another UK mini series, The Shadow Line. The law enforcement agencies literally get away with murder when they are in collusion with the politicians who in turn are puppets of the corporation and individuals involved in high stake illicit activities at the cost of general public. When one watches the rulings of the highest courts in the US blatantly favoring the ultra rich who own the politicians and similar acts repeating in the UK and elsewhere I really feel sorry for their populace who live under the false premise that their government is of the people, for the people and by the people. The level of mistrust for the empowered entities, and justifiably so, bodes ill for the future.In final analysis the entire series - excellent in my opinion - should be watched in a single sitting to not lose link.
Line of Duty is a good, good, good series, and I am an aficionado of crime dramas. From the first season right up to this, the fourth, and I hope not final, season, this show has never disappointed me. I know this level of excellence is difficult to sustain, but I look forward to whatever Jed Mercurio and the other contributors come up with next.It would be interesting to see what a collaboration between Jed Mercurio, Ben Richards (The Tunnel), and Chris Lang (Unforgotten) would produce. There are a few awesome crime dramas out there, but those three top my very picky list. What a treat that would be. (Hey guys, I'll be 66 years old in a month, so don't delay). Seriously.


                
I personally rate this show as well-scripted as "The wire" and possibly even "The sopranos", but enjoyment of a show is a highly subjective matter, and haters will surface, even for a show as unique as Breaking Bad. One of my top reasons for enjoying the show is that the characters are just so ordinary. No superheroes in evidence here. Just hard working, normal but intelligent and resourceful people solving complex crimes.I am enthralled by the unfolding of the story, layer by layer, not for it's car chases or the shiny white teeth of the leads. The payoff is in uncovering the cover-ups.In that sense I consider this one of the top detective dramas I have ever watched even though I concede that there are areas that could still be improved upon, but these are minor matters in the overall enjoyment I am experiencing with this show. So far I have only watched seasons 1 through 3 and hope 4 repeats the trend so far of each season being better than the last.


                
I enjoyed Season 1 for the "noir" direction and the clever plot - very Scandinavian in tone as mentioned by others. Have not yet watched Season 2 so hope it's up to scratch.Sure there are lots of holes in police procedures, but I don't trouble myself too much with reality when watching great fiction. Lennie James in particular is outstanding acting the troubled, charismatic DI Gates, and Gina McKee does a good as the ultra-manipulative temptress Jackie Laverty. The rest of the cast put in good solid "backup". Deserving of a special mention, young Gregory Piper is absolutely brilliant as Jake Pilkington and, if his truly nasty character is anything to go by, who would want to be a British city cop???English council estates get the usual bad wrap, and the police force doesn't fair too well either. Plenty of corruption, indifference and red tape on show. Brits really do it best.


                
Another British Drama that shines like a star. I think, although in terms of genre, it is Crime Drama , it's very similar to the magnificent "Wire" They go in different directions, but still provide the same scale of quality. If we've never seen it, you're in luck. You can binge on the series. You will not be disappointed, wonderfully crafted and acted 9/10


                
I watch shows from both sides of the pond, or at least try to.I would like to pretend that the US writers have the same sure grasp of story building as the Brits but if I said that, I would be lying.With season 1, I was hooked after the first episode and, to be honest, the writers did not need to raise the stakes because they already had me. But they raised the stakes anyway and by the climax in episode 5, I was white knuckled. Which is not bad for a cop show where you almost never hear the sound of a gun.Lenny James is amazing. The whole cast is, but he holds the attention like glue.To paraphrase James' character, "If you are going to put the whole season on the shoulders of just one character, son, you had better pick the right one." They did.


                
If I had know at the outset that this series would come to such an abrupt, dispiriting, even nihilistic ending, I would not have invested 5 hours watching it.It begins with a bang, using lots of those chain-yanking storytelling techniques that are becoming all too familiar in US and UK television these days...mostly fake cliffhangers, and deliberately misleading plot reversals...and there are some great bits along the way (such as our hero's Napoleon complex), but in the end it's a journey to nowhere, as evil and corruption triumph and all the efforts of the characters we care about come to naught.I'm not against downbeat drama, but I expect filmmakers to work just as had to lead me to a sad ending as to a happy one...harder, actually...and in the final play, these people simply fumbled the ball. Very disappointing.
This show is one of the best cop drama series you will ever see.Believe me this show is just amazing.Give it a try and you won't be disappointed.


                
Started getting a bit silly in the second series regarding realism I thought and certain casting choices were simply wrong. I haven't seen the other series and not sure I will bother now. I had to watch with subtitles even though I'm a native speaker with good ears and wearing decent headphones. Otherwise, a lot of the time I wouldn't have had a clue what they were mumbling about.The first series was excellent but not perfect (what is?) else I would have given it full marks.


                
Fast paced original drama focusing on the police anti corruption department. Excellent central cast joined by standout guest stars in each season. Intelligent script produces edge of the seat thrills throughout - series 3 is a particular highlight. One of the best and arguably THE best police series around at the moment.


                
A really gripping series with some really good twists and turns.


                
Standard crime procedurals follow a formula.
1. Find bad guy
2. Build up bad guy
3. Quickly wrap up the ending and catch bad guy because the episode is closing on the end time.
We're all used to seeing that, that we don't have the time to appreciate the characters and villains.Line of Duty, this one I stumbled on Netflix. The premise didn't sound that exciting to me at first, I mean it was about internal affiars, "how exciting could that be?" I asked. And boy was I happy to be wrong. I hadn't binged watched a TV show since I was introduced to "Person of Interest".Instead of one episode being about one "villain", rather it's a whole season for one "villain". And no season is the same, which is another good thing.
So we are treated to an entire season where the target of the Internal Affairs Officers are fleshed out. First you're wary of the target, then you become sympathetic, then your wary again! But something else happens and now you're even more sympathetic. And on and on it goes until the final climax that has your eyebrows rising bast your hairline, and your jaw on the floor.
Okay, I'm hyping it up excessively here so be careful. But the point is that this show takes the time and effort to flesh out everyone. The targets aren't just "mwahahaha, I'm an evil psycopath" or "I did it for revenge!" cliches that are littered in crime procedurals. They are very human characters that you might even become attached to.Definitely worth a watch.
One of the best police dramas i've Watched was hooked after first few episodes. Only disappointment was the ending and all the loose ends they just did a little slide show with writing explaining outcomes. Could've fitted another episode in.


                
Great drama but the ending didn't seem to ring true , won't spoil it for anyone but ending is in my view contradictory and diminishes it a little. I found the last half hour implausible


                
I like the fact that there are no goodies on this programme. The more you watch it you realise that the stars of the show are not just as corrupt as those they are investigating... they are actually even worse!Series 1 was amazingly good, it was impossible to guess which way the story would go. Series 2 continued in the same vein with a great new character (Denton) - it dropped in quality in the last couple of episodes and the ending became almost slightly disappointing as nothing really unexpected happened.Hopefully series 3 goes back to the quality levels of the first series, perhaps they could kill off one of the members of AC12 like DS Steve Arnott (only because he is the weakest actor on the programme).
Excellent writing, directing and acting makes this series a must watch.


                
This show is very gripping. The plots and twists would leave you in shock. Excellent actors and storyline through and through!


                
