First of all I never cried during watching this film, It was so predictable, and boring, wooden acting of the whole crew was annoying and laughable, and when Richard Gere died in the film, I didn't cry, I started laughing and I said to my husband, look Richard is ruined, they will not let him act till the end of the movie anymore, and then we both laughed... First of all did you people notice how actors in most today's movies act like wooden puppets just going around and talking random words which they do not feel AT ALL, I noticed it, and I noticed how unnatural Hollywood characters are, shallow and impossible to like... I will stick to UnAmerican movies from now on( it seems that Hollywood makes everything through very old recipes, they will make something well known to audience, they will not experiment, they just want money, they don't make films anymore)... Most people here said that this story in unbelievable , but it is very common, it is just that Japanese people appreciate every hero, even the dog... In my country there are many stories of dogs who spend their lives near the master's grave, or died the same day, and for that thing for following their masters to work and back....WELL EVEN MY CAT DOES THAT... if you are connected to your pet you could expect that... But what was really annoying was that plot hole which I noticed when Richard Gere practiced katana, and I noticed it was fishy , and then at the ending, when they said that man who owned the dog was Japanese, and everything happened in JAPAN, I got depressed, very depressed. Here there was again CHEAP Hollywood, they had to move the dog to America and Americanize everything, but that story would be impossible in America, you know why, because the law says so, no dog should be on the streets, without muzzle and so on, you people are full of laws which are taking your money away( well in my country they do the same)...anyway if we would hope your state was not full of those laws back then In 1924 ( professor used internet in the film), lets say story is possible to happen in America at that time... I get this is JUST BASED on a true story, not that it is true story, but why did they butcher so much the true story? People who made this film know nothing about dogs, and they just put one stupid scene after another to make film last longer, it was agony,farce, they made JOKE out of everything! The only one who knew how to act in a whole movie was a dog so give him Oscar, and apologize to him because you put him in one manipulative LIE/JOKE of a movie... Read about true story and see what really happened...One more thing, it is impossible to make movie out of this story, because it is too simple, and it is too beautiful, it should be passed on , but through different media... and at the end I will give this movie 4 out of 10, because I give dog 10, and to the rest I give -2...


                
This movie was dull, lethargically paced and tailored to those who are the dog equivalent of a "cat lady." I don't hate dogs, I generally hate the owners who won't properly discipline their pet. Many times I'm better at keeping their dog in check because I treat them as a master, not a friend. I digress...Burn me at the stake, tell me that I need to be put down (because a dog's life isn't equal to a human's, but in fact much more valuable according to many who lash out at those who don't love the film), but this movie could have been 20 minutes and have the same impact. I'm not commenting on the history of the story, but the horrid execution of the telling of it...one which I'm not convinced even needed to be made into a movie.Many of those who have rated this movie a 10 are falling into the same trap as women who think movies like Dear John or A Walk To Remember are great. This movie is aimed directly at those who invest too much in their pet (ex. dressing their dog up, carrying them in a purse, making a facebook profile for them). They should have just made this a short bedtime story.


                
Hachi: A Dog's Tale has a good heart, but it's not a feature-length movie. They've stretched the short story so paper thin that it's practically transparent. It's essentially like watching a 90-minute dog video on the internet. However, all the Akita cuteness still can't make up for the slow plot and pacing.


                
