I first knew about "Hachiko: A Dog's Story" because of Sarah Roemer, my favorite actress. When I read more about this movie and found out that Richard Gere and Joan Allen were in the cast too, I was really excited.I saw the movie on 29 Setember at "Festival do Rio de Janeiro" and I loved it! It's really powerful and touching. I loved how they showed the dog's vision in black & white.The only thing that I didn't like at all was that the characters seems to "never take flight". I know Parker (Richard Gere) and the dog Hachiko are the main characters, but I think that the other characters could have been explored a bit more. But I do understand why it wasn't done.If you are a dog person, you will definitely love this movie! It's a sad, beautiful story that touches everyone's heart! A must-see.


                
I'm going to keep this short.I would normally steer clear of this kind of film as I find the saccharine formula hard to swallow. But this got such good reviews that I checked it out despite my better judgement.I've got to say that up to about the halfway mark I was regretting my decision and I was getting a little tired of the perfect family, pleasantville, schmaltzy overdose. And while that still kind of grates on me on some level, it really just serves as a set up for the rest of the movie(the important part) so try not to be put off by that and hang in there, safe in the knowledge that the story only really gets interesting in the 2nd half.I still don't entirely understand why this kind of thing is so touching but clearly it just is and I was crying like a baby by the end of it. So if you've ever had a pet you love and need to evacuate your tear ducts then look no further.Very sweet tribute to the bond twixt man and mutt.
I find myself giving this film a lower vote than it probably deserves and perhaps through no fault of the film itself. Let me explain. I am lucky enough that in my job I get to take people who I work with to the cinema. After planning on seeing a gangster flick, we ended up going into the wrong screen and ended up watching Hachi: A dogs story. We did not move to the right screen as by my watch the film had started 10 minutes before. The point is, from the start of the film when the 'U' classification came up (Suitable for 4 years +) I was a bit disappointed. Now as an actor I like Richard Gere but for the first few minutes I found his character a bit 'wooden'. At first I put this down to him having a bad film, but the more I think about it I think it was somehow done to emphasise his relationship with Hachi. Anyway, half an hour into the film disillusionment had gone and I was really enjoying the film. What was excellent for me, was that because I had never heard of the film, I had no idea what was to come. The film does an excellent job of surrounding itself around Hachi the dog. The only fancy gimmick is the occasional sight through Hachi's eyes which is done in black and white but this is only occasional. There are no doggy voices or doggy thoughts, but you still get involved with Hachi's emotions and how he is feeling. Towards the end of the film I was that into Hachi's character that I found myself bursting into tears, something that had not happened to me since I was 8years old watching ET. Luckily, we were the only ones in the cinema.


                
What goes on inside the head of dogs when they are waiting for their master? Why do they do it, time after time, why do they show so much joy every time their life companion shows up? Don't they get tired of us? I know we do, so why don't they?This is a film about a dog so loyal that he waits every day his master's return, even if the man died ten years ago. The story is a true story, only it happened in Japan in the 20's. The movie was really well done, with as much an emphasis on the dog as possible. People except his master were just secondary characters, a thing that further underlined the dog's single minded obsession and love.Rationally, if you think about it, any man doing what this dog did would be institutionalized as an obsessive compulsive. Would we respect the man in any way? And still, such a simple show of loyalty brought tears to my eyes that I could not stop from coming out. I knew I was inventing human traits for the dog, but it still would not make me feel any less miserable for that animal's sense of loss. I am also making an effort to not turn this review into a "stop killing dogs, you brainless simpletons!" so I stop here.Bottom line: Very simple story, very effective movie, the actors were a little out of it, except Richard Gere who did great. It will evoke more feeling in you than a thousand romantic comedies, even of those that are not a joke.


                
An excellent inspiration of 1970 Japanese movie. There were few movies in Hollywood that made my tissues wet near the climax and this is one. A very good depiction of dog's loyalty to his master based on a true incident happened in 1920. Must admit that I fear dogs but this movie brought much change with my outlook on dogs. The movie features an excellent BGM that did very well gel to the sentiment, I feel. The Censor board has approved this movie for General exhibition so it can be watched with your family. One small issue with the movie that apart from these two main characters the others weren't explored at all. The bottom line is that Hachiko's loyalty made me fear no dogs, instead love 'em.


                
*Contains spoilers* We are not allowed to mention Hachi ever again."Let's watch a film kids<U+0085> it's about a dog, I'm sure it's great<U+0085>" "Does anything bad happen to the dog?" asks the animal rights activist child #3, aged 9"No, I'm sure it will be fine, it's got Richard Gere in, and he loves animals<U+0085>" (no pun intended).She doesn't look convinced.OH DEAR GOD, IF YOU HAVE SENSITIVE ANIMAL LOVING CHILDREN AGED BETWEEN 7 AND 12, NEVER LET THEM WATCH THIS FILM.We are not allowed to mention Hachi ever again. The crying and wailing was unparalleled. Not since child #1 watched the Bridge to Terabithia and sobbed so loudly I had to take him out of the cinema, have we had such a mass crying session like the one that film produced.Richard Gere? Dies Hachi the fluffy dog? Dies. After sitting outside the station for 9 years. Looking sad in the snow.Kids inconsolable. It took 4 episodes of Shaun the Sheep to stop the tears flowing. Even the film title cover on Tivo started them off again.Morning after, we have all come to an agreement to never mention Hachi ever again.
With some films, the usual critical rules can be suspended; this is a dog movie, and it is a weeper, a story of animal fidelity, and its put together by a master of the genre, Lasse Hallstrom. Either you really get into such things or you don't, and there's not a lot of grumbling to be done if you know what you're getting into. Hachi is an appealing little pup who is found by professor Richard Gere, coming home from work one night and who finds himself helplessly captured by the beauty and unabashed attachment of the animal....Gere's curmudgeonly wife (perfectly played by reliable Joan Allen) thinks otherwise. Take it from there: this is not a stupid pet movie full of fire hydrants and stupid tricks--it's a very well-acted, sensitive film, knows just how and when to push a willing viewer's buttons, and you may want to rush right out and find a dog just like Hachi when you have finished using up all the Kleenex.


                
I kept looking for this movie in the cinema. It never played in my area. I finally bought it and saw it on DVD. This was very different for Gere. He finds a lost puppy Akita at a train station and tries to find the owner. Gere falls in love with the dog and names him Hachi. He gets the name from a tag that was on the Akita at the station. Whenever Gere goes to work in the morning to take the train, Hachi goes with him and always waits at the station for him to come home. One day, Gere never comes home on the train, but Hachi still goes there to wait for him for many years.This movie was based on a true story. The real dog and owner were from Japan in the 1930's. Gere says on the DVD feature that he cried when he read the script. I did also, and so will you if you see this very touching story. It is a story of love and loyalty. It probably got lost amongst all the other big budget films in the cinema but it should not be missed on DVD. If this movie doesn't make you cry, nothing will.
I am always impressed by films whose main actors are animals. But in "Hachi" is to question whether this brave animal is not a human (and even if it is not more human than a human). The dog, actors, scenes, music exude so much emotion, are so righteous ... This film plays on feelings, with surprisingly simple but so authentic! I, who do not easily let go of tears at the sight of a film, I have confessed that there, I took a huge slap in the face, and I especially cried until 15 minutes after the end of the film. .. he is one of those films that mark you for life, and that you were watching one, two, thousand times, it will always make you the same effect: it will make you melt. A beautiful lesson in cinema too, as what we do not need to write wacky scenarios, special effects or place every 30 seconds to perform wonders ...


                
I watched this movie twice. Both times I was on an overnight bus in Peru. Needless to say I did not think this an appropriate film to put on a bus as both times by the end I was a slobbering mess. I wouldn't call myself a "dog person" but boy did this just pull my heart strings and make my eyes turn into waterfalls. It was a lovely story overall, really showcasing the strong bond between man and his best friend. Richard Gere is charming as ever and the supporting actors were good too. Keep the tissues handy as no amount of dust can hide the fact your tears will drench your shirt.
It does not matter if the place or location of the train station is correct or not & it does not matter if the dog is a Hachi or not. i think people should focus on the core of the message or the content of the story & am 100% sure that yes a loyalty of a dog can sometimes go to an extreme that even human being claiming to have amazing qualities cannot even avail among each other. for me this story is touching, true & innocent by all means. this is a a very typical story of a relationship between a dog & its owner. the fact is true that loyalty can always remain. remember...Humans hate..dogs don't. its is a true & i had a dog when i was a child.


                
This film left me in a difficult place to review: it's a beautifully told and acted film that I wish I'd never seen. After three days, I'm still melancholy and teary. I would NOT recommend this film if you are very sensitive, nor is it a film for children. I'm a dog owner who is passionate about all dogs-- and the underlying themes of abandonment, confusion and sorrow Hachi endured completely tore me apart.The film is an exquisitely moving story about the "real" Hachi (Tokyo, 1923-34.) I avoid cute tear-jerker films, but this is different. You'll see remarkable scenes of Hachi's face and the joyous bond he felt for his master. But be prepared for tough scenes of a collarless Hachi sleeping under trains in the snow and wandering alone in old age. Only searching out details of the "real" Hachi helped me move past the film: though Hachi faced difficulties on the street, he did have shelter and was cared for. After running away from several new homes, a train station manager gave him a storeroom to sleep, and Hachi had access to homes of shop owners nearby. Hachi still kept his schedule of waiting daily for his master to return on the train, but his basic needs were cared for as best as people did in the 1930's. He lived to be embraced by many who came to feed him and pat his head for good luck, even attended the ceremony for his own statue being installed. Some accounts even say Hachi saw his master's body at the wake, and sat faithfully near him all night. Stories are exaggerated after 80 years, but I hope it's true, as I've heard this helps dogs understand and ease their grief.If you can handle it, watch this film for an memorable interpretation of Hachi's story. If you have a hard time shaking things off, you'll be better off reading about Hachi's noble soul-- and the enduring devotion he felt for his master, far beyond death.
"Hachiko" is based on the real story that actually happened in 1925 at Shibuya, Tokyo. There's a dog named Hachiko, devotedly waiting the return of his master every day at the train station. Unfortunately, one day his master died and never showed up again. But afterward Hachiko kept waiting on the same spot every single day. The story is widely spread and very well-known in Japan. The Director of thiz movie is Lasse Hallström. Hallström made many modest and effective dramas. His famous works are "What's Eating Gilbert Grape?" (1993), "The Cider House Rules" (1999) and "Chocolat" (2000). The movie tries to capture how the event occurs, while the setting and characters are adjusted to United States background. Richard Gere played as Prof. Wilson. Joan Allen and Sarah Roemer played as his wife and daughter. Gere performs his character properly. He looks so compassionate and lovable. The storyline is also filled with simplicity. The plots try to build the sympathy from the beginning and mount up in the end of the movie. The movie simply tells you the story about what happens after his master death. I think thiz movie will easily affect on you, especially if you are a dog lover or a person who ever raise a dog. Thiz is totally just a powerful story behind the real event. The movie is luckily enough to have some good materials to make you cry.Visit My Blog on JONNY'S MOVEE : http://jonnyfendi.blogspot.com
A heart-rending tale of an extremely loyal dog.I have seen some films where dogs talk, do funny things and even be very serious, those were unreal and cinematic. This one is a real dog and a real story. It does not, it does not do funny things or never becomes serious, it just plays itself as a dog. Hachiko, the dog is an amazing one and the story is fascinating too.It was hard to believe that such a dog existed, till I got to read the real story. Akita, the breed of Hachiko seems to be most loyal of all the dog breeds and we are lucky to have such beings accompany us in this world. I am lucky enough to have known and seen the story by myself, although in a cinematic form.It's a story that's worth telling and is worth knowing. There are aspects from where we as humans can learn something I believe. I learned to be more humble, and will try to be more down to earth. Death is a certainty that no mortal being can escape but the way we die makes what we are. This is the take away from the film. I hope to die in a way where I am remembered not just by my family and friends but by many more persons for the rightful deeds.Thanks to the technical team of this film, for taking this story and making us a film, so that many more will get to know of this. Thanks to Richard Gere for acting in this low-key film and making his performance and also the film special. He seems to be a generous human, by playing his part in a film like this one. Of all the technical aspects, I liked the music by Jan A P Kaczmarek.It's a 4/5 for a film that's tear-jerking, moving and memorable.


                
Hachi: A Dog's Tale may be 'syrupy' to some, that word that is a euphemism for 'sappy', 'sentimental', 'feel-good'. It's all that, but I think that what sets apart this film from what this could have been (maybe Marley & Me comes to mind) is that it sticks to being as simple as possible - it's a no-frills kind of light-hearted drama, if that makes sense. As soon as Richard Gere sees this dog at the station - basically as cute a puppy as one will see in a movie that's meant to be taken seriously - that's how the movie will go. It doesn't pump up much artificial drama at all, and the only real conflict is a major one that comes about halfway or maybe 2/3rd a way into the movie, and it's one that is meant to bring on the water-works for the rest of the audience in the remaining run-time.Who is Hachi (or Hachiko as his full name was in the original film and in real life, which this is based on an actual story in Japan)? A dog that is what is sort of written in the unofficial guide-book for good dogs: faithful, loyal and true. It also helps that Hachi is a happy dog, for the most part (maybe a few times he barks, but never really much at all except to be like 'hey!' to a human). It also plays on the universal truth for dogs that when their master goes away it's like the human is going away forever, and when he or she comes back it's like its the first time all over again that they're connecting. Dogs are great in that way, that their love and compassion is basically undying; in other words, the point of the movie is to show a kind of lesson for human beings as well - be more like Hachi, if you can.I think it also helps that Richard Gere and Joan Allen and (yes) Jason Alexander are very good in their parts, and keep things at the (in a good, clear way) simple level that director Lasse Hallstrom is keeping it at. While the score is the one part that could arguably be the sentimental part of the picture, with its soft and fluffy and sad piano and strings, it's perhaps necessary at times too for the story to work. If this were too quiet it might not have the proper resonance; it's one of those times with a heart-felt drama that I'm glad there's a score like this, even if it goes too far in certain moments. What works though is that the actors above, and even actors in smaller roles (the hot-dog vendor, the bookstore worker) have presence and have a good rapore with the dog.Is it a kid's movie? Sure. But it doesn't come with the Hollywood BS that so many movies get; the most wacky 'comedy' part is that Gere and his lovable dog get skunked at one point. Because it keeps it so... basic (is there another word for simple I can use), it can resonate with people since its not trying to pull a fast one or pull SO hard on the manipulation that its Hallmark channel. It's not quite great since there isn't necessary too much in the way of human character past Gere and Allen (there's also their kid and her family, but that's kind of weak), but it is all about the dog, as the title says. And hey, it's not Old Yeller.


                
I have to admit I thought it was a very good film indeed, especially when I found out it was based on a true story. There were parts that almost made me cry.I rated it 8, however, because after Parker died, I thought the film got very slow indeed. It showed all the time how the dog went to wait for Parker, but it showed that for too long, i think.But apart from that, the film was very good, and I'd recommend it to anyone and everyone. It is not boring, which attracts both adults and children, however it is not childish and has no unsuitable what so ever. Very good film.
It will be more efficient to talk about Hachiko: A Dog's Story dividing it on two different aspects: on the one hand, the intention and the message of the story it tells; and on the other hand, its attributes as a cinematographic work.That is because, even more than with any other movie, I am afraid of losing any objectivity thanks to the combination of a canine theme and my obvious predilection for dogs.The story from Hachiko: A Dog's Story is based on a true event (which was previously adapted to the screen in a Japanese movie from 1987 I have not seen), something which makes it more touching.The main reason I liked this film pretty much is because I saw many attitudes and virtues in the dog from this movie I have admired in my experiences with animals during my life.And sure, even though Hachiko: A Dog's Story will be better received by those who love dogs, I think it is impossible for it not to take a few tears even on casual spectators who do not have a particular affection for the canine species.Or even in those who prefer cats (I am not judging them).And besides, the movie is very entertaining, even though there are some redundant scenes which do not add too much to what we already know.Another fail is that some details from the screenplay feel a bit forced.For the rest, I liked Richard Gere's performance, Lasse Hallström's direction and, most of all, the screenplay, because it never betrays the characters and it does not explode the sadness from the story with cheap sentimentalism, since instead of that, it shows a sober and honest portrait of the level a relationship between a dog and its owner can get, something which will not surprise anyone who experimented genuine connection with a pet.In summary, I enjoyed Hachiko's: A Dog Story pretty much, and because of that, I recommend it with confidence.


                
This was an incredibly beautiful movie. It was very moving and I had tears streaming down my eyes at the end. I knew dogs can be loyal, but Hachi is the most loyal dog I've ever seen. He's so beautiful and sweet. It makes me want a dog just like him (an Akita).I must admit this movie was sweet AND sad. I was "ooing" and "ahing" at the sweet moments and crying during the sad moments. Lasse Hallstrom is one of my favorite directors, and this movie is no exception. After seeing "Marley and Me" and really loving that movie, I decided to take a chance on "Hachi" and I'm so glad I did. I recommend it to any dog lover. You will love it.


                
Even as one of the few movies where an animal is the main character, this one is special. It's about a relation between a man and a dog like no other, and gives a new meaning to the phrase "Man's best friend.".Based on a story of a real dog Hachi that waited for his deceased master for 9 years in Tokyo's Shibuya station, Hachi is a moving story about dog's loyalty that transcends animal - human barrier. Nowhere in the world has a story of this likes has been reported, and in his native Japan, Hachi is still the symbol of how families should be faithful to one another. This is no ordinary animal's movie as the animal not only gets the top billing, but gets it above a Hollywood A list actor Richard Gere. Although the movie's setting is transplanted to a town in Rhode Island, the story is essentially the same as that of the original Hachi. Richard Gere makes his second appearance on a Japan themed movie, first being "Shall we Dance ?", as the University professor.For the real dog Hachi, a bronze statue of him was erected in 1948 at Shibuya station in front of an exit that now bears his name "Shibuya eki Hachi ko guchi" (Shibuya Station Hachi Ko Exit), and is a popular landmark for people to use as a meeting place.This certainly is one of the best movie Richard Gere starred in, and also one of the best animal movie of all times. It will move you in a way no other movie would, and is highly recommended for viewing.


                
I'm pretty sure there are several dog movies but this one really captured the bond between a human and animal quite well. It is based on a heartwarming true story. I rarely get emotional but when i watched the ending scene, my eyes were filled with tears which is not surprising since i am one of the biggest animal lovers on the planet.No wonder why they built a bronze statue of the real dog Hachiko in front of the Shibuya train station in his honor in Japan. I highly recommend this movie for animal lovers.


                
Mmm..I don't know what to say!! The story is so simple, appears to be ideal, but it's true. It is a story about pure love, friendship and loyalty that touches you in more than a scene. Really, there is no need for a movie to be complicated to enjoy it. "Hachi: A Dog's Tale" narrates the story of the statue of Hachiko which stands outside of Shibuya Station in Tokyo. I've always heard this story as an example for loyality, but never believed it, dunno why. Back to the movie, it is a bit slow paced, despite its short running time. Actually, I found this slow pace as an advantage, make you feel how deep the relation between the dog and its owner(friend). What deepens this feel is the soundtrack which fits the scenes perfectly-in my view. Cinematography is good too. I have nothing to add as it is so simple as I mentioned before, but one last thing; a special recognition to the dog. I wonder how he acts to be like crying(not kidding). Now, am planning to watch the original(Japanese)version, but this one is worth seeing.


                
The story was well told and evokes emotion, no doubt. Acting was good. Not much more to say other than get the tissues ready, because you're going to cry.


                
There are movies which don't bore you as many times as you see them.
This is such a movie.The movie shows how much the attachment between human and animal can reach. The loyalty of the dog to its master and the treatment and respect of the protagonist to his dog just overwhelms you with emotions.The movie is just perfect.


                
Oh my, hold everything. You want to be prepared to watch this movie with plenty of Kleenex on hand. It really does resonate for viewers who have a special bond with their pets, but I think it probably moves a few hearts of those who don't share hearth and home with a favorite canine. It's a bit ironic actually, to think about the picture's impact on a person, when a dog's reaction to it's missing owner invites more sympathy than one feels for the owner himself, who died of a heart attack.Well, not to get too morbid, this was a sensitively told tale that one finds astonishingly hard to believe when it's revealed that Hachi celebrated his master for ten years after the man's death by showing up daily at a train station at the end of the work day to greet him. Based on an actual event that occurred in Japan in the 1920's, the film has been Westernized for an American audience with Richard Gere in the lead role as a university professor who adopts a wayward Akita puppy found wandering around a train station. But the real star is the pup who matures into the adult Hachi and takes full possession of the viewer's emotions on the way to a heart tugging finish. It's a family friendly film that you're not likely to forget for a long time once you've seen it.
If you watched this in a cinema I would suggest you take some tissues because when the lights turn on and with people around, you want to make sure you dry those eyes before they turn on. The film stars Richard Gere and he is also the producer and I can only describe this film as quite easily the saddest film I have seen in ages. Definitely top 5. The story is about a puppy that gets lost, only to be found by Parker Wilson played by Richard Gere and they develop a very close bond with another. Let's just say that's the happy bit of the film and watch the trailer for the sad bit. If you can watch the trailer with out sadness hitting you I suggest you get in touch with your inner emotions or just aren't human. I loves this film but watching it once is enough for me because it is just to sad to watch this one again. Definitely not a film I would buy on DVD for this reason but I don't think it really matters to Gere and he did it because it is a very emotional tale based on a true story and is a must watch, even if it is just once.


                
