Knowing the real-life story behind it, Hachiko: A Dog's Story (2009) has been made in a sort of staged documentary style, similar to the kind of movies often seen on documentary channels (e.g. NatGeo), however without a narrator so common in documentaries, and including well-known actors (Richard Gere, Sarah Roemer and Joan Allen), making it more suitable for theatrical distribution.Before my last year's visit to Tokyo I've been unaware of the true-life story this movie is based upon. In time an occasion came up to meet a friend in Shibuya city, contemporary center of Tokyo's youth culture (shopping, fashion, nightlife...), and that's how I've learned about the popular local meeting point for all Tokyoites, the Hachiko Akita dog statue just outside of Shibuya Train Station, but the real story behind it has been still eluding me ever since. After seeing this movie, and some additional research on the web, all pieces have fallen into place.In retelling the story of common bonding between the dog and its owner, so usual that it comes so natural, film is moving at slow pace, following events of an ordinary life, though not without occasional comedic and dramatic overtones. Even past the dramatic highpoint, when common acts of affection and loyalty evolve towards such an unheard-of faithfulness and ultimate devotion, pace of the storytelling does not change, relying primarily on fine details and emotional build-up. Of course, this might not attract everybody, providing that majority of movie audience today is highly dependent on fast paced, action packed scenes, getting thrills from 3D CG stylized ambiance and suspense, high volume amplitudes and aggressive, often rude highlights of any other nature. However, for those who can do without it, and keep alive their interest even in a simple story, who won't shy away from emotional involvement (as if this can be controlled), they shall easily find themselves consumed by its mere beauty and warmth. Usual man's-best-friend story, spiced with an intriguing yet inspiring detail, shall leave you a bit sad, inevitably pensive, but ultimately delighted. Even more so after the reading of the real-life epilogue.


                
Well, I just came back from seeing this in Shinjuku earlier and I can honestly say that I have NEVER seen so many people crying at the end of a movie.... it really is a sad story.However, it's also a heartwarming tale of loyalty, about how people and dogs are more than just friends and, I guess most of all, about how a dog's love for its master never fades - even after his/her death!Richard Gere was fantastic in this movie, he bonded really well with the dog and it never felt like watching an actor at all - it genuinely seemed to be a movie with his own dog! I highly recommend this to people of all ages. There are enough bits to laugh at (seeing Richard Gere teaching his dog to play 'fetch' was brilliant!) and the story is portrayed really well (even if there were some changes made to the original Japanese tale)
I just saw this movie today, and I'm so glad I did.It is based on a true story and it's only natural that the movie is great because the real story itself is very touching. One of the things that sets this movie apart from the other movies that involve animals is how they stuck to reality instead of throwing in some a-little-hard-to-believe elements here and there just to make it more entertaining.Sometimes they show things through Hachi's eyes as opposed to human eyes, which helps you relate to him and understand how he felt and what he thought then, as well as emphasizes that Hachi is the main character of the movie.This is not just a kids' movie. In the end everyone including myself was crying because we were so moved. It is a must-see.


                
If your date is late an hour or so , you would most likely leave. You wouldn't wait 2 or 3 hours , let alone a day for he or she. Think about it, would you wait all your life for someone to return. Over time we tend to forget, and move on with our lives. That's in our nature, We humans have the tendency to forget. This story is great portrayal of a Dog who's whole revolves around one man, Parker. Its a simple story told in a simple manner, yet it nearly brought tears to my eyes. The scene of Mrs. Parker returning to the town, and finding old and tired Hachiko still waiting explodes the screen with raw emotion.I have a dog, and he doesn't fetch either.Mans best friend has never been a man.SEE the movie............
i saw this movie in an airplane, i expected some boring movie about a dog or whatever story . when the mother saw the dog after 10 years at the station again , i didn't know how fast i was searching for my sunglasses to hide my eyes.i was crying because of the beautiful story , i was so ashamed if anyone could see me having so much tears all over my face. i think i was just in time finding my sunglasses , nobody noticed my state of emotion while watching this movie. i think other people had the same problem . this movie makes you cry . i don't like dogs around me or near me , but this story was just too dramatic to stay cool and pretend it doesn't get you. the movie keeps going and there are no weak parts.great movie .


                
You can try to watch a movie for every day of the year and all the romantic drams going but nothing I swear will pull at your emotions more than this movie. Oh boy, what a movie and what a story! there are few of us in this life who don't love dogs or had a dog as a pet at some point in our lives. We know the Lassie stories of course.but this is based on a true story and the dog who plays in this movie deserves an Oscar for himself, if ever they give Oscars to canines! Richard Gere, as he was in Amelia, was peripheral but perfect in the companion role for the lost dog he finds at the railway station.You have been warned by others and I am warning you now, call it a spoiler if you like but don't you dare watch this without some back up[ - tissues or hankies at the ready. I am a grown up and I never stopped crying through this movie, its a sad but happy poignant movie at the same time.No blockbusters but it is unmatchable and unmissable entertainment for a movie, top drawer! OK, as with Veronika Decides to Die, they have transferred the story from its original location and having never visited Japan, though living in south east Asia, the film works perfectly. Hachiko is definitely a legend and one day I hope one day I will also visit his statue (I think there is more than one?) thank you for the production for such a delightful film!
It was extremely hard for me to hold my tears. I had to keep reminding myself its a movie, but then a thought of this being a TRUE story kept taking the earlier thought over. This movie will shake you from inside out... wanna know the true meaning of love, loyalty & affection? Watch this... learn from a dog.This movie is based on a true story and will leave you in tears. This is a true tribute to a dog's loyalty and faithfulness to a man. Dog is not just a man's friend, its way way more than that and this movie does an excellent job putting that on the screen. A must watch movie. You will want to go out there and get a dog after seeing this one.


                
I have just had the privilege to watch one of the most touching movies i have seen in many a year.In this age of cgi special effects,and explosions and violence.It was great just to watch a simple movie.A movie about the wonderful relationship between a master and his dog.Of loyalty and friendship. This movie brought me to tears and i am not ashamed of it to admit it.Richard Gere was good in his role,but the dog Hachi,was just absolutely magnificent.The bond between the two,you could see from the start.It is truly a great family movie and make sure,you have the tissues ready because you will need it. A truly great movie.Get it out on DVD.


                
You choose to watch a movie such as this knowing darn well that it's going to turn out to be a tearjerker. You set yourself and steel yourself against it. There will be no tears, you insist to yourself. It's just a movie - even if it is based on a true story in Japan almost 80 years ago. But it's still just a movie. No tears. But in the end you have to succumb. This is literally an emotional roller coaster, with ups and downs from beginning to end. I've not always been really impressed with director Lasse Hallstrom's work, but he truly managed one of the finest and best told tearjerkers I've ever come across with "Hachi."The movie features a good performance from Richard Gere as Parker, the man who adopts (somewhat unwillingly and definitely against his wife's wishes) an Akita puppy who found him (for the point of the story is definitely that Hachi found him) and we follow the development of a bond of loyalty and even friendship between the two that transcends even death. Gere was good, but it wasn't an incredibly demanding performance, because the dog is the star. He waits anxiously day after day at the train station for Parker to come home from work, and Parker looks forward to the greeting. Then, unexpectedly, Parker dies, but Hachi never gives up, going back day after day to the station for the next ten years, waiting without hope for Parker to come off the train, all leading up, of course, to the ultimate tearjerker moment - both sad and happy - as Hachi finally dies lying outside the station one night, but in death sees Parker come out of the terminal and runs to him as they're joyfully reunited. A man and his dog reunited. If you're not shedding tears by the end of this - seriously, what's wrong with you?This is basically a much more serious version of the "Marley & Me" type of storyline. Where that movie focused on the clumsy lovability of the dog, this one focuses on the undying bond of loyalty the dog shares with its master. This is truly one of the most emotionally wrenching movies (both happy and sad) you will ever come across. (9/10)
I had good expectations from this movie having seen it rated high on IMDb. I also knew that it was basically a dog's tale. From the opening scene where a boy proclaims Hachiko as his hero, I already had a plot in mind of some incredible deeds from the dog. But boy! Was I caught offguard! This very very simple tale just blows your mind. The single mindedness of devotion, love and loyalty is enough to leave you embarrassed, mentally and emotionally. There is no way you can stack up to this guy. I have seen some supposedly sad movies, but this one without any apparent sadness or serious moment still brings tears to your eyes. An incredible feat by any standards. A must watch.


                
A movie about a dog and his relationship with his owner(s). Didn't we have something similar with Marley? Not quite! Where Marley struggled to keep up and keep you invested to the characters and/or the dog(s), this one hits all the right buttons. From beginning to end it grabs you and takes you on an emotional roller-coaster. You must be of stone, if this story leaves you completely cold (or you just don't care about animals or didn't like the movie) ...And although quite a few people seem to get the story wrong (saying something about the dog, that's not true that is), even if you knew where this was going, it still is very emotional. It's about friendship and loyalty. It's about respect and decency. And all this portrayed mostly without words.It is very nicely shot and the music score is good too. Based on something that really happened, this is a story that you should watch. And you don't have to be ashamed if a tear or two roll down your cheek ...


                
First I don't always cry for movies and even if I do, I've never cried so bad like I did when watching this one.It told a story where a cute dog forms up a solid friendship with his master. And a huge twist, something that this kind of dog wouldn't learn to do, happens the day the two friends' (dog and master) fate is changed. Then something very touching and sad happens, which tells us the fact that true friendship and loyalty will never be broken.And so, why was I touched by this film? While a dog can always wait for his master no matter what happens, we people don't always have that much loyalty. Many of us can be a bit "cold", or in another word, forgetful at times. We can be forgetful about the happy times and bitter stuff that we've been through with our friends, our loved ones when we argue or fight for just some little occasional conflict for instance. We can be forgetful about those good moments when we pretend that we can't forgive our friends for certain small mistake just because we like to pretend to be serious sometimes. However, this story reminds us of the value of cherishing something that's more worthwhile than some trifles which could possibly break our friendship and loyalty to somebody.The movie is a small-budget one, and perhaps that's the reason why so many still haven't watched it. I highly recommend everyone watch it, even if you're not a dog lover. Actually I don't have a dog either.


                
I am French, but work and live in under developed countries, and currently in Mozambique. In my compound, my Brazilian neighbors gave me 5 days ago a copy of a movie: "Achiko" with Richard Gere. I got so moved that I am now browsing Internet for learning more about some other faithful dogs such as Greyfriars Bobby (Edinburgh - Scotland), Shep (Fort Benton - USA), Fido (Borgo - Italia),... and so many...My neighbors do not like dogs. They like cats! They were so moved by the movie that they knocked at my door a night, and gave me a DVD, saying, "JP, you HAVE to watch this..."I did. And days later I just think to myself: "This word is walking on his head. Here, where I am, I see people dying of hunger, malaria, aids... I should think: there are more important matters than just a story between a dog and his 2-legs companion... But, no. It does not matter if it is a dog or not. It matters if you are, again and again, shown that being loved is a true gem, wherever it comes from."Cinema is not always about technology, pre-conceived ideas about timing, 600 pages stories and things that should happen.Simon & Garfunkel once sung "the Sound of Silence" This movie is the Sound of Silence. The silence of love.I am amazed to see the reviews in IMDb. I sorted by "Hated it", and discovered than only 8 comments were below the current average of 8.1 ... and the lowest reviewer gave a 7, which is very very fair! I have seen so many reviews about other films in IMDb where at least some reviewers were saying "it is the worst movie ... ever". Here no such thing. It is possible to be unsatisfied with some aspect of the movie, but, as it is based on a true story, and the film has not added "Hollywoodian" effects, it stays rather simple, somehow difficult to classify, but it lets a print in your soul.TO ANY ONE READING THIS REVIEW: GO, RUN, FLY, go see this movie. It will stay in you like a good little companion<U+0085>


                
So you thought the end of Marley and Me was sad? Oh, you haven't seen nothing yet. Hachiko takes the opposite approach. Instead of the dog dying on the owner, the owner dies on the dog. This is actually based on a true story except it happened in the 1940s instead of in the present day. Richard Gere, well, it's Richard Gere, what more can be said? Richard Gere doesn't need to do too much to light up the screen. But the real star is (are) the dog(s) that portray(s) Hichiko. You don't expect so much emotion and facial expression to come from a canine and that is why the last twenty minutes or so of this movie is so gut wrenching. We feel for the dog as if it is human, perhaps feel even stronger for it because it is not human and doesn't know that its master isn't going to someday reappear. This is a very fun, lighthearted movie that at the last moment turns into a true tear jerker. It becomes so sad that it is quite disturbing. Keep that in mind if you are planning to show it to the kids.
The movie is a lively rendering of an incident that dated back to earlier 20th century in Japan. It's a beautiful depiction of perspective of humans and those of animals for each-other. Those who are compassionate, kind and have a soft- corner for all the innocent animals of the world and maybe specifically 'dogs' then it is a must watch for you. For others, who really don't much believe in such things, watch this movie, It'd make you do ! The soul-stirring loyalty offered by the pet will make you cry along. A deeply touching story that will make you agonize with the situation of the movie as you watch it !


                
This film literally ripped my heart out and threw it in the bin. When he keeps going back AFTER he dies, just destroys me. I'm a teenage boy, who doesn't really care about much other than myself, girls and school. But, I also enjoy watching films. And being a bit of a dick head when it comes to reviews. But, this. I enjoyed the bonding between Hachi and 'Parker', leading up to the end where Hachi begins to feel left out and has less attention from Parker, up until the day Parker finally dies. This is where it hits you. Because, (may I say this is very well portrayed) the connection between the two is so strong that Hachi goes back everyday after his death expecting him. God Almighty. I cried for days.
First, I would like to say that this is going to be my first movie review I ever made and I am feeling very happy as I am writing it. I watched this movie today and what I felt after watching it that every movie lover must watch this one. The movie is well-scripted and well-acted at the same time that let you connect with the characters more personally. It clearly depicts emotions of an animal towards human especially when it comes to loyalty. The incidents in the movie are well connected and reveal how an animal could be so loyal to his or her master. No doubt, the main character of the movie is Hachi, the dog, but others have performed their part elegantly. Watching such kind of flick is unforgettable as it made me cry only because of its beautiful piece of narration and Hachi. Thank You...


                
Though skimming IMDb for the last 10 years,I never felt the need to write a review,yet this movie moved me & still am struggling to find words as the emotions captured here are beyond comprehension.A true story yet more fantastic than a fantasy,this is the tale of a professor and his beloved dog who got attached forever so much so that even death failed to separate them.Hachi returned again and again to train station with the hope of meeting his master and eventually died at the same station yet never lost the hope.The perspective of love,of loyalty,of hope,of commitment have been collated here so beautifully you will eventually end crying..Richard Gere has again showed what a legendary actor he is and what separates a superstar from a performer..In fact its a family movie effectively showing the true value of family,the role of attachment,and a true meaning of altruism...Hats off...Its a MASTERPIECE.


                
I registered to IMDb now itself to write a review of this movie.Firstly i am feeling bad of missing to see this movie for 2 years.Not the least i am glad to see this masterpiece now.I have heard in some others reviews that the dog in the movie should receive Oscar award, its worth giving an Oscar for that one.You wont find Richard Gere acting , he just lived it.I am so moved for one particular scene where Allen meets Hachi(dog) at the station waiting for deceased master after 9 years of his death.The music,photography were brilliant.You wont regret after watching this movie....It will touch your heart for sure and you will remember it for a long time.
This movie was an incredibly good movie, but wow... the emotion! I love my movies and watch nearly anything and animal movies always get me crying... But this one, I was a mess at the end. To the point of bawling with a headache, for real! It was just an amazing touching movie and the fact that its a true story just makes it hit even harder. I am a dog lover through and through and I knew this movie would get my heart strings so it took a LONG time to watch once I finally got it home.. Im talking months and months!! But it was a great movie, just very very sad. I think the actors were well chosen for the movie too, Richard was awesome and played the dog lover part very very well.


                
The movie starts off with Parker (Gere) finding Hachi at a train station and not wanting to leave the dog alone. He takes him home for the night until the owner comes back to the station to claim him. His wife (Allen) clearly is not to fond of dogs and tells her husband that there is no way that they will be keeping the dog. Of course no one claims the dog and the wife realizes how much the husband and the daughter (Roemer) love the dog so she caves and lets them keep it. You clearly see the bond between Hachi and Parker with all the time they spend together and Hachi actually starts walking Parker to the train station and waiting for him when he gets back. One day Parker goes to work and has a heart attack and dies, but Hachi continues to wait for him at the station. Even after years of his passing Hachi continues to go back every day to wait for him.I'm going to start by arguing a couple of reviews I have read. First negative review was from UK critic who said he wasn't at all touched by this movie and the only real thought he had about it was how stupid a dog could be for waiting around for 10 years for his dead master to return. This clearly makes me angry, let's be real this is a dog not a human and I'm not saying dogs are dumb on the contrary I think there very intelligent, but I don't believe they no what happens to there master when they die and this movie is a perfect example of that. The last time Hachi saw Parker he was going to work so for all we know the dog just thought he had to eventually be coming back.Second review was how uninspired he was by this story and would have been more inspired if the community would have tried to help the dog understand that his master was not coming back. Parker's daughter, who probably loved him almost as much as parker himself, tried to take Hachi home with her, but Hachi didn't want too he wanted to wait for the one he loved most at the station. Let's be honest, when someone is stubborn and thinks what they are doing is right you can't convince them otherwise. Well that's how I felt about Hachi he was stubborn and no one was going to be able to get him to stop waiting.My thoughts on this movie are clear it was easily the most heartfelt movie in years. When I read all these reviews about how everyone sobbed I was thinking "Ok, I might tear up a bit, but there is no way I'm going to sob" Well I would just like to say that my wife and I have joined the sobbing club. I have shed a tear for very few movies and I see a lot, but there was something special about this movie. For me what made Hachi so special is most dogs I know love attention regardless who there getting it from, but of course they love there master just because they spend most there time with them. If a dog were to lose there master and someone else takes the dog and gives it just as much love and attention the dog will love there new owner just as much as the old owner. This wasn't the case for Hachi. He had an opportunity at Parker's daughters, but he didn't want to stay with her he loved his master so much that he was willing to not get the full affection that a dog deserves from another person for the rest of his life for just that one chance that Parker would return to play with him one more time.Hachi is a dog that could teach a lot of people a lesson or two on how to love one another and to not give up on love as fast as many people do now a days. Please rent this movie whether your a dog lover or not. This is not about how much a pet loved its master, its about how wonderful of a connection two friends had with each other.
First of all, I like to point out that I never wrote anything on IMDb, since I had nothing to tell, but after watching this movie, I felt an obligation to do so...As many people who already commented on this movie, I found myself to be very tough and emotionally untouchable by many things, but since I already have a dog (Golden retriever), I could not but to be touched by how loyal this dog, Hach, was to his master. Fact that this is a true story based movie, only made my experience far more deeper than I originally thought it would be. Yes, family of the professor could take this dog, keep him warm, give him home, or at least let him go every day on station to wait for his master and return him back home. I know I would do that, but somehow, producer of this movie wanted to make story even sadder, so he made it look like this particular dog was all alone on himself. I must tell that this fact somehow made me sad. Solitude is something I would not even wish for my enemies.Because story and family involvement could be better, I give this movie a solid 9 and I must point out that this is very strong rating coming from me because I tend to criticize movies for even a smallest mistakes.Must see movie for all ages. Definitively a movie I will always remember!


                
My son loved "Marley and Me", which is cool, he's 10. His Father (me) liked it but loved this movie more. Being Japanese American I had heard about the original story from my Mom. I thought the movie was very well done, not going for cheap sentimentality but showing very well the bond between Hachi and the Professor. I have read some other posts where the readers took the family to task for seemingly "abandoning" Hachi after the professor died. For one, it's a MOVIE. Also, we don't know where the professor's wife was going, maybe dogs weren't allowed. Also, the daughter had more of a bond, so that is why Hachi went with her. I also don't think she "abandoned" him either. She was wise enough to know that she and her family would never replace the professor in Hachi's heart and would be miserable if he stayed.I really liked the way the "reunion" was handled. They say your life flashes before you before you pass on. In Hachi's case, he remembered the happy times with the the professor. When the professor "steps" through the door and they are reunited, it's like Hachi's 10 year wait has paid off. They are back together and now he can move on as well.The coda with the grandson telling the story to his class and getting a puppy of his own (which he called Hachi) was a nice touch, but not really necessary. The last scene of Hachi in his final "sleep" after seeing his master again would have been more powerful.My wife and I had tears in our eyes. My son liked the movie, but made me laugh when he said, "It's just like Marley and Me only the owner died" 10 year old kids are sometimes sharper than grown ups!
I knew about the story and I have read it before. But the visualization is simply wonderful.You don't get to see much of "my dog does the same" acts like in Marley and Me , but its about one very special dog, well portrayed and beautifully scripted.Movie is extremely emotional and if you are weak you will most likely need lots of tissues.I could not see the the real star of the movie 's name roll in the credits except for the BOONE's animals for Hollywood. Background score is pretty repetitive although it just manages to do justice to the movie.Richard Gere's performance is neat, the rest of the cast put up a just above mediocre act.Hachiko is brilliant although his part of the script does not involve too much tricks other than waiting in the station.Overall .. Great movie... must watch for all dog lovers and even if not this movie can convert you into being one..


                
A puppy at a Japanese monastery is crated and sent to the US. The crate's tag tears, and when the puppy pushes his way out of the crate at the train station of a small Rhode Island town, Parker Wilson, a professor of music in nearby Providence, takes the dog home for the night. His wife isn't happy, but after failing to find the owner, she lets the dog stay. A Japanese friend reads the dog's tag, "Hachiko" or "Eight," a lucky number. Parker can't teach the dog to fetch, but the friend explains that the dog will forge a different kind of loyalty......If this film doesn't bring tears to your eyes, then you honestly have a heart of stone. Its a beautiful movie from beginning to end, and Halstrom has made such a sad story, into one of unconditional love, a dog giving up a family home in order to wait for his master.It's based on a true story of 1923, and its a remake, but its classy and the additions of Gere and Allen make this movie all the more worthwhile.In anybody else's hand, it could have easily been a TV movie cropping up on some mundane station that nobody would see, so its lovely to see that this story shall be seen by more.A great film to watch with the whole family, and when you are feeling down.Beautiful.
