I am sorry folks, but I have to say I really cannot understand the overwhelming feelings everybody gets by seeing this movie...When I saw it I looked at my watch to know how much more time I had to spend with this Kindergarten nonsense.So why this verdict?First of all: The movie tells a story that doesn't deliver any excitement! It is not even the amusingly distorted reality of a Quentin Tarantino we used to know. This story could have come out of every little kid's head. It doesn't have anything intelligent in it, neither anything inventive and it goes on for hours... the story has appropriate content for about 30 min. The rest is just awfully enhanced scenes that are supposed to leave a somewhat cool image. Doesn't work. Even the previously seen cutbacks that Tarantino often uses just confuse and are not in any way cool. Second: Some guys go to Germany and kill Nazis. Ah really? Do they? The only Nazis they killed were a handful of guys, one of them being man enough to rather die than betray his companions. Is this the ugly face Tarantino wanted to give the Nazis? A brave soldier that is more valiant than any of the "Basterds"? Certainly not --> fail And what happens to the terrible Nazi-killing Basterds? Well they all get killed by Nazis except two who are taken hostages --> wow, what terrible revengeful monsters they are...Third: Any characters? Yes one! The only role and the only gleam of hope for the entire movie is Chritoph Waltz who is building a truly deep and very detailed character here. Great acting! Brad Pitt really sucks and is completely out-acted by Waltz. Never seen a such a weak performance by Pitt... And the rest? Well, some Germans you've never seen before and will never see after. When the movie started and I saw the group of the seven Basterds I hoped to see something like the "Magnificent Seven": A group of extraordinary guys, each one with a distinct character, making their way to their destiny fearless and knowing... I was then very disappointed, when I saw the "inglourious Basterds". No details at all, no characters, no real men, just some random guys you won't remember who were not given any chance to differentiate themselves... But in fact you don't even need to differentiate, cause the "Inglourious Basterds" except Pitt hardly play any role in this movie...So I was really disappointed, and seeing this movie on place #40 of the greatest movies of all time is the only thing about this, that leaves me with my mouth opened...
The acting is overacting. The plot does not exist. The story is completely unbelievable. This is fiction with over-fictional elements brought in a semi-serious setting. A farmer hiding Jews in the basement, being "interrogated" friendly by a Nazi, while the guards wait outside, they come in later and shoot them all and let one escape. That is a bad start. It is stupid. The stupidity does not end. This was not a funny movie, this was not satire, this was not entertainment, this was a long long list of stupid scenes, one unbelievable plot hole after another. An insult to history, an insult to every intelligent movie-lover. I was mad after seeing this. I really do not understand why people give compliments to this movie. Really.
I really like Brad Pitt. I like QT as well.This movie however... Oh my god, I had relatively high hopes and was severely disappointed.There were aspects of it that were very entertaining...Oh say the first 30 seconds of 20 minute long conversations in the theater or bar. (Ok I'm estimating, probably high... but really were you trying to put me to sleep????) What probably irks me most though, is the shootout in the bar.I don't really think the other table knows what is going on, yet the second the shooting starts at "our" table, all those soldiers are up and shooting. The whole thing goes down in what, 2-3 seconds? Are soldiers trained to just get up and start shooting before they know what is transpiring? I should really go back and time that scene.... 20 minutes of boring dialog followed by a 3 second shoot-out.And this movie is rated in the top 250? There are some really great scenes, like Brad breaking the Nazi solder out of prison. Some really funny stuff at times, but man - this is one poorly written movie.
Before i start with this comment... let me assure you that i am a Q.Tarantino fan and i loved Pulp fiction and Reservoir dogs. i also don't mind the bloodshed and gore in his or Eli Roth movies. I was overjoyed when i heard about Brat Pitt in the movie., and believe me i waited for this movie for about 4-6 months.And... i was totally disappointed. This movie is just historically incorrect in many ways.. but also an insult to human intelligence.STORY: OK., i will agree that there is no RULE for a movie be historically correct or to show who is good or bad., i will surely enjoy Nazis getting tortured in a fictional comic book story... but u cant forget the fact that the person in the story is Hitler and he is at least a leader of country which terrified the whole world.If he and most of his important generals are guarded by 2 men is one joke., then to kill him., the whole of Britain, Russian and their own German resistance who have been trying infiltrate into his inner security fail., a small group of Jewish Americans with a terribly acted leader Brad Pitt achieve this? oh.. i forgot.., it is the Americans who save us from Aliens to terrorists(who keep changing from time to time).. and now even from Nazi Hitler?Screenplay: I really enjoyed the conversations between characters in both reservoir dogs and pulp fiction( i have not seen jackie brown)., but here.. i was bored. i waited and waited for that one interesting bit, but it never came.The only consolation might be pretty brilliant acting by Christoph Waltz and pretty good picture and sets.Basically i dint find any part funny and was very much bored., not once or twice., but 10 times.. in all those patches... a big disappointment to me..,
I am not the sharpest tool in the shed. I failed a lot of classes in high school including history and I know Hitler didn't get shot, burnt, and blown up in a French theater. I think every school kid knows he shot himself in a bunker a coward's death. This movie not only glorifies Hilter's death but also glorifies mutilation of enemy soldiers. Also unless I am wrong, "Nazi" was a word pertaining to a political party. Much like democrat or republican, if you were to think about it not all German soldiers were in the Nazi party they got drafted, and shot if they fled. This movies like many others paints the German race as pure evil and messes with history. There is a lot of subtitles that fly by so if you are a slow reader as I am, keep the DVD remote handy to pause it. Most of the movie is spoken in French and German with very little English. I wouldn't call this an "Action Movie" since most of the movie is coffee talk. One scene is about strudel it goes on too long as many of the talking scenes are nothing about the plot...Also if you are watching it expecting a remake of the 1978 Italian movie of the same title, it is not. The plot lines are mile apart and I prefer the Italian movie which is much better.
he first thing you see on the screen in Quentin Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds is a title card that says, "Once upon a time in Nazi- occupied France". In film geek shorthand that's a nod to Sergio Leone's masterpiece of the spaghetti western genre Once Upon a Time in the West, and Tarantino has said in interviews that this is a spaghetti western that just happens to take place during World War II. But more importantly, as with Leone's film Tarantino uses "Once Upon a Time" to let the audience know up front that what they are about to watch is a fairy tale, and any expectations of realism or historical accuracy should be left at the door. Because believe me, realism and historical accuracy are the least of this movie's concerns.The story proper begins with Nazi Colonel Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz) intimidating and manipulating a French farmer via trademark Tarantino dialog into revealing where he has hidden a Jewish family. Landa then has his soldiers kill the family, but the girl Shosanna (Melanie Laurent) manages (and to at least some degree is allowed by Landa) to escape. Meanwhile, a special unit of Jewish-American soldiers has been assembled by Lieutenant Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt). Their mission is to go undercover in France and kill as many Nazis as possible, in the most horrific ways they can think of. In addition, every member of the Basterds is expected to scalp their victims.Returning to Shosanna, we find her now living undercover in Paris as a theater owner. She winds up hosting the premiere of a new Nazi propaganda film after a chance meeting with its star, Nazi war hero Frederick Zoller (Daniel Bruhl). When Shosanna discovers that all the highest ranking members of the Third Reich will be attending the premiere, she comes up with a plan to take them all out. The Basterds learn of the premiere as well, and not knowing of Shosanna's plan set one of their own in motion.Okay, for those of you who just want to know if the movie is fun, and don't really care to dig too deep: yes, the movie is a lot of fun. It's everything you expect from Tarantino – the great dialog, memorable characters, references to obscure pop culture trivia (my favorite this time being one character using the alias "Antonio Margheriti " – look it up), near perfect use of music, and of course the crazy, over the top violence and action. But like Kill Bill Volume 2, this is a more mature Tarantino. Basterds feels more personal, and although he still borrows from other movies, it's done in a less obtrusive way. Despite what you may have been led to believe by the trailers, Brad Pitt is not the star here. He's a blast hamming it up, but his Lieutenant Rayne is more of a large supporting role. The real star of the film is Melanie Laurent, and her strong, believable performance anchors the film and gives it a much needed sense of weight to balance the exploitation movie antics of Pitt and his crew. Christoph Waltz has gotten the lion's share of acting praise for his portrayal of Landa, and it's certainly deserved. However, I was also impressed with Bruhl, who has the difficult task of playing a character you dislike yet still need to feel some sympathy for.Okay, now to go looking for deeper meaning in a movie that most people probably just want to sit back and enjoy with a bag of popcorn and a coke. Most critics have seized on a quote from Tarantino that the film is about "the power of cinema bringing down the Third Reich". That's true up to a point, but I see Basterds as being just as much, if not more, about the power of film to do evil, specifically in the form of propaganda.There are overt references in Basterds to Leni Riefenstahl, the female director who made the infamous German propaganda films Triumph of the Will and Olympia. And then there is Stolz der Nation, the faux German propaganda film-within-a-film we see in Basterds. Stolz heroically depicts how Zoller single-handedly kills hundreds of American soldiers. In one of the few moments in Basterds to humanize a German character, we see that Zoller is clearly uncomfortable with this cinematic depiction of his deeds, even as the audience cheers. Later there is a scene involving Zoller and Shosanna where the film exerts its power over Shosanna at a critical moment. She knows the film is a lie, and knows Zoller for what he is, but for just a split second it affects her and she pays a price for it.Stolz is the kind of thing we are used to seeing as propaganda, but is it really so different from watching the Basterds beat, scalp, and gun down dehumanized Germans while making wise cracks? What are The Basterds if not a kind of propaganda? They are essentially cartoon characters, calling to mind the covers of WWII era comic books (almost without exception drawn by Jewish artists) where Captain America or the like would deliver a roundhouse punch to Hitler, or some bespectacled caricature of a Japanese soldier. Of course when the propaganda is on our side, we tend to look at it as just harmless entertainment. Yep, torture, murder, is kosher and now funny. Goy lives matter. Expectnothing less from JollyWood. Soon 60 shades of pedo and other movies will also be kosher.The fake ratings of such a terrible movie who shill on social media. Same sheep who glorify Schindler List that was always Fiction.


                
It is a pretty brutal film. It feels like some form of "revenge film" I wonder if that is now a Genre? Anyway, we have the usual shtick of "beat the nazi!" BUT with such gruesomeness and ,,, well, if you have seen it, you'll know! So, we have Jews vs Nazis. This time, the Jews win! BUT, again, and to hint back to my title - this is re-writing history! What did George Orwell say about that? From STUDYING history I learn that the National Socialists were fighting Russia in the East AND THE UK AND U.S.A in the west! How about that huh? Without getting into conspiracy theory, suffice to say that what happened to the jews by the Germans is NOT what modern cinema tells u! Spielberg's SHOAH Foundation Proves this! These types of films simply continue to tell the lie. So 10 year old children will go online and say, "I hate Nazis!" - They do not even know what they are speaking about. Their actual words do not refer to ANYTHING! It really feels as though these films simply detract from honest history and In my opinion telling FANTASY - such as this film - only works against Truth.I'm not against Fiction! I love some of Tarantino's work. Yes! Pulp Fiction, LOVE IT! But, we must have balance.


                
I simply ask one question, if this film were directed by anyone other than Quentin Tarantino, would it have even been released? The answer, I fear, is a resounding 'No". It fails at almost every level between the opening scene and the final action scene. In between we have pointless scenes of gratuitous violence and long periods of tedium. I love Pulp Fiction, Snatch, The Long Good Friday, Kill Bills, Lock Stock, Layer Cake and many other 'violent' films. In each case there are excellent story lines woven with genuine humour. In this film the humour is completely lacking, apart from a few, nudge-nudge, wink-wink "this is an in-joke and it really is VERY clever, trust me, I'm a great writer and film director." I hope this proves to be a one-off failure for Mr. Tarantino.


                
A film about the Second World War without Russian? This is really funny.The only adequate scene - the first one.My first thought after watching the film - a flight of paranoid delusions. But given the director can say otherwise: good cynical, but too bombastic farce.The film is not worthy of Oscar and repeated viewing.I'm very afraid that this film will see my grandma or one of those who erected the red flag over the Reichstag.2/10 for a sense of humor


                
I really don't like this movie. I think right now I'm rating it like a 2 or 3. I haven't seen "Death Proof" but I think I've seen all the other ones he's directed and this is definitely the worst. In fact his films have been getting worse all the time and the last respectable thing he did was "Jackie Brown" as far as I'm concerned. I'm pretty much through with him. His credit is totally gone with me. As far as I can tell he makes movies to feed the fantasies of 14 year old boys. It seems like his early movies were fun and different, even if they used a lot of stuff from older movies they put it together in a different way. But this movie and "Kill Bill", these are just stupid movies to me. Pornography of violence basically.There's something to be said for the old exploitation movies. I'm not entirely ignorant on this subject. He used a lot of ideas from the B-crime movies of the 50s with "Pulp Fiction" and "Reservoir Dogs", and then he did I guess his version of "blaxpoloitation" with "Jackie Brown." But the thing is, that movie was made with respect to black people. It's not even really a blaxploitation movie at all, just a decent modern caper movie that uses music from the 70s movies. But with this "Inglorious Basterds" thing, it's really like he's trying to make his own "Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS" movie. But he's trying to have his cake by making it "Ilsa, She Wolf of the Jewish resistance." And ultimately he just presents this sad tableau where every character and every scene is dehumanized and dehumanizing. If he had actually wanted to make a movie that would have entertained Hitler, he couldn't have done better.I want to give this movie points for being different, but how can you reward somebody just for being worse than others, for daring to go further into violence for the sake of violence and justifying it with some lame-arse stuff like "oh they're all Nazis, who cares what happens to Nazis?" It's still dehumanizing in my opinion, it debases us to be encouraged to fantasize about committing this kind of violence to anyone. Movies like this are what makes me scared for the future of America, which I love dearly. Don't try to say that the "Basterds" are presented in some kind of negative light, or the film is a parody of American Exceptionalism. That's just an excuse that Tarantino built into the film with a few throw-away lines like "watching the Jew Bear bash a Nazi is the closest thing we get to a movie." Just to be self conscious about using violence and hate as a cinematic value (like the most base and disgusting exploitation films Tarantino apparently adores in a different way than I ever could) is not to justify it, not even in an aesthetic sense.
Anticipating the release of what was supposed to be Quentin Tarantino's return to form, but not necessarily fooled by the almost-radioactively-glowing praise it had received from contributors to IMDb, I had optimistically imagined the film would be strewn with witty dialogue, high tension and atmospheric camera-work. What I saw instead was shallow, indulgent and pretentious. The characters had all the depth of bad comic book caricatures, and scene after scene involved actors having to explain the inconsistencies and downright unlikelihoods in the plot to each other. Any tension intended by the constant interrogations was drowned by repetition of questions and painfully obvious answers. I always knew Bande Apart's latest offering would gain an almost automatic entry into the IMDb Top 250, deserving or otherwise, but its current ranking of 68 shocks me. Tarantino's easily-pleased and over-loyal fans, by enjoying this movie as much as they profess, must share the eroded attention spans of the coked-up sycophants that appear to make up Tarantino's inner circle... seals, faithfully honking their applause for a steady degeneration from one of the world's most exciting directors into the washed-up hack he is quickly becoming. I will stop short of pointing out the Top 250's other most undeserving inclusions, let alone it's many glaring omissions ... movies whose thorough production ethics shame most modern efforts... but I can recommend (especially to any other film lovers out there on this cusp, who suspect the emperor has no clothes) that outgrowing Tarantino, at least, will probably coincide with a major leap forward in their ability to correctly assess the merits of a film. This one sucked.


                
This starts out silly/cool, getting sillier by the minute and ends up something like a twelve year old's revenge-fantasy of what should have happened to those meanie Nazis. Sort of like Abbot and Costello Meets the Nazis. Or The Three Stooges' Kooky Trip to Göring and Hitler. I admire the hell out of QT, but this is a miss and the praise lavished on this movie is a sad case of the emperors new clothes. The key scene for me is in the Parisian cinema. With Hitler enjoying the Nazi-propaganda film. Hitler seated in medium close-up; moronically joyous at the violence inflicted on the allies by the nazi sniper on screen; slapping his knee and wheezing laughter from his sweaty face. Disgusting as his reaction may be, this is a mirror-image of the faces around you in the theater five minutes later, at his extended come-uppeance. -So, if you had the same moronic joyous reaction; I guess yet another Gloryhole got Basterdized during the showing of this movie. And you're sitting on it.


                
I have watched several other QT movies and I liked all of them. Not this one though. I thought QT had a dark but intelligent sense of humor. Seeing this movie has convinced me that it's dark only. He takes a subject as tragic as WW2 and makes not one single effort to honor the very real suffering that millions of people had to experience. No show of empathy, compassion or mercy. The bloodthirsty revenge theme worked for Kill Bill but that was one messed up woman hunting a bunch of even more messed up freaks and the visual art and music were the main quality anyway. I'm actually starting to question QT's emotional health. This movie makes him appear as a sadistic narcissist. It's simply disgusting. One point goes to Waltz' performance which was amazing and really wasted on a film like this. I wish I hadn't seen it, it made me depressed and disillusioned with parts of humanity. The emotional response this movie invoked in me is pretty much the straight opposite of what I got from Avatar, which I also saw recently. Then again, I guess the universe isn't quite done yet with its need to manifest nihilism and violence and that's probably why these lame movies keep being made. But maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm just too stupid to understand QT's genius. If that is the case so be it, I'd rather focus on other perspectives of reality than this one.


                
I can see I'm in the minority regarding this film but with the exception of Waltz's performance there really is NOTHING to recommend.This is an awful film by any standards and is a very poor offering from Tarantino. The dialogue is unusually sloppy and the action sparse and badly executed. The camera work and direction appear to be ..... Actually I'm going to stop there.Im giving this 2 stars - I'd like to give it more because Waltz really was inspiring as the SS officer - I'd even go as far as to say he's almost deserving of an Oscar nomination for best supporting actor if you assume Pitt is the lead.This is a bad film. One of the few films where I have actually hated myself for enduring it.


                
I tried 4 times to make it through this movie. 3 times I watched the captivating first scene, which is Tarantino at his best. This scene, wonderfully shot, paced and acted with rich homage to the classic films that inspired Tarantino, is one of the best set-ups for a story that I've ever seen.But then the movie diverges into Tarantino's awkward, adolescent cocaine-edged ultraviolent fantasy world of cartoonish characters, exaggerated theatrics, lack of plot and supposedly justified violence and I just couldn't keep watching. It isn't that the violence bothers me so much (though I still have trouble understanding why people love to watch this kind of violence so much) as the utter pointlessness. 3 times I looked to see that there was still about 2 hours to go and just couldn't do it.Last night I finally made it through the movie this time and for a couple of reasons am glad that I did. The "basement scene" was just as good as the opening scene with great acting, subtlety, twists and turns, great period sets, a patient and deliberate pacing that you just don't see in modern movies, and really just great cinema and story telling. The end of this scene spoiled it slightly for me, I just don't know why Tarantino has to always resolve tension with some ridiculous over-the-top violence, but still worthwhile viewing.The other bright spot was Christoph Waltz, who kept turning in a "who is this guy?" performance. Exhibiting charm, great acting chops, and moving the story along he was a pleasure to watch. Later in the movie when he suddenly broke into fluent Italian I almost fell off the couch and now am a major fan of his.But the rest of the movie was just barely watchable. Re-writing an alternate version of some of the best-known events in history is ridiculous to begin with, but to write it in a way that completely lacks logic or adherence to any believable actions is beyond stupid. He could have at least made an interesting plot of it. It assumes the audience is ignorant of the events and their consequences and impacts on millions of people worldwide.Indeed it must be ignorance and stupidity that rates this film among the best of all time. I can only imagine young, ignorant, bloodthirsty Tarantio fans drinking up the violence and cheeky on-liners and rushing to IMDb to pay homage to their only favorite director. Tarantino could create great movies if he'd just grow up a little.
For some reason I had high hopes for this movie, probably because of the hype. It turns out it was ALL hype I am saddened to say. I have no problem with the exaggerated violence, it's expected in a Tarantino movie. The problem for me is that the movie comes across as thoroughly dumb or even daft. From Dusk Till Dawn looks like a masterpiece in comparison to this crap. Time spent watching this movie is purely wasted time.The story and dialogue is cliché, mostly boring and even childish. It could be a sign of the movie that the only really good acting in this movie is by the villain. How this movie has received any good reviews is beyond me. Another HUGE mystery is that this movie could be even nominated for ONE award. On one hand Christoph Waltz was by far the best actor in the movie, but then again there was no competition was there? My guess is that there must have been a drought in the movie business or a total lack of ideas the whole of 2009. Do yourself a favor and stay away from it. Tarantino has made good movies. This is definitely not one of them.


                
"Inglourious Basterds," a title which is stolen from a superior Italian trash flick by Enzo Castellari, is pure pretentious drivel.The opening scene of the movie is the only one which can compare to films from the glory days of Quentin Tarantino. The rest of the movie just descends down a long and boring hill and putters to a stop. It never builds any kind of strong characters. We are given a glimpse into ONE of the 'basterds' past but none of the others. It's like Tarantino said every few days of shooting: 'You know what would be freakin' kewl? If we did ....this....' It's all a jumbled mess with no theme even. It bounces from Spaghetti Western, to Italian Exploitation to Eastern martial arts and back around again. I got lost in the 'coolness' of it all.Brad Pitt who I happen to think is a fine actor, fell way short in this. His little southern accent gimmick wears off after about 10 minutes and his character just seems comical. And Eli Roth as 'the bear jew ?' What the heck is that!?This Tarantino guy just happens to be the ONLY film maker in Hollywood that is brash enough to steal from the masters (Leone, Fulci, Castellari, Argento, etc) and doesn't mind adding a dash of modern Hollywood lameness to it. It's ashame Americans are dumb enough to fall for it and we don't seem to have room in our hearts for more creativity in films these days.A total example of style over substance. It will not stand the test of time. I'll stick with the originals. Blue Underground releases a good handful every year! This is not a good movie. 2 out of 10, kids.


                
This movie is totally bullshit. I was disappointed. especially the end of the movie is very nonsense. How come it became the number 70 with oven 135 K votes, I don't understand. I would prefer a low budget comedy movie instead. But the usual Tarantino violent scenes were successful bu not enough. I really wonder what the point of this movie would be if the members of the "Basterds" were not Jew. It is obvious that most of the voters are citizens of the USA and they like to see the USA in the first place all the time and because the directors know this and they want to earn more money they use similar items with similar subjects. No thanks to Tarantino for this ordinary movie.


                
This movie shows Tarantino's deterioration, clumping together his predilection for gory violence with comic book approaches to story and character. This is sad, because the bits and pieces of the movie and the acting are quite good, but the scenes add up to an unpleasant mess. Add to that the ridiculous story line--a successful assassination of Hitler, Goering, Goebbels, and Bormann at a movie premiere in Nazi occupied Paris after D-Day--as if any of those would travel to Paris at that point! What's more, Tarantino doesn't even care enough to keep his dates and the count of years right from scene to scene.Tarantino has always been a self-indulgent writer/director, but somehow in the early films it worked. Even Kill Bill worked, particularly part 1, despite his stretching it to a four hour film. But the sort of weaknesses that always lurked close to or at the surface in those and other films clearly have taken over if Inglorious Basterds is a harbinger of the future. Quentin, let's get a little realism into your film making.


                
After seeing many Tarantino films and understanding and enjoying much of his darker humour and intellect, I was hugely disappointed in this movie and the way it was presented. Although many of his films are depicted with violence which is graphically portrayed this time seemed a bit out of the ordinary and over the top. Maybe after seeing so many of his films I was wasn't expecting the level of violence as it was portrayed or maybe I'm just tired of seeing the same old thing from him. The film opens up well and cements Christoph Waltz's character beautifully as the Sly, calculating and deadly SS officer, a character the was so well developed that you really hate him and just want some him to get what is deserved. Daniel Brühl also plays his annoying and persistent character well and although you want him to get what he does, you also feel some pity for him. But for the rest, well they just filled the gaps in some very long drawn out scenes that by the next scene you have try and remember what the hell is going on. Story was less about the Inglorious Basterds and their exploits and more about the plight of a young Jewish girl whom escapes from the murderous (Christoph Waltz). So where this title comes from is unknown. Brad Pitt just rolls with the punches and doesn't deliver anything extraordinary. Nice touch to use an old Universal Logo at the beginning and roman numerals under the title like a 1960's war movie. But thats where the similarities end. Tarantinos effort to cross a war drama of old with his own unique style failed in my eyes by using Scalping and other various violence to make it entertaining. Very disappointed in this.


                
Infantile twaddle. Whatever happened to Quentin T? He never grew up, he grew down. Is he Benjamin Button? This silly project feels like someone gave a 10-year-old $75 million to make a movie. Only the German actor Waltz, as a smarmy, ostentatiously "charming" SS man, connects. Everyone else is either a kitschy stereotype or a cipher. And there's no fighting. Oh, there's plenty of killing, a good dose of torture, but never that staple of the war film, the "battle" in which a unit tries to take an objective. Instead, too many long long scenes of dialogue building to little spasms of -- not action in the classic movie sense but as I say--killing. Ugh, particularly an ending (SPOILER ALERT) that asks us to cheer as hundreds of men and women, most elderly, are burned to death. Memo to Brad Pitt: Your imitation of Warren Oates leaves much to be desired. Plot: the Basterds (a Dirty Dozen-like team of Jewish GIs working behind enemy lines) and a Jewish guerrilla fighter who just happens to own a movie theater and a beautiful German movie star who's actually a British agent all plot independently to blow up--again Dirty Dozen style--a movie premier to be attended by the German High Command, including Hitler and minions. None of the "basterds" is a character; instead they've been picked for a "Jewish" cast to their face. How repellant is that. The two chicks are more than degraded by the script, the plot is silly. I know it's not supposed to be "realistic," of course; but it aspires to a weird blend of hip, movie-savvy referentialism, naive '50s war comics with atttitude gore, and a buzz of irony as we sophisticates enjoy Quentin's send-up of prole lit. It's way beyond his meager talents, and as he's gotten older he seems to have gotten more arrogant and more contemptuous of his audience. Of course it's slapdash, impossible, overplayed and nauseatingly violent to no good purpose. A complete waste. And I love the people who call it "unique." Yeah, as in "uniquely stupid."
I actually sat down expecting to like this movie, and honestly even tried to enjoy it. Ultimately, however, it failed to entertain me.Rarely have I seen a film that I thought so dull and childish. Besides two scenes that were nearly interesting, the rest, bad as they were, were dulled even further by lengthy and unlikely dialogue punctuated by scenes of gratuitous, gory violence.The entire film seemed somehow schizoid, straining precariously on the verge of being a farcical comedy, yet ne'er so much as a titter was raised from this viewer.The long-winded opening scene held some promise, but between that and an interesting rendezvous later in the movie, it sagged. After the second nearly-interesting scene, it free-wheeled downhill.The tedium of the movie was almost salvaged by the compelling performance of Waltz, and Laurent, attractive and convincing, almost injects a touch of passion... but it wasn't enough. I frequently lost interest.At points, I was almost offended - not so much by the ludicrous plot, inept writing/direction, or wanton brutality, but by the sheer audacity, inaccuracy, anachronism, and blatant historical theft that attempts to lend gravitas and meaning, but simply insults the intelligence.It's a shame that an otherwise promising line up was wasted on this sloppy, thoughtless material - how can such a great cast be so... miscast?I've given it two stars. One star is for the opening scene, which I found genuinely gripping, and the other is for the strongest and most interesting character in the entire movie, some of whose scenes are the only ones worth watching if only for the chilling cordiality that shrouds the menace he infuses into every line and gesture.The other eight stars are in a drawer somewhere with Quentin's lost marbles.


                
I'm glad I didn't pay to see this trash in a theater. The only "inglorious bastards" are the writers and producers of this film. The sadistic Brad Pitt character was a slap in the face to every "Greatest Generation" American that served honorably during the war and to every Native American on the planet. The plot was so full of holes, I'm surprised my television wasn't dripping disgusting liquids all over the floor. TWO GUARDS IN THE WHOLE THEATER PROTECTING THE TOP FOUR Nazis OF THE THIRD Reich?!?!?! SEDAGIVE?!?! The only decent uniformed character in the entire film was the German soldier that was beaten to death with a bat. The only bright spot I saw was the acting of Laurent and Walsch. It was their great misfortune to have participated in this dreadful experience.


                
The movie is pointless. My opinion is that... actually Im not even sure if I can come up with at least 10 lines that IMDb requires me to produce. so I will try to come up with something to justify my 15 dollar movie ticket. I know that you cannot expect historical accuracy from the entertainment industry but this movie just makes no sense to me. There are no action packed sequences. No historical accuracy. some violence? If you liked the movie for its violence, then ...well then this movie is in your category. You must've liked the Hostel and Hostel2 too.:) I noticed most critics in major News outlets gave it 5 stars and seems most people bought it. I just didn't get it, I guess thats why I'm not a critic:)One good thing about the movie is its linguistic scope. Not uncommon for Tarantino. Very good set of actors. Christofer Waltz will finally be recognized after 20 years of acting in Europe..!;)


                
Inglourious Basterds is cinema of the immature, of the man-child, of the loser film geek, of the fan-boy.It does not nourish the soul nor does it feed the mind. It's masturbatory and narcissistic... it might be the perfect reflection of what American culture has become. It's empty macabre fun, it's the cinematic equivalent of binge drinking.Basterds is very well made bad film. Tarrantino's script is overly wordy and strains at being clever. Clichéd lines abound - see anything the Superstar Celebrity and terrible actor Brad Pitt spoke.The film's biggest sin is that it is, yet again, a movie about movies. Tarrantino's last three films have been the same thing. When will he stop cribbing from the genres he loves and think up an original idea for a film? My guess is never. Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs were audacious flukes by a young video store clerk. The middle aged man who wants to re-imagine movies from his favorite film genres bores me.Tarrantino chronologically- One Good movie, one great movie, one fair movie and the rest are garbage. His movies are overly examined and justified by sycophantic fans trying to find a touchstone to the "true cinema". A bit of advice to them- go watch the movies Tarrantino steals from for touchstones. His synthesis of regurgitated cinematic genres gives us nothing new... except for shining a light on the excesses of our pop culture -"oh dude! Did u see how that guys head came off with a samurai sword in Kill Bill 2?! AWESOME!" This is what happens when a video store clerk/film geek/pot head gets to live out his fantasy.The night of the 2010 Golden Globes, as Scorsese is receiving the Cecil B. DeMille Award for a lifetime of achievement in film, the cutaway to Tarrantino after the film clips from Scorsese's career is jolting. Tarrantino is scowling. He looks as if something sour flashed across his palate. I then realized that Tarrantino barely belonged in the same room as Scorsese. Maybe he realized it too.


                
