Hack screenwriter Joe Gillis (William Holden) accidentally falls in with faded screen legend Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson). She lives in a crumbling old mansion with her butler Max (Erich von Stroheim). She refuses to believe that she's no longer remembered and will never make another movie. She gets Gillis to stay with her and rewrite "Salome" which she thinks will be her comeback. Gillis has no other choice and things slowly get out of hand.A VERY cynical view of Hollywood--especially for 1950. It shows what Hollywood does to people like Norma--it makes them stars, tells them that they're great and dump them coldly when they're no longer needed. It also takes swipes at directors, agents, screenwriters, even entire studios! It has a tight quick script, is appropriately filmed in gloomy black and white and is masterfully directed by Billy Wilder. Everybody thought this was a bad idea when it was being made. It was believed to be too cold and vicious for the public. Also Holden was warned it would ruin his career by playing a younger man kept by an older woman. But it turned out great and is now rightfully considered a classic.The acting is almost all good. I never thought Nancy Olson was that good. Her character is too pure and sweet to be believable. Everybody else is right on target though. Holden is just great in his role. You see the pity, anger and helplessness on his face when he realizes Norma is falling in love with him--and he's trapped. von Stroheim was equally good as Max who encourages Norma's delusions. Swanson however is just magnificent! She has a very showy role and could have overplayed it--but she doesn't. She's mad for sure--but you only see it peeking through every once in a while. When she loses it completely at the end it's frightening. If she had played it like that all through the movie it never would have worked. How she lost the Oscar that year to Judy Holliday for "Born Yesterday" is beyond me. This is a must see and a true Hollywood classic but VERY cold and cynical. A 10 all the way."I am big--it's the pictures that got small". "All right Mr. deMille--I'm ready for my closeup".


                
The plot has been discussed at length in other comments.To me SUNSET BOULEVARD has it all. The comedy is sly, the drama is of epic proportions because it's not JUST a story about Hollywood or an aging actress. It's really about the giving up of dreams.Norma's dream of return, held to for 20 years, is ironic because Norma so closely parallels Gloria. That Norma cannot make a comeback in 1950 even with connections to DeMille is sad. The sadness is due to Norma's refusal to accept her aging or the politics of Hollywood that worship youth. It's ironic that Norma has no place in Hollywood (the parade has passed by) but DeMille is still working and in the scenes from Samson and Delilah we spot other old-timers like Henry Wilcoxon and Julia Faye--still working but not as STARS. The final irony here is that Gloria did make the comeback that Norma couldn't make.Norma has a thing about STARS.... she says at one point... "the stars are ageless." Well this is true in a filmic sense. I can still watch Gloria Swanson in THE LOVE OF SUNYA or MANHANDLED and yup, she is ageless. She is still twenty something. That screen image is forever held up like a bad mirror to the reality of being 50. On another occasion Norma says "nobody leaves a STAR, that's what makes one a STAR." True again, but it's not just Gillis who is leaving Norma, her fans have already left. Hence if one is left, one cannot be a STAR.Gillis also gives up his dream (temporarily) of being a writer, Max gives up his dream of directing, and even Betty gives up her dream of love with Gillis. Scary stuff.The film is also about LOVE. Look what these people have done for love: love of another person or love of fame or whatever. Max loves Norma. Norma loves Gillis. Gillis loves Norma and Betty. Betty loves Gillis and Artie. Artie loves Betty. And all of them love Hollywood.Everyone is crushed at the end of this film..... The scene of Max "directing" the scene as Norma descends the staircase is one of the all-time great scenes in a film. Norma's final speech, which sums up everything ("there is nothing else"), is devastating. Can she really be insane and make this lucid speech? If she's NOT insane then she has knowingly killed Gillis to prevent his leaving her (a STAR)....... Also the shots of Max blinking away tears as Norma descends (supposedly into madness) and also of Hedda Hopper crying are equally as devastating as Norma's speech about "being back" and "all those wonderful people out there in the dark" (which of course includes us every time we watch the film).I cannot think of any other film (possibly CITIZEN KANE) that works on so many different levels. And Gloria Swanson gives the greatest performance in film history!


                
Until 1950, American films were strictly entertainment, some deeper than others. Studio executives were very protective of image and star-making. In essence, everything seemed perfect. Billy Wilder, Charles Brackett, and D.M. Marshman, Jr. created a stunning work of art that splits the Hollywood sign in two and exposed a dream factory for what it really is: a struggle to both gain and keep notoriety in the limelight. "Norma Desmond" and "Joe Gillis" are at opposite ends of this warped Hollywood mindset, with Gillis, played by that most cynical of actors, William Holden trying to pay the rent and Norma (Gloria Swanson) living a lie as a silent queen whose star burned "10,000 midnights ago". How a picture with such a snide look at the industry could come out in 1950 is simply mind-boggling, considering some of the light fodder that came out of Hollywood at the time. It has inspired many modern day disciples such as Altman's THE PLAYER, and Sonnenfeld's GET SHORTY, both of which took their vicious, hilarious parodies to the jugular of the movie capital of the world. SUNSET BLVD is the father of all socially oriented pictures regarding the movies and is by far the best.The images of this beautiful black and white powerhouse are fascinating and unforgettable: the dead writer floating in a pool, eyes wide open, looking right at us at the beginning; the eerie pipe organ that plays by the breeze in the middle of one of the most deep and dustiest sets ever; the funeral ceremony of the dead monkey in Norma's courtyard ("That must have been one important chimp. The grandson of King Kong perhaps." says Holden in a delightfully crisp and wise voice-over.) Holden pulls his car into a driveway off of the boulevard that will change his life forever. He is the emblem of the struggle to get notoriety. He has only a few B Movies to his credit. Swanson as Norma Desmond is the symbol of lost fame and has become the talk of legend. What is ironic about her character is that she may be playing herself in an odd way. She WAS an actual silent star whose career went down the tubes after the talkies came about. Her madness combined with Holden's last drop of naiveté combine to give us one of the most electrifying "give and take" between actors I've ever witnessed.Both lead parts were passed over by several actors. Holden was eventually forced into it as a contract player. How could you pass on such a script? Even "wax figures" (as Holden calls them) Buster Keaton, H.B. Warner, and Anna Q. Nilsson come to Norma's to play bridge, of course being Hollywood outcasts themselves, after the invention of sound in film. Some of the dialogue takes a swing at actual movies and people (GONE WITH THE WIND, Zanuck, Menjou). This must have brought the house down in Hollywood screening rooms throughout the town. Louis B. Mayer even condemned Billy Wilder for "ruining the industry". The film is sad and darkly humorous depicting the antics of Norma, who is quite insane, and Holden who is going along with what Norma is giving him, but has plans of his own. Another wax figure still alive and kicking in 1950 appears as himself in an important role. Cecil B. Demille, who once directed Norma/Gloria back in the silent heyday, tries to set her straight, telling her pictures have "changed". They had indeed, especially after this searing comment on celebrity status. I wonder if they knew what they were creating while making this gem.Scenes are shot right on the lot of Paramount Studios (even the front gate), and Norma's mansion is an unforgettable piece of history and gloom with a floor that "Valentino once danced on." There is so much to discuss, but little to enlighten you on how great SUNSET BLVD is without you seeing it. Just two years later, films began to crop up with the same tainted view of Hollywood, most with varying degrees of deception. SINGIN' IN THE RAIN, one of the all-time entertainments quietly had a nasty taste in its mouth regarding celebrity and the invention of sound movies. Watch these films closely and see the skeletons of the modern Hollywood bash films.RATING: 10 of 10


                
This is such a great film on so many levels I can't really settle on where to begin.  It is so beautifully shot (in that stark black/white that only nitrate negative could achieve), has a witty, clever and extremely well-written script, features some of the best acting in film's history, acrobatically balances the main plot/subplots with expert precision, contains some of the best characters on celluloid, has many true-to-life parallels (Swanson's career/real life cameos/DeMille's involvement/etc) and is peppered with such great dialogue/narration that today's film writers should take note.  If that weren't enough, there's even a cameo by silent film great Buster Keaton (among others).One of the most appealing aspects of this film is how, in the story, an aging, forgotten star is trying to recapture a bygone era (the silent film era).  What's interesting is that now, so many years later, we're looking back at her looking back.  To present day viewers, Gloria Swanson of the 1950's is a long forgotten lost gem and to experience her own longing for the 1920's is especially captivating (and a little chilling, I might add). I don't think this film could have had that same effect when it debuted and maybe this added dimension holds so much more appeal for today's audiences. We all know that nothing lasts forever, but we don't often consider the abandoned participants; much like the veterans of a past war.In response to the famous Swanson line (while watching one of her silent films): "...we didn't need dialogue; we had faces", I'd like to also add that they "didn't need movies; they had films."They truly don't make them like this anymore. 10/10


                
Although this movie was made 8 years before I was, I saw it for the first time yesterday and I was blown away! I have spent my life missing what has just become one of my favorite movies of all time.The acting was superb, the storyline riveting and the characters were people you could care about. Max was my personal favorite. There was a quiet, tragic dignity to him. I expected something to be revealed about him but was not prepared for the truth.I've always liked William Holden but my experience with Gloria Swanson was limited to her brief role in "Airport 75". I will now look for more movies by her. What an expressive face.It was fun to try to recognize some of the old time actors that were portraying themselves. An all around excellent movie. One I truly regret having waited this long to see. But it is definitely a case of better late than never.


                
Usually, Cinema is considered as the most delicate form of art because it has the biggest potential to become 'dated' one day. Once a movie thought as 'mind-blowing' can easily become a 'turkey' a decade later.This is not the case here. Sunset Boulevard still remains as one of the most eerie film in the cinema history and still a realistic depiction because of its reflection of Hollywood. It can give you the idea of the dream land's transformation into a nightmare.The film is about a troubled script writer 'Joe Gillis and a forgotten silent film star Norma Desmond's weird relationship and the madness that surrounds them and the people around them. Don't wanna give much of the plot, on account the fact that it is a pure gem that should be invented without knowing nothing. But I can talk about the cinematic aspects of this movie.This movie has some very eerie moments because of using a great cinematography. The moments of burying the dead monkey and watching the old film of Norma Desmond are exquisitely presented. The movie has some one of the most innovative scripts of cinema and that is certainly justified by the unforgetable and memorable lines captured from the film. The directing is top-notch but who are we kidding it is Billy 'the great' Wilder. The end of the movie is one of the most chilling part of the movie and it can truly give you some nightmares about insanity. The narration of the movie by the head character was probably done by this movie at the first place and this influenced so many movies afterwards.One of the reasons that this movie is still not dated is because of its courage. The Hayes code was at its peak at the beginning of fifties which manipulates the producers to limit their bad thoughts on one subject, especially on Hollywood. The movie got 11 oscar nomination but only got 3 of them. Apparently, the reason was its harsh criticism on Hollywood.There are some arguements about Sunset Boulevard's genre. It is considered as the greatest film-noir of all time. I don't think it is a film-noir at all. For some aspects, the movie has some noirish elements such as the black and white German-expressionist cinematography and an 'on the edge of insanity', femme-fatale but these two are not enough to make a film-noir. I think this is a psyhcological drama with some horror(the end is horrifying for me) and with some very very dark comedy.Overall, This is truly a classic and one of the best movies of cinema history that will never lose its effects on cinema. Heavily influences American Beauty and Mulholland Drive, also making those movies a must see. 10/10


                
"Sunset Boulevard" is a film for ages, since its main topic is relevant today as it was in the day when the movie was made- how to deal with the fact that one is past his peak and what a devastating effect it can have on people who are used to fame and fortune, once they face the fact they no longer front page material. Here, Swanson plays a silent film diva Norma Desmond leading a secluded life in her mansion, almost a metaphor of a princess in a tower. And lo, unexpectedly there comes a prince about to save her, in the form of a failed screenwriter Joe Gills (Holden) who is on the run from his creditors. Learning that the former diva is completely out of touch with reality, he moves into the villa pretending to help her with the script for her grand comeback. He also learns that her butler Max enables her delusions by writing the letters she believes are sent by her fans. Eventually, the charade is exposed and things get out of control.This is arguably Swanson's biggest accomplishment and she deserved all the accolades she got for it. Her portrayal of a woman refusing to face the music borders on hysterical and paranoid all the time and she dominates every scene she's in. It's a lesson on character inhabiting and Holden also does his bit by giving the audience a cool, detached narrator framing the story of his own demise. Erich von Stroheim shows just how far one is willing to go to protect the woman he loves, creating a web of lies and illusions to keep his love sane. Put any other aged movie star into Norma's shoes and you'll get a similar story. The ending scene is a masterpiece.
In Hollywood of the 50's, the obscure screenplay writer Joe Gillis (William Holden) is not able to sell his work to the studios, is full of debts and is thinking in returning to his hometown to work in an office. While trying to escape from his creditors, he has a flat tire and parks his car in a decadent mansion in Sunset Boulevard. He meets the owner and former silent-movie star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson), who lives alone wit her butler and driver Max von Mayerling (Erich von Stroheim). Norma is demented and believes she will return to the cinema industry, and is protected and isolated from the world by Max, who was his director and husband in the past and still loves her. Norma proposes Joe to move to the mansion and help her in writing a screenplay for her comeback to the cinema, and the small-time writer becomes her lover and gigolo. When Joe falls in love for the young aspirant writer Betty Schaefer (Nancy Olson), Norma becomes jealous and completely insane and her madness leads to a tragic end."Sunset Boulevard" is a bitter and tragic masterpiece of the genius Billy Wilder that exposes how Hollywood uses people and forgets them when they get old and are considered decadent by the industry. Further, it also shows the consequences of the lack of adaptation of a former star to the end of a successful career, being forgotten by fans and the industry, and the price that some persons accept to pay to join this business. The last time I saw this film was on 22 September 2002 and even having watched "Sunset Boulevard" for maybe five or six times, I still get excited with most of the scenes and I dare to say that it is in my Top 10 movies ever. The DVD has an interesting documentary called "Sunset Blvd.: A Look Back" (a.k.a. "The Making of Sunset Boulevard" with the presence of a still impressively beautiful Nancy Olson telling peculiarities about this awesome feature. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Crepúsculo dos Deuses" ("Dusk of the Gods")


                
I really enjoyed this film because of its realism.  The seamy and unclean underside of "Hollywood" is given flesh and blood by both William Holden in his calculating manipulation and Gloria Swanson by her cold, grasping desperation.  The technique of telling the story from the viewpoint of William Holden's character, who has already paid the price of his cynicism and greed, was so effective as to be priceless.  What was best, for me however, was the sympathy that both the lead characters managed to evoke in spite of their obvious and outrageous flaws.  What could be more realistic, pitiful, but superbly tragic than the butler writing phony fan letters to his faded star employer?  The fact that Sunset Boulevard was filmed in black and white I believe added to the power of the acting and the effectiveness of the narrative in the sense that it lent a grimy aspect to what was truly a dirty little story of personal failure. I also believe that because it was in black and white, I was never distracted by the scenery or the beauty of the sets and I was able to concentrate on the central aspects of the acting of William Holden and Gloria Swanson and the story they were portraying. This was one of the greatest movies of all time!


                
This picture takes the happily-ever-after myth of Hollywood stardom and shatters it for good.  When talking pictures became the standard virtually overnight, the big studios turned their collective backs on most of the silent icons that had helped build them.  This film offers a frequently sympathetic view of the descent of one of these icons into despair and madness - and for silent film buffs, offers a rare opportunity to see the likes of Anna Q. Nilsson and Buster Keaton in speaking cameos.  Billy Wilder's genius as a director is evident in the way that the very adult relationships among the principal characters are conveyed perfectly, under the yoke of the Hays Code, without the use of nudity or profanity


                
It so happens that as I was watching Sunset Boulevard, I was chewing gum, and Gloria Swanson's clipped, derisive tone felt more like it was directed not at William Holden's washed up Joe Gillis in 1950, but at me, sitting on my couch in 2008. I didn't throw my gum away like Gillis does, but still, I did feel a little disconcerted. Norma Desmond knew I was chewing, and she didn't like it one bit.But this is part of Sunset Boulevard's charm. While it's a movie about the ways movies had changed, were continuing to change, and those they left behind, it also shows us how, in some ways, they've remained the same. Its references to the WGA, popcorn cinema, and the tragicomic nature of washed-up celebrity feel oddly contemporary while simultaneously being firmly rooted in the Fifties.While some of the period references to actors and directors went over my head - I'm no expert on the silent era - it didn't affect my enjoyment of them one bit. The fact that Wilder and his team were brave enough to include such comments gives the film a cool, relaxed feel even as the web that binds the characters draws ever-tighter.It's fantastically acted too. Holden is brilliant as the struggling everyman who quickly realises that he's gotten way more than he bargained for, and Swanson is pitch-perfect as the faded screen star whose grip on reality has crumbled far quicker than the walls of her mansion, right down to the wide roving eyes and claw-like hands. They're well-supported, especially by Erich von Stronheim's eerily restrained butler Max.Of course, great dialogue and performances are nothing without a plot to match. Despite the fact that the beginning reveals the end, Sunset Boulevard still manages to keep you hooked from the moment Holden sits at his desk for the first time right up until the movie's cruel, haunting, tragically human conclusion.Very rarely do "old" movies actually live up to their reputations, but I'm pleased to say that Sunset Boulevard does, and it's a credit to Wilder's team's ability that this noir-drama stands the test of time. A truly great film.


                
SUNSET BOULEVARD will always be inextricably linked to ALL ABOUT EVE. They both came out the same year; they both star legendary actresses playing legendary actresses; they both are cynical, sometimes savage in their estimation of show business. And, of course, they are both great films.But they are very different stylistically and philosophically. A primary difference is that EVE is about a survivor. Bette Davis' Margo Channing in EVE accepts, perhaps grudgingly, that change is inevitable. Either she adapts to reality, or she loses all. That is what makes Margo more than just "a great star, a true star." Margo's rival, Eve Harrington, may someday end up like BOULEVARD's Norma Desmond, but Margo Channing never will.But if EVE is about life, SUNSET BOULEVARD is about death. Even their titles suggest this: "Eve" being the first bearer of life and "sunset" being the approaching night. In BOULEVARD, Gloria Swanson's Norma Desmond is to some extent already dead by the time the film starts, locked away in a haunted house, coming out only for the funeral of her pet monkey. She is bound by reputation and profession to a type of film-making that is long dead and nearly forgotten. Her life, like her career, is based on illusions of life.The prevailing interpretation of SUNSET BOULEVARD assumes that Norma is one of Hollywood's victims; that the town and the industry turned its back on her when she was no longer a star, her career sabotaged by the coming of sound in motion pictures. I don't buy that. The film clearly shows us that at age 50 Norma is still vibrant, still beautiful, still energetic and eager to make movies. Plus, she is filthy rich. This is not a woman who would walk away from movie making because she is afraid of her own voice. Indeed, her voice is magnificent; sultry, insinuating and theatrical. I don't think Norma went mad because Hollywood turned its back on her, rather Hollywood turned its back on her because she went mad. I don't think we are getting the full story here. Something may have drove Norma mad, but it wasn't talking pictures. Indeed, she may have been unstable all along, but I think there is something in her past that destroyed her, and I suspect that involves Max (Erich von Stroheim). In his "Great Movies" essay, Roger Ebert suggests that the love between Norma and Max, her ex-husband/ex-director/butler, is the heart of the story; that it's Max's love of Norma that validates her continued existence. I don't see that. I suspect that Max is less a servant than a caretaker or even a jailer. Max (like Joe Gillis, Norma's erstwhile boytoy) may be trapped in Norma's web, but it is a web of his own making. He appears subservient, but he is the one in control, he perpetuates her delusions and enables her madness. I even suspect that he only allows Joe into the situation because he knows that Joe is weak and no real threat to his power; and that he suspects that it will help placate Norma by feeding her fantasy of a comeback. There is more than adoration that cements the relationship between Max and Norma; perhaps guilt, jealousy, desperation -- who knows? All I know is that it is best kept as a subtext, a part of the film's impenetrable mystery. The less we understand Norma, the more intriguing she is.However, if I were to be so bold as to make one major change in SUNSET BOULEVARD, it would be to replace William Holden as Joe Gillis. I respect Holden as an actor, but his screen persona has always been one of strength and -- if not integrity -- confidence; he is not one who plays vulnerable with any conviction. Plus, he doesn't play the part of Gillis with any gentle shadings. The "romance" between Norma and Joe is the least convincing aspect of the film. Joe treats her with barely concealed contempt and a bit of occasional pity, which makes it hard to believe that a self-absorbed diva would even tolerate him, let alone make him the house pet. The role of Joe was originally intended for Montgomery Clift, an actor with a proven ability to appear passive, even as he plays sinister. His work in THE HEIRESS and A PLACE IN THE SUN illustrate this point. I see Joe Gillis, not as a bored hanger-on, but as sycophant who is in awe of Norma, even as he exploits her, and therefore he doesn't realize that he actually is the one who is being used (sort of a younger version of Max). I think Joe should be someone who is cunning, but naive about his own limits, not someone who is already bitter, corrupt and cynical as the story begins. Maybe I am wrong, but I get the feeling that Holden was very uncomfortable playing the part of, well, a mistress, and especially one kept by such an older woman. Perhaps his manhood was threatened and that uneasiness shows. Clift, or an equally rakish young actor like, say, Farley Granger or Robert Wagner, would enliven the story and make the romance with the perpetually needy Norma more credible. I don't think it is enough that the film shows that Norma enjoys manipulating Joe, I think it has to also be implied that to a certain extent Joe loves being manipulated. The relationship is after all a romance and to be credible as long-term there has to be the spark that it is mutually enjoyable. Holden's interpretation that Joe is just doing it for the money just doesn't ring true. While a pairing of the aging diva with an ambitious -- and yes, probably gay -- younger man is practically a show business institution. Yet, even with these reservations, it is undeniable that SUNSET BOULEVARD is quite a film. A little bit Hollywood satire, a little bit moralistic fable and whole lot of Gothic melodrama. And Swanson's just-not-quite over the top performance is mesmerizing. It was assumed that BOULEVARD would revitalize Swanson's career. It didn't. But apparently, it didn't matter to her: she dabbled in acting now and again, when the part amused her, but she had better things to do with her life. Swanson played Norma Desmond, but she lived life as Margo Channing.


                
I just watched SB again -- three times -- this past week, for perhaps the 100th time.The film is virtually flawless, IMHO. (Except for the distracting shadow of the camera on William Holden's back as he moves to Norma's bed to wish her, "Happy New Year, Norma . . . ," a technical flaw I've never understood: why wasn't the move re-lit and re-shot, since everything else in the film is perfect?) But what continues to haunt me is Swanson's performance. Her silent-screen "theatricality" is always remarked upon. Yet there are several moments of utterly contemporary "naturalism" that show she knew exactly what she was doing as an actress (and Wilder, as director).Her sweetness in her "bathing beauty" scene, where she recounts her days in the line with Marie Prevost and Mabel Normand, then leaps onto the sofa beside William Holden -- is so beguiling that you completely understand her sex appeal and warmth (for a moment). When she asks for his match (for a moustache for her Chaplin impression) and tells Holden to close his eyes, "Close 'em!" -- the "Close 'em!" is clearly an ad lib that is so real and intimate that it is almost instantly lost in the macabre sequence that follows -- all flashing eyes and volcanic eruption that C.B. DeMille himself hasn't phoned her.Soon afterward, believing she will be making "Salome" for DeMille, there is the astonishing montage of Norma's marathon beauty treatments in preparation for her "return." Extreme closeups of Swanson's face, without makeup, reveal a still-youthful, lovely woman with flawless skin. Even under the magnifying glass, even with the "worried" expression of Norma Desmond, Swanson is stunningly beautiful for a few moments. Ironically, for the rest of the picture, she had to be made up to look older. Yet here we get a glimpse of the real Swanson at 50-whatever, and she looks merely a few years older than Holden.Finally, the entire sequence when Holden returns to find Swanson phoning Betty Shaefer to tell her the truth about Joe Gillis, Swanson is in cold-cream and "wings" to smooth her cheeks and eyes -- an actress completely exposed and without vanity.She plays the entire sequence "naturalistically" and in complete contrast to her theatrical, "I AM big. It's the pictures that got small," style.Here, in her bed, caught by Holden, realizing she's going to lose him, she begs him, "Look at me!" The desperation and helplessness, the momentary admission of reality as Norma acknowledges her fears and insecurities and pleads with Holden, are heartbreaking. Swanson's playing in the scene is astonishingly courageous for any actress, and deeply true to the character.Finally, as Joe packs to leave her and Swanson pleads with him to stay -- grabbing his luggage and begging, "What do you want? Money?" -- again her playing is ratcheting up emotionally into madness, yet is still as contemporary as any Stanislavski method.Everyone tends to remember Swanson's over-the-top stylized performance: yet her total control as an actress, and her naturalistic moments and emotional nakedness, however fleeting, are something to behold.Swanson's is truly one of the most astonishing performances on film. Her range here is jaw-dropping.Watch her transitions in the Chaplin scene alone, in one continuous take, from heart-rending comedy to blind rage. No cutaways. Amazing.I happened to see Swanson live at the Huntington Hartford Theatre in Hollywood, on Vine, in the late sixties, in a stage show written especially for her, called "Reprise." This piece-of-fluff comedy about a famous movie star returning to her home town was hardly Tony-Award winning. But from her first entrance, you were in the presence of a great actress.Barely five feet tall, she swept in and immediately established a bodily "line" that commanded attention from then on.Her performance was delightful. Even more so when, after intermission, the second act began with her character giving a Q&A session at the local Rotary Club.Swanson walked down steps and into the actual audience, greeting "old friends" (that night's audience members), reminiscing about her career -- even sitting in a man's lap and "teasing" him for not remembering when they "dated" -- as real film clips from her silents played on a giant screen onstage.She was outrageous and girlish (she was approaching 70 at the time) and delightful, poking fun at herself and her "character's" career.It was a brilliant bit of stagecraft and an impressive revelation of the "real" Gloria Swanson.Audiences were captivated and irresistibly charmed by this still-stunning-looking yet down-to-earth "young fellow" -- over fifty years after she first took the world by storm.Swanson was the antithesis of Norma Desmond. She was entrancing, magical, adorable, and everybody wanted to take her home.Honestly, perhaps the only other two live theatrical performances I've ever seen (and I've seen hundreds) that could compare to Swanson's sheer talent and charisma were Maggie Smith in "Lettuce and Loveage" and Vanessa Redgrave in "Orpheus Descending." Believe it.Not every actor understands the difference between film and stage performance, nor can every actor deliver that difference vocally and physically (this was WAY before the days of amplified body mikes). Swanson did.I was in first grade when "Sunset Boulevard" was released. I was in my 20s when I saw Swanson onstage in "Reprise" in Hollywood.You could still see the magic that had made her the global phenomenon she had been in silents. You could still see the technique that astounded audiences with "Sunset Boulevard" three decades later.You could understand where Billy Wilder got his line: "She was the greatest star of them all." Every time I watch SB, I think: "She probably damned well was."
Rumor has it that Gloria Swanson was absolutely devastated that she didn't win the Oscar for Sunset Boulevard. 1950 was an unusually tough year for competitors, with the statuette eventually going to Judy Holiday for Born Yesterday. Admittedly, Gloria is fantastic in this film - she's able to send up herself, while also scandalizing the business she was product of - but the acting chops must really go to William Holden, who provides the willful self-loathing thread that ties much of this noirish and twisted tale together. Director by Billy Wilder, Sunset Boulevard represents classic movie making at its peak. Set in Los Angeles, it's a dark, twisted, cynical tale of love, deceit, and opportunism. The film is all about Hollywood behind the scenes and how screenwriters, directors, and actors will sell themselves out for fame and fortune at a moments notice. Spiritual and emotional emptiness, and the price of fame, greed, narcissism, and ambition is at the heart of this devilishly stylistic film, with the somber mood beginning almost immediately when a dead man is found floating facedown in a swimming pool.The man is hack screenwriter Joe Gillis (a very sexy William Holden). All we know is that Joe was at the run-down mansion of deluded former silent-film star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson). Through Joe's voice over narrative it soon becomes clear that he was somehow involved with the wealthy Norma. Down on his luck, three months behind on his rent, and with his car about to be repossessed, Joe accidentally stumbles upon Norma's faded mansion while trying to escape the police. Norma initially mistakes Joe for a coffin-maker for her deceased pet monkey, but once she figures out that he's a screenwriter, she gets him to read one of the scripts she's been working on. Norma is an insane and faded silent-film star, who is hoping against hope to make a comeback. She's bitterly resentful of the price the "talkies" have taken on her career, so now she soaks in her own misguided and imagined greatness, in profile with the flickering projector lighting her outline in the dark. Joe is initially hesitant to help the glamorous woman, and then asks $500 a week for his writing services. But slowly we come to realize the contract is actually the other way around. In preparing for her return comeback, Norma quickly turns Joe into a pawn - or more to the point, a slave. Joe becomes a virtual prisoner in her rundown mansion; the moment he leaves, she slits her wrists, forcing him to come back. With minimal resistance, Joe allows himself to settle into the life of a kept man, as Norma desperately showers him with gifts and fine clothing. The house butler, Max von Meyerling (Erich von Stroheim), grimly looks on, tending to Norma's demanding whims and tolerating Joe's disruptive presence.Joe wobbles back and forth between heedless acceptance of his strange companionship with Norma and his half-hearted pursuit of a career. He sneaks away to collaborate on a project with Betty (Nancy Olson), a Paramount script reader who is engaged to Joe's best friend. Betty is gradually falling in love with Joe, but when Norma finds out, that he's been sneaking out to meet wit her, all hell breaks loose. The self-loathing motif is rampant throughout Sunset Boulevard. Max completely does away with his self-respect, Joe hates himself for his unwillingness to commit to a career or love, and seems to sell himself out for money and clothes almost immediately, and Betty despises herself for falling in love with Joe while she's engaged to another. Norma, despite her haughtiness, is the most blatant case of self-disgust. When she isn't raving about her greatness, she comes across as a frightened and tortured soul <U+0096> a sad and lonely woman, who is not only remarkably self-delusional, but is also trying to grasp one last chance at happiness. She thinks so little of her current 50-year-old self that she no longer acknowledges the present. Sunset Boulevard is a must see movie for cinema buffs. There are lots of treasures to be had here, including Nancy Olson's strangely under appreciated performance as Betty, whose misguided love for Joe spirals the film to its grisly conclusion. There's also the hilarious appearance of a skinny and madly grinning Jack Webb as a happy-go-lucky assistant director, and viewers will get a kick out of the excessive exuberance that Norma displays when she towels down a hunky and hairy-chested Joe at poolside. The funniest scene in the movie is when Norma rolls on top of Joe while he is reclining on a couch, and then does an imitation of Charlie Chaplin in order to cheer him up; the scene is an uproarious mixture of the sad, the funny, and the pathetic. Billy Wilder's accomplished direction is full of wide shots that capture the depressing set and brave close-ups of our anti-heroes. But in the end, Sunset Boulevard stands out, as one of the finest examples of the frenzied circus of obsession, fixation, and greed that is oftentimes symbolizes Hollywood. Mike Leonard September 05.


                
Although my recent revisit to SUNSET BLVD. must have been close to the twentieth time I've seen it, I'm just as stunned and captivated by it as the first time I saw it. In SUNSET BLVD, everything just clicks, complete with all the now classic taglines; "It's not me that got small, it's the pictures that got smaller." "We didn't need dialog. We had faces then." "I'm ready for my close-up now, Mr. DeMille." I can't think of any other picture about Hollywood - or the world of film in general - that has achieved this unique self-reflective look at the film community. Ironically, none probably could have dreamed of the magnificent performance Gloria Swanson turned in. At barely 5 feet tall, she commands the screen like no-one else and really towers above them all as Norma Desmond, the aging, completely delusional film star from the silent era. Hard to imagine Gloria Swanson wasn't first choice to play the part of Norma Desmond with Pola Negri (too much Polish accent), Mae Murray, Mary Pickford (too sweet) and even Mae West all considered for the part of Norma Desmond.The movie opens with the bullet-riddled body of a young man floating face down in the pool next to a mansion. Soon, the story is told with the brilliant device of a voice-over of a dead man, Joe Gilis (William Holden), recounting the events leading up to his death. A broke screenwriter, down on his luck and desperate to take on any job, he stumbles upon what looks like a deserted mansion, when he's hounded by some creditors. Soon, he's ordered into the house by a female voice that turns out to belong to legendary silent screen star Norma Desmond who retreated from the outside world, now living a lonely and isolated existence with her aging servant (Erich von Stroheim). After some lamenting the current state of the film industry, she offers Joe a job of doctoring her script for SALOME, which she plans as her comeback vehicle. Clearly this is never gonna happen, but Joe decides to take the job, and he money, but soon becomes a virtual prisoner of the actress's creepy past and increasingly delusional dreamworld.Almost every sentence, remark, Swanson's antiques and postures have become part of our cinematic heritage now, we sometimes forget how delightfully crisp and clever the dialog was at the time, and still is. After the death of Norma Desmond's chimpanzee, Holden acidly remarks; "This must have been one important chimp. The grandson of King-Kong perhaps." "And then the rains came, over-sized, like everything else in California."This film closed the door to the old Hollwyood-generation, opened one to the new and basically started a new era in self-conscious film-making and - in the process - reconciled the until then completely forgotten silent film stars. Of the three directors featured in the film, Cecil B. DeMille was still well respected and would make some of his greatest films in the years to come. Erich von Stroheim, now degraded to being Desmond's butler, was largely an outcast by then, just as the totally forgotten Buster Keaton who's allowed to play card games at Desmond's mansion once in a while. It's quite outstanding how the cynical Wilder achieves to really make us care about the characters, all of them, but especially Norma Desmond's, whose oblivious outlook on the world surrounding her and her own long since gone fame (Von Stroheim writes her fake fan letters) really makes you pity her fate.With the right ingredients, the right script, the right casting, Wilder was able to achieve phenomenal results. Needless to say, he made a whole string of films now considered classics, but this is the pinnacle of his career and head and shoulders above any other self-reflective turn Hollywood embarked on in all the years to follow. If forced to make a shortlist of ten films I couldn't do without, this one's on it.Camera Obscura --- 10/10


                
Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett were about the best writing team in Hollywood for more than three decades. "Sunset Boulevard" shows the men at the pinnacle of their profession. Billy Wilder directed the film with his usual panache at this nostalgic look at a Hollywood that had faded almost a quarter of a century before. If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading here.With the advent of the "talkies" a lot of film stars of the silent era lost their privileged positions as the most admired people in movies. When the new generation appeared in the scene, they were more accessible to the fans that flocked to see the new technique in the movies that came out. One of those movies stars, Norma Desmond, lives in the past as she never adapted to the new reality, which is evident in the way she stays out of the scene dwelling in her antiquated castle on Sunset Boulevard.Enter Joe Gillis, the man who never made it into the industry. As a writer, all his screen plays were rejected by the studio machinery because they were not what the heads of the production departments wanted to produce, or just were plain, not interested. Joe Gillis comes into the Desmond mansion by accident and it's an accident he encounters on his way out of it! Tbe egotistical Norma Desmond lives in the her palatial home with Max Von Mayerberg, the loyal servant, who was himself, somebody in the silent era. Norma falls for the young Gillis in ways she never expected, but as a desperate woman she wants to possess what she can't otherwise buy, even a man going through financial bad times the way Joe Gillis is.Billy Wilder got magnificent performances out of the three principals. William Holden had one of the best opportunities of his film career with Joe Gillis, a character he wasn't even scheduled to play, but which Montgomery Cliff handed to him in a silver platter when he refused to appear in the picture! Gloria Swanson, having experienced that old Hollywood, was a natural choice to play Norma, which was perhaps, the crowning role in her distinguished career. Erich Von Stroheim, the great director, himself, is absolutely wonderful as Von Mayerling.We see some of the silent era stars such as Buster Keaton, Hedda Hopper, Anne C. Nilsson, H.B. Warner, as well as Cecil B. DeMille, the director of Hollywood epics par excellence.The great musical score of Franz Waxman enhances the film. John Seitz black and white photography brings us back to that time. Ultimately, it's the genius of Billy Wilder that keeps things in balance showing a man who understood movies as perhaps the only one that could have directed the classic "Sunset Boulevard".


                
In many ways Sunset Boulevard is like the reverse side of the coin of A Star Is Born. In that film we have young Vicki Lester going through all the travails and heartache before achieving her goal of movie stardom. Sunset Boulevard is the reverse. A Star Is Born has its tragic figure in Norman Maine who commits suicide rather than face being a has been. In Sunset Boulevard we have the character of Norma Desmond who has not taken that route. She lacks for nothing in the material world, she wisely saved and invested her money. But the acclaim of the audience is a drug she craves. She's been at the top on the celebrity roller-coaster and now is at the bottom.Into her life comes Joe Gillis quite accidentally. Fleeing from some repo men looking to take his car, Gillis drives into the garage of what he thinks is a deserted mansion. It looks pretty run down from the outside. Gillis compares it to the house of Miss Faversham from Great Expectations, little knowing how right he was.Billy Wilder was a casting genius though in some ways he fell into the cast he had. Gloria Swanson was not his first choice, he approached both Mary Pickford and Pola Negri for the Desmond role first. Gloria Swanson who actually had made the transition to sound well, but had gone on to stage and radio since her success in Music in the Air, drew from the experiences of many of her colleagues. At the time she was cast in Sunset Boulevard she had a radio show out of New York.Bill Holden was sheer serendipity. Originally Montgomery Clift was to do the part, but at the last minute he said no, feeling that this was to similar a part to the one he played in The Heiress. Wilder then went through the list of contract leading men at Paramount.Wilder saw something in Holden, God bless him. Holden had done a whole series of what he termed 'smiling Jim' roles. He was considered an amiable and non-threatening leading man. Although he had done well in a role as a psychotic killer in The Dark Past, Sunset Boulevard brought him his first real acclaim as an actor. An Academy Award nomination came with the acclaim.Nancy Olson and Erich Von Stroheim were nominated in the Best Supporting Player categories as was Swanson for Best Actress. Von Stroheim was another inspired choice. His is a strange part indeed. He was Desmond's first director in silent films and left his career behind to take care of her. He was also her first husband. Sunset Boulevard for it's time and with the Code firmly in place was a brutal look at the sexual needs of a middle-aged woman. Before Holden knows it, he's giving up his life as an aspiring screenwriter to be a kept gigolo. He doesn't like it, but can't leave it. When he does, it results in tragedy.Nancy Olson plays a reader at Paramount studios where Holden is trying to sell a script. She and Holden had good chemistry and after this they did four more films together. Casting Cecil B. DeMille as himself was of necessity for who could play the great DeMille, but DeMille. DeMille in fact was a former actor and playwright at the turn of the last century. In his autobiography DeMille lets us in on a private joke. He in fact did direct many of Gloria Swanson's early silent films and a pet name he had for her was 'young fella.' Note that when Norma Desmond comes to the Paramount lot to see him, he greets her with that same expression. Note that DeMille got a plug for his own film Samson and Delilah which was in production at the same time. It is the set of that film where Swanson and DeMille meet.You will never forget the finely etched characters of Sunset Boulevard. You can see it many times as I've done, but if you see it only once you will have it burned in your memory. Especially that last scene before the newsreel cameras where Swanson loses whatever sanity she has left. She descends down the stairs of her mansion and descends into the comfort of insanity.I've often wondered should a sequel have been done covering the trial of Norma Desmond. I'm sure Billy Wilder wanted to move on to other projects. Still that would have been a film to see.


                
It is among the best and most tragic exit lines in film. And it also leads directly to the best conclusion (I feel) in movies in terms of proper cinematography: the clouding of the focus as Norma Desmond descends the staircase into her madness. Rarely does a film end so satisfactorily and perfectly.SUNSET BLVD. was not the first film to look at the uncertainties of cinematic success and fame. A STAR IS BORN had done so in the in 1937. It showed how as a star is nurtured by the system to great fame, another prominent star descends into oblivion and death. So why (if the story theme was not new) was SUNSET BLVD. such a tremendous hit and classic from it's first appearance in 1950? It boiled down to this: the personal poison of the great fame of the silent screen star Norma was not mirrored precisely in the fall of say Norman Main (although their two first names bear an uncanny resemblance). Norman had always had a drinking problem which he never controlled. Norma was not into that - she was always into a healthy physical lifestyle (except for smoking), but the effect of her publicity and the fan mail pushed her egomania to great heights. It made her so egocentric that she can only think of the people around her in her immediate cycle as the greatest representatives of all those millions of unseen fans - the wonderful people out there in the dark. They are there for her adoration only. Norman Main, in comparison, did find a measure of happiness in Vicki Lester, whom he discovered and helped to find her true potential. He was more selfless, to the point (as it turned out) of self-destruction. Not really like Norma Desmond. To her people are there to serve Gods and Goddesses called stars.One might also notice that Joe Gillis is not Vicki Lester. Joe and Vicki were both ambitious, but Joe really wasn't as interested in Norma (aside from giving him room, board, and a temporary job), as Vicki was in Norman. There was a mutual attraction there (Norman was not incredibly older than Vicki, as opposed to Norma's older age compared to Joe's). Joe also had his girlfriend/collaborator Betty Schaeffer. Vicki had no other lover on the outside - it was only Norman. That is why, when he commits suicide, Vicki goes into seclusion.There is a triangular figure in SUNSET BLVD. for Norma, in her butler Max Von Mayerling. He had been her first director and husband, and he is also (in his over-devotion to her) feeding her ego by writing hundreds of fan letters to her to keep her emotionally happy. It is a sign of her insanity that she never notices that the letters are written by the same hand. Wilder had used Eric Von Stroheim in FIVE GRAVES TO CAIRO as Rommel, so he knew what it was like working with him. Supposedly when Von Stroheim was being directed by Billy Wilder he wanted to throw in various tics and sexual habits for Max (like his carefully washing Norma's underclothes) which Wilder managed to push aside. Von Stroheim's performance (one of his greatest) was not harmed by these cuts, although one wonders what his performance would have seemed like if they had been retained. But by reducing the neurotic behavior of Max (to just his pathetic need to be near Norma to support her) it keeps us concentrating on Norma's psychosis - where it should be.Norma is the driving force to the end, pulling the wires that manipulate Max, Joe, Betty, even (out of a sense of pity) Cecil B. DeMille and his production staff (example: the light man "Hogeye"). Even with the "waxwork" friends who crop up for cards, Norma seems to be in control (they all congregate to see her - the richest among them). Even with people who are supposedly independent (the funeral home people who cater to her burying her pet monkey; the salesman on commission who urges Joe to buy the vicuña coat) she manages to keep this control. She is the central sun/"Star" in this galaxy - and cannot brook any deviation. The rejection of the ungrateful Joe can only be appeased physically by his death, and emotionally by her mind clouding that failure and it's aftermath from her memory. From the start of the film, with all her egocentricity at work, only a psychic slap in the face was missing to complete the tragedy. Then she was finally ready for that close-up.
Gloria Swanson and William Holden are supreme in this hard look into the dark side of Hollywoodland. Gloria Swanson as the insane Norma Desmond, a mad silent movie star languishing in her old mansion surrounded by reminders of her glory days, and William Holden as a bitingly cynical screenwriter playing gigolo to Swanson while carrying on an affair with nice reader Nancy Olson is great. The other scene-stealer is Erich von Stroheim, who plays Swanson's fromer husband and director, and now her butler.


                
You know when occasionally you watch a film, and you think it sounds okay, but then it totally exceeds your expectations and you're just blown away by it? Well, Sunset Boulevard (aka Sunset Blvd.) was just such a film for me.William Holden – who also narrates the film – plays Joe Gillis, a small-time screen writer, down on both money and luck; as we find out right at the beginning of the film, Gillis won't be alive by the end of it. He meets former silent movie star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson), who cannot and will not accept the truth that her star has long since faded into obscurity and she has been all but forgotten by both the film industry, and movie-goers. Determined to have another hit film, she hires Joe to help her edit her self-penned script, but she soon becomes obsessed with him, and Joe finds himself less a guest, more a prisoner, at her dilapidated home, with only Norma and her mysterious butler Max for company.As you may have guessed, I loved this film. The storyline is a caustic and witty dig at a fickle Hollywood. The fact that viewers are informed by Joe's voice-over right at the start of the film, that he will not survive to the end, fills the ensuing scenes with a bitter sense of doom, and the contrast between Joe the narrator, who knows his fate, and Joe the character who we see on camera, who is unaware of what will befall him, is very effective (A similar idea was used years later in American Beauty, also with excellent results, although Sunset Boulevard was, for me, a much better film.)Gloria Swanson was excellent as Norma Desmond, and at times was difficult to watch. I disliked her character, but couldn't help feeling great sympathy for her. Deserted by her fans and her colleagues, she is losing her grip on reality. At times, she was manic and unpredictable; at other times, she showed tenderness and extreme vulnerability (the scene where she entertains Joe by dressing up as Charlie Chaplin is both sweet and disturbing, as her happy mood turns to anger). Swanson was nominated for an Oscar for her performance; the same year Bette Davis was nominated for her role in All About Eve – both lost out to Judy Holliday for her role in Born Yesterday, which also starred William Holden. He was also nominated for Sunset Boulevard.William Holden shows his real talent for acting here. A not altogether likable character at the beginning of the film, he nevertheless gets the audience on side, as he and they come to realise the untenable situation in which he has found himself. He imbues his character with passion, tenderness, ruthlessness, and resignation – oh, and he's darkly funny too.Eric von Stroheim is perfectly cast as Norma's taciturn and mysterious butler – this role could easily have been a caricature in different hands, but he plays the part brilliantly.The main cast is rounded out by Nancy Olsen as Betty Schaefer, a young writer who wants Joe's help on a script; she is perfectly cast as a feisty but tender young woman who is dragged into Joe's nightmare world.In short, my opinion for what it's worth, is that there is absolutely nothing wrong with this film. It's gripping – I felt unable to turn my eyes away from the screen; it's sad, it's tragic, and it's bleakly funny. It was a real victory for director Billy Wilder, and it's the best film I've seen in a long time. Very highly recommended.


                
Yet another magnificent motion picture directed by the great Billy Wilder. The magical performance by Gloria Swanson will be analyzed and deeply appreciated for ever. William Holden as the young novice writer also is great here. The play between the two "stars" is tactful and completely convincing. The movie is full of memorable lines (the writing is flawless) ...its such a great pity movie writers to-day simply CANT do it. I wonder why that is...but its true. Swanson gambles everything on her ability to go for broke....without looking fake. She does it with an amazing piece of breathtaking acting. Watching her is almost like watching a tight rope walker....without the net. This can be viewed multiple times...a real Classic. Gets an automatic 10 / 10.


                
I love this film and can't believe I never got around to reviewing it until now, as I've seen it many times. I think I just assumed that I'd written a review for it or neglected to do one since it already has so many good reviews. Regardless, it's one of the best films ever--and possibly the best film Hollywood has to offer--it's THAT good.I think part of the reason I love this film so much is because it has perhaps the best opening scene in movie history. I adored the film's style and originality here. You hear William Holden narrating--narrating in a wonderfully cynical manner. And, as the camera pans down, you see a corpse floating in a pool. Suddenly, the camera is under water--and you see that the dead man is the narrator himself!! What an amazingly daring scene! And, to seemingly top it off, Norma Desmond's entrance is just sublime. But then you see that the film then works BACKWARD to explain how all this came to be--a truly wonderful style of storytelling! I could talk more about the film, but to me the beginning was THE film. Sure, Holden, Swanson and Von Stroheim were wonderful as well as Jack Webb in an interesting supporting role...but all you will probably remember is the introduction. And the directing and writing is wonderful...but you still keep coming back to the wonderful scene.The bottom line is that all would-be film makers should be forced to watch this film and learn from it. And, if such a thing COULD be done, let's also force them to watch "12 Angry Men", De Sica's "Children Are Watching Us", Majidi's "The Color of Paradise", and.......
Sunset Boulevard (1950)A Love Poem to the MoviesYes, Sunset Boulevard is a love poem to the movies, to the silent era and its shimmer, and to the studio era and the beginning of the end of the Golden Age. Even if this isn't to your taste (and if not, shame on you), this has to be a perfect film. It's original and imitative, it's prosaic and profound. It moves with fluidity and visual splendor (odd to find myself preferring that word here). The main characters are so lonely and pathetic, and so deeply human and sad, you recognize yourself in them--your future self, at least.And it is a movie about love and death, about growing old enough to not know if you can be loved, and if you are loved, not knowing why. Both ways. This touches a chord for me. It comes at the end of my favorite decade for movies, the 1940s (which begins with 1939, expansively), and it comes as a pinnacle of film noir, though an odd example. It kills the main character in the opening scene and has him giving the voice-over anyway. Pretending to resuscitate an old silent screen star, played by Gloria Swanson, it actually resuscitates Gloria Swanson herself. It brings Cecil B. DeMille back to the screen, back actually on the screen, in a poignant and slightly ironic role (he plays the part of filmmaker with businesslike kindness, his sweetness genuine but also practical). And Erich von Stroheim, ever gloomy and disgruntled, but omniscient, too, the only one who seems to understand exactly why this is happening, and think it all for the best.If you are not (yet) an old film buff and have heard of none of these people from earlier eras, you can watch it as a richly filmed crime/noir/screenwriter movie (all three) with enough twists and interior monologues to satisfy even the most bored and jaded viewer. If we get past all the pre-post-modern references and homages built into the cast and plot, we can see something about Joe Gillis, a failing screenwriter played by William Holden, lost in the world, thinking he has morality and talent and even some good looks, but somewhere things have gone wrong. All he has to do is right himself, but the boat is stubborn, and only the illusion of redemption lures him out, and he begins to write even though he knows it's futile, and we know it's futile. We know in the beginning he dies in the end. Work, and working, whatever the milieu, is just that exercise some of us go through to make it to tomorrow alive, filling the days, persuading others that we're fine, that life has meaning. Such people (I'm not sure if I'm one of them) even fool themselves, because a life like that might have no meaning other than itself--the present moment, the doing as it is being done, and when it seems that the work will bear fruit--that Gillis's script has possibility--all becomes false and temporary.In this poem the heroine is unlikely and outwardly insufficient, and because of that she is perfect and more than enough--Nancy Olson, that person we really are out here in reality land, the one who is on the fringes of hope but who is, actually, happy inside. Or at least knows how to be happy--partly by dreaming, partly by taking chances, and mostly by being grounded and honest with yourself.Another aspect to watch is the insider look at movie-making. A few films swing you behind the scenes, behind the camera, and this does it during that big picture, factory feel of the studios, and though brief, it's a thrill. The fact that Norma Desmond (the Swanson character) is out of touch with it all is sad, of course, but isn't that also what life is all about, the passing of one thing and the rising of another?Who would have thought such a fantastical mind blower as this would be about the nitty gritty depths of reality? And what about the funeral procession for the monkey, coming down the stairs? My god, what a film!
Generally considered as Wilder's peak,it lives up to its reputation.Fifty years later,it remains the best movie about movie world,not only hollywoodian .One hundred times plagiarized,never surpassed. First of all,there 's the Swanson/Von Stroheim couple.He directed her in the famous "Queen Kelly"(another must of the silent movies).Von Stroheim was too ahead of his time,his movies scared the censors ,so he was not allowed to pursue a career that would have been stunning in the talkies.Here he became (supreme downfall),Swanson's butler ,while we see one of his former colleagues,Cecil B. De Mille,playing his own role,still directing.Von Stroheim's character is called "Max von Mayerling" ,probably one of Wilder's private jokes: Stroheim once said he was the son of a lady in waiting of Austrian Empress Elisabeth (Sissi) whose son Rudolph committed suicide in Mayerling!And Wilder was Austrian too. Swanson is impressive too.The comeback myth is the dream of every actor whose star is slowly but inexorably fading.that she continues viewing her old -and real!- triumphs like "Queen Kelly,that she's writing an extravaganza shows that her comeback desire has reached the point of no return and that her only place in this world is the asylum.What Swanson did not achieve in the movie,she did it for real:she really could come back(as Lilian Gish),her performance,particularly in the last scene ,has stood the test of time. Wilder as a scriptwriter outdoes himself here;lines like "I'm still big;it's the pictures that got small" could be pronounced today ! 25 years later,he would try to update "sunset blvd" with "Fedora":the latter suffered by comparison,but it's a very worthwhile work that every fan of this great director should see.


                
With the spotlight on Norma Desmond, one of the greatest movie characters of all time, played majestically by Gloria Swanson, "Sunset Blvd." oozes Hollywood Gothic, in a story that is as bleak as it is timeless.Although the script's protagonist is Joe Gillis (William Holden), unsuccessful screenwriter and opportunist, the heart and soul of the film resides in the character of older woman Norma Desmond, a reclusive movie star of years gone by, living in the past, vain, egocentric, yearning for a return to the camera.What makes Norma so memorable is her singular strangeness ... those over-sized hand gestures, eyes bugged-out, ghastly makeup, grandiose emotions, and living with her servant Max (Erich von Stroheim) in that overblown, creepy mansion, antiquated, baroque, and " ... out of beat with the rest of the world, crumbling apart in slow motion." Norma and her world are bleak beyond words. And yet, there's a humor in all that bombastic eccentricity.And the film's theme runs deep, as it turns on its industry overlords with a stinging indictment of Hollywood suits, cruel and heartless, spitting out actors and writers when they no longer generate money. Hollywood insiders are portrayed thusly as desperate, vain, egocentric, opportunistic, shallow, and delusional, much like Norma and Joe. Indeed, the Hollywood savagery of 1950 looks very much like the Hollywood savagery of today. Thematically, the film has not aged at all.B&W cinematography captures the story's bleakness well. Sets and props are suitably specific and detailed. The film's score is at times as grandiose and majestic as Norma. And Wilder's stylistic and flamboyant directorial flourishes add to the film's supremacy.My only complaint pertains to the script. The voice-over narration is a bit overdone. And the second half plot gives a little too much attention to the Betty Schaefer character. It's Norma Desmond that I want to see and listen to.These quibbles aside, "Sunset Blvd." is one of the great classic films of all time, a noir drama, wonderfully dreary and grim, yet funny, too. And that final sequence with Norma descending the staircase, addressing those around her in a mannered whisper, head tilted back, all bug-eyed and never blinking ... then as she looks into the camera ... Just terrific!


                
