This movie deserves all the accolades it has gotten here, as well as "Maltin's" four stars. It certainly ranks up there as one of Hollywood's greatest achievements. Seeing it again only reinforces my opinion that William Holden was one of the truly great actors of the last [!] century. Gloria Swanson, however, steals every scene she's in; you can't turn away from watching her, even though she makes you really uncomfortable - it's like watching a train wreck. I don't know if the black & white was an economic or an artistic choice, but the film would never have been as effective in color. The opening shot - the floating, dead body of Joe Gillis, eyes wide open, shot looking up from the bottom of the pool - is one of the great shots, and an unforgettable opener, matched perfectly by the unforgettable closing closeup of Norma Desmond. To have Cecil B. deMille actually play himself was an inspired touch. Throw in Eric von Stroheim and you have an unbeatable combination. Truly one the all-time must-see films, although I don't know how to classify it - film noir? black comedy? Hollywood fable ? horror story? psychodrama? Who cares; just see it.
Widely heralded as a classic upon its initial release, the Billy Wilder-Charles Brackett production, Sunset Boulevard, is a superb piece of work in nearly all departments; and yet at some levels it disappoints upon repeated viewings. This is not an easy movie to love. The people in it are unsympathetic, as the leading male character is a hack screenwriter turned gigolo; and the woman he lives with is a mad former silent movie star who pins all her hopes on this third-rate writer's ability to write her 'comeback' picture. Neither is an amiable sort, but he is at least sane; and though he has an understanding of decency, he never quite achieves it. His goal is success. That he decieves two women who care for him deeply bothers him from time to time, when it is an inconvenience, but doesn't otherwise seem to bedevil him or prey on his thoughts. As a cynical picture of postwar Hollywood the movie is flawless. It captures the moment when the the studio system was at its absolute peak as well as at the start of its decline. The secondary characters are more likeable than the major ones, notably Erich von Stroheim's butler. Yet the film is not a satisfying portrait of mental illness, as the insane Norma Desmond, while superficially credible, has no inner life, or even a hint of one, as her demons appear to come more from her neglect by others than anything to do with herself. Her gigolo, Joe Gillis, is believable as a hustler but seems, in his narration and occasional asides, to be brighter and wittier than his behavior suggests. The characters, in other words, go through their motions, as the plot dictates; and while they are very interesting in what they do or fail at, they seem to have no life outside of the story. This is a movie about Hollywood rather than people; an immoral 'moral tale', it sometimes leaves a bad taste.For all its flaws, though, the movie works like a charm even when it is not itself charming. As Norma Desmond, Gloria Swanson is magnificent, larger than life, and every inch the former silent movie queen she plays in the picture. Her final scene is priceless, and the best shot in the movie. William Holden made a new career for himself thanks to Sunset Boulevard. For over a decade he had been playing rather bland, boy next door types, and his work here was a revelation. Joe Gillis was his best performance thus far, and made Holden overnight a hot property, and shortly thereafter the biggest male star in the business. His dry, almost affectless Midwestern delivery of dialogue and, especially, narration; his mixture of good manners and ambivilant morals; and his ability to command the screen with a flicker of expression, put him immediately into the major leagues. Sunset Boulevard does not in the end tell us more about Hollywood than the Selznick-Wellman A Star Is Born, but it does its job better, with pungent dialogue, brilliant acting and a sense of style rare in movies of the time and unheard of today.


                
On my first viewing, I wasn't particularly impressed with this movie but I liked it a lot more on the second and by the third - when it's magnificently transferred on DVD - I was fan, too. This is a good visual film, particularly when it shows the inside of this incredible mansion where a lot of the scenes take place.To those who have never seen it, you are warned that it is not an easy film to view, it being a portrait of a pathetic has-been silent movie star who still thinks she can come back after a long hiatus and be a star again. Gloria Swanson, who plays the role, overacts and certainly is not appealing, even bordering on grotesque at times, but she isn't supposed to look good. That's one of the points of the story. Anyway, a young William Holden, in his first starring role, is okay and also provides the narration.The most interesting figure in the film to me was the ex-husband-now butler, played by Eric von Stroheim. He's amazing in this film. In supporting roles, I also enjoyed the wholesome Nancy Olsen and the young Jack Webb of "Dragnet" fame.This combination of drama-soap opera-film noir is one of the professional critics all-time favorite films. Odd how they love movies and Hollywood stars so much, yet relish films that tear them down, as this does.


                
This excellent movie with bitter-sweet style deal with a hack , bankrupt screenwriter who writes a screenplay for a former silent-film star who has faded into Hollywood obscurity . It starts in the surprising opening scene by having the flick related by a body floating face-down in a swimming pool . What follows in long flashback is pulls into an ancient mansion in which a writer in search of refuge from his creditors , as he shelters and becomes entangled in the web woven by a known but now forgotten star of the silent cinema , being submitted to humiliation and exploitation . The star named Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson) is high on hopes of a comeback and living in the past with her servant (Erich Von Stroheim). One of Wilder's finest and certainly the blackest and memorably sour of all Hollywood accounts of itself . Splendidly paced , the movie contains melodrama , acidity , bitterness , relentless indictment against Hollywood excesses , suitable sordid interpretations and precise direction . It's an over-the-top picture , though hampered by silly sub-plot related to sentimental triangle between William Holden, Nancy Olson and Jack Webb . Magnificent performances from William Holden as out-of-work gigolo-screenwriter who inextricably attaches himself to a faded possessive screen star ; Swanson is brilliant as the tragically deluded actress and realizes a real tour-de-force and of course superb Erich Von Stroheim as Norma Desmond's devotedly watchable butler . Likable appearing in brief card-game scenes from silent stars as H.B. Warner and Buster Keaton , furthermore Hedda Hooper and extraordinary intervention by Cecil B DeMille while filming some scenes of ¨Ten Commandments¨ with Henry Wilconson . This prestigious film deservedly won three Oscars , including best musical score by Franz Waxman , and best screenplay by Wilder and Charles Brackett . Awesome camera-work appropriately ¨Noir¨ by John Seitz .The picture is stunningly directed by Billy Wilder at his best . It belongs his first and better period during the 40s and 50s when realized sensational films as ¨Double indemnity¨, ¨Ace in the hole¨ , ¨Sabrina¨, ¨Stalag 17¨ and ¨Seven year itch¨ ; subsequently in the 60s and 70s he realized nice though unsuccessful movies as ¨Buddy buddy¨,¨Fedora¨ , ¨Front page¨and ¨Secret life of Sherlock Holmes¨. Rating : Above average , essential and indispensable watching ; harshly funny and riveting film and completely entertaining . It justly deserves its place among the best movies ever made .


                
"Sunset Boulevard" is considered to be one of the quintessential Hollywood films.  It takes a bitingly satirical look at what makes Hollywood work. However, beneath its surface it is more than just that. It's a uniquely strange look what happens to a prima donna who's fallen from her high horse.Joe Gillis (William Holden) is a young, down on his luck Hollywood writer. He's just scraping by, trying to hide his car from repo men.  He winds up in the house of Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson), an aging silent film star who is working on her comeback screenplay.  She gives Joe the job of fixing the screenplay, although her aim is basically to have him for company.The characters are well formed and incredibly well acted, specifically in Joe and Norma.  They are three dimensional - each has their own internal struggles and desires.  Joe, on one hand, relies on Norma to keep up his good life that it has, but on the other hand wants to go out and be with the girl that he loves.  Norma is stuck in the delusion, kept up by her butler Max (Erich von Stroheim), that she is still famous.Holden and Swanson perform their parts brilliantly.  Holden is the man trapped, with no way out.  Swanson overacts, intentionally, saying every line with such grandiosity that she perfectly captures the way Norma feels about herself and her perceived stardom.This movie is about a woman who was once great and has fallen.  She reacts to it not with acceptance, but an unconscious denial.  She, along with Max, has convinced herself that she is still a star with legions of fans.  Joe keeps up the charade because of everything that he is offering her.  The idea of the middle aged woman keeping the young man for company is genuinely strange, but it fits the picture that Norma is trapped in the past, and fails to move on, but rather deny it."Sunset Boulevard" is a brilliant movie.  It works on two levels - as a satire about the hollowness of fame and Hollywood, and also as a look at what happens when one has fallen from grace.  Its status as one of the greatest movies of the era is certainly well earned, and it has certainly survived the test of time.**** out of ****


                
Watching this memorable classic is like traveling to a strange and fascinating world.  It succeeds as few movies do at drawing you in and setting an atmosphere that is both convincing and interesting.  The trio of Holden, Swanson, and von Stroheim make a fine combination, and bring their characters to life most effectively.  Aside from a couple of relatively slow stretches, it is crafted with great skill, and it's a film-noir worth watching and re-watching.Holden's restrained, gently cynical performance is an ideal way to look at the unusual world where Swanson's character, an aging former silent movie star, lives.  Swanson succeeds very well at being weird but yet believable, sometimes even sympathetic, and von Stroheim rounds out the picture pretty well as a character with his own quirks.  The physical atmosphere of the decaying mansion and its grounds, done with many well-conceived details, is also an effective and important part of the setup.  It all works so well because it comes across as true-to-life not just as a portrayal of Hollywood but as a generalized picture of living in a bygone era.When you have interesting characters, an unusual situation, a good cast, and a director like Billy Wilder to tell you the story, you have rather high expectations.  "Sunset Boulevard" does not disappoint.


                
1st watched 1/4/2003 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Billy Wilder): Wonderful performances and edge of your seat story-telling in this classic Billy Wilder film.  What I think really holds this picture together is the well-down over-the-top portrayal of silent film star Norma Desmond by Gloria Swanson.  William Holden also does a good job of standing his own as well in a quiet but effective performance.  Basically, this is a story  about a failing screenwriter's accidental encounter with Norma Desmond who still lives in the past with the household staff playing along at every beat. He then becomes entangled in her web and has to fight himself out of her grip, but struggles with this because he is being taken care of financially and socially. But once Norma gets jealous of Holden's encounter with another woman the inevitable happens(which I will not give away).  Overall, this was daring filmmaking for it's time with only some minor annoyances but otherwise splashingly good.


                
This movie opened my eyes to the genius of Billy Wilder compelling me to dig all his other movies. I watched his other movies one after the other and I was never disappointed. He really made some great movies on great themes without ever losing his focus on the entertainment value of the movie. 'Stalag 17', 'double indemnity', 'the apartment' all are such great movies. Most of the movie is narrated in first person and you see what the protagonist sees, a technique which has been used in so many movies after this. The narration is flawless and drama so intense that I watched the whole movie without batting an eyelid. The characters are real with shades of grey that you empathize and dislike at the same time. The whole thing is dark and a film noir in true sense. One of my all time favorites and I cannot over-recommend this movie to anyone.


                
Not too many films could personify all that is Hollywood quite like this film. This film speaks Hollywood, shows Hollywood, cries Hollywood and dies Hollywood. Billy Wilder tried harder than any of his other film while making this one and it sure shows.The story of the aging film star that still lives in the past was something like a tribute to an era that even in the 50's had long lost its luster. Gloria Swanson in the best role of her career plays Norma Desmond, the silent screen star who is in the process of writing a script for a film to be directed by Cecil B DeMille, or at least she believes so. Norma entails the help of a younger man named Joe Gillis (played by William Holden), who in a bit of desparation of his own, decides to alter her script for her in return for money and a place to live.The haunting mansion that Desmond lives in with only her butler Max (Erich von Stronheim) shows only pictures of her, has a screen onto which her films are shown to her weekly and plays host to other former silent film stars (notably Buster Keaton in a surprise cameo), is a reminder of how time passed Norma by. Norma tries, though in vain to make Joe love her as she loves him. She even goes through the trouble of having a small orchestra play all night on New Year's Eve just for the two of them. When Joe asks when all of the other people are going to arrive, Norma responds "this is a special evening, this is our evening." From here on we see to what lengths Norma will go to show Joe how much she loves him, regardless of the fact that he does not love her.Joe is eventually approached by a script reader, Betty, (Nancy Olsen) that finds some potential in one of his older scripts and offers to work with him to bring it up to par. The only problem is the close grip that Norma has around him. Joe knows that he can only sneak away at night since Norma doesn't want him to be away from her for any amount of time. Joe leaves frequently to work with Betty, all the while falling in love with her.The tragic ending in this film reminded me of the one in "The Great Gadsby." It is another example of love gone wrong when a man should have been with the girl he loved, however, the circumstances he is in simply won't let him.I fully enjoyed this film and would recommend it to all. This film is truly one of the all time greats.8/10 stars.


                
I didn't enjoy watching this film too much, but it was a good change from today's crude, violent filled film. Not to say that it's not a good movie. The plot is extremely well written in my opinion. Norma Desmond, a silent film star trying to continue her career with the new sound films. This film gave me an idea of what the film business was like in the 1950's. It also makes me think and appreciate how far film has come today. Often I pass off a high speed chase or a battle scene in movie and forget how much time and effort has gone into it. Back to Sunset Blvd... The relationship between Norma and Joe is very interesting to watch unfold. Norma can't let go, and all Joe wants to do is be free from Norma and live his life the way he wants to. All in all,Sunset Blvd. is a well written film, but not my type of movie.
There is a reason why Sunset Boulevard became a sort of defining movie of the film noir genre. It involves ruthless murder, sexual connotations, deceit and failed romance. However, there is difference between this film and other noir titles, which actually made people more interested in seeing Sunset Boulevard. Mainly, Billy Wilder's depiction of a story of a forgotten movie star seemed so real and believable that everyone wanted to experience it from the side of a passer- by. For ages humans were interested in the lives of the rich and famous. And this film presents one of the saddest and toughest moments in the life of a celebrity – the sudden and unexpected fall into the nothingness after years of being on top. Additionally, Wilder gave a very strong and gloomy twist to it, making the movie a real directorial masterpiece.The movie sets a very fast pace right from the start, showing a dead man floating in the swimming pool, as the police arrives at the scene of the crime.Then starts the retrospect, presenting the viewer with a tragic tale that centers on an aged woman, Norma Desmond, who was once a huge silent movies' star in Hollywood. However, with the beginning of the sound era she simply became useless. No one wanted to cast her in the new productions. Yet, she still believes that her fans are writing to her and that she will once again rise and be on the posters all around town.Sunset Boulevard, the address of her house, is a great allegory to her position in the film world. She had her time on the pedestal, but know the Sun has inevitably set on her career and she can't do anything about it. Every day she is struggling with thoughts of a comeback (a word, which she actually hates), but it just won't happen. Only her butler (and first husband) Max is aware of this<U+0085>Somewhere along the road, completely out of the blue, comes her savior, the screenwriter named Joe Gillis. He is desperate for some money to cover his loans. She is desperate for someone to edit her personally written script for a movie, in which she will also play the main role. Her insanity makes her incredibly jealous over him. She doesn't let him leave and meet other women, even though he is just using her and her money without any feelings. That the story ends in great tragedy mustn't be stressed, obviously. Going deeper and deeper into the madness leads to the final outburst, the 'beautiful' crime. Paradoxically, this is the moment when the cameras start rolling again and she is the main object of interest. And she loves it, like she didn't even know what happened a few hours before.Gloria Swanson definitely steals every scene that she's in. She is marvelous as this old star, who still thinks that she is younger, prettier and more talented than all those young Hollywood actresses. Her fantastic style, seriousness, way of speaking – it all makes for an unforgettable performance. William Holden stressed with this role that he is a marvelous actor and possibly one of the greatest in the 20th century Hollywood. Also, fine use of narration to add to the dark atmosphere of the profoundly calamitous events occurring throughout the movie. All in all, this is definitely one of the movies that are a must see in the history of American cinematography. It shows how thin is a line between fame and obscurity. We don't even know how many of the once-famous characters were suddenly deemed useless and replaced by new generations. It sounds as sad, as it is inevitable.


                
I don't have to talk about Sunset Boulevard as the film is highly rated as it is. This is a great noir film, brilliantly lit and acted. The premise is simple: A Hollywood screenwriter chances upon an aging actress who orders him to rework a screenplay. He is relocated to her mansion- which is as much as a character as she is, and soon he realizes that not only is he trapped, but that the mysterious aging actress is a loose nut. Billy Wilder's film was a massive success upon release and its reputation has only grown since. William Holden is well cast as the tragic young scriptwriter and Gloria Swanson is magical as the elusive silent screen siren. This is dark comedy of the highest order.


                
Billy Wilder's Sunset Blvd. is one of the better-known films from the golden age of cinema and one can see why. Featuring a fantastic screenplay, great pacing and some great performances this film is rightly considered a classic of film noir. William Holden plays an unsuccessful screenwriter who chances upon a mansion owned by silent screen siren Norma Desmond. She persuades him to stay and write a screenplay a comeback screenplay for her which he agrees to, lured first by the money and then just the bizzarity of the situation. However, he soon realizes that it was a wrong decision, but he is stuck. This is a witty dark comedy(literally) featuring some evocative scenes courtesy the cinematography.


                
I don't have to talk about Sunset Boulevard as the film is highly rated as it is. This is a great noir film, brilliantly lit and acted. The premise is simple: A Hollywood screenwriter chances upon an aging actress who orders him to rework a screenplay. He is relocated to her mansion- which is as much as a character as she is, and soon he realizes that not only is he trapped, but that the mysterious aging actress is a loose nut. Billy Wilder's film was a massive success upon release and its reputation has only grown since. William Holden is well cast as the tragic young scriptwriter and Gloria Swanson is magical as the elusive silent screen siren. This is dark comedy of the highest order.


                
The influence and everlasting effect of Sunset Boulevard is beyond doubt. A film made about a starlet from a dead era, but the movies she starred in hadn't even been cold in the ground yet! The bold, brash lines, and of course, the undeniably dynamic and purely iconic acting of Gloria Swanson. This is a film where the supposed main character, in this case Joe Gillis, is just a backdrop, a segue into the true protagonist and star of the show, Norma Desmond. The lighting to show mood and tone, the snappy and emotional dialogue. Not many movies like Sunset Boulevard are both a hit when they come out and a classic more than 50 years after, but this film nails it on the head.


                
From the fifties to the seventies, Sunset Blvd was the place to go and be. You could cruise it and there were places it could be walked for blocks and nightclubs galore. I even visited an old empty mansion in the hills, broke into it and walked around. Everyone said it was haunted and the police used to come and chase people away. Great night out. Some of that nostalgia is captured in this movie and is in the background as well as theme of the movie. As far as the movie itself goes, it is a good story, well told and acted out to perfection. It presents an older woman using a younger man for her vain and selfish purposes and the man going along with it first out of necessity and later on like an insect in a spider's web. Stuck and no where to go with a hungry female prowling around. Nicely done on this point and the point of everyone coming to Hollywood to struggle until they got recognized for anything and start to make some real money. Schwabs drugstore in the movie was a real hangout too. BTW...when one wasn't on Sunset Blvd they were cruising Hollywood Blvd. There was always some action going on these two streets. Lastly, I got the chills watching this as I had a woman chasing me just like this one chased William Holden (no sex) offering me money, free lunches/dinners and gifts galore if I only devote myself to her. Mind you I am married but it didn't stop this obsessive person including her making me her heir. I even told her off (many times) and she would not let go. Creepy and dysfunctional to say the least. Enjoy this glimpse of real life back then but still happening today here and there and everywhere.... Come and visit ...


                
Gloria Swanson isn't just big here, she's huge, even when the picture may at times become a wee bit small. Her very presence intrigues me throughout the film, and I'll never understand how she lost the Oscar in that year to Judy Holiday in "Born Yesterday", a film that I never appreciated, no matter how hard I tried.This film has a captivating beginning and a very memorable ending, but what transpires in between often depends on Swanson's sensational presence in portraying Norma Desmond, a silent screen star whose career quickly faded with the coming of the "talkies". William Holden is also excellent in a role that energized his own acting career. In real life, Holden suddenly landed in Billy Wilder's mansion with much greater success than his down-and-out character, Joe Gillis. I also enjoyed Erich von Stroheim as Max, Desmond's first husband and a strong enabler of her deadly delusions.Ordinarily, I don't like Hollywood films about Hollywood as they usually lack the necessary, objective distance to portray its self-absorbed, narcissistic environment accurately and honestly, but this film is a notable exception, even if it sometimes has trouble sustaining the powerful impact of its riveting opening, including Holden's haunting voiceover as the floating corpse in the pool who has returned to life in order to tell us his sad but fascinating story.Anyway, Gillis finally gets the swimming pool of his dreams, but at what cost? Hopefully, Betty Kramer--no Schaefer--and Artie Green live happily ever after she reunites with him in Arizona. And what about Norma? Speaking for myself, I will never really be ready for her final closeup, Mr. DeMille.


                
I agree with most everything said, and just wanted to add my nomination for the best line in the film.  When Norma Desmond returns to the (Paramount) lot to pitch her old friend Cecil B. DeMille, the spotlight operator trains the spotlight upon her as the curious younger generation gathers around.Norma is eating up the attention, and the viewer may even begin to hope beyond hope that her plan might get off the ground when DeMille--old, weary, and pitying--calls up to the man and says,"Okay, put that spotlight back where it belongs."And the crowd melts away. To me, it's the most heartbreaking and illusion-shattering moment ever put on film.  Wow.


                
When I was watching this movie, I hardly ever took my eyes off of Gloria Swanson whenever she was on-screen.  Whenever she arches her eyebrows and her eyes get big and she starts to go crazy, her performance is so magnetic. She truly becomes her character.  It probably wasn't hard for her to do; she, after all, was a glamorous silent film star herself who had all but disappeared from the scene for years before this movie was made.  But her sharp delivery of the dialogue makes you believe every word she says.  That isn't to say that the rest of the film isn't good.  William Holden is very good, especially in those biting, darkly funny voice-overs.  Erich Von Stroheim is very eerie as the devoted butler Max.  (He was a silent-film director in real-life who made six-hour epics in the 20's, one of whcih actually starred Swanson.  He did not, however, discover her and never married her.)  The direction focuses heavily on the dark, fobodding, almost misty atmosphere of the whole thing, and the movie's all the better for it. But the best thing undoubtedly is Gloria Swanson's amazing performance as the greatest star of them all, Norma Desmond."I am a STAR!""I am big; it's the PICTURES that got small!""All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my CLOSEUP!"


                
For a film released in 1950, it seemed to be very provocative in the way it displays the dark side of Hollywood. Of course, the writing and acting should also be noted as being exceptional. The plot is that of a classic film noir and I had no trouble following and I just wanted to know what happened next.


                
This film noir shows the twists and turns of being an actor, and behind the world of Hollywood productions, and the guidelines and restrictions behind them.Unlike most film noirs, there isn't much of an antagonist, and it is more of a film focused on chracters and the interactions between them. The character of Norma shows perfectly the corruption and egotistical attitude an actor can portray if they allow themselves too, and is the first film I have seen that has done it so well.Unlike many of the traditional cookie cutter films at the time, this film decided to be different in its perspective, looking behind the scenes of the productions and people behind them at the time.The only thing I found wrong with this film was the pacing, the beginning of the film was quite slow and sort of felt like it was beginning to become repetitive. Apart from that this was a very interesting film, and everyone should watch it.


                
At the time, Sunset Blvd. was one the movies that explored the underworld of Hollywood and its true face. It follows a struggling screenwriter and ends up in the hands of Norma Desmond, the classic femme fatale of film-noir. This movie takes a lot of risks and that's what makes it a very good movie. Many romance movies eventually end with the main guy getting the girl and they walk off the sunset. But this movie does not do that, it is very dark and it had to be work. The way it shows Hollywood as a dark place, especially during this time, by using actor or actress for a long time and then they just throw them away like an antique. It also shows that people who work in Hollywood aren't perfect people, everyone looks up to Hollywood like its a glamorous place, but the main character is trying to get away from paying his car bills and then, he also seduces a female screenwriter after she says that she is engaged. If the movie had ended with him going with Betty in the end, it would have gone against the purpose of the movie, and probably not make it a film milestone that it is today.
Sunset Boulevard excellently illuminates the excess of Hollywood in that era. Joe is a burnt-out, unemployed writer, while Norma is a fading star, still convinced she is a supernova. The characters self-destructive actions and exciting dialogue is enough to captivate the audience up until the bitter end.Joe's refusal to leave with Betty is the final setpiece that truly defies Hollywood tropes. I love this ending, even though I had dreaded it for the entirety of the film. Had he left with Betty, the ending would have felt empty and cliché, and I am happy with the direction the film took.
This movie has aged very well. The plot was strong and the mood the characters gave off really made you feel for them and want them to succeed. Joe, specifically, made you root for him throughout the movie. After his first encounter with Norma you realized that she would trap him and he would be unable to escape the toxic realationship. After he met Betty, you really wanted them to run off together and for Joe to escape his problems at home with Norma. In the end, Joe is shot by Norma and it was his own fault. He had the opportunity to leave and he missed it. He allowed his feeling to overtake his mind and he was unable to think properly because he was trying to do what was best for Norma.
The mood of the movie would have concluded happy had Joe left with Betty when he had the chance. Staying to help Norma changed how you felt about Joe and gave the film a dark mood.
Sunset Boulevard is a classic movie from the 50s which was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the U.S. Library of Congress. When the movie started and I saw the body floating in the swimming pool I could see that til the end I would be hooked to the story, and indeed I was. Gloria Swanson perfomance was just brilliant and amazing without her the movie probably wouldn't be the same, but my favorite character is Max, he's such an interesting character.
But one question kept me thinking, what would happen if Joe abandoned Norma and went to Betty? Well, my conclusion is that the movie would end like the others, with a happy ending, that's why I liked it, that made the film fascinating for me
