"To make God laugh, tell him your plans."I usually love these kinds of sprawling dramas about interconnected people, but I suppose there's an exception to every rule. Amores Perros is that exception, for me. It felt more like a 2 1/2 hour soap opera, than a riveting drama. The only story of the three presented here that somewhat interested me was that of Daniel and Valeria. The rest of my time with Amores Perros was spent wondering why none of these people have caller ID, wondering whether this movie set some kind of record for most fake dead dogs in a film, wondering who El Chivo reminded me of (Il Duce from Boondock Saints), wondering why they just didn't cover the darn hole (who leaves gaping holes in the middle of their apartment floor?), and trying to think up a name for the dog (never came up with anything I liked more than Lost Dog). Mostly, I was just bored. I've read other people describe this as a powerful movie. Unfortunately, it just didn't do much for me. I give it credit for breaking my heart over those gorgeous legs (a true tragedy, my friends), but that's about it. 


                
A dense, overtly sophisticated, but never really wise, script by Mr. Arriaga gets the famed "Inarritu treatment" – otherwise known as "fanciful free fall in the arms of obsessive despair and educated repulsion". The "problem" with Amores Perros (also with 21 Grams and Babel) is you just can't ignore it. Or, to put it better, you'd feel some kind of terminal guilt (appropriately<U+0085>) if you did. The three intertwining stories revolve ambitiously and high-poweredly around the theme of fatalism, on "love's a bitch" (more or less the title), on "brother against brother" religious motifs, on Kieslowski, Poe, a bit of Mexican-period Bunuel, and on a to-the-point requiem on Viva La Revolucion. In short however, this is a salute to the idea of "God laughing when people make plans". (To be honest, God laughs when people make movies about God). In any case, the only one laughing in Inarritu's humorless universe could be God, though I don't really see why He'd be so pleased in seeing his creatures miserable as hell (<U+0085>). Obviously this is a vengeful divine presence overlooking the production of Amores Perros, a production stately (while recalling Mr. Babenko's 1981 Pixote) and, occasionally, inspiringly unpleasant. Undoubtedly a masterpiece for those who get their ideological kicks in non-American speaking filmmaking, an intriguing torture for the rest.


                
Amores Perros is pretty good stylistic film - got all the 'modern' elements e.g. color filters, camera techniques, quick wit gangster talk, disjoint time lines, etc. I'm happy that this is a breakthrough Mexican film, I even praise the thoughtfulness in integrating the modern film techniques with the culture. Well done. I just hoped to see more new styles created by Mexican film industry, in a way that isn't subordinate to American or European film fashions - something even newer and more extraordinary so to make Hollywood/Europeans be the copycat for few decades would be wonderful to see :)The undercurrent in the film, what's the symbolism of phone calls that hangs-up? (distance? fate?) It happened in two stories, and there is considerable reuse of the phone scenes to warrant some design in the metaphor of the phone.  The dog trapped under the floor board, what does that mean? I mean it is extremely unusual people to leave their pet trapped for so long, what does it represent in terms of their relationships or maybe personal baggage, or that their relationship is going through mazes in the dark with rats lurking?  What does the floorboard breaking on the first day represent - breaking the surface?That's all the questions I have right now. Good night.


                
There is not one decent human being in this film. All are double crossing, untrustworthy wretches lacking any redeeming qualities. Drunks, killers, adulterers, bullies, liars, thieves and two timers. Not the sort of people I choose to spend my evening with. What is the point of three hours of thoroughly unlikeable and disreputable characters, most of whom fornicate graphically and frequently if ingraciously. I'm glad that my view of the world is neither so black nor so bleak. The acting is capable. The production is effective (if gloomy.) The juxtaposition of three stories around one car crash is an interesting (if unoriginal) concept. But the script is a morbid repudiation of the human race. There are more likeable characters in a Wagner opera. It probably is a good topic for discussion at film appreciation classes. But it is too dark, too morbid and too cynical to qualify as a great work.


                
If it has any similarity to Traffic it's that it takes a long time to deliver a simple message - Traffic (drugs are bad) and Amores perros (Violence begets violence). Personally I got nothing out of this film. The stories are of common sense ignored and as such I found it hard to make any connection with them. But if someone gets anything out of this film then perhaps some countries wouldn't be looking to invade others. Violence begets violence, (that's my preaching not the movie BTW). I found the movie relentlessly negative. Perhaps in my younger, angrier days I would have got more from it. But where Magnolia gave a message of hope in it's narrative, Amores perros only shows the consequence of negative actions. Which is interesting in a documentry sort of way but I can't recommend it.


                
I'm not sure if there are spoilers herein but still don't wanna be blamed if there are.First: a little bit of PROs... the dialogues were in some points very peculiar and uncommon, and the movie is well acted. Now the CONs:I did not enjoy this movie. Right from the start, I found it disturbing, that can be good, because it would mean that the movie is able to stress you and keep you interested. Well, this one does not. It starts with violence, pours in a lot of dead dogs, mixes it up with sadness, adds up desperation and stirs it up with a nice car crash. Why? please tell me because I still don't get it. There's a lot of characters that behave badly, which can be interesting (like in Tarantino, Ritchie, Vaughn) but there is no real development in them, there's no reason why. This movie left with a strange "what did this all mean?" feeling i cannot get rid of. Did you, Alejandro Gomez Inarritu, mean to demonstrate this all had no meaning? well, you could do it with a shorter, less violent movie.I read comments about Amores Perros being "the Mexican Pulp Fiction"... forget it, all this movie takes from pulp fiction is a non-linear way of narrating the story. And that's done without a real reason, I don't see why it is so important to underline that the car crash is so relevant to all three stories, it is not, actually, two of the stories can go without it. The movie emulates Pulp Fiction. I would say Amores Perros is more "the Mexican Magnolia". OK, it's better than Magnolia. But Magnolia was awful...I have been watching violent movies all my life. I love Tarantino and that genre, my stomach is quite strong. but still after watching this movie, I could not sleep. I was struggling into asking myself why my girlfriend made me watch this!
