I was really looking forward to this as I had heard all the hype about it off IMDb and managed to get it in a DVD sale for £8. The only thing that put me off was that there was dog fights in it and I don't take kindly to watching animal cruelty in films. I know it's not real but it reminds me that it does happen in some countries and it's just a bit upsetting but I thought to myself 'it's only a movie and I am sure it won't take anything away from it' and thankfully it didn't. I liked the way they put in the beginning of the film reminding us that no animal was hurt during the course of the movie because people don't usually watch the credits at the end unless they really want to because that quote about the animals doesn't really come up till the very last bit of the credits but without it at the beginning then I am sure there would be a lot of very upset people. But back to the film Amores Perros is all about three different stories that come together through a car accident and we see how there lives are before and after the accident. We start off with Octavio who lives at home with his abusing brother, mother and his brother's girlfriend who he has taken a shine to. His brother is always on at him and smacks about his partner which doesn't like but knows he can do nothing about it unless he wants his legs broken. His story begins when his dog kills a champion fighting dog owned by a ruthless gangster of the town.When Octavio realises that he can make some money with his dog fighting so he can escape the slums of Mexico City. But it's not so easy as he wants to take his brother girlfriend and her baby with him but she takes some convincing. The other story is to do with Valeria who is happy with her new lover who has just left his wife and kids for her but the terrible accident leaves her wheelchair bound and she loses her grip on wanting to enjoy her life and things start to become hard for her and her lover. But the only thing that is keeping her occupied is the love for her dog who accidentally gets trapped underneath the floor boards. Valeria worries as there are Rats down there and doesn't seem to find a way of getting the dog out and as this happens her conditions worsens with gangrene setting in. The last story is with El Chiro A homeless man with nothing in his life apart from his love for his own pet dogs. He also has a past that is hurting him deep inside as he is not allowed to see his daughter after he walked out on the family but now is ex wife is dead he tries to make up for what he has done with the his daughter but the family do it's best to keep him away and obsolete from her life.The movie is very long and has a lot of unneeded scenes in it. I really wasn't taken in by the story of Valeria as it didn't seem very convincing and doesn't really go anywhere. You think it's just about to get interesting but at the last minute it has gone and it makes you feel whether they could have just cut out the entire screen as she doesn't make a difference. If I had it my own way then I would have kept the whole film focusing on Octavio and his dog Cofi trying their best to gather enough money to get out of there depressing lives and with El Chiro coming in in one or two scenes to make it a lot more interesting. This doesn't make Amores Perros a bad film just not a great one. You will go away thinking it could have been better or you will just plain love it but not watch it again. Its not the sort of film you go back and watch it again and again unless it intrigued you. Another good solid foreign film that didn't hit all the marks but still very good.


                
Three stories are connected by a horrific car accident in Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu's feature film debut. All three stories also revolve, at least to some extent, around dogs (the title translates to Love's a Bitch, with "Bitch" having a double meaning). The three stories vary in interest, in my opinion, and I struggled by the end to connect them or really to care about any of them on a deep level. Still, it's a pretty entertaining flick and very strongly directed. In the first story, Gael Garcia Bernal stars as a young man who's in love with his older brother's wife. He decides to enter his rottweiler into a series of dog fights, but he runs up against an opponent who isn't keen on losing. In the second story, a model (Goya Toledo) moves in with her boyfriend, but their happiness is immediately destroyed by the aforementioned accident. During her recovery, her beloved terrier disappears into a hole in their apartment's hardwood floor and never comes back. In the third story, a hit-man (Emilio Echevarria) who poses as a bum has an existential crisis. I more or less preferred them in the order they played out, though even the first story has its flaws (am I really supposed to have much sympathy for a guy who participates in dog fights?).


                
AMORES PERROS is a perfect companion to the excellent Y TU MAMÁ TAMBIÉN as an example of how prolific Mexican cinema is. It was nominated for Best Film in a Foreign Language, but that was the year of the breathtaking epic CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON.Like our Brazilian pride CITY OF GOD, AMORES PERROS is violent but you just can't take your eyes off. Disturbing but compelling. A memorable experience.9/10


                
This film consists of three intertwining stories, all involving dogs, and all laced with violence.  The first story we're shown, that of Octavio, is excellent.  Definitely a "10".  If the movie had stayed at this level it might have been the best film of the year, but the second segment is annoyingly bad.  Totally ridiculous, bad acting, lame story.  The third and final segment is very good.  I would recommend seeing this film, but I'd also recommend fast forwarding through the second segment.


                
"Amores perros" is not a bad film by any means.  There were moments where I was genuinely interested in the plot and its message, and direction wise there was a good number of times where the director's and actor's abilities shined brightly.  But there were also flaws that stuck out too strongly for me to strongly recommend this film.One of the first things that came to mind was that I have seen and heard the message and format of this film over and over again, in numerous pictures. I think those who compared it to Pulp Fiction, in terms of structure, are correct in pointing this out.  But when one is concerned about seeing the same thing done again, usually, this means to me that the originality level on certain levels leaves something to be desired.  Film makers "borrow" ideas all of the time, from other film makers it is more of what the "newblood" add to the mold created by past directors/writers, etc. that allows those who have seen the older films to enjoy the efforts of younger directors.  This the director of "Amorres perros'" first film, so I think the potential is there.  This relates to one of the other problems that I had, which was the length. Sometimes it is necessary or enjoyable to watch the in between scenes, when there is some level of suspense, etc. that builds.  But when it is used, in what seems to be more of a..."look how cool this shot is" it comes off as a bit pretentious at times.  This was the notion I got occasionally...when the music levels were raised and the camera followed a character.  At over 3hrs running time, Mr. Gonzalez could have been a bit more merciful towards the audience, especially when over 30 minutes seemed devoted to this in between scenes.  The first and last stories were the strongest but by that point I was waiting for the picture to end.Other issues I had were flaws with the plot.  There were characters who we were completely left in the dark about (the man shot in the restaurant early on...was that a hired hit or just he eliminating the step-father?).  Other characters who we were somehow supposed to care about (the dogfighting owner's brother) just didn't fly.  The logic of leaving the dog under the floorboards for days!?  There just wasn't enough background of how some characters came to be who they were.  We were just thrown into their tragic events and strong emotions which came out of them, and supposed to understand everything.  What I mean by that is that there are many REASONS, other than one tragic accident as an adult that causes one to break down. Maybe this is too strong of a demand, but I believe the director could have done a better job of developing them.  There were some very strong performances, some scenes were excellent and the connection to how other animals behave is on point.  I just think that there were still too many problems to really enjoy the film, and I was disappointed because many believe this to be better than "Crouching Tiger," which I did not think it was.  I suspect, though, that the director's next film will be an improvement...there is too much potential.


                
This is yet another over-rated movie that involves multiple sub-plots linked together by a common thread. Unlike some better executions (Crash, Babel) where the sub-plots come together in a climatic fashion, there is no such excitement here. I am no expert but I couldn't even see how the three sub-plots were related besides a dog playing central role in all three of them.


                
The movie serves the viewers with three sub-stories which don't really correlate. It opens up strongly with a sequence that serves as an anchor for all those sub stories. But the anchor isn't the only congruency point this movie uses. There are other quite meaningless rendezvous where the focus characters, who don't really know each other, meet and don't really share any line of dialog. But those smaller rendezvous serve well as time anchors, helping the viewers understand the timings of each scene. The stories also come very strong. Focusing on different backgrounds for each story, They each reveal themselves full of varied surprises and twists, although some of them are fairly predictable. The acting overall is just another decent effort. It sure is not really this movie's strongest point. But again, the story and the general story flow alone should suffice to make this movie good entertainment.


                
Mexican films are not very common in Europe, and Alejandro González Iñárritu has become a certain sign of quality, with his own approach. The three main stories are jointed and disjointed as in Pulp Fiction (although not so twisted and not so stylish), and the prevailing topic is disloyalty of people vs. loyalty of animals - shown through dogs (whose depiction is apparently too painful for Westerners) - followed by greed and jaundice.The stories are not of equal intensity, I found No 1 the most catchy, followed by No 3 and No 2, but No 3 demonstrates the best acting and profundity typical to Spanish / Latin-American films (Emilio Echevarría as El Chivo, above all). Well, all male leading actors are distinguishable, while female ones spent much less time on screen and had to play less elaborated characters. Anyway, directing and cinematography are good, and events seem realistic, not specifically created. But as for Iñárritu's trilogy of death, I have to admit that I find the other - 21 Grams and Babel - stronger and more interesting. But, without doubt, Amores perros is a strong film worth watching, and pondering on and over.


                
@ Mr. David Schleicher: The dog fighting is very disturbing, more so than the other violence depicted as that does take place. The violence between people is staged, at least for this film. Whereas, the violence against animals (not just dogs) is entertainment in a depraved world. So for people, it is largely a matter of choice. This lack of respect and compassion extends to all living things. For many, the dog fighting is more horrific to watch than the 'staged' violence that we are accustomed to viewing on TV. We have created this world, and incorporated others, including the dogs, into it. Why is that so "ironic"?


                
The first thing to understand about Amores Perros (or "Love's a Bitch") is that its title provides great insight into the interpretation of this film. At first glance, the film appears to be about the differing aspects of romantic love: Octavio and Susana's steamy and guilty affair, Daniel and Valeria's not-so-steamy and guilty affair, and El Chivo's remorse over having left his family several decades prior. However, it is much more than just a film about the various aspects of love represented. I'd argue that it is titled "Amores Perros" because the film is pointing out the flaws in romanticized love. The three subplots weave together to give the audience a modern view of the realities of love: young, emotional teenage love with Octavio and Susana, old, superficial, failing love with Daniel and Valeria, and a non-sexual love found between family with El Chivo. One of the most powerful aspects of the film is its paradoxical combination of violence in a movie where the main subject is, ironically, love. Most of the graphic violence has to do with the dogs, not humans. This itself helps define the film's thesis on love. In many ways, the characters care more about their dogs than they do about their 'lovers', which goes to show how deep their love actually is. The car chase scene is a perfect example of this because Octavio is willing to stab his brother's friend over his dog Cofi being shot, and get into a car chase which ends up crippling Valeria. Subsequently, Daniel's superficial love for Valeria is stifled and ultimately crushed by her crippling injury, leading him to abandon her. Octavio's "love" for Susana leads him to enter violent dog fighting arenas in order for him to make money so she can leave her husband for him. Meanwhile El Chivo is the example of what ultimately happens to everyone: guilt over what they did to their lovers (or, In El Chivo's case, his family). After seeing this film, all I know is if this is what love is, I don't want anything to do with it. It's all incredibly selfish and violent, hence the title.
Dogs, known to many as "man's best friend" are loved across the world and act as another household member for many people. Another expression that is often used is "You're no better than an animal", which is one of the crucial metaphors of Amores Perros. The main question Amores Perros asks is "are we any better than animals?" A lot of people think Amores Perros is a film to automatically despise because they suspect animal cruelty (though no animals were harmed) and the film's graphic portrayal of animal cruelty is both excruciatingly realistic and fearfully being an allegory for human violence.Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu proves to be one of the most outstanding modern directors in the business. From the deserved critical-acclaim and general success of Amores Perros he's managed to hit main-stream audiences with the excellent 21 Grams. Though it remains no match for the almighty bravo-film-making that is Amores Perros<U+0085> The film centres on dogs and creates three stories leading up and showing the consequences of a horrific car crash. The film observes and studies people dealing with love, guilt, sorrow, betrayal, anguish, vengeance, poverty, violence and regret. The contrasts between the rich and poor, the parallels between dogs and humans and the general cruelty humans put open one-an-other to gain something they can't grasp. Ultimately the film is a study of the many affects of love and what causes a hatred or violence to develop.The film captures the urban jungle perfectly and visually looks very dark, yet edged with tinges of yellowy light echoing character's facial emotions. Each story holds it's only meaning and own visual style. All three stories work in different ways and varied levels because it helps open up to different character's worlds yet with the added similarities that they're all fighting for love. It's a thrill-ride that does remains reminiscent of very few films baring its raw originality of hardcore, relationship driven drama.The film's gritty style does not except any substitutes as it viscously attacks the viewer with a sharp presence. The almost unflinching camera technique capturing the cruelly embedded imagery fiercely exposing the character's harsh and yet somewhat understandable emotions. You can tell than Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu loves his characters, even in their most despicable moments and the script authentically captures the humane realism needed for the neo-realistic staging. The sense of finding cinematic art in suffering can be held by the viewer, the film's content can always be accepted for the context it needs to be shown with. The film's harsh nature is even there in the title Amores Perros, literally translating to "Love's A Bitch". The film also has some biblical subtext, the fact that the film shows a life fuelled by wrong-doings meets nasty ends.If anybody was to dislike Amores Perros is would be either because they can't handle some of the horrific animal-related imagery or they don't like the film's narrative structure. The film is technically inspiring and the relentless fast-paced filming will not stop from the action-packed opening. The film's acting remains powerful, passionate and the painfully tremendous emotions being flung from every corner of the vivid spectre. Young prodigy Gael Garcia Bernal gives a defining and genuine performance of a tortured soul that had lost innocence in the culture he has been forced into. The heavy Mexican music pumps up the heat in many scenes helping to create the strong sequences of fast and stylistic editing.One of the greatest films to come out of Latin American cinema, a must-see for any film fan. A brilliant film.


                
Great film. However, doesn't anyone else notice a close resemblance to Requiem For A Dream?? Good plot, many unique characters, and good relationship issues. The film has a very interesting layout, as the first hour is pure action and dog fighting, then it changes over to a woman that gets injured and is searching for a her pet dog (which becomes annoying after a while) and then finishes off with an old man and his life - very interesting. There is a link between them all, but moreover, it just shows that in life there is more than one thing going on, unlike other films. This film has a similar layout to Requiem for a Dream and the new Crash. One to watch, whether or not you speak Spanish.
I've talked to a lot of people who have seen this film and loved it, and in all honesty i can see why. It has all the qualities of an independent film with the polished quality of a mainstream film that had a considerable budget to work with. The acting was good (7.5-8), the cinematography was great (8.5), the score and soundtrack was great and really added to the film (9). The story was what really bothered me; it's extremely difficult for me to sympathize with any of the characters because, with the exception of one, all the bad things that happen to the characters happen because of poor, selfish choices that they make. It's a little like Requiem for a Dream in that respect, but it's not quite as fatalistic. I'd give the story a 6. The dialogue is reasonable, but throughout the film i just couldn't bring myself to really care about any of the characters. Overall it's a good movie and definitely worth watching at least once, but i don't think it will be making its way into my collection.


                
Amores Perros really does a great job to keep the pace moving and enveloped me immediately. It is gritty and as the director put visceral in it's tension, pacing, and editing. The three tales are seamlessly interwoven, and although I found the 1st and 3rd tales more interesting, they're all inter-related fusing a magnificent series of events.. Even better...I'd thought "Man on Fire" did a good job of showing Mexico City as backdrop and setting, but this outweighs that a good deal. Although the colors often are drab, you can assimilate the dirt and griminess of some of the inner-city - people crowding, trying to co-exist in their own world of problems, creating problems for others in chain reactions. The filmmakers do a great job with moving back in forth in time intermixed along with Characters points of view too. Realistic characters like Octavio add credence. The characters are always at odds with themselves and their surroundings. Although the runtime is well over 2 hours, the movie whizzes by in a great way. Excellent film worthy of ownership. Highly recommended, but not a movie to make you feel wonderful.....
The debut film of Alejandro G. Iñárritu in which we follow three stories about three separate people, joined together by a car crash and the significance of dogs in their lives and their respective stories.Not quite as experimental technique-wise as Iñárritu's later films, but still very well shot and the actors give really good performances.The three stories are told roughly in order. Every main character is focused in turn, although the film cuts away every now and then to follow the other two as well. This makes the film feel a bit chopped. Towards the end, when you've gotten to know all the characters, it matters less. Even still, I think it's a bit weird how the second story happens mostly after the events of the stories told around it. The third catches up near the end, but only at the very end. I'm not sure whether I would have liked the film with less cuts to other stories, or with more.If I had to pick a favourite story, it'd be the third one. It follows an old hobo, who also happen to be a hitman. Weird character in many ways, but that's what makes him interesting. The first story, about a young man who gets pulled into dog fighting to support his brother's wife, is not bad at all either. The second story, about a fashion model who breaks her leg, is fine on its own, but pales in comparison to the other two.The stories are all rather grim. They're about cheating, dishonesty and the lack of loyalty towards those closest to us. Dogs are in the film as an example of what us humans definitely are not.And as a sidenote, keep away from this film if you're a dog lover. The imagery is both brutal and graphic.Not sure what to think about the characters. They all have their numerous bad sides. There are no good people in this film, at least not on the foreground. Even still, the main characters earn our sympathy. They do horrible, reprehensible things, but it's hard to hate them. Points for great storytelling, if nothing else.If you liked, for example, The Revenant, you'll probably like this one as well. It's not quite as good, but it feels very similar. But, I must emphasize this. Do not watch this movie if you cannot stand dogs being hurt.


                
I felt the tone with political Mexican movies has been a bit overdone, but perhaps this is just the voice of our good cinema. Out of the three, my favorite was the last story, Maru and Martin. For love is not always romantic, and thus, even more raw. I could definitely say this seems to be the quintessential Mexican film.
This is a barrio version of "Go," without the fast pace.  It starts off with a promising first story, but then descends into a tar pit paced movie, where the depressing scenery isn't enough to maintain viewers' interest.  There are some redeeming qualities - great acting and original story lines, and I would have given it a "thumbs up" if only they had kept it to under two hours.


                
One could perhaps call the type of cinema thoroughly represented by "Amores Perros" as the cinema of sadism. Yes, the film is very effective, it is deftly acted, photographed and constructed, and most of its production is first rate. The script, with a few slips due to overreach--in this case one might one say overkill--is engaging. Yet, I have artistic objections to a director that sets out, as aggressively as he can, to shock me, and that is monotonous and repetitive in that fierce pursuit. Nowhere does he permit poetic, lyric, or humorous relief to change and modulate the tone. His only other resource is mild melodrama, when the dejected killer cries to his lost daughter over the phone. Not enough, and not by a long shot. Compared to its most famous predecessor, "Los Olvidados" by Luis Buñuel, "Amores Perros" leaves quite a lot to be desired. Buñuel could be cruel, but his humor and lyricism were superb. In Latin America, and specially in Colombia, my country, we see blood all the time in television newscasts. Awful things happen here, yes, (as well as in Sweden occasionally), but realism proves in this case to be a bad aesthetic convention. It permits no catharsis. I rated it with a 7. "Los Olvidados" would get a 9 or a 10.


                
There was something about this movie that just kept my attention. There are a lot of points where it moves slowly and it seemed like I should have been bored, but somehow that never happened. Even during the long sequence during which Valeria and Daniel look through their floorboards for their dog over the course of several days, I was interested in what would happen next. It's a story about largely everyday people with no special skills and relatively mundane problems. While the characters are not that vibrant, they are distinct enough to not feel cookie-cutter and be accessible to the audience.The main reason I watched this was to use it as part of my research for a paper on breakout films (this being Inarritu's breakout). Considering the limited money that was used to make Amores Perros, it's quite impressive and it's not hard to see why people started noticing Inarritu because of his work here. It showcased how capable Inarritu is behind a camera in a more modest way than his later successes like Birdman and the Revenant, which I think make Perros more commendable. The hand-held and tracking shots were used to put us in the shoes of the characters instead of just to make the movie look cooler. It's a human story, so it's good that Inarritu and his DP Rodrigo Prieto were able to strike a balance that showcased their skills while keeping the focus on the problems of everyday people.I don't want to knock the movie's originality, but it definitely rides the coattails of Pulp Fiction, mostly in the story structure. However, it was much easier to follow the plot of Perros than Pulp because of how Perros followed each of its character groups one at a time. While the car crash is the central event that ties all three stories together, I feel like it could have been left out without hurting the story. The central theme of the movie is, to my eyes, that nobody regardless of class is immune to struggles and problems. And all of them must fight to preserve and repair the relationships they have with the people they love. Perhaps it's not the best story of such themes, but it's pretty good all the same. Overall Rating: has 7.7/10.
Amores perros, a.k.a Love's a bitch, a trichtype: three apparently disparate stories, not necessarily distinct, amalgamate and provide a combined effect on the viewer, has all the necessary ingredients of a simple movie aiming to tackle complex issues related, but not limited, to love, in all its forms, loyalty, treachery, faith, brotherly love , or lack of it, and hope. In one story, protagonist caves into lust and doesn't care whether God laughs at his plans; contrastingly, in the third plot beleaguered veteran, an assassin, tries to see clearly even though he jests earlier in the movie that if God wishes him to see everything blurry, he will do so. Just as having all the key ingredients, fresh and appropriate, doesn't guarantee an exquisite dish, so having appropriate cast, relevant production values and stellar writing doesn't promise a great viewing. This is where a director's worth really shows. While viewing the first part, the viewer feels adventurous, hopeful and eerily guilt. These feeling give way to feeling of irritation, nagging and loss of hope, during the second part ; one again feels hopeful, furthers his understanding of life and human nature, and acknowledges importance of moving on after viewing the third and final part of the movie. Innaritu's genius has an effect. It lies not in showing what life is, but in making the audience feel it. For English audience, who know little about fame of Mexican actors, the movie may sometimes feel like a well-directed and edited documentary, with close up shot spreading throughout the movie and realistic portrayal. You neither appreciate what most characters do, nor condemn them; because u realize love's a bitch!!!


                
Some people just won't want to sit through this film because of the overtly graphic and disturbing dog fighting scenes, which is ironic, because most people don't seem to mind the graphic violence involving the people in this film. Others simply won't watch it because of the subtitles. This is a shame, since this is by far the best film I have ever seen come out of Mexico (far better and more complex than the comparably immature "Y Tu Mama Tambien"). Here we get an intertwining tale involving dog fights, petty gangsters, a tragically injured model, a cheating husband, an abused teenage wife, and a homeless hit man. As you might expect the homeless hit man becomes the soul of the film, and the dogs serve as a link, reminding us of the violence we inflict upon each other and nature, and the fractured relationships we think beyond repair, but are actually more resilient than we could ever imagine. Brilliantly directed with a great soundtrack and a bigger heart than you might initially perceive, "Amores Perros" is a deep, thought-provoking and utterly enthralling film that you will not soon forget.


                
Whereas Magnolia could be described as a symphony of human hardship and frailty ending in an emotional catharsis, this is more like a sonata in three parts, each with a completely different tone and tempo, but all sharing some common ground.The first movement is about a guy who craves his brother's wife, so he uses his dog to make money in dog fights so he can support and run away with her. His brother is a wildly unstable criminal, and he crosses paths with some angry people in the dog-fighting underworld as well.The flaw with this section is that everybody is so animalistic and savage, you don't care what happens with any of them.In this movement, the dog kills to support a human's love.The second movement features a man who leaves his family for a super-model, but when she has an accident and deteriorates, it snaps the superficial bonds between them.The flaw here is that once again, you don't care much for such superficial, empty people.In this movement, a man puts his priorities back in order after a near fatality, symbolized by his finally attempting to save a dog trapped and dying under his floorboards.The third movement tells the tale of a crusty extremist revolutionary, now a wino-cum-hired assassin who longs for his family and daughter again.This is by far the best episode with immense depth of character and deserves to be in its own movie.In this movement, a killer dog mirrors the man's ruined, violent life and awakens him to find redemption and humanity again.The much talked about Pulp Fiction-like structure is used very well, showing us a God-like view of a pivotal accident and how it changes lives both before and after the event.Summary: Both intensely fascinating and unsatisfying, more authentic than Magnolia but not as cohesive. A mixed bag.Side note: It's depressing to see how so many people can watch violent movies where humans get abused and killed, and suddenly get squeamish when dogs are 'abused' using special effects.


                
Only in America would a gritty movie with tons of violence, sex, and language be allowed in but the foreign title must be used because the translated title is `Love's a Bitch'. While grittier films have come out of America, Mexico's Amores Perros still is something that I have never seen before. Although it has been called the Mexican Pulp Fiction, I fail to see the connection except that both deal with lowlifes and jump around with time. Other than that, there are no real similarities.Like Pulp Fiction, though, it's divided up into segments. The first deals with Octavio (Gael Garcia Bernal) who is madly in love with his sister-in-law Susana (Vanessa Bauche) so he uses their dog Cofi to fight for money to run away with. Second is Daniel (Alvaro Guerrero) whose marriage to model Valeria (Goya Toledo) is jeopardized when their dog Richie falls underneath their apartment. Last is former guerillia El Chivo (Emilio Echevarria) who is assigned to murder someone, and also finds a wounded dog to take care of.All three stories are brought together by a car crash, each in a separate way. And all three stories show how important dogs are to people. In all of them, the owner of the dog is more concerned about the canine than other people. It could be showing the alienation of culture, but it could just be showing us three stories of people down on their luck in Mexico City.I am a big animal lover, and it was rather painful to watch so many dogfights and dogs in peril, but at least barely any of the fighting was shown. It seems at times like Amores Perros goes for shock value, with the sudden fights and the gritty feel and the strong animal gore, to make us choose how we feel. Also, the music sways us, although it's quite good. In the case of movies like this, sometimes the music can hurt it, but not here.Amores Perros is one of those movies that have you feeling all mixed up inside, like you don't know how to feel, but that feeling goes away soon after the movie is done. You think it will leave a lasting impression on you, but it doesn't. I wish I could write more on this movie, but it's one of those movies that's hard to really talk about. See it if you'd like to see something different, and maybe you'll have another impression of it than what I had.My rating: 7/10Rated R for violence/gore, language and sexuality.


                
I wasn't as blown away by this film as some other people, but still I think this was a pretty nice film. It has three stories that are connected by a car accident and I will review and rate them separately.The first story is about a guy who's in love with his sister in law and fights dogfights to earn money to take her away from his brother who abuses her. She however sees nothing in his plans. It's very well acted and depressing. You really feel the depression of poverty and unanswered love. However I thought the main characters were a little too far from my bed to really identify with. Some witty dialogue may have prevented this, but in this part you don't see any intelligent characters (except perhaps the guy with the cool Escher T-shirt, but he plays a very minor role, so I wouldn't know). I give this part 7/10.The second story was really boring and I didn't like it at all. A guy left his wife and children to live with a model. Then the drama comes: they lose their dog under the floor and she gets into a car crash and loses her beauty by it. A lot of time is lost on this silly problem of getting the stupid dog out under the floor. There are a few interesting scenes, but on the whole this part isn't deep at all. 5/10 for this part.The third part however is really brilliant and makes up for the whole film. It's about a hitman who lives on the streets. In younger years he was a terrorist who wanted to change the system by blowing up buildings and killing police officers.  Now he just kills rich people for money. I won't give away the end but I'm really glad this was the last part, because that way the feeling of the last scenes will stick with you the longest. 9/10 for the beautiful conclusion.


                
When I had seen this film I though to myself "Well that was alright"and then 5-10 minutes later I didn't really think more about it. I compare this a bit to "Y tu mamá también", maybe because GaelGarcía Bernal starred in both, but also because they are bothMexican. When I had seen "Y tu mamá también" I also said "Wellthat was alright" (and so said the other guy I was at the theaterwith), but it got better with time, as there was more to think aboutwhen the movie was over and I agree with other reviewers that ithad more layers. I feel that "Amores Perros" kind of lacked this. Itwas alright entertainment while it lasted, but somewhat quicklyforgotten. Worth 7 out of 10 in my book.


                
