There is a character in 'Amores perros' who looks like Karl Marx.  He is a tramp and an assassin, a good bourgeois who one day, Reggie Perrin-like, abandoned his family, and, un-Reggie Perrin-like, joined the Sandanistas in an effort to create a better world, earning 20 years in prison for his troubles.  Walking the streets with a creaky cart and a gaggle of mangy dogs, he was found by the policeman who jailed him, who gave him a dingy place to live, food, and the odd, non-official contract.El Chivo is the soul of the film, the missing link, both in appearance (a man called 'The Goat', who has rejected the civilities of society and lives a beast-like existence with his dogs, amongst the ruins of civilisation), and narrative function.  With intricate structure, 'Amores perros' tells three stories, one of underclass Mexican life, where survival depends on what New Labour calls 'illegal economies' (dog-fighting, bank-robbing etc.), where bright young women are stifled and degraded by thoughtless pregnancies and brutal marriages, where single mothers depend (and usually can't depend) on shiftless sons for subsistence; and this world's mirror opposite, the world of the media, of celebrity, of models and magazine editors, of daytime TV, perfume advertising campaigns and bright apartments.  Family life is central here too, although in this case it is torn apart by more pleasanntly bourgeois ailments like ennui and dissatisfaction.These two stories are mediated by the narrative of El Chivo, the man who left one of these worlds for the other, but who still negotiates the two, through his search for the daughter he left as a toddler, and in his 'job', wiping out businessman.  If Mexico is emerging as part of the super-confident globalism of high-capitalism, than El Chivo is the grizzly sore thumb, the ex-Sandinista, the Marx lookalike, the man who said no, the drop-out, the forgotten, the depleted spirit of the Left,  happily killing and torturing the servants of the new economic regime.There is something Biblical about his hirsute ascetism too, presuming to judge the 'Cain and Abel' half-brothers, one an adulterer, the other with a contract out on his sibling, another example of family gone badly wrong. This, the bleak funeral and grave scenes, and Octavia's functional crossing himself every time he passes an icon on the landing, are the sole residual elements of religion in a society once ostentatiously religious.Except for the director.  Like Paul Thomas Anderson in 'Magnolia', although to a less self-conscious degree, Gonzales Inarritu is the God of his film, intricately creating the structure that links his characters and their different environments.  These are negative connections, however, which work against the idea of coherent meaning in life - contact usually results in destruction (physical, material, spiritual), or diminishing.He is also an Old Testament god, punishing those who would get too confident with their future plans or their seemingly inviolable present success - the gains of capitalism are prey to the violent whims of chance: Gonzalez Inarritu doesn't need frogs to shake a rigid society or mindset.Moral change is linked to physical change - being beaten up, losing a leg, cutting hair.  The punning title, with its reference to the dog-eat/fight-dog nature of modern life, and its general unsatisfactoriness, also gives the film its Biblical feel, the idea of Mexico as an asphalt desert, or a rubbish heap, with all these scrawny mutts scavenging the remains.'Amores perros' shares  the sickly, bleached near-monochrome look of many recent crime films, like 'Chopper' or 'Bleeder'.  But where the heightened mise-en-scene in those works were expressionistic projections of their protagonists' psychosis, here it's part of a controlling world-view, the universal consciousness that creates, connects and destroys.
The three stories, though connected narratively and symbolically, are mutually distinct - the first is an exhilirating mix of violent gangster film and frustrated romance; the second is like a short story (the screenwriter is a novelist), a figurative plot where movement is through image, symbol and idea, rather than film narrative; the third is a kind of spiritual journey, with an appropriately Biblical (or Wim Wenders-like) openness.'Amores perros' is not quite as amazing as its admirers claim - it says more about contemporary cinema that a film only has to hold your interest for it to be a masterpiece - but it is consistently enthralling, and, despite all the stylistic tics and brutal violence, bracingly humanist.


                
True to the structure, Iñárritu attacks the subject of love with a multi-pronged approach, addressing three different stages, or complications, common in `love.'  All three storylines represent the `struggling' aspect of love.  It would be fair to say that Amores Perros, roughly translated to be `Love's a Bitch,' makes the ultimate statement, `Love is a struggle.' More specifically, however, Octavio's narrative can be most suitably seen as the `hunt for love' and acquisition or fight for it.  To be with his love, Susana, he must overcome both the fact that his brother is married to her and the fact that his dreams of leaving the city are hamstrung by his less than admirable socio-economic state.  Daniel and Valeria, who are about fifteen to twenty years Octavio and Susana's elders, represent love's most frustrating peak - when one is already in it and wants or needs to get out, for better of for worse.  Daniel is trying to get out of a marriage in which he has kids to be with the supermodel, Valeria, a woman whose meaning to him is ultimately superficial.  El Chivo, whose story is a perfect compliment to Daniel's, represents distance and alienation from love, inwardly looking at it from the outside.  He has abandoned his family twenty years prior to become a guerilla terrorist and now operates as a vagabond hit man.  It would be difficult to look at these three different `stages' of love in a classically structured film.  The episodic structure eases us between each stage, at no point forcing us to tolerate the unrealistic concept of one couple going through all of these stages.  Breaking it up into three different narratives, each revolving around different characters, presents the audience with the ability to view each story as independent the others, a more pervasive perspective.However, this film is not a simple three-part love story.  In Amores Perros, violence is akin to love.  Each character displays this brutally: El Chivo leaves his love to be a terrorist; Octavio engages his dog in violence and even attempts murder to provide money for his love; Daniel and Valeria's relationship is verbally and nearly physically volatile to the point where they hate each other.  Each character's love for another character is manifested in their violent acts.  This is an interesting theme considering the paradoxical relationship between love and violence, one of which is the induction of harm, the other which is the polar opposite.  This juxtaposition of love and violence, if for no other reason, is meant to show the impulsive nature of love.  We take it for granted as a compassionate, helping characteristic of life but Iñárritu reveals his characters through this juxtaposition, allowing the audience to consider the consequences of love that are otherwise unforeseen.Iñárritu does a lot of things right in this film.  Mainly, he keeps us in constant suspense through the causality of the plot, forcing us to anticipate the results of the characters' actions.  This causality can be as brazen as Octavio's decision to stab Jarocho, inevitably leading one into apprehension over what will happen to Octavio.  Less obviously, however, is the way he creates suspense around Daniel and Valeria.  Their whole relationship is characterized by conflict.  While this makes for good dialogue, it insists upon a boiling point - one that is anticipated throughout the entire length of their chapter.  Likewise, there is delicate suspense over what Valeria's disfigurement will mean for their relationship. Not only is Daniel forced to confront whether or not Valeria's beauty is the only thing keeping them together, but Valeria must adjust to living without her beauty.  Suspense revolves around El Chivo from the moment he first comes onto screen.  We see him.  He murders someone.  We're back to the story of Octavio.  The entire first two hours of the movie beg of an answer as to who this man is and what he has to do with the subject of the film.  We later find out, not only does he have everything to do with it; he makes the film, seeking redemption on behalf of every other love-torn character.  The type of monologue Emilio Echevarria's character, El Chivo, delivers at the end of the film would have a completely different meaning in a film without an episodic structure, in which case he would only be seeking redemption for himself.  However, the way Iñárritu cross cuts between El Chivo and the other characters, in all their woe - the consequences of their actions, applies greater meaning to El Chivo's words and actions in the final scene.Perhaps where we get some of the most important information about the characters, and Amores Perros as a whole, is through what is representative. Iñárritu makes steady use of symbols and motifs throughout the film, some of which work well, lending themselves nicely to the dramatic structure of the film, others failing to enhance the story.  For example, the massive Enchant billboard looming above Valeria's apartment like the eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg is one of the more lackluster motifs in the film.  First, we are unavoidably asking, `Why they would want to live under that thing in the first place?  Second, the removal of the billboard coinciding with the fall of Valeria's career, Daniel's self-assurance, their relationship, whatever you want to intuit, is much to explicit for this film.  The more understated motifs such as the recurring telephone ring, `Bueno?.Bueno?' someone always answers, come off better.  This repetition is telling of the deception and unfaithfulness rampant in this world.  It works.  Another representative device that supplements the story is how the dogs act as metaphors for their respective owners.  El Chivo's dogs are the very embodiment of him.  They are all strays much the same way he is a vagrant.  Cofi, Octavio's rottweiler is equivalent to Octavio in his impulsive and aggressive behavior.  This is displayed in Cofi most notably during the fight scenes, but we see it particularly in Octavio when he head-butts his brother, Ramiro, and when he stabs Jarocho in the stomach and thereby provoking the car chase.  Valeria's dog, Richie, is lost under the floorboards, confined for most of this narrative.  Valeria is physically much the same way, confined to her wheelchair.  More implicitly, she is confined to a life that has been propped up around her by people who idolize, envy, or lust after her.  Valeria's death is also parallel to her dog's death in that they both die from their respective internment, Valeria being trapped in a room and too immobile to save herself, Richie trapped in the floor and too exhausted to fend off armies hungry rats.  The motifs and metaphors within each narrative help structure them as self-contained bodies.The episodic structure of Amores Perros could have been damaging to the film had it not been for the inspired way the stories overlap only so much as to not exasperate the audience.  In the three stories, rarely does a character from one interact with a character from another, outside the unifying car crash scene.  There are truly only two occurrences: when El Chivo, sword in hand, scares off a frustrated Jarocho who plans to sic his dog on one of El Chivo's, and when Valeria appears on a Mexican morning show broadcast into Octavio's home the morning of the accident.  This interaction was all that was needed for Amores Perros to be successful as an episodic film.  Its structure lends itself well to subject matter and storyline.  Iñárritu tells it to us this way; the literary devices at use bring it to life and its structure gives it legs to move.  Throughout it, so well crafted, one can mentally fuse all three stories together and see one single character going through the process of fighting for love, realizing what a trivial pursuit it is, abandoning it, and then spending the rest of his life trying to touch it from behind the bars self-guilt.
The director Alejandro González Iñárritu did an extraordinary thriller combining masterfully three different stories where fighting dogs are included, and also using the camera in tricky ways several times probably to increase the excitement. In Mexico there are many ways to earn money for survival in some cases or for lucrative purposes in others. There fights among animals are arranged regularly. In Mexico the so-called Palenques are famous where the people go to see fights between cocks, but also fights of dogs are organized in places less formal than Palenques. In both fights the people bet, some small money but others high sums. The film goes around this issue of fights between dogs, where obviously you have always a persistent dog champion, highly susceptible to be killed by other means in order to take it away. But the film is in fact about the misery of the humans, no matter if they are poor or rich. Amores Perros is an exceptional film, and a sample of the quality of several new-era films in Latin America, which may compete easily in their plots and depth with other films made in Europe and USA.


                
Spoilers herein.I believe that the future of film is now firmly in the hands of Spanish-speaking filmmakers. Not that they make the best films, but that they have the current crop of ideas. We saw Italians introduce us to the notion that a camera can be tethered to the soul of a character and follow him around. This is still the standard of the much celebrated Scorsese.The French were briefly interesting when to this they added the notion of reflexivity, where the mechanics of film-making became a character. Hollywood - in their more interesting films - extended this notion of folding to an amazing collection of ironic and self-referential devices.Meanwhile, Spanish literature was long incubating a synthesis of fabulism within self- reference (Cervantes invented the notion) combined with earthy sensuality, sometimes natural energy.So in contrast to the Scorsese-led `character' stuff, and the often mechanical Hollywood folding exercises, we get Spanish films from Medem, Almodovar and Garcia. Rodriguez is very much in this camp. And now this.Yes, it is overly long and uneven. Yes it is artificially gritty and has some dishonest performances. But it is extremely well constructed, both on a dramatic and conceptual level.Folding in this context is placed in the fantasy of rather than perspective or character. Why give several stories? Taratino does because Kar Wai Wong does, and his motive is to bleach the story away and focus on the musical texture of the mood. But Garcia does it (`Ten Tiny Love Stories,' `Things You Can Tell By Just Looking at Her.') to synthesize a single entity out of many and a single larger context out of the many sketched situations. The focus is on that larger context, and what magical dynamics are at work. It is pop cosmology as art drawn from drowning the soap opera content. It is new melodrama - melodrama is when the characters are puppets to external forces - with attention to interesting exposition and subterranean channels of those forces.Fate. Dogs as astrological entities.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
I've seen some unnerving movies in my life, but "Amores perros" (alternately called "Love's a Bitch" in English) is a level all on its own. It knocks the breath out of you the way "Mystic River" does (maybe even more so). The plot centers on a car wreck in Mexico City and how it affects several people. The people are from every walk of life - there's a doctor and a homeless man - but they're all desperate, with a capital "D". And everything in their gut-wrenching lives all relates somehow to their dogs.This is a very accomplished piece of cinema. Among other things, it introduced the world to Gael Garcia Bernal, who went on to play Che Guevara in "The Motorcycle Diaries". And director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu went on to make the equally gut-wrenching "21 Grams" in the USA. Despite the unrest that has dominated Mexico, they have always turned out some good movies. Hollywood should take a cue from them.


                
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon.)There are a lot of dogs in this movie. And there are some dog-fighting scenes that dog lovers may not want to see. Be forewared, a lot of dog blood is spilled.And why? Does director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu has some kind of obsession with dogs? I don't know but according to something I read at IMDb there's a blurb at the beginning of the film stating that no animals were harmed in making the film. I played the DVD back, but I couldn't find the statement. I wonder. They sure looked harmed, and at any rate must have been sedated for some of the scenes. There is a short documentary called Los perros de'Amores perros (2000) that explains it all for those who are worrying about the dogs. Personally I'm not too worried because I very much doubt that Inarritu would make a film involving so many dogs and allow them to be hurt.Anyway, this is a violent movie with a lot of the violence happening to the dogs. It was Inarritu's first film, or at least his first big film. He has since made, most notably, 21 Grams (2003). As in 21 Grams, there are three stories here, connected only by chance and the dogs. The opening scene is a car chase in which, we later learn, the three stories collide. There was also an accident in 21 Grams that help to hold the stories together.Here we have (1) the story of Octavio (Gael Garcia Bernal) who is in love with his older brother's wife, Susana (Vanessa Bache); (2) the story of El Chivo (Emilio Chevarria), one-time guerilla fighter, now a hit man who dresses and behaves like a homeless person; and (3) the story of Daniel (Alvaro Guerrero) who leaves his wife and children for a lanky runway model, Valeria (Goya Toledo). All three stories include dogs. Octavio's dog Cofi becomes a big winner at the dog fights and makes money for Octavio which he gives to Susana to save so that they can run away together. El Chivo lives with four dogs, and Valeria has a little dog Richie that somehow (I can't figure out how) gets stuck under the floor and put upon by rats after it chases a ball through a hole in the floor.Presumably this film shows us the violence that is endemic in Mexican society, perhaps inherited from the Aztecs and the Conquistadors, who were pretty bloody in their time. Or perhaps Inarritu knows that violence plays with the young American audiences that go to the theaters, and what he has is a nice commingling of purpose. One thing for sure, Inarritu knows how to make a film that engages the audience with not just violence but the clash of character and aspiration. A lot of the credit for the success of this film must go to the outstanding cast, in particular Emilio Chevarria and Gael Garcia Bernal.Best, most original scene: when El Chivo leaves the two men tied up with the gun equal distance between them, just out of reach.Bottom line: not for the squeamish.


                
This is a simple film...with 3 simple stories that are connect with a simple accident...it's absolutely realistc...I definitely recommend this movie to everyone...is one of the best i have seen...those who don't like it..is because the are afraid of the real world and still live in a dream...


                
My Rating : 8/10Found it to be too negative in nature right from the beginning. Didn't interest me in the least but this is what reality is like : cold, brutal and unfair.Violent, aggressive drama with no sense of resolution to be found. You've gotta watch it, man!


                
*Possible Spoilers* The three stories that interweave in this intriguing picture are all linked by themes of loss or betrayal.  A man trying to get his brother's wife to run off with him (and failing), a supermodel who suffers a career-ruining accident and an old man who gave up his family to join a guerilla movement and has deep regrets.  The best character in the movie and also the most moral, is the latter, El Chivo (Emilio Echevarría).  He is an occasional hitman, has the appearance of a tramp but has a lively mind and a caring disposition (not to mention a penchant for opportunist thievery).  Really, it is this character that carries the heart of the film.  The dogfighting scenes are cleverly done, using minimal footage of the dogs actually fighting.  However, there are many scenes of what look like damaged or dead dogs after fights which are quite unnerving.  Indeed, 3 people left the showing I went to, presumably because of the dogfights.  In the grand scheme, the dogfights are a useful metaphorical device, although to the film's credit, two of the dogs featured are crucial characters in the story. In a similar manner to Magnolia, all three stories interlink via catastrophe.  No raining frogs here, this time a calamitous car crash. 
This is in places, very impressive stuff, quite powerfully done and quite bleak.  I found that I was expecting bad stuff to happen all the time, and it did.  My main criticism is that probably 25 minutes could have been cut without much damage to the overall story, which would've put the running time at just over 2 hours.  But asides from that, a well acted, well directed debut feature from director Alejandro González Iñárritu.7/10.
Amores Perros is a truly prodigious piece of work, resembling a career summation far more than a maiden voyage. It is an anthology film containing three distinct stories which are connected by a car accident in Mexico City. Each of the three tales is also a reflection on the cruelty of humans toward animals and each other, showing how they may live dark or even hideous lives.The film is a startlingly successful debut from a director (Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu) and a screenwriter (Guillermo Arriaga) whose colliding story lines have since become shop-worn; here they came blazing off the screen in sensationally well achieved, operatic style. The brutality of Amores Perros may be difficult to watch at times, but this intense, gritty film packs a hard wallop.
Be warned: dog lovers of the world should avoid this movie simply because most of the graphic violence in this film is visited upon those animals. Sure, it's only a movie, but it looks so real...Having seen 21Grams (2003) and read the reviews of Babel (2006) <U+0096> I hope to see the latter soon <U+0096> there's no doubt that this writer/director (Inarritu) follows a set formula when constructing his works. That's no criticism <U+0096> simply a fact: if there is an overarching theme in his movies it's that of chaos; or, perhaps chance is a better word.We all know that the world <U+0096> our own individual world <U+0096> is governed, in part, by random elements: what if I'd arrived two minutes earlier...?; what if I'd turned left, not right, that day...?; what would have happened if I'd said yes, instead of no...? There are so many instances of how lives change, for better or worse, when we make choices, as we must.Life's a bitch, no? Well, almost. So, yes, often bad things do happen to good and bad alike, but sometimes, things do work out for the best, even for the worst of us. It's that sort of scenario that Inarritu explores as he intertwines the lives of three sets of people over a period of a few months <U+0096> a used-to-be revolutionary who's down on his luck, down in the dumps, and down on humans; a couple of brothers trying to scratch a living in the poorest sections of the city <U+0096> one's a store checkout dude masquerading as a bank robber, the other's trying to make a zillion pesos by dog-fighting <U+0096> the human ones and the real nasty bull terriers; and last, there's the husband with the seven-year itch who's after the super-life with a super-model who has super-sex appeal.As the viewer, we enter these slices of high and low life with the bone crunching (literally) collision at a city street intersection. What a doozie! However, like 21 Grams (and no doubt, Babel) we've dropped in half way through the narrative, so once again we have to sort out what's in the past, what's in the future and what's happening now... Now, of course, Tarantino (Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction) was doing disjointed narratives long before Inarritu arrived on the scene <U+0096> like, 1992 -- but the latter director is, I think, even more demanding for the viewer. However, Amores Perros is less of a chore than 21 Grams.Don't get me wrong, however: this is well-crafted cinematography, worthy of the Oscar nominations it received. It's visceral, it's vibrant, it's vicious, it's vaaanderful, darhling <U+0096> everything that drama and action fans want to see. I liked it <U+0096> particularly the irony of Chivo's (Emilio Echevarria) rescue of the Rottweiler fighting dog from certain death; and, if you are familiar with The Conversation (1974), then you'll just love the scenes of the husband with the seven-year itch (Alvaro Guerrero) tearing up the wooden floor of the apartment he'd just bought for his super-model lover <U+0096> but he's not looking for electronic bugs; just for a while, it's real creepy stuff...But, life goes on, and when the final scene fades, you can easily visualize how each of the characters <U+0096> those who are still alive <U+0096> will carry on: everything changes but nothing changes, fundamentally. If you've seen Crash (2004), if you like Tarantino, if 21 Grams (2003) entertained you, then you should see this film. But, like I said <U+0096> if you love dogs, you might want to reconsider...


                
This movie starts out with a car chase that winds up in an accident, an accident that links the lives of three people. The stories of these three, before and after the accident, is told by way of an intricate plot structure. Deft time sequencing and inter-cutting of each story with the others keeps you on your toes - you have to pay close attention. In each story the accident is seen from the perspective of each of the three main characters - it must have been filmed using multiple cameras. The film editors deserve recognition for putting this film together.There is some pretty strong stuff here. The auto accident is gruesomely realistic and shocks every time it is shown. The dog fighting scenes will turn the stomach of most - in fact if you know someone who does not react to those scenes, you may want to give them wide berth. There are several ruthless murders, and a graphic stabbing.The acting is first-rate. Gael Garcia Bernal is a dynamic and charismatic actor and Emilio Echevarria is great as an ex-guerrilla who has become a homeless man. He is wonderful in an extended solo scene where he is recording an emotional phone message.The second story about an ad man and a classy model was the weakest. The biggest problem I had with it was the hole in the floor. For one thing a hardwood floor would never collapse in the manner shown. Any decent construction would have a plywood sub-floor, and this was a high-end apartment; in any event oak flooring would never behave that way. If they could not afford to have the hole fixed, they could have at least nailed a $10 piece of plywood over it. Who would live with a dangerous hole in the floor like this? And, if the dog was so important to them, why wouldn't they be a little more proactive in getting him out of the hole?The musical score, by Gustavo Santaolalla, augments without intruding. As dazzling as the presentation is, I sometimes had the feeling of being too aware of the brilliant technique at the expense of the stories which show that, regardless of societal class, love drives people to take actions that have profound and often unexpected consequences.


                
Excellently cast, superbly directed, and those fighting, wounded, or just wagging their tails after their masters, dogs also playing their hair-raising parts, this hell of a movie, which just pulls you like a ruthless ,unseen hand , through the storm of violent emotions , is simply an experience, which leaves you thinking seriously. Does Susana really love Octavio, or it's just passion, and yielding to his constant advances ? Does Ramiro love his wife and the kid, or it's just helplessness,to stay together, being threatened to get killed, by Octavio's hired killers ? Does El Chivo loves his daughter, or it's more the need for revenge , in retaliation to betrayal ? And why does Valeria love Daniel, a much married, middle-aged man, not very handsome either ? their love-hate relationship, after she is devastated by that car accident, in which she first becomes wheel chaired, and then with a major handicap, when her leg is amputated ? It's too complex a drama for getting simple answers ! Yes, we have seen movies like, Unfaithful, Perfect Murder, and so many others, on infidelity, adultery, and revenge, but nothing like this before ! At one point, the characters get down to the lowest level of mercilessly fighting dogs , to make their living, or even much more than that, by staking, assaulting, double-crossing, robbing banks, and evading law, on the other point, they give in to their basic instincts . The dogs too, snap the necks of each other, at the first opportunity. But when the dogs bleed, and are badly injured, just waiting to breathe their last, the humans are truly over-whelmed, desperately trying to save them, realizing their place in their lives ! Inarritu has put his heart and soul, while directing this drama, and unfolded, reunited ,all the stories together, doing a wonderful job of it all. It's really touching to see, almost all the characters, reduced to a pathetic state, yet clinging on to each other for some support. Some of the noteworthy scenes are, El Chivo transforming his persona, by shaving etc, and pasting his photo,along with his family, Valeria looking out of the window, after her leg is amputated, a desolate Mama Susana, after Octavio climbs the stair case ,by hurriedly pushing her past, on realizing that Susana has fled with his money.... Some how, Valeria and Daniel's story lacks the grip, and excitement, like the other ones, and that part of searching for Richie the pet dog , under the wooden flooring, as well as flashing her poster, Enchante, could have been edited, for better results. It's also not very convincing, Daniel saying good bye to his happy family, while he loves his daughters so dearly ? Even his wife seems to love him so, that she has almost forgiven him for his unfaithfulness, and wants him back ! Not one of those pop corn flicks, this movie makes you think about our basic principles in life, and the amazing hand of that unseen supernatural power, which creates ripples in our lives, reaching beyond our scope, as Inarritu believes ! Those street dogs will never be the same for me at least !
well i have to start saying that ''Amorres Perros'' as the picture who saves the Mexican cinema, cause the direction, the music and the performances as excellent, and the next year as coming a Mexican movie who as better than this, ''Y Tu Mama Tambien'', and this movies in special got the fame of make to the people believe again on our cinema, very of the people still thinking that the Mexican cinema were sh*t, but the most of the people who's saying that is cause they isn't know nothing of cinema, like the mother of a couple of girlfriends, she's an assh*le, really, she's an assh*le for saying that the movie as bad, and she isn't know nothing about movies, and also her son, that as friend of my sister, but that's another thing, anyway, the movies it's almost perfect, if them screenwriter, as a book writer... not an screenwriter, the screenplay got three stories, the first leave you impressed, but to past to the second story as breaking a rule of the writing whit respect to the time, and later the second story as slow and when as come to the climax, the movie past to the third story and as make again the same, apart you didn't know the most part of the characters, just the leading characters of every story, anyway like i said the direction, the performances, the music and the photography are brilliant, later Iñarritu and Arriga, they selling out they work... personally ''Y Tu Mama Tambien'' were better
I watched this movie only yesterday and it impressed me much. First novel is really frightening as all this blood and injured dying dogs - made me really sad. I love animals so watching this blooded horror was really difficult. But the second and the third novels are indeed fine - they have special mood and style which I think is a must for a good movie of a high class. A master's hand is felt in all details, in a way the plot is going on, in the director's choice of colors, in all.. The movie is not very original as it has some allusions with Kitano's Dolls (especially the second novel about a model), with Tarantino's Pulp fiction (in the way the novels are connected with each other - this time mosaic, heroes not familiar with each other but influence on each other's lives - many reminders). I like the Amores Perros and really didn't expect that such good movies can be made in Mexico.


                
If you watch this film today chances are you'll come to it having already seen Alejandro Inarritu's more recent, famous English work like 'Birman' (2014) and 'The Revenant' (2015), both of which rank as modern classics. Having already seen both of the above I was interested to know what Inarritu's Mexican films were like and I was not disappointed. 'Amores Perros' or 'Love's a Bitch,' the title being a pun on both love itself and dogs, both of which feature prominently.The basic premise of the film is a now well established and copied trope of a central, connecting event through which a variety of stories are spun off, usually in cities. In 'Amores Perros' a car crash brings our three main stories together and a variety of love and situations, types of love and good and bad outcomes. The most interesting is the final and climatic arc of the El Chivo character, who is dotted throughout the first two stories in a mysterious and half taunting method, drawing us closer to the finale and his piece.There is a tendency in films like this to fall into melodrama but Innarritu maintains the realism of his picture well. The brutality of the interconnected stories too, also feel realistic. The only real problem with it is some now very dated music for the soundtrack which sticks the film in its late 90s/early noughties feel. There is also a danger that such films attempt to say too much about life in too little time or too much. Whilst Amores Perros runs for about two and a half hours at no point does it feel too long nor does the film feel like Inarritu is attempting to say all he can about love, life, cruelty and the world.The role of dogs in their human masters and abuser's affairs is a clever little motif that helps draw the stories together. They, as much as the human cast, deserve applause. For the most part the characters we are privileged and horrified to be privy to their lives feel real, honest and actual people. There is sympathy yes, but never too much and the ugliness of humanity is made clear without falling victim to dull nihilism.Even the shaky, gritty camera-work feels fresh despite its 2000 release date. Whereas action films since the Bourne series and its various descendants have killed shaky cameras before repeatedly desecrating their graves and using their corpses the setting and context of Inarritu's work means that the cinematography works well.All in all whilst it's not a perfect film 'Amores Perros' does what any good drama should do, deliver dramatic situations, sequences, stories and make us feel for the characters in equal parts pity and disgust.


                
Alejandro Gonzáles Iñárittu's feature film debut is a masterwork of outstanding direction, terrific writing & fabulous performances which, thanks to its ingeniously layered & cleverly narrated story, commences his directional career on a rousing high while also succeeding as one of world cinema's finest films to surface on the silver screen at the turn of the new millennium.Amores Perros is a three segment story interconnected by a car accident. First segment concerns a young man who enters the world of dog fighting for easy money in order to start a new life with his sister-in-law. Second segment is about a supermodel & covers her life after the near- fatal accident, and the final segment involves a mysterious vagrant wandering the streets of Mexico City.Directed by Gonzáles Iñárritu, the film is the first instalment in his Trilogy of Death and where its real strength lies is in the cut-throat fashion in which it grabs the viewers' attention from its opening moments & never lets go until the very end. Written by Guillermo Arriaga, the screenplay is a work of quality in itself, for each event is thoroughly refined & the characters are carefully fleshed-out.Cinematography makes extensive use of hand-held cameras & provides a raw, gritty look to the whole narrative. Editing is deftly carried out for each segment is emotionally gripping & steadily paced. Gustavo Santaolalla's score & other incorporated songs nicely compliment the story, and its entire cast chips in with a stellar performance which ends up further elevating its overall impact.On an overall scale, Amores Perros is a brutal reflection of love, loss, loyalty, betrayal, revenge, regret & hope, expressed through its characters' dilemma in a highly compelling manner, which also offers an insight into the different sections of Mexican society. This instant classic may not be an easy sit for few due to its disturbing content but for its remorseless take on the fragility of life, this essential cinema comes strongly recommended.


                
The title of this wonderfully crafted film allures to dogs and, in fact, dogs do make a sort of assistance to the human stories being told. Three in fact, that at one point or another interconnect. By now we have become familiar with Alejandro Gonzáles Iñarittu's style of inter wining lives and the effect that these connections have, however he hasn't done this better than he did with Amores Perros. This being his film debut one can see that he was meant for big things, as most of his movies have shown by their critical success.So with this film we get a first chapter which involves a young man who seems to be both enjoying his new found way of earning money, while also struggling to cope with his brother's wife's pushing him away. This first part involves some of the more graphic scenes, which may be tough to watch for some viewers, especially if you're dog person like I am. In short this was a good start to the movie that ends with the car accident that links the three parts together. After that we get the aftermath of this tragedy, through the eyes of Valeria, an aspiring model who is confined to a wheelchair, spending most of her time at the newly acquired apartment by her lover, a former family man who left his wife & children. Slowly she starts to lose it, as her dog gets trapped in a whole hole on the house floor and she sees her career fade away. This middle segment of the film sees a more emotional backdrop, as it shows the audience the difficulty some people have coping with problems such as the one the model goes through. Finally we are introduced to an old, bearded man who was always in the background during those other stories and is now the central focus of the film at this time. His story is one of regretful decisions and a bipolar dynamic that follows him, as he shows a nurturing side by taking care of dogs, while also being a near sadistic hit-man. In the end we see him set up a conflict between two brothers and attempts to connect with his estranged daughter.Upon concluding this film, I found myself rationalizing about how this movie is an excellent look into the flaws of humans in comparison to, say the dogs, which are as much a part of the movie as humans, You see, dogs in this movie are nothing more than loyal companions that only serve to accomplish their owner's goals. In the first story, Octavio, the young man, trains his dog to be vicious and fight other dogs to the death. In the second story, although to a much lesser extent, the dog gets trapped because he was playing with her owner, therefore being good company. And in the final story the dogs are obviously a big part of the old man's life. Now by saying this, I don't mean that dogs are perfect, because either by their own instincts or by human influence, they can be savages, as is show by their fights and when the dog in the first story kills all the other dogs owned by the old man. What's I'm trying to say here is that the darker side of a human being is explored here, and in my opinion in great fashion. Amores Perros is a tough movie to watch, yet it's a great way to go deep into the most harsh things about human life, something that we have to fight in order to carry on living, be that as a poor man or a successful person.Rating: 8,5/10


                
The dogs in this movie play an interesting part. With each of the three narratives there contains a dog(s), their role seems to be to help the main characters on the path of discovery. In the first narrative 'Octavio and Susana', the black Rottweiler, Cofi, helps Octavio not only in the minor plot to pay Jarocho back for the death of his dog, but also to help Octavio save money so he can have his dream of moving away with Susana (sister-in-law). In the second narrative 'Daniel and Valeria', Valeria's little dog Richie helps Supermodel Valeria by giving her something to live for, although the dog isn't seen much we know the dog is alive somewhere under the floor boards trapped because of his whimpering. This knowledge gives Valeria something to live for. Her traumatic accident took her leg and sense of self along with it, her life and success was based on her ideal looks and beauty which was took from her in the crash.In the third and to me the most moving narrative 'El Chivo and Maru', El Chivo who needs the most help has two dogs that help him. The first is a pack of happy mongrels that wander the streets with him, this group of dogs have been his companion loving him unconditionally licking his feet and following him where ever he goes. The second dog that has more of an impact in changing El Chivo is Cofi Ramiro/Octavio's dog. El Chivo brings the dog back to life-and heath, and the dog ends up killing his pack of mongrels in return. It is in this moment that El Chivo starts to reflect on his own life comparing it to Cofi's life. Like Cofi that was once good El Chivo reflects the unchangeable circumstances of his life that changed him forever, making him leave his family and turning him into a cold-hearted killer. Cofi has helped El Chivo onto the path of reflection by showing him his true nature.Without the roles of these dogs that tie the main characters together, helping the characters expand and come to life, this movie wouldn't have gotten far. The benefits of making the dogs be the helpers in this movie, is that many people automatically take sympathy with these dogs, which connects real emotion to what is seen on screen. Like with 'Octavio and Susan', we see that Octavio loves and takes care of Cofi, then when we see that Octavio is willing to put Cofi into the fights so he can run away with Susan, from this we understand more of what Octavio will sacrifice to be with her. With 'Daniel and Valeria' Valeria is show with the dog at her side at all times (before trapped in floorboards). She loves the dog completely, even after Richie is lost she is willing to try. Compared with Daniels love for Valeria which seems to shallow out after she gets into accident, showing his love was based more on the ideal beauty.
Amores Perros tells the story of a number of people (amongst which a cheating husband, a troubled young couple and a homeless hit-man) who are somehow connected by one dramatic event, namely a car crash. The movie shows the characters, their wishes and desires, experiences and problems. Without going into spoilers, the well written plot is about people who deal with great change and loss in their lives, and does so with great effect.The acting is very well done. Never over the top and always genuine. The Spanish speech and subtitles did not bother me at all, and it shouldn't put people off from seeing this movie. The characters are never one-dimensional and the editing keeps the movie at the right pace. Although I do feel the movie could have been more effective with a 15 minute shorter duration.If you like films about life, films that move you and get you thinking, then you will enjoy this film.


                
In this audacious feature film debut for Inarritu, a trio of stories in Mexico City is connected by the theme of dog lovers and a car crash. The first story, about a man infatuated with his brother's wife, is the most interesting. The middle story is the weakest of the three, but Inarritu generates considerable tension from the simple premise of a dog trapped under the floor board. Although the acting is good all around, the final story features a particularly notable performance by Echevarria as a man who leaves his family to join the revolution and ends up a lonesome hobo. However, the main attraction is Inarritu's fresh and invigorating style of film-making.


                
The film Amores Perros has been translated into English as Love's a Bitch, though I might prefer a possible better alternative such as the more literal play on words, 'Loves Dogs', 'Loves the dogs' (as in 'the pits'), or possibly 'Loves Dog' (British slang meaning bad or disgusting).The structure of the film is not a new concept. In cinematic terms it is a portmanteau film in that it consists of several different stories that are all tied together by one event and one theme. The event here is a car accident which we witness at the start of the film, and the theme present throughout the film is that of love.The three stories tell of a youth's love for his brother's wife, a woman's love of herself (although I think anyone would be sympathetic of her situation), and a man's love for his daughter. Though there are many more examples of love within each story.What is original, however, is the way in which the theme of love also revolves around dogs, and the love of dogs and hate of dogs ties the story together as much as the characters' love and hate for each other.The filmography is also very impressive. The chase scene which causes the accident is fast and tense, on numerous occasions the tension becomes quite nerve-racking, and the second story in the film is actually quite scary rather like a horror film.This film is very good, not amazing, but it is clever, and the acting is superb. It has also been criticised for being too long. This, of course, is such a subjective comment because a long film is only long if it feels long to the viewer - and in some cases, as with me and Nirgendwo in Afrika, you don't want a long film to end.Unfortunately, with this film, I did look at the time, and it could have done with being slightly shorter. However, it did allow director Alejandro González Iñárritu to later direct the excellent American funded film 21 Grams, and Amores Perros is still a film well worth watching; a film which gives an insight into life and class in Mexico City today.
Amores Perros is not for those with weak stomachs. The movie is relentlessly violent, filled with moments of gut-wrenching gore and power. That said it's also a brilliant movie.Alejandro Gonzalez Inniratu's hold-no-prisoners, in your face style nicely suits the wonderful screenplay by Mexican born Guilermo Arragia. Characters in this movie don't necessarily find the redemption they are looking for but they're journey is nevertheless powerful and stunning.The film basically center's on a group of characters all of whom have fallen in love, lost it or are becoming dissatisfied with it. For example a political hit-man named El Chivo lives like a hermit with his motley gang of dogs. He carries deep emotional baggage and desperately wants to reach out to his estranged family.The movie's script is absolutely flawless although its hard to keep up when we move at such a breakneck speed. That said this truly is one of the best movies of recent years. The ending is especially powerful, and will haunt you till after the credits have rolled.So what more is there to say? Go out and watch this movie! William Friedkin loved it, so why shouldn't you?


                
Indeed this well-made film, handcrafted in Mexico, is a wonderfully interwoven tale of acts and consequences. Whether you want to believe in it or not, Alejandro Gonzalez is hell bent to make you see that bad karma is alive and well in society today.This story, which involves three different stories, are all ingeniously connected with one another. And without giving any spoilers, it is important to know that karma is present in all three tales. If you do something bad in your life, you will pay dearly down the road in one way or another.I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and not just because the director and I share the same name, but because it was powerful, colorful, and the acting was superb. Above all that the screenplay was one of the best I've seen in a long while.If Love is for the Dogs (as the title suggests), then this critics' tail is wagging for more movies like this. Highly recommendable.


                
I saw this film during the lessons on school. I think the film is really good, it shows the reality of living a a huge city like Mexico City. Maybe , for us it's hard to believe that such things really happen in life, but as you can see in the movie, they do happen! For me , the director of the film has done his work excellent, especially when you know that this is one of his first films ever, he brings everything in screen on a very high level. The only thing that's a bit strange in certain scenes are the flash backs and flash forwards ( this happens especially with the car accident that you see three times, but every time through the eyes of another person) Conclusion: A very good film which is highly recommended to see! On every school they must see this film, and certain bad things in the society of the world.Jens


                
