Some people just won't want to sit through this film because of the overtly graphic and disturbing dog fighting scenes, which is ironic, because most people don't seem to mind the graphic violence involving the people in this film. Others simply won't watch it because of the subtitles. This is a shame, since this is by far the best film I have ever seen come out of Mexico (far better and more complex than the comparably immature "Y Tu Mama Tambien"). Here we get an intertwining tale involving dog fights, petty gangsters, a tragically injured model, a cheating husband, an abused teenage wife, and a homeless hit man. As you might expect the homeless hit man becomes the soul of the film, and the dogs serve as a link, reminding us of the violence we inflict upon each other and nature, and the fractured relationships we think beyond repair, but are actually more resilient than we could ever imagine. Brilliantly directed with a great soundtrack and a bigger heart than you might initially perceive, "Amores Perros" is a deep, thought-provoking and utterly enthralling film that you will not soon forget.


                
Maybe for most of you, people outside third-world countries like Mexico or Colombia, my home, movies like ths one are only representations of another world... something away from you. My city, medellin, is one of the most dangerous cities on the world. Mexico city can be as dangerous as medellin. I`m not talking about politics. maybe you haven`t lived violence as near as i have, but im gonna tell you something, that is the main reason i voted 9 this movie: Amores perros is not fiction. Its a perfect peep to what life is here. We have expensive models that go to stupid tv shows, we have dog fighting, we have mercedes, we have old trucks, we have killers, businessmen, we feel love, we have houses... our life, as you can see in the movie, isn`t as different as you think. Amores perros can show you that life is not easy here. but that`s it. What you saw is thousand`s of people life. that`s why it`s so magic to you. Yourè seeing what you will never live there, in london, new york, seattle, paris, berlin... reality is weirder than fiction... see it on amores perros, and you`ll believe me... live it here, and no movie will surprise you


                
This Mexican movie was surprisingly good. I confess the sin of prejudice concerning Mexican cinema, this being maybe the second Mexican film I have ever seen, but here my sins are punished. This is the work of a director of big talent. Hopefully, he will not be spoiled by the success.
Three different stories in today's Mexico mix with very few common elements. The characters belong to different social categories, and nothing connects them at first sight, excepting the feeling of un-happiness, and - yes - dogs. Dogs play an important role in all three stories. One more warning - there is a lot of cruelty including dog fights - this film is certainly not for sensitive animal lovers. Directing is excellent, the stories are human and complex and despite their melodramatic or sometimes tragic outcome, they still leave you with a shade of hope - maybe because the humanity that the author uses to create his characters. There are so many memorable scenes, that I would commit another sin to pick any and describe it here - just rent, or go to watch this movie in the theater - it is worth all 150 or so minutes you will spend. 9/10 on my personal scale.


                
Thanks to contributors, plot synopsis has been very well written. Amores Perros is included in the most important movies for the beginning of the 21st century. It marked a new epoch with its thoroughly life-like vision on a twist of fate. Then in a 5 years' of time within more recognized movies, we started seeing similar plot schemes telling different stories over accidents that binds each person's fate. One of them was Crash, and it won the best picture Oscar in 2005.The more you see this film over and over again you'll get to a deeper point where the lives and choices of the characters won't matter any more. It's still affecting in the first-time watch, but with an examining view the next time you see it; you're driven into a vision, a cast of mind.There were 3 main characters and 3 main stories from each one, which are nested altogether. If we look at these stories over the characters' relationships with their dogs, it's intriguing. As if the dogs exemplify their owners: 1' Young loafer Octavio commits crime in order to earn money to make a living. He fights his dog Cofi in dog-fighting tournaments. How Cofi needs to fight for his life, so does need Octavio to commit crime for his life.2' In the second story, beautiful model Valeria receives a surprise gift from her fiancé to choose a puppy from a pet store. By time, the puppy gets used to live a super-luxury pet life; which is the same life style of her owner. Valeria and her fiancé's apartment unit is under a hardwood flooring construction. One day while alone at home the puppy falls into a gap between the hardwood and the concrete; thus stays stuck there and began to squawk, since she is not used to live without comfort. At the same day her owner Valeria gets involved in a car accident while driving alone, having no one to help her just as happened to her puppy. She loses her leg in this accident and her luxury life comes to an end, as same as the life of her puppy. She begins complaining like her puppy squawking.3' In the last story, the grim hit-man El Chivo saves the life of Octavio's dog Cofi, after Octavio gets killed in the traffic accident in which Valeria lost her leg. Saving him changes Cofi's life, he no longer needs to fight for Octavio's bets on dog-fighting. His life becomes safe and peaceful. El Chivo starts looking after Cofi beside his other dogs. Among the other dogs Cofi looks very ugly and dirty. One day when El Chivo leaves the dogs together at home, Cofi kills every one of them. His reason of killing all the dogs explains why his owner is a hit-man. As Cofi killed innocent dogs; El Chivo kills innocent people for El Chivo seeing himself ugly,dirty and strange among the people; like his dog feeling himself ugly,dirty and strange among the dogs. El Chivo feels bad about his dogs, when he finds out Cofi has killed them. Yet, he feels worse about himself when he actually realizes that Cofi's attitude gave him a lesson of life. Then El Chivo shaves, cuts his beard and hair, gets cleaned up and turns out looking like a gentleman. Cofi's attitude changes his life; his life becomes safe and peaceful just as when El Chivo saved Cofi's life.The vision we're getting when we compare these 3 stories is about the public loneliness of an individual. The only person, who can guide and who can help us, is ourselves. This loneliness brings our freedom of choices. With making our own choices, we build the essence of our character: Our quintessences. Life is sum of all our choices. In order to build our quintessences; we always face the risk, fear and pressure of the chance of making a wrong choice. Life makes it obligatory to make choices. This obligatory builds our inner crisis and develops our personality. To find the secrets of our own personality, we try to find someone or something else to lay a burden on the responsibility of self-search. Here in Amores Perros, the 3 main characters are used by their self-search reflection on their dogs.Doesn't this vision form the idea of Jean Paul Sartre's "Being and Nothingness"? Since Amores Perros hides the character views through the situations created by dogs; it is a movie that has no characters, but only situations. This is the systematic of Existentialism. If there was no situation or happening, there wouldn't have been any characters. Existence precedes essence. A person is nothing without his actions. So, a person doesn't have a soul(or a character) if he is not alive. Then there wasn't and won't be anything before and after our lives. If we don't believe in this vision, certainly the signs of fate that we come across in our lives must be delusion.


                
'Amores Perros' is a shocking experience from visionary director Alejandro Gonzalez Iñarritu. It's a difficult film to watch, one which continuously challenges its audience, but a reward in of itself for those who can withstand its brutality. It puts a magnifying glass to the pain of love, and those who are destroyed by it. It gives new meaning to the film title's literal translation, 'love is a bitch'.In a single moment in time, several lives in Mexico City will be changed forever by a devastating car crash. The film divides itself into three separate segments: representing the past, present, and future. Octavio is searching for recognition and love, but looks in the wrong places. It's a desire that drives him, leading him to make choices in life that will soon haunt him. Valerie, whose life is most impacted by the car accident, finds herself living in a relationship that's crumbling and self-destructing. El Chivo must deal with the absence of his daughter, and the void it's left in his life. He finds companionship in the dogs he picks up off the street, and they soon become the only living things he can connect with. Together, the lives of these individuals will collide in more ways than one. They will find themselves connected by a single thread: love. And the hell that can be unleashed with it.When I finished watching 'Amores Perros', one of the first things that popped into my mind was why 'Babel' couldn't have been this good. Where 'Babel' lacked in emotional depths and highs, 'Amores Perros' at times finds itself drowning in it. It's a visceral and gritty film, so raw and intense. You may think you've seen it all, but 'Perros' will challenge even those who are rarely phased by cinema. You may find it difficult not to look away at times. Iñarritu's movie has been described as being a 'dog holocaust', and at times I can't disagree. The film's sheer violence is so penetrating and disturbing, it packs a mighty punch. And while this film is definitely not for the squeamish or faint of heart, there's no question that 'Amores Perros' has a tender heart and message ready to be heard. Iñarritu crafts a compelling story from start to finish, which strips down to the bare basics. His ability to capture a piece of the human spirit is wondrous, even if it doesn't always cast us in the best light. It's dark, fierce, and relentless, but nothing short of greatness.'Amores Perros' features an array of actors and actresses, all of which work wonders in their respective roles. Gael Garcia Bernal is, as always, brilliant. It's a more restrained and less quirky role than many are used to seeing him in, but nonetheless has the rare ability to capture and audience's attention with ease. Emilio Echevarria stars as El Chivo, and delivers a haunting performance as a man who finds himself alone and saddened. It's the weakest part of the film, but is made up for by Emilio's wonderful presence. Goya Toledo plays Valerie, a celebrity crippled by the accident the film revolves around. I found her part in the story to be most interesting, if not for the fact of seeing the life of someone who goes from having it all to nothing at all. There are many numerous performances, too many to cover, but they all lend their talents to create something extraordinary.'Amores Perros' is an adrenaline rush for its entire running, which tops two-and-a-half hours. It's all a very human and primal film, which can be attributed to Iñarritu's impeccable style and talent. Combining a mutli-faceted story with electric performances, 'Perros' works on many different layers to satisfying results. An original and bold step in film-making, this nearly perfect picture will have you experience a collage of emotions, and invest in flawed characters... all for the sake of love.


                
If like me, you were dazzled by this year's "Babel", you will likely be as curious as I was to check out the first film in director Alejandro Gonzalez Iñárritu's trilogy about death. Similar in narrative structure to "Babel", this viscerally shattering 2000 movie carries three overlapping stories tied together by a defining car accident. Written with dramatic precision by Guillermo Arriaga (who later wrote the other two films in the trilogy, "21 Grams" and "Babel"), all three take place within the different social strata of Mexico City, and as the title implies (English translation: "Love's a Bitch"), dogs are intriguingly pivotal to each story. Also like "Babel", the various interconnections among the stories do not come across as contrived but rather as emotional resonant in a gradually revelatory manner. Even though the movie runs an epic length of 153 minutes, it consistently holds your attention.The first plot line, "Octavio and Susana", is about a love triangle that occurs between young Octavio, his abusive older brother Ramiro and Ramiro's wife Susana. Dog fighting is common sport in their downscale neighborhood, and the brothers own a rottweiler that's a natural aggressor in the fight pit. Octavio sees the dog as his meal ticket to steal Susana away from Ramiro and escape to Juarez. The second story, "Daniel and Valeria", focuses on Daniel, a married, guilt-ridden TV producer who buys a fancy new condo for him to live with his tempestuous supermodel girlfriend Valeria. Their relationship unravels in light of the car accident, and further complications occur when her little dog is trapped underneath the floorboards. The third story, "El Chivo and Maru", is about former political revolutionary El Chivo who has years ago left his family and became a hit man for hire. Living in squalor with a herd of homeless dogs, he is recruited by a businessman to kill his partner, both of whom turns out to be brothers. The integration of these stories is handled with supple dexterity in a non-linear fashion that allows the viewer to peel off the layers of the characters in order to understand their common dilemmas.Unbelievably, this powderkeg of a film represents Iñárritu's feature film debut as a director, and his confidence and audacity are felt throughout although the third episode seems too deliberate a pastiche of "Pulp Fiction". He has assembled a superb cast with Emilio Echevarría the standout as the grizzled El Chivo, a scarifying vagrant who reveals himself to be a troubled soul who is the only one who successfully escapes his trying existence. In his first major role, Gael García Bernal portrays Octavio with escalating emotional fervor; and as Susana and Ramiro, Vanessa Bauche and Marco Pérez provide powerful support. Together, they generate a palpable sense of imminent violence throughout their episode. Goya Toledo makes a vivid impression as Valeria, fully capturing her spoiled character's misplaced sense of entitlement, while Alvaro Guerrero affectingly humanizes the put-upon Daniel's increasing regret. Just as he would prove later with "The Motorcycle Diaries", "Brokeback Mountain" and "Babel", Rodrigo Prieto showcases superbly evocative cinematography that is in keeping with the emotional shadings of the story.The 2001 DVD provides a surprising number of extras beginning with an informative, often meticulous commentary track by Iñárritu and Arriaga (spoken in Spanish and subtitled in English). There are three quick featurettes. The first is a six-minute short that shows how the numerous dogs used in the film were trained and protected during the production. Considering how realistically violent the dog fighting scenes are, I find this short helpfully reassuring. The second is the standard, making-of featurette, about fifteen minutes long. Even though Iñárritu seems to be promoting the film as well as explaining the genesis of it, there is good behind-the-scenes footage, including some interesting table readings from the cast. This leads to one quick short about the staging of the car accident itself. Also included are about a dozen deleted scenes, totaling about fifteen minutes, which actually help provide context in understanding some of the characters' motivations. There are also three music videos from the movie's soundtrack, which is a dramatically effective mix of Mexican and Spanish rock-rap tracks.


                
I love movies like this! The movie is awesome, Amores Perros puts the viewer right in the movie, if you get into it and are not distracted it almost feels like your in the place watching these dog fights! It is a realistic look at the lives of 3 people who all have in common a love for dogs. Even though one of the characters (Octavio) puts his dog through vicious dog fights the man still loves his dog. The director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu does a great job of putting you the viewer right in the heart of Mexico. The opening scene sets it off and right from the get go the movie gets your attention, slows down a bit in the middle but gets going again towards the end. If your a fan of movies that almost seem like the story is really happening then buy this flick, don't rent it go to best buy or wherever and pick up this movie it is a classic for sure! If you like Inarritu's film 21 grams as i did, then your guaranteed to like this one as long as you don't mind reading subtitles.


                
Even after the first time I saw this movie, I thought it was the best nominee for the best foreign film Oscar (out of what I've seen that is, Divided We Fall comes here to the Bay Area in a couple of weeks, no sign of Everybody Famous yet...).  But I was a little disappointed because I anticipated some of the intersection points, probably from seeing so many films using a similar narrative style (i.e. Mystery Train, Dekalog, Trois Colours, Pulp Fiction, Snatch, Reservoir Dogs, Before the Rain, etc.).  But the second time I felt freer just to watch all that was unfolding in the lives of the characters and I loved it.  Being a sucker for redemption, I liked seeing the changes that occurred in the life of El Chivo, and also that it was far from being a trite overnight transformation; he was still on a journey...  Amores Perros was definitely one of the best movies I've seen this year.


                
...this is the theme of the film.  If you plan to screw people over for your own selfish, worldly desires, then you will get karmic payback in spades: destroyed lives, dead dogs, etc.  This theme is very obvious in the first two stories in regards to the character's on-screen actions and interestingly in the last story, by learning about El Chivo's past.  If there is a "winner," it is El Chivo, as he physically fares the best of the lot of the other characters, however his game is a null sum--there is still no happy ending for him.The theme of the film is what separates it from it's Hollywood counterparts where the protagonist(s) always win.  Individually, three stories vary greatly in quality:  the first (Octavio y Susana) is fast and frenetic with excellent camera shots and editing.  The second (Daniel y Valeria) is much slower and is too long for its own good--however it does develop the theme of karmic payback quite well.  The third (El Chivo y Maru) is arguably the best, in large part due to the acting of El Chivo and how it ties up all the other stories.This film is a breath of fresh air for Mexican cinema, especially in light of some of the dreck I've seen recently (Santitos and La Otra Conquista come to mind).  Film has changed...we can't expect Mexico to produce Pedro Infante and Maria Felix-style movies anymore. Self-important "artistic" work ain't gonna cut it either.  "Amores Perros" is a fine step in the right direction and one of the best films of the year.


                
When I think in recent Mexican movies, the majority involve a lack of originality, full with clichés of corruption, political situations, economic situations, even language ones. The reason I believe that it's because people in the Mexican film industry don't want to risk the originality of their thoughts, or more specific, their money... But I believe, as the saying said "Who doesn't risk, doesn't win" that its for sure a difficult business, but it isn't impossible. Actually, the more you risk, with this I mean a equal balance between what you feel and what you think, the more you get. Amores Perros did this step, they risk for something never done in Mexican Film History, and they did it right, I'm not saying that it wasn't done before, It was in movies like Los Olvidados of Buñuel or Y Tu Mama También of Cuarón afterward. It's a walkabout in a dark pad, but when you see the light you get to see a beautiful movies as it is Amores Perros, you get inspiration for uncommon project and thoughts.Jach


                
I am Mexican and I saw this movie yesterday, it is a wonderful movie, i love it. I love it because: 1. It's Mexican 2. I think that the couple Iñarritu and Arriaga, forms a style like Tarantino's, and I love all the movies by Tarantino. Arriaga writes in a more deeply way, with not much action as Tarantino does. 3. The story represents the 3 social classes in the world. the model is the high class. Gael Garcia is the middle class, and El Chivo is the third class. and it symbolizes that all the social classes can be unified by some accident. And that all classes have a same quality, the love to the mens best friend, Dogs
Comment on the film: Amores Perros I don't believe that Amores Perros means 'love's a bitch' . . but rather Love/Dogs. In this painful to watch film (I cried a lot), full of human heartlessness, egotism and cruelty, only the dogs manifested redeeming qualities of devotion, heart, bravery and focus. At first, I kind of liked the character, El Chivo; as he seemed politically and socially idealistic as well as to really love his dogs; but ultimately, he showed himself to be angry, selfish and weak. The reason I watched Amores Perros until the bitter end, was that I sensed Inarritu, the director, was himself suffering with the revelation of human cruelty and I admired his dedication to telling the truth. Sharon WOOF!
Alejandro Gonzales Inarrituru first feature film is the first Mexican masterpiece in a very long time, maybe since Los Olvidados and whit this film Mexico could gain some more attention of other countries.I saw this film when i was very young and i totally love it, maybe in that time i don't understand all the points of the film but still i love all the essence of the film.The plot is just great and the idea of the three stories is amazing, maybe not original because of films like Mystery Train or Pulp Fiction but still great.My personal favorite is the first one: "Octavio y Susana", whit Gael Garcia in his best role until now and Vanesa Bauche in her unique good role for me. Inarritu put actors that never do films i mean they only work in theater plays and also use common people that previously assault the film team. This facts only confirm what i think of the film: Amores Perros contains all the essence of Mexico City, i mean the Chilango style.Once one of the worst journalist of Mexico, i mean those that only give gossip of famous people said a warning to all the world:"Mexico City is not like in Amores Perros, don't watch this film"I think the film is very realistic because those things (dog fights, murderers, kidnapping) really happened in my City and in all the world so there is nothing to hide. I mean there are a lot of problems in my country but there are also a lot of good things and beautiful places. Mexico City is one of the biggest cities in the world so it is very difficult that we don't any problem, but i think is a wonderful place to live. And well, this is only a film so please watch it.Well, what else i can say?, i mean this film contains all the elements to be a masterpiece: good director, good plot, good storytelling,hang out characters, good performances and the most important thing, is honest.DVD: just great, whit good extra material and of course deserves to be in my collection. Also i own a VHS cassette, just for remember the days that i saw for the first time this film, back in the year 2001.PS: the Oscars, well i really don't care about prizes so i love this film with or without an Oscar but is also a fact that is almost impossible that Hollywood could recognize a Mexican for his work. I mean, i don't like to compare between films but it is a shame that Mexicans were expecting something from a country where there is racism to our people that lives there. And the racism is the thing that the Oscars represent.
The cinematography is an art when it makes you a part of itself. And the movie gives a breathing picture. Suddenly you are on the streets of Mexico, smelling the air of jeopardy and constant risk - risk for the sake of living, being loved. Life isn't a game that one can quit - once you've taken responsibility you have to keep on going deeper. It's about the issues of integrity, moral choices and sacrifices that have to be made. Those must be essential - like dogs'. They don't think if it's right or wrong - they follow the natural feeling of being honest whether in love, loyalty or death.So far I watched the movie twice and both times enjoyed a lot. The director and actors made a great job at exposing the characters at best - they're real to the extent when you love and loath them. Everything is pointing out for the happiness but here is another test crossing out the rest. And the music background does its part, fits perfectly in the action. Absolutely loved it! I'm giving it 9 out of 10 just for the hope Inarittu would try to reach higher for another masterpiece.


                
With that out of the way, I have to say that this film was a welcome surprise. Having seen Gael Garcia Bernal in Los Diaros de Motocicleta, I was very interested in seeing his previous work. I rented this out of the Foreign Film section of Blockbuster with little prior knowledge except for his presence.Amores Perros is a multiple story line flick, which I'm a fan of to begin with. It often leaves the viewer with questions throughout film, as personal histories of characters are usually not revealed until later in the movie. Sometimes these movies can be harder to follow if the director doesn't know what he's doing, but this one rarely tripped me up.The director plays with the time frame, notedly repeating the opening car crash (that shouldn't be a spoiler) several times as the story permits. The characters are well-realized and multi-dimensional, and the acting is excellent. I can see why it won millions of awards.While I definitely got a Tarantino vibe watching this (a consequence of every non-chronological movie I seem to see nowadays) this movie isn't nearly as violent (except for dogs) or deliberately funny, though the banter between some of the characters can be. This film is definitely a straight up drama. There is a lot of Spanish swearing, most of which I recognized after taking five years of Spanish class, and I got a big kick out of it. But that's just me.Great film; can't wait to see Inarritu's other work. Director definitely has talent and vision.And there are a lot of dead dogs.


                
I had seen 21 Grams a few years ago and was really impressed with Iñárritu as a director. Amores Perros is a great movie as well. At the beginning I didn't find the movie very promising, as the only thing I saw were dogfights. But once the movie progressed and the other stories started unfolding it became an impressive movie. The stories are told separately but in a way in which the other stories tag along and relate to each other. I can't really say which of the two movies I find better, Amores Perros or 21 Grams, I find them both equally good. Amores Perros stands out because of the character development and the way the stories are related to each other, film-making at its best.9 out of 10.


                
Gripping, powerful, moving, saddening, hope-inspiring. This movie grabs you by the toes and hangs you upside down for the length of the film and keeps you still to the movie. If you do not speak Spanish well, your eyes move back and forth from the bottom to the focus of the screen trying to grasp the whole scene, dialouge and moving pictures all. It truly is a captivating work of art. If you've seen 21 grams you know what to expect. When I found out that the director Alexandro Gonzalez did both movies, after the fact, I was not surprised. Worth seeing, you will not be disappointed with the film; you may or not be disappointed with the story. -Al


                
For a long time I thought that Mexican film industry was just about "Rancheras" and shallow movies like the ones with Timbiriche, Luis Miguel or Lucerito. But from the last couple of years, I´ve seen really good movies from this country, such as "Y tu mamá también", "El pecado del Padre Amaro" and of course "Amores Perros".This three stories movie, is just the best movie I´ve seen this year. The narration of the movie flows just like "Pulp Fiction", with jumps from the present, to the past, and from one story to the other, in a really interesting and well developed web plot, you can see that the characters meet between them in several times.Each of the three stories just reflects the different kinds of affections (love and hate) between the characters, and just reflects how primal and rude is love, and how easy love can became hate, and then hate became love and such.The performance are well given, Gael Garcia is at his best, just like Emilio Echevarria. The only ones that I really disliked me were the actors that played the roles of Valeria and Daniel (the couple from the second story).I give this movie 8 out of 10


                
This film seems in the style of pulp fiction or resevoir dogs, but with some spice added due to its Mexican setting. Its camera work is quite 'wobbly' as is the fashion, but this film isn't a hollywood blockbuster, and so it isn't such an obvious plattitude in this arty and slightly alternative film.Amores Perros lengthy and not all chronologically ordered. It meanders between the stories with gradual clues as to their convergence and significance. I enjoyed the theme of poverty and morality to the film. It does show a realistic, if alternative, portrait of life for some people, and the emotions involved in their struggles. The bad guys get what they deserve in this film, although as the title suggests, 'love is a bitch' and it mustn't be relied on to deliver happy endings. Poverty and hardship are central to the film, and the supermodel's misfortunes help illustrate how nobody is immune from a fall.Its not a film that you will 'love' due partly to its vicious and violent nature (the dog fighting seems especially vivid). Neither is it one you should watch with your parents in the room - as i did! However it will provoke a strong emotional response as films should. Other plus points are the well chosen soundtrack, and powerful atmospheric filming. Amores Perros is a genuinely powerful, and an emotionally and visually impressive movie - recommended.


                
the only thing that comes to your mind while watching this particular movie is that it comes as a so realistic one, that you just don´t no if you're watching the news on t.v. or else just a simple movie, fiction... therefore, the crossing of all those real life characters comes as a unique moment in cinema, and does hit you right in tha stomach...The all movie is impossible to see quietly sitting on your sofa...it really messes with a lot of your own personal feelings...


                
Yes, it seems like a whole ten years' worth of materials, experience and effort from Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu. A hint: Don't go to see this film hungry, but not too full either, as your stomach will need room for emotional churns. Its Web site claims the film encompasses: betrayal, anxiety, death, sin, selfishness, pain, hope. It's true: AMORES PERROS has it all.From the very beginning before the start of the film, you see a statement about the filmmakers have in no way ill-treated or harmed any animals depicted in this photoplay. Well, it's still NFE (not for everyone). The director is forward and direct in his depiction of life, people and dogs as they are - he's bold and makes no apology to the faint-hearted. The dog fight scenes can be hard to take even though the camera did not show any direct shots of dogs actually fighting each other. But the atmosphere and build-up around the events felt so 'real' in delivery that warning to those who are squeamish just might need to look away or cover their ears momentarily. The sound effects by sound designer Martin Hernandez are truly well done, especially subtle for the second segment, when you can hear but cannot see the little pet dog<U+0085> It's quite a way of telling his story, or stories, in three segments. It's ingenious how the main characters in each of the segments somehow have their fate unknowingly intertwined. You actually get to see them as passing background persons whom you'd catch a glimpse of or note as follow-up scenes in another segment than their own. Flashback retelling of events, and fast forward repeating to the cars a-crashing scene (the fateful connection point of the characters from each of the segments) come across as more mind challenging than "Memento", with layers of humanity and tight emotional entanglements. It's kind of like Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski telling his stories in three films: "Trois Couleurs: Bleu 1993; Blanc 1994; Rouge 1994." Director-producer Iñárritu did all three stories in one film, 2 hrs. 27 mins. worth. He insightfully linked them all with a strong character thread that is present in all segments. El Chivo is played by Emilio Echevarria, who delivered the role with deep sensitivity, vulnerability and sense of resignation to life's unfairness - yes, "Love's a bitch", and life is, too. What you want to have happened, happens not. Let it go. Hence the ending is practically philosophical. The imagery we see heading towards the horizon beyond might just suggest rebirth<U+0085>Scriptwriter Guillermo Arriaga has provided a storyline with facets of life and characters: two pairs of brothers in conflict, two cases of infidelity triangles, the bond between a father and his daughter, mother and sons or mother and 'son' of a pet dog, the inseparable relationship between man and dog. Segment 1: Octavio and Susana (and Ramiro, and Cofi the dog; glimpses of Daniel's family, Valeria's billboard, and El Chivo) - the energy is highly charged in this beginning story, where it revolves around the 'slums' of the city where money is hard to come by without involvement of gansterhood, gambling of lives, be it man, woman, or a dog's, and swearing (in Spanish, subtitled). Segment 2: Daniel and Valeria (and Ritchie the dog<U+0085>) - this story may seem 'trite' and happens not in the slums, yet both characters are pretty much in a slum of emotions. It's the helpless love attraction (rich or poor) which is such a 'Bitch" as Octavio has towards Susana. Segment 3: "El Chivo and Maru" (and Gustavo, Mauricio, and Cofi; glimpses of Ramiro and Susana; follow-up on Octavio and Susana) - culmination point of the film, where we get down to know El Chivo up close - how he came to pass, what he did and is doing, and where he's going in life<U+0085>AMORES PERROS certainly shows plentiful the lack of love and understanding between brothers, family members, man and woman, man and dog.
Bravo! to the filmmakers of AMORES PERROS. Esfuerzo magnifico! Thank you to the distribution of this film by Lions Gate Films.


                
Im speechless, tbh i didnt like the intro, too much blood and dead dogs but every second later was spectacular, everyone's act was amazing every detail was upon perfection
Best drama ive ever watched it cant get anyway better


                
This one is a challenge to the stomach but I'm glad I did not bail out and finished 'til the end. Animal cruelty, domestic violence, gore, sex, they're all here. Heavy themes of heavy stories of 3 seemingly different lives brought together in one place after a life-changing vehicular accident that happened in the streets of Mexico.Octavio and Susana, Daniel and Valeria, El Chivo and Maru-three colorful lives complicated by circumstances unique to each pair. Octavio lives in a dysfunctional family with his brother, Ramiro, and his wife whom Octavio has feelings for, Susana. The amount of dog cruelty in this part was alarming, so let's hope it stays on the movies. Octavio aggressively takes Susana for himself, but the latter is blindly submissive to her abusive husband. Octavio involves himself in a game of dog fights with bets (gambling), and when a match turned wrong almost kills his champion dog, he stabs the culprit and runs away using the vehicle. The same vehicle that hit Valeria's car...............Daniel is a married man with an extra-marital affair with Valeria, one of Mexico's hottest models turned paralyzed after the vehicular accident. Daniel leaves his wife and lives with Valeria in an apartment with her dog, Richie. Their relationship is tested after Valeria's predicament.............El Chivo is a guerrilla/fugitive who shots and kills his ex-wife's new husband. He exiles himself from his family but in secret, follows what happens to them and watches his daughter from afar. He sidelines as a gun-for-hire man. On the day of the vehicular accident, he happened to be on that street because he was following one of his prospect victims that's why he was on the scene (while taking advantage of the commotion and stealing the winning monies from Octavio).Small plotholes are around (like how robbers and killers who rob and shot at broad day light still freely roam the streets) but I didn't mind.2-hour movies can be long but this one didn't feel so. There's everything happening at almost any given time. The plot isn't complicated but its heavy you feel you are captured into its web and you can't leave without knowing how each of their lives will turn out. I'm glad I made it past the disturbing scenes, if not, I wouldn't have had the privilege to see this masterpiece in its entirety. I haven't seen a lot of films from Mexico, but this one certainly deserve the recognition it got.


                
