This is an extremely overrated movie. It had a very interesting theme to start with but failed to live upto the expectations. The acting and direction is pretty average and the storyline is way too unrealistic. The first 1 hour was exciting but the last 30 minutes or so was very disappointing to be honest. Overrall wasn't a pleasant experience.


                
Touted as the film that rescued the Turkish film industry from artistic oblivion and brought it back to prosperity, Eskiya (also known as The Bandit) is considered a watershed event in the annals of Turkish cinema but it doesn't resonate much on the global platform. However, it may look small in scale but it's definitely epic in scope.Eskiya tells the story of Baran, a former bandit who's released from prison after serving a 35 years jail sentence, only to find out that the world has changed dramatically during his years of captivity. The plot covers the next phase of his life as he heads to Istanbul to enact revenge on the one who not only snitched on him but also stole his lover.Written & directed by Yavuz Turgul, the film packs an interesting premise and paves its foundation really well but slows down in the middle where it starts focusing on developing other characters & their relationships with the protagonist. The interest isn't entirely lost though as the film offers a fascinating glimpse into the everyday lives of Turkish society.But there is a lot in here that should have ended up on the editing room floor, for its runtime is felt several times over the course of two hours, plus the gradual pace at which its plot unfolds doesn't help either. The film takes its time to make us familiarize with numerous characters but other than Baran, no one is really that compelling nor sufficiently fleshed out.Camera-work is finely carried out and music plays its complementary part rather well too but what keeps this movie glued together is the sincere input from its cast. Leading from the front is Sener Sen who delivers a fantastic performance in the role of Baran. Ugur Yücel also contributes with a strong supporting work and the father-son chemistry these two share is a highlight in itself.On an overall scale, Eskiya is both captivating & frustrating and is filled with people who are prone to making terrible decisions. It's an epic saga that's filled with romance, action, tragedy, comedy & what not, and even infuses some fairy tale elements into its narrative while covering the themes of love, deception, regret & revenge before concluding on an unexpectedly violent note. Nonetheless, Eskiya is worthy of a broader audience.


                
The movie is overrated by getting good grades from Turkey. It's not worth your time!


                
