After 35 years in prison, a mountain bandit goes to Istanbul to find the man who betrayed him and stole his lady. Nothing much new here, dredging up a lot of the usual gangster/revenge/fish out of water motifs, but it does a decent job of pulling you in and manages a certain freshness despite the familiarity of the material. Some of the larger dramatic scenes are painfully clichéd, but it's pieced together nicely and has some pretty good character moments. I get the feeling Turgul is a more talented director than a writer. Sener Sem (who I just realized was also in that lousy "Rascals" movie I recently watched) is a likable fellow, and his rapport with Ugur Yucel works well. Overall it's a somewhat mediocre film, but quite watchable with flashes of potential.


                
Yavuz Turgut's "Eskiya," which came out almost a decade ago, is he perfect illustration of how unique Turkish cinema can be when it combines elements of Western crime genre films and Anatolian folk dramas, which have been the basis for Turkish films since Muhsin Ertugrul directed films some 75 years ago. The film has some major flaws, but these are mostly in terms of production. The script and its' direction are fairly crisp, and the acting by veteran comic Sener Sen, in a serious role here, and Ugur Yucel, who was also great in Ali Ozgenturk's "Balalayka," is quite exceptional. The film features a haunting score, deep symbolism (particularly in the final scenes) and timely social themes. I think the later is one of the reasons why it has not been popular with those who are more unfamiliar with Turkey, but it is this very element which makes the film more than just a routine gangster film. The film is also considerably more violent than most Turkish films, though many (particularly '70s films of the late Yilmaz Guney) made for brutal cinematic experiences. Another interesting aspect of this film is that it shows a crime family taking its' lifestyle from Anatolia into Istanbul, which reminded me of how Marlon Brando took up where he left off upon leaving Sicily for New York. "Eskiya/The Bandit" is not as exceptional as either "Yol" or "Uzak/Distant" but it is quite a moving film and I gather since it outgroosed "Titanic" in Turkey, it was quite the crowd-pleaser.The film was also made at a time when film production in Turkey was at an all-time low, but the industry has thankfully picked up considerably.


                
The Bandit, Eskiya, seemed like a melodrama movie with lot of things added and blended beautifully, making it worth watching. But for sure it is not the movie that can decorate the Oscars. A light and grasping movie, it has lot of faces for life and is crafted cohesively.To count for the good points, we can go on with acting of the bandit, the thought of his friend who betrayed him over the concept of love, inability to escape the wrong deeds, silence of the girl, atmosphere for acting and the end scene with the fireworks, enough to win the heart.To count for the negative points, the film has no objective as such, provides melodrama, false figures, no ideas or analysis, a bit of non-realistic story, dull at a times and tries to prove itself rather than being proved itself. A huge number of such drama movies are available.Weighted mean from my ratings /my logic may be biased but remains same for all/ will be 7.4/10.


                
Turgut's "Eskiya," which came out almost a decade ago, is he perfect illustration of how unique Turkish cinema can be when it combines elements of Western crime genre films and Anatolian folk dramas, which have been the basis for Turkish films since Muhsin Ertugrul directed films some 75 years ago. The film has some major flaws, but these are mostly in terms of production. The script and its' direction are fairly crisp, and the acting by veteran comic Sener Sen, in a serious role here, and Ugur Yucel, who was also great in Ali Ozgenturk's "Balalayka," is quite exceptional. The film features a haunting score, deep symbolism (particularly in the final scenes) and timely social themes. I think the later is one of the reasons why it has not been popular with those who are more unfamiliar with Turkey, but it is this very element which makes the film more than just a routine gangster film. The film is also considerably more violent than most Turkish films, though many (particularly '70s films of the late Yilmaz Guney) made for brutal cinematic experiences. Another interesting aspect of this film is that it shows a crime family taking its' lifestyle from Anatolia into Istanbul, which reminded me of how Marlon Brando took up where he left off upon leaving Sicily for New York. "Eskiya/The Bandit" is not as exceptional as either "Yol" or "Uzak/Distant" but it is quite a moving film and I gather since it outgroosed "Titanic" in Turkey, it was quite the crowd-pleaser.The film was also made at a time when film production in Turkey was at an all-time low, but the industry has thankfully picked up considerably.


                
Seeing as how this movie is listed among IMDb's 'Top 250' films for the past number of years, it was one of the pictures I most definitely wanted to see. Try as I might, I was not able to locate an English subtitled copy of this movie, but wasn't going to let a little thing like a language barrier prevent me from watching what many consider one of Turkey's most influential films. After reading all the reviews posted here on IMDb to get a general understanding of what the movie was about, I headed on over to You Tube which had the complete film available for viewing. Although I'm sure I missed some of the story's nuance relative to the characters and dialog, I still came away impressed with what understanding I could take away from the picture. In a lot of ways, the movie resembled a 1950/1960's American gangster movie. Even though it was released in 1996 with a modern day Turkish ambiance, it had the feel of a much earlier time in the history of the country. I liked the way the principal character Baran was presented; actor Sener Sen captured the pathos of a former criminal bandit who had spent the last thirty five years in prison, only to be released to a modern world that he found difficult to cope with. His story is part revenge and part reconciliation with the woman he once loved, lost to a former best friend who severely betrayed him. The single concession made to Western style film making occurs near the end of the movie when Baran seeks a measure of revenge against those who wronged him with an uncharacteristically unending supply of ammunition. Conceding that there is probably more to the story than I was able to come away with due to lack of subtitles, I still found the movie to be compelling in it's way, garnering my full attention throughout. Should a subtitled or dubbed version of the movie come my way, I would definitely watch it again.
