I've seen this movie in the cinema ten years ago when I was younger and now, after seeing it again, I'm surprised that I still get the same emotions from it. In my review, I'll try to stay away of spoilers but I'll also give you a good treatment of the plot as well (just the big-picture).Movie starts as Baran, an old eskiya (a honorable bandit) is getting out of prison after 35 years of jail to find his village and his home under the waters of Firat river. He then learns that his confinement was due to an old comrade's betrayal, and that his comrade took away and married his lover, Keje. Baran comes to the biggest city of Turkey, Istanbul to seek his old comrade and maybe to take revenge...Due to an unlikely coincidence, he meets Cumali, a young man that has no family and is living in Istanbul, earning his life with criminal acts. Baran the Eskiya is not familiar with the city-life but Cumali is willing to help him because of his debt.Baran the eskiya has a deep character, despite his criminal past, he looks like a naive person in the metropolitan city of Istanbul. Despite that he is an uneducated person, he may be the most honorable and wise person in this big city. Sener Sen (Baran) and Ugur Yucel (Cumali) each gives spectacular acting performance and their talents combined with an intelligent script breathe life into this "Eskiya" myth. Baran is the last of the Eskiyas !The movie has a slow start but towards the ending, the mood gets stronger. The movie reaches it's climax at the dramatic scenes to the finish. This is a story about honor and the power of love. This is a story about two strangers that are becoming tied emotionally, like the father and the son. A classic Turkish Action/Drama movie for all to see ! PS. also check out another Turkish movie "Kabadayi" by the same director/writer (Yavuz Turgul) and the same actor (Sener Sen).


                
I watched the movie with my wife. When returning home, I had a desire to cry and drink some whiskey. When I was home, I went straight to the balcony with a glass of whiskey and started to cry and to think about the film. Should I say anything else?


                
Award-winning Turkish director and screenwriter Yavuz Turgul ("Muhsin Bey" & "Gölge oyunu") achieved his greatest international success to date with this self-penned crime-drama which picked up a 1997 Bogey Award and the Golden Dolphin at the 1998 Festroia International Film Festival.Golden Orange award-winning character actor Sener Sen puts in a powerful central performance in his fifth collaboration with the director as does Ugur Yücel "Muhsin Bey" in his second collaboration, Sermin Sen in her third and newcomers to the ensemble Yesim Salkim and Kamran Usluer.The highly regarded filmmaker tells an epic character driven drama on an epic scale and although the story does seem to get a little lost in the long drawn out central drag it all comes back together for a powerful and moving denouement that celebrates a type of hero all too rarely seen on the Turkish screen.Maybe, maybe that bee will be me.


                
This is not a common action film, it reminds me, with its quality, a bit of Jules Dassin 's "Rififi". It shows life of people, no matter if they are poor or rich or soul miserables. It goes slowly in a French style but entertaining with pictures of nice Istambul as well as some poor neighborhoods, with a very original plot. Some fiction is also in. Acting of Turkish was also excellent. One learns from the film, even those judged as villains in any society may have kindness and warm sentiments, however bad seeded people die as such. No man is equal to other, each has his own characteristics, but these are not uniform along the life. Love also remains forever when it is a real one.


                
Baran the Bandit is released from prison after 35 years. He and his gang ranged the Cudi mountain in eastern Turkey. He returns to find his village under water after the construction of a dam. His world has been scattered to the winds. He is told that his former mate Berfo had masterminded his downfall to steal the love of his life, Keje. Berfo has since ruthlessly become a powerful criminal business leader. Baran befriends young low-level gangster Cumali who is enamored with his old style criminal stories.This is a Turkish film. It's part buddy crime movie and part poignant love story. The only drawback is Sener Sen in the sense that I want him to be more compelling. He's like a grandfather in his pajamas and a coat. There is value in looking ordinary but I really want him to be in bad-ass style. It's nitpicking a minor point. The story is great and the characters are terrific. It's great.


                
