Pose is an importante TV show. Period.
Even though there are very clear critics to made on the acting, which sometimes looks a bit amateur, and texts that could use a more profund, reflexive and subtle tone instead of what looks to me as ready-for-consumption drama, the show is BEAUTIFULLY made and you can see the passion of the people who worked on it. Serving face, looks ans subjects that actually matter in our society. I hope it grows, pushing the actors forward to get better and better. Meryl Streep wasn't made from dawn to dusk and I think this show is working with a lot of talents on the making. 
WATCH IT!!


                
Short and sweet review. Love Live Laugh at Life.
As we all have an unknown expiration date I must say that this show makes my dimples stay active. The time was "back in the day" the mission was not to be invisible to your own tribe or others for most, for the others it was blending like a vitamix. The music, dress, terms and struggle was just as real then as it is today.
To be accepted, sometimes you have to be fearless. This takes place "back in the day" when it was thought that only gay men got hiv, all males who danced ballet were considered gay or curious. Today, folks are quick to think things have always been they way they are now- this show brilliantly shows you that it was a clear struggle to get where we are today its a constant struggle. The clothes, ohh dear, story line and the mere audacity to make it with real people- love it. I wont miss a show


                
Yasssssssssssss I'm super juiced LIVE. WORK. POSE!!!!!!


                
It's so great that this show is bringing to light a culture that has saved lost souls for generations! Brilliantly written!


                
Great to finally see such an honest depiction of the 80's 
Thank you for the truth 
Great performances 
Brilliant music 
Please keep the conversation going LOVE


                
Love, love, love this show! Emphasis on the "family unit" is important and much needed in this day and age, I love the clothing and music from the 80's. The acting draws you in as if you personally know each of the characters! I look forward each week to see what's next. Ryan Murphy, you did GOOD!!


                
Yes it seems harsh, yes it seems unreal and yes there are elements of fiction to convey a story. This is possibly as real as it gets because yes, this is how it was.At first I couldn't understand the casting. Did some research and all I can say now is that I hold each and every actor in this production in the highest awe and regard.Ryan Murphy. If I could, I would thank you for bringing this to the world. For every forgotten soul of that time, I applaud you for commemorating each and every one.


                
Great show about a different culture. About broken lives. About kids getting kicked out of their homes by their parents simply because they're gay, and how they find acceptance and help in this different culture.


                
Very happy to finally see this part of gay culture on tv. a+


                
Pose just gets it right! Love all the characters! The acting is so great! I cried at the end of episode 2it was so perfect! Thank you FX for this wonderful show!


                
An outstanding show..thank you..Beautiful people so talented and an absolute joy to warch


                
Everyone watch this!!! This is such a great show!!!


                
Thank you to the writers , producers ,cast and everyone who worked to create this film. I can not express my graditude enough. When I heard about the show I tune in to watch opening night, and after watching , I often tell friends to watch and post about the show on Face Book. Its been a very long time since ive watch a show that causes me to laugh and cry at the same time. The stories speak about the truth of the LGBT culture and community. The Cast members are Oscars worthy to tell a story in the way that they do.At age 35 years old, being black and gay, finally someone tells my story, showcasing my struggles and fears. I wish this show much success.


                
The show is fabulous wonderful beautiful uplifting & amazing. 
Show make you laugh cry dance and feel fabulous.
I can't wait for it to return. 
Pose is my new TV family Ryan Murphy's best work. Emmy forsure


                
My husband and I love Pose! The characters are real and likable. The plot is honest and sometimes brutal. If you grew up in the 80's, as I did, you will love Pose. We were initially reluctant to watch Pose, but we are so glad we did. We love all of the characters, even Electra. Even Peters is a remarkable actor and he is perfectly cast in Pose. It is great to see Billy Porter in Pose - he hit it out of the park! Billy's shines in Pose. Thanks much to the creators of Pose for bringing this real, honest, and amazing series to television!


                
Excellent photography, direction, soundtrack and new faces which we would like to see more in television and movies. Do yourself a favor and watch Pose.


                
I'll admit, I only wanted to watch this because I knew Evan Peters & Kate Mara was in it. I loved their acting together on American Horror Story, so I thought why not! 
I love the actors, the realness, the humor, the love, and the real raw emotion that stems from the pain some of them are going through. It really shows. And, I absolutely am loving the 80's music! The last episode (ep.6) has me in tears! 
I love this show, and it's really an emotional eye-opener!


                
10s, 10s, 10s, across the board! Superb in every way!


                
Pose, what can I say, this story is as old as time itself, yet I'm sitting here crying like a baby watching it as if it's some sort of new concept for me or something! The first gift bestowed upon Pose is BEAUTIFUL, ELEGANT writing, and secondly, the execution by the cast and crew is downright STUNNING. Pose is dramatic without being overwhelming, makes it's points with unmistakable clarity, performance by MJ Rodriguez is outstanding and will pull at your heart, she and the rest of the cast are very beautiful and talented. 
You'd better be prepared to weep your eyes out, because this story is entirely about love, caring, understanding, family, hope, dreams, and the pursuit of a better world. We are all better off for this artful series, share this with ya best friends it's so worth it!


                
Ryan Murphy never stops surprising me, what a beatiful, heartwarming, sensitive and strong work he has made. I can guarantee this is the BEST show he has ever worked on. Every single person of the acting cast deserved playing for their roles in this show. Live, Work and POSE!


                
What a brilliant show. The characters are developed so brilliantly, the story and arcs are masterful, and the actors come right through your screen. Episode One is set up, so don't judge the series on the pilot.


                
So far I've only seen the pilot ... but I'm hooked! It's definitely a "dancer" show ... i.e. you will like it if you're a dancer and it helps if you grew-up in the 80s. But Pose is more than that, too. Yes its about gay/trans characters but the story line speaks to all people who are "different" and can never fit in with main stream.And of course LOVE the dancer character b/c many dancers -gay or not- literally starve and sacrifice everything for dance. So its validating to see a character like that in a show. I like all the characters and can't wait to see where the show takes them. Some of their stories are tragic ... yet the show has excitement and glamor and never falls into pathos. You can definitely see how RuPaul drag races is an outgrowth of this ball culture. Pose has a raw glamour that I love. Great show!


                
This show is so important for the story it tells and these actors/actresses reall do an amazing job! It's wonderfully written and directed and is one of a kind. If you haven't started watching, you SHOULD!!!!


                
As a transwoman who came out in the early 1980's, I can say with absolute conviction this show nails it when it comes to authentically conveying the world of trans girls from that time. It brought me back to those early times in my life, and powerfully portrayed with full on accuracy the trials and tribulations of a trans life in the 80's. Kudos to everyone involved in bringing this show to fruition!


                
I think your show is interesting and educational surprising and bold. But most of the transsexuals on this show are men. Can you put some women on there please so we can see what women transexual experiences like. We would like to be able to experience both genders men and women and that lifestyle. I'm learning a lot from the show I love it


                
