Pose is an importante TV show. Period.
Even though there are very clear critics to made on the acting, which sometimes looks a bit amateur, and texts that could use a more profund, reflexive and subtle tone instead of what looks to me as ready-for-consumption drama, the show is BEAUTIFULLY made and you can see the passion of the people who worked on it. Serving face, looks ans subjects that actually matter in our society. I hope it grows, pushing the actors forward to get better and better. Meryl Streep wasn't made from dawn to dusk and I think this show is working with a lot of talents on the making. 
WATCH IT!!


                
This is an original show with a fantastic cast! I suspect a lot of us are learning a lot about "things we didn't know we didn't know." The ballroom culture of the 80's is fascinating, as are many of the characters. This show operates smoothly at several different levels and tackles the hard stuff. At its heart is the issue of family-it's enduring position as safe harbor & moral compass, and the human tendency to create families of our own to uphold and sustain us when the traditional model has failed.


                
Short and sweet review. Love Live Laugh at Life.
As we all have an unknown expiration date I must say that this show makes my dimples stay active. The time was "back in the day" the mission was not to be invisible to your own tribe or others for most, for the others it was blending like a vitamix. The music, dress, terms and struggle was just as real then as it is today.
To be accepted, sometimes you have to be fearless. This takes place "back in the day" when it was thought that only gay men got hiv, all males who danced ballet were considered gay or curious. Today, folks are quick to think things have always been they way they are now- this show brilliantly shows you that it was a clear struggle to get where we are today its a constant struggle. The clothes, ohh dear, story line and the mere audacity to make it with real people- love it. I wont miss a show


                
It's very early in the season to begin an assessment as the story arc is just developing, but I'm "in" thus far. I'm hoping that Ryan Murphy doesn't create a trajectory similar to what we observed with "Glee" and am comforted that he stayed away from a "Paris Is Burning" musical (thus far) as the film itself caused controversy and uproar related to matters of appropriation. I hope that the Pose writers listen to community members on set and keep it real, though many are too young to have experienced, first hand, the events they portray. Please continue to seek out and promote talent in the form of community members who were in the ballroom scene and solicit their input! HIV ravaged the community during this time period and those seeking the comfort of others living the same experience, sharing the same space, were challenged in many ways. It's difficult to invest in relationships that may be fleeting due to a deadly illness. For those critiquing the acting, it's unfortunate you're not celebrating the use of transgender talent within a community that exists largely in the shadows and is marginalized in our narrow-minded society. For those making societal degradation comments, there are lots of other channels. TV Land may be more your speed.All that said, I'm loving what I see so far! Thank you for taking this on.


                
I'm in agreement with everyone who is in love with this show. Just want to give a shout out to MJ Rodriguez, who plays Blanca. She is the real standout in a very good cast.


                
Soundtrack takes me back to the 80's, luv the selection! It's an interesting view of the 80's I didn't know existed. The characters have gone through so much pain and sadness to be who they are at this point in their lives. The acting isn't the best but the show is fun. I can't wait to see more!


                
Yasssssssssssss I'm super juiced LIVE. WORK. POSE!!!!!!


                
It's so great that this show is bringing to light a culture that has saved lost souls for generations! Brilliantly written!


                
Great to finally see such an honest depiction of the 80's 
Thank you for the truth 
Great performances 
Brilliant music 
Please keep the conversation going LOVE


                
Just finished watching Pose on my DVR and to say I was blown away was an understatement. The great thing about this show is the characters. They have focused heavily on character development and the "show, don't tell" aspect of the community and their lives. The opening, when they hid in the museum hooked me. Near the end when the head of the house declared, "I'm his mother!" I knew I'd be watching this series. The characters are interesting, the story is compelling, and the overall tone is about people making the most of their lives. The fact that their gay, or different, while central to the show, transcends the show, so what you're left with is a quality piece of television. This is definitely for adults as an F-bomb was dropped but unless you were really looking for it, it was almost overlooked. Even the minor characters are relevant; love the man on the mic at the ball! I'll continue to watch this. My only downside, which is why I gave it an 8 instead of something higher has to do with some of the acting that is fabulous but stiff. Elektra, the head of House Abundance, makes me think of the "William Shatner School of Acting" sometimes. Her deliveries are over-the-top but also sound like she's reading her lines. She needs to loosen up a bit more. It seems her character is formal, almost too formal, but she's not selling it. I hope as time goes on, she'll get better. Other times, the dancing seemed to stiff and not believable. The dance-off felt like "we must lose this because, you know, drama!" as opposed to a natural lose.Overall, a great show. As I said, I'll be watching this.
All of the scenes are so colorful and full of life with style and dont forget culture. Speaking of color and the lead in direction, I must be watching a Ryan Murphy production. His style has always been one of my favorite. For e.g. the cinmatography from The normal Heart and The people Vs OJ to name two fright off my head. The music more than everything is like a character in this series itself, playing the mid 80s music, especially whenever it was capturing the nostalgia. This shows isnt what it says to be at first. In fact, I watched the first 5 minutes intrigued and then it turned into something different. Watch the whole first episode before deciding on whether you like it or not. You will find after two episodes that the characters go through hard times through the character development that really feel like the shows main strength. Its gritty and raw. The first scene with the son being confronted by his dad was showing the exact range this series has. Five minutes before that the characters in the present were absolutely playing different roles. The switch back to time scene was jarring but true to how being a homosexual was and sadly is still is for those. I'm appalled by the great reviews left and not supported by this community. It leaves me wondering why people would find their reviews mir helpful. READ ALL THE POSTIVE REVIEWS here too, I suggest bc tbey I'm usually reluctant about reviews but this show is put together by the masterful Rynan Murphy, or the guy Netflix just paid 300 million for! If you want to lose yourself and escape to this world of bright colors and incredible music and great directing, though some of the acting may not be top tier all the time. It. Will. Still be refreshing and feel like a breath of fresh air when you've watched what episodes theres to offer (2 at the point of this 
review). Do conineue it will be so much and original and unique imo!!!


                
Love, love, love this show! Emphasis on the "family unit" is important and much needed in this day and age, I love the clothing and music from the 80's. The acting draws you in as if you personally know each of the characters! I look forward each week to see what's next. Ryan Murphy, you did GOOD!!


                
Yes it seems harsh, yes it seems unreal and yes there are elements of fiction to convey a story. This is possibly as real as it gets because yes, this is how it was.At first I couldn't understand the casting. Did some research and all I can say now is that I hold each and every actor in this production in the highest awe and regard.Ryan Murphy. If I could, I would thank you for bringing this to the world. For every forgotten soul of that time, I applaud you for commemorating each and every one.


                
Great show about a different culture. About broken lives. About kids getting kicked out of their homes by their parents simply because they're gay, and how they find acceptance and help in this different culture.


                
Very happy to finally see this part of gay culture on tv. a+


                
Pose just gets it right! Love all the characters! The acting is so great! I cried at the end of episode 2it was so perfect! Thank you FX for this wonderful show!


                
An outstanding show..thank you..Beautiful people so talented and an absolute joy to warch


                
Everyone watch this!!! This is such a great show!!!


                
In 1990 I saw the documentary "Paris is Burning" covering this same scene, Find yourself a cd somewhere pr watch it on You Tube and see the real thing. Madonna went to the balls and incorporated backup dancers voguing to material from these balls. It gave her career another boost, Many of the young people lead marginal existences living on dreams. One of the most petite fragile people was found beaten to death soon after with no biological family to claim her body. Her house saved her body being dumped in potter's field.I'll revise my score if this show starts getting more realistic about how it actually was.


                
Thank you to the writers , producers ,cast and everyone who worked to create this film. I can not express my graditude enough. When I heard about the show I tune in to watch opening night, and after watching , I often tell friends to watch and post about the show on Face Book. Its been a very long time since ive watch a show that causes me to laugh and cry at the same time. The stories speak about the truth of the LGBT culture and community. The Cast members are Oscars worthy to tell a story in the way that they do.At age 35 years old, being black and gay, finally someone tells my story, showcasing my struggles and fears. I wish this show much success.


                
The show is fabulous wonderful beautiful uplifting & amazing. 
Show make you laugh cry dance and feel fabulous.
I can't wait for it to return. 
Pose is my new TV family Ryan Murphy's best work. Emmy forsure


                
A last, something fresh and new, that isn't more reality trash thrust upon us... it has more depth than the Kardashians could ever hope to, and more heart than much of the fodder on offer these days.Its a wonderful flashback for those of us who were teens in the 80s, the stone wash denim, the hightop shoes, and all that neon.... it's well thought out and although I grew up from from New York and all that entails, I can certainly appreciate what is being shown here with nostalgia.The story lines seem to be going somewhere, it has multiple layers with at times complex character behaviour, it seems to me to be telling a story about family, and the reality behind the truth that a family isn't always about biology.The acting is mostly good, there are a few bumps along the way I will say, but those of better acting ability do compensate mostly for those who are simply lacking experience in front of a camera. On the dislike side, the guy from Dawsons Creek, awful character, and if he could indeed ever act it appears he forgot how to which is a surprise as he is probably the face most well recognised in this.Its certainly a colourful and entertaining show, it appears to confront issues of the time reasonably head on and with honesty and relevance that would have been the norm back then. I find it mostly engaging and enjoyable, and certainly think it is worth the investment of time, no doubt you will become as hooked and interested in the evolving stories of the lead characters as I am.I trust this show will continue beyond the current first season, as I say, in a sea of rubbish this is an oasis.


                
I was really surprised how excellent this show was. I just finished the first season. I really didn't know how the show was going to be based on the ads and previews, but it was a really good show. It's not just about a bunch of queens being catty with each other. Sure their is some of that in the show but at its core this show has heart and an excellent story. You don't have to be in the LGBTQ community to enjoy the show. Just open minded. I like that they used actual trans actors in this show. Who better to tell their own story than an actual trans person. This show is one the best surprises of the summer. I won't spoil any of the story. Just check it out and find out for your self how good it is.


                
My husband and I love Pose! The characters are real and likable. The plot is honest and sometimes brutal. If you grew up in the 80's, as I did, you will love Pose. We were initially reluctant to watch Pose, but we are so glad we did. We love all of the characters, even Electra. Even Peters is a remarkable actor and he is perfectly cast in Pose. It is great to see Billy Porter in Pose - he hit it out of the park! Billy's shines in Pose. Thanks much to the creators of Pose for bringing this real, honest, and amazing series to television!


                
I appreciate there's a growing arena for trans performers. I'm really enjoying the story, music, and the heart this show has. Is the acting a little flat with a couple of characters - yes. Do I still applaud the effort? For sure. A friend said the story was "too sanitized". That may be but I'm appreciating a glimpse into this world that's both serious and enrtertaining. I think it strikes a good balance so far.


                
