It's the most popular show in the WORLD for a reason. It's amazing. Enough said.


                
Readers who come to this review later in the series must note that, at the time of this writing, I have only seen the inaugural episode. It's probably safe to say, when dealing with a series of novels as beloved as The Song of Ice and Fire, the most scrutinized aspect of the T.V. adaptation will be how well it holds to the source material. I am here to confirm, as a fierce devotee to the books, that we have nothing to fear.While certain scenes play out differently in execution, the plot remains perfectly intact (so far). The characters have been transplanted well from page to screen, and the actors (most notably Peter Dinklage) nailed their personalities quite well. However; it is only fair to point out some of the acting seemed a little wooden at times.Special effects were well done, though nothing mind-blowing, but the scenery and props perfectly captured the feel of the novels (in my mind at least). It also must be noted that there was just the right amount of nudity, violence and vulgarity to let the audience know they were watching a tale woven for mature viewers without using said nudity, violence and vulgarity as a crutch.All and all, I am very, very pleased with this adaptation, and I went into it expecting to be disappointed. If I were to gripe about anything, it would be that newcomers who have not read the books might not know what to think of this fantasy story for adults. Some may shrug it off as fodder for geeks, while others might take offence to what they may see as a defiling of a genre usually meant for children.UPDATEAfter watching the entire first season, I can safely say this is perhaps the BEST adaptation of book into film/TV. While many moments in the show do not match the moments in the book action for action and word for word, the plot is never sacrificed when doing this, and the alterations simply make the story a better fit for a one-hour television time slot.In addition, new scenes (by which I mean scenes which never happened in the book at all) fit seamlessly into the greater plot, and help the audience with information they would only otherwise get via the narrative of the novel (EG: asides which explain character/world history).Top form, HBO. Top form.
Ever since I've watched the last available season of GOT I haven't been able to get into any other show. I've tried countless new shows and nothing even comes close to GOT! The way the multiple story lines and characters Intertwine with one another is absolutely genius! The idea that someone created this entire world from their imagination is unbelievable. The acting is suburb and you can't help but to fall in love or despise the characters. The cinematography and CGI is stunning. You'll be completely immersed in Westeros! Wishing you could just jump in and be a part of the story! So many twist and turns and things you'd never expect. GOT is incredible and definitely worth your time! However, be warned! Once you start you won't be able to stop and TV will never be the same!


                
Do not believe any of those negative reviews. I honestly cannot understand why some reviewers have given this such a low rating. I think some people love the sound of their own voice and think their opinion is worth something and will be disagreeable simply for the sake of it.Having said that, this show is stunning. I have never read the books and now I want to. There is so much crap on TV that is renewed year after year (CSI, House etc.) which uses cheap gags, pointless and sometimes ridiculous plots, unbelievable and many times one dimensional characters and yet all the truly great shows get cancelled.There is enough brain-dead television. But once in a while a show comes along that transports you to another world and makes you believe in the magic of television again. Game of Thrones is one such show.It is complex, multi-layered, surreal, vibrant, imaginative and it draws your eye in to the surprising level of detail, from the sweeping vistas, to the narrow dungeons, from the beautiful castles and magnificent trees, to the contrasting landscapes. It is worth watching just for the scenery alone.Yes the acting seems a little cold and even wooden at times, but this is perfectly in keeping with the medieval look and feel of the show. Yes it is dark and gloomy, but again in keeping with the narrative.The scripting is intelligent and well delivered by competent acting, led by Sean Bean perfectly cast as Lord Edard. Although Sean Bean is better known for brooding bad guys, he strikes the perfect balance between father, husband and Lord and soldier. He is well supported by other well known actors and many new to the scene.After watching and sometimes enjoying Camelot, this show makes that one look more like "Merlin" by comparison. And where Camelot lacks in depth and scripting, Game of Thrones strikes the perfect balance between brooding medieval angst and wonderful fantasy story telling.Even if you have never watched a fantasy show before, you should not miss this.


                
I don't believe there has ever been anything like 'Game of Thrones' on TV. The sheer amount of quality and talent in this series is staggering. The actors (and I mean really ALL the actors), the costumes, the visual effects, the make-up: everybody working on this show seems to have wanted to make Television-history. And the writing is just phenomenal.'Game of Thrones' may belong to the 'Fantasy' genre, but the world of Westeros and its surrounding lands has been so amazingly well thought through and is inhabited by characters that are so well drawn and credible that everything you watch feels real. Every "country", every city, tribe or family has such a richly detailed history and even mythology that it just never feels like it was made up. Of course, that was all already there in the books – but translating that so perfectly to a TV-show and with such care as was done here really is a rare achievement.Yet for all its grandeur, scale and breath-taking visuals, what really makes Martin's outstanding work come to life on the small screen is the fantastic ensemble of actors. At the core of this show (any show, really) are the characters. Tyrion, Cersei, Dany, Jamie and John (and all the – many – others) don't lose anything of their complexity; the amazing cast succeeds in showing all their respective characters' inner conflicts and often questionable motivations and virtually no one comes across as one-dimensional (except maybe for Joffrey).There have been a couple of great TV-shows over the last years, but when it comes to scale AND quality, 'Game of Thrones' is – at the moment – in a league of its own. A joy to watch: breath-taking, epic – and highly addictive – Television. 10 stars out of 10.Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Seeing a review comparing this brilliant title to Lord of the Rings made me make an account here and post my very first review. I had very high expectations from this series and I believed that it will (like most TV series) absolutely ruin the book. And I couldn't have been more wrong! Where do I start...The cast is great, though not amazing with one exception - Sean Bean is perfect for the role of cold master of the North, Eddard Stark. The setting, the atmosphere is perfect and not boring at all! Some scenes are just amazing and are exactly as written in the book - for example the scene where they find the wolves, the nature and the dialogs are just as they should be. Now to get to the part most people are interested in: What is this? What can I expect of the series?THIS IS NOT LORD OF THE RINGS. Now that I got that out, I can continue. The very idea behind the series is a lot different. It's based around great families on different sides of the world, the stories their members have to tell and the secrets they hide. And there are many secrets, You will have a chance to witness small portion of them in the first episode. If you cannot follow the story just yet, don't worry! It's meant to be like that, you will eventually get to know all the characters and get involved in the story so much you will BEG for next episode just to see what happens.What to expect? Plots, love, action, war, hatred, quite a few surprises and much much more... All that after the first episode. I really hope they will not ruin it as the series progress. Conclusion: Do not miss this! Yes YOU complaining that the book is better. And everyone else.


                
First of all, I am a huge fan of the books, and I find it exhilarating to see a show that is so close to what I made in my mind while reading it.I see some of the reviews are complaining about the sex and violence, to me that is like going to a restaurant, order a steak and complain about getting meat..They keep true to the epically written book, and they depict the characters in an excellent way.With a few exceptions I would say they have made what will be an epic show here, and I would really hope that they continue for all the books.


                
This TV series is magnificent! I read a book and I must say that A Game Of Thrones is one of the best books I've read. So when I first heard that HBO will do a series on the this book I was thrilled but I was afraid that they will not be done exactly by the book. But I must say that I was wrong and that the series is better than I thought it would be. Much better! While I watched the first episode I had the same excitement as the time when I first read the book. HBO has done a great job and they fulfill all my expectations. Sean Bean was born for the role of Eddard Stark. Costumes, scenes, actors, everything is done as it should be. Actors are perfect for the role they play in the series. For me the biggest surprise of the series I figure Daenerys Targaryen. Emilia Clarke actress who plays Daenerys Targaryen is more beautiful than I imagined it would be and more beautiful than is described in the book. The Wall is a lot different than I had imagined, but in a good way. The series revolves around Eddard Stark and his family. He has a wife and five children, three sons and two daughters. Eddard Stark is ruler of the North and close friend of King Robert who needs his help in ruling the Seven Kingdoms.The seven kingdoms, united under one ruler, have lived a life of peace and comfort since King Robert took the throne. But nothing is ever as it seems. Within the king's court there is murder and treason, with no one aware of what is really going on. Across the seas, the last remnants of the previous royal family gather forces to reclaim their throne. To the north, the unthinkable gathers, the creatures of myth and legend that have been forgotten.


                
The best thing i have ever seen
No words to describe it


                
This show is superb! While I may be bias as the book series is my favourite book series of all, I still think the show itself is fantastic! It sticks loyally to the books and doesn't "dumb things down" for a wider audience. If you are worried you won't gain the same experience by watching the show before you read the books, fear not - It's the same experience, with a different medium!Although, I guarantee, soon you will be so pulled into the world of Westeros you will run out and buy the books just to find out what happens next!Sit back and enjoy, my friends - Winter is Coming!


                
I have watched a lot of television over the years, from the 1960s to today, and I don't say this lightly, but this is literally the best TV show of all time. I don't know what other superlatives I can heap on this program that other people haven't already done, but I was compelled to write this review for one reason: Season 7, episode 4, The Spoils of War, which I just watched. There are numerous scenes throughout this program that either astonish, horrify, or intrigue, but watching the dragons blast the smithereens out of the Lannister army was so exceptionally well done that I'm going to be thinking about it all weekend. My admiration for this program magnifies when I stop to think about the amount of production work that it took for all these separate parts to come together to form this (and this is the only time I will ever use this word in an IMDB review) masterpiece. This show is certainly going to spoil any other tv program for me from now on, because I just don't see how anything else will even begin to compare. I feel lucky to have lived during a time when quality programming such as this show, Downton Abbey, and Breaking Bad are here to not only entertain, but to enlighten in ways that you never thought television could accomplish. It's very nearly a religious experience.
It is sooo damn good that you will see any other tv series as mediocre. There is no other tv series is close to this one. Must see..but be warned when you start this you won't like any other show as this one when it ends, we all will be feel an emptiness. Hell waiting for other season becomes harder and harder. Get ready to lose yourselves in westeros, Enchanted,dangerous,mysterious,brutal,emotional,action packet,thrilled,horrifying and beautiful fantasy world. What are you still waiting for wasting your time reading this. If you haven't started it already you have to start this MASTERPIECE RIGHT NOW.


                
Game of Thrones on HBO is a TV adaption of George R.R. Martin's books, a Song of Ice and Fire. For those fans who know and love the books, then you can't help but love the TV adaptation. It is difficult to translate books into movies or TV series, but HBO's GoT made it look easy. The characters, cast, scenery, costume, etc., all looked incredible, and gave me the feeling that I was inside the books themselves. Although not every little detail was translated perfectly, and nor should they be, the pilot episode was a grand achievement.For all those Nay-Sayers out there: If you don't like the series, then you probably have never read the books or watched the countless behind the scenes trailers that helped those who didn't understand the complex storyline. Yes, this story is complex, its original, its fresh, and it is very exciting. The story line gets better with each episode. You also have to keep in mind that this story is an adult story, and as I said, it is complex. Simply put, HBO didn't dumb the story down, but rather remained true to the core of this epic fantasy. For those who have never read the books and found the pilot interesting, trust me it gets better and better. Stick with it.


                
What can be said that hasn't already been said about this show? Quite frankly, it's the greatest TV series ever created. Movie quality acting, set design, storytelling, cinematography, costumes....the one knock is in some of the early episodes CGI not being up to par (dragons mostly).The show is brilliant in almost every way. Never before have I been as surprised by the outcome and been along for an unpredictable ride of what happens and what is to come.My previous all time favorite show was Breaking Bad and there's a wide gap between GOT and pretty much anything else already out there. The word epic is thrown around too often these days as are 10's for anything that's halfway decent. GOT is as worthy as anything else being labeled as epic and deserves a 10 in an imperfect grading system.


                
Love, betrayal, greed, murder, corruption<U+0085> All collides in mythical world of Westeros. George R. R. Martin's world is unlike any other fantasy world you have ever seen. The main conflict lies between two families: House of Stark and House of Lannister, but there are many more stores to be told<U+0085>Eddard Stark (Sean Bean) is the main character of the series, and the story is mostly about him. Since HBO has staked a lot of money into this series, there will be a lot of colorful characters, just like it the books. The art dept. has done a magnificent job by creating a whole new world from scratch. Costumes, armors, landscape, photography<U+0085> All has been done in well-known HBO way. Travel along side your heroes, from the cold North, and The Wall with Jon Snow, across the desert-city on the South, with Ned Stark, and join Daenerys and her riders on a mission to retrieve the Iron Throne.Let the Game of Thrones begin!


                
I've seen a lot of TV shows in my life but nothing like GoT. I've cried, laughed, screamed, and fallen in love with the characters. The places they are in are extraordinary and the dragons look so real, the fights and deaths looks so real, and I love the girl power in it too! It has everything. I absolutley love it. I was on Game of thrones live concert this year and it made me fall in love with the show even more. It's just perfectly made.
An enthralling masterpiece that wields the scale and magnitude of the world built by George R.R Martin with precision and impact. You would be hard-pressed to find a dull moment in a show so rich with brilliant action, intriguing characters and multiple well-balanced plots.


                
One of the best TV series ever,one day i ll read amd the books cause i loved everything in this TV series, all the characters are just great. If you love the lord of the rings so you should definitely watch this masterpiece


                
A few years ago I dismissed this show as being terrible after watching a couple of episodes, but I gave it another try today and I totally changed my mind. This is definitely one of the best shows I have ever seen and I haven't finished watching the first season yet.


                
Best you'll ever see and miss watching!!!!Hopefully they make a sequel after Season 8.


                
Dont waste your time reading the reviews just watch the show. Best show on tv .


                
It takes a lot to keep me involved and interested in a series. And Game of Thrones just nailed it. Period. End of story! My life will consist of weekends of reruns when it's over. I'm so sad!


                
With an average score of almost 10/10 from almost 1 million users, do I even need to write a review? Oh well, why not?No TV series or movies can be compared to GoT. In many BS movies/shows you can predict the ending after watching it for a few minutes (good ones always win and the bad ones seem to be completely retarded, blind, and incompetent. Well, not anymore!!!The story in GoT is absolutely amazing, filled with interesting and "realistic" plot twists and unexpected events.Acting is great, costumes and scenery as well. Every character is unique and interesting, and its great watching them develop. Everything is top quality. If you start watching this, be prepared to get addicted quickly - you'll just feel a strong urge to watch the next episode, and another, and another until no more episodes are left. And finally I want to say that the series is really wonderful at all, and the soundtrack has been a genius and has contributed significantly to the perfection of the series.


                
This show has the emotional intensity and very much paced plot and editing. Great, world class, different and very capable cast. Acting is incredible, costumes and scenery as well. Each character is unique and fascinating, and it's extraordinarily watching them develop.Mind blowing everything!!! Season via season there all really solid each season appears like an alternate show because of the vast story-line changes. It's sufficient to catch your minds and hearts.


                
I kept being pestered to watch this... two weeks later, I'm completely hooked and on my second viewing of both series.The best thing about the show is the fact that you ALWAYS want to watch another episode after one has finished. It's quick paced, and with so much going on at once, there's never a dull episode. Somehow, you really start to connect with their world and grow strong emotions for characters (AHEM JOFFREY I HATE YOU)I also love how you don't know who's going to die next... Purely exhilarating and I can't wait for more of Season 3 to be released!After reading these reviews, I can't understand how anyone can rate this less than a 9 - there are very few flaws if any, and it feels like Game of Thrones fills A HUGE GAP in TV. There's nothing like this show and I'm dreading for the day when we are given the last episode... Just watch it to believe it.
