This is easily the most overrated television program in history. It is the Forrest Gump of TV: a bunch of assorted vignettes, shot using actors who (on the whole) lack any notable prowess, and then haphazardly forced together with minimal connective substance, all with the intent to quickly evoke and dispel fleeting and superficial emotional responses from an audience whose attention span is about as long as your average commercial advertisement. No scene is particularly visually stunning, no storyline is particularly compelling, and not much of the dialog is particularly well-written.If good film making allows the viewer to be drawn in to empathize with characters and fully experience each scene, Game of Thrones is a nightmare. It's difficult to make sense of the overall experience of the characters or really feel much of anything because Game of Thrones is such a desensitizing roller coaster. For instance, the show reached a point where the writers had to kill off nearly the entire family of protagonists because they couldn't find any meaningful plot twist they hadn't already used. This heavy-handed amateurism rewards the voyeurs and sensationalists at the cost of desensitizing everyone else to any events that could still evoke an emotional response.Yes, there are a ton of characters and story lines. But, every character seems generic, because there's not enough time spent on any character in particular. Yes, there are many layers to the story. But, no, none of the story lines are very deep, nor do they demonstrate the patient hand required of a great writer or director. Why is this the highest-rated thing I've ever seen on IMDb? I struggle to make sense of this.The only insight I can glean from listening to the people that religiously watch this show is that the fantasy elements of Game of Thrones bring in the Lord of the Rings Crowd, the Marvel Comics crowd, people who are happy with whatever schlock you throw in their face as long as it has to do with something mythical or a super hero. These are the people that made The Avengers one of the most successful movies of all time - despite the fact that the only good acting in the entire movie comes from Robert Downey, Jr. These are the people that keep Scarlett Johansson employed - despite the fact that she isn't really good at ANYTHING, whether acting, stage fighting acrobatics, being likable, OR even just looking pretty on film.Game of Thrones is essentially an amalgam of The Tudors and Spartacus with mildly better acting and effects. If you can't accept that, go make another stupid meme or internet game about it.
I don't understand why people like it so much. I really tried watching it but could not continue after a few chapters. Of course, the investment in production, costumes and effect are evident, but the plot, with its very trivial 'political' hints simply is not enough to make this series what it is claimed to be. Maybe it is mainly intended for people under 18.Disappointing.


                
Game of Thrones does for medieval fantasy what Deadwood did for westerns. And like Deadwood Game of Thrones amps up the viciousness but this time to a ridiculous degree. The acting is terrific. The set design (cgi or not), costumes, directing, editing and sound are all top notch. The dialogue can be cutting and clever but also arch and melodramatic. The desperate and menacing and oh so important conversations frankly started to blur together in my head. Just when your attention might wander breasts or a new extreme in atrocities is served to remind you how cool and hardcore this world is. After a while I started to wonder how anyone is still alive in this world. Where does all this fodder come from? But for sure thousands of lives will be readily available for extinguishing next time the audience might be getting bored or needs to be reminded how nasty somebody is.


                
So, this started like most HBO crap: lots of blood, "in your face" nudity to remind you why you pay the extra instead of settling for the basic cable package, and sex more sleazy than the average Hustler vid.Except that the women of Thrones aren't "amazing". They look like what the porn industry throws on the "amateur" flicks. And thats WITH the make-up. The sex was boring; there's more chemistry in a math class than on these sets. And the fighting and blood were clearly done by someone that hasn't seen combat or held any of those weapons or armor. Oh, and the gay pandering is so blatant, Im surprised it isn't being boycotted. Im serious, until season 5 they cant do an episode without grinding your face in gay sex. It seems like the few rare scenes that Don't involve homosexual sex in some way are the incest scenes. I've heard of "blaxploitation" as a category, but what do we call this? "gaysploitation"? "homosploitation"? Should it be more insultive, as the "blax" is, to show contempt for the disrespect it does to the minority pandered to?I guess the "kill a named character every two episodes" mantra actually comes from the books, which is all the more reason not to read the books, to me. If I want some pompous jackwagon that spends 2 pages introducing me to the character just to immediately kill off said character, I'll go back to Victorian authors like dickens, who were paid by the letter, rather than for content. We're in season 5, and the only character left from the beginning that you might care about is Ari. The screen-writers have gotten so desperate Cersi is naked. I realize there's an audience for middle-aged women with buzz-cuts getting pelted with garbage and sewage, I just figured it was mostly centralized in German fetishism, not HBO "mainstream" audience. Or maybe the two are really one and the same?The only central plots across the seasons are "winter is coming", because apparently in this world that doesn't happen every year? IDK, they never address why its so important that seasons, ya know, change and stuff... Oh, and the other is, "if you do good, your gonna get screwed". Every character that tries to "do the right thing", or act good, whether in character or not, pays for it. And in GoT, there's only one way you pay: death. Often with a little creepy-border-line rapey-time as well, especially in the later seasons.Do yourself a favor. If you want to watch porn, watch porn. If you want to watch TV, watch TV. Avoid this hybrid abortion.


                
It seems the days of good fantasy are now dead forever. Gone are the worlds of magic and mysticism to be replaced by graphic sex and even more graphic violence. Tolkien and Lewis are doing somersaults in their respective graves. Now we have lots of violent battle scenes interrupted by dull, soap-opera-like pedantry. And while it may be technically impressive in it's many cartoon-like computer graphics, the actual writing and acting are embarrassingly bad. One can only feel pity for otherwise good actors like Charles Dance and the great Diana Rigg. As to the stories, they are exceedingly dull and totally unimaginative...By the way, I have trudged through 4 seemingly interminable seasons hoping it might get better, only to be seriously disappointed...and the seasons are only 10 episodes!!!


                
Let me tell you something. I've never read the books and I don't intend until GRRM finish all this damn books, If one day he will do it. I watched all the seasons up to now, and I intend to finish it, but even much I enjoy the show, I can't deny that the story taken certain directions that disappointed and displeased me.In the first half of show, the story had great twists and episodes really memorable and awesome as Ned's death, the battle of BlackWater, the Red Wedding and all the exciting fourth season. Unfortunately, there was a decline of certain characters in lasts seasons. Daenerys was an incredible character in beginning as a conqueror, but after she took power in Meeren, she's simply annoying now. All plot in Meereen was boring. And what about Tyrion? After he fled from Casterly Rock, his story seems to have lost its charm. The hard truth is that he's now just the shadow of the man he was. He was terribly wasted in the last seasons having been reduced to a mere comic relief. Arya, in particular, what the hell she did in the last two seasons, I cannot say. Her excellent and entertaining interaction with The Hound gave way to a boring and wtf training in Braavos, and the show lost a lot with that. About Dorne, I don't even need to comment. Was ridiculously ridiculous.As for the end of Stannis, I don't know what to comment either. The character had one of the worst plot outcomes I've ever seen. And Rickon Stark? He died as he lived: being totally useless. And even when the show was at its best, there have always been some freaking stupid and bizarre things that sound too exaggerated and out of place in story, which has a more crude and realistic tone in itself. I can easely accept the dragons and the "mediumistic" Bran Stark abilities why they fit into a medieval universe. But I can't stand Melisandre giving birth a freaking shadow that killed a Guy and then disappears like smoke. What? And there are the Zumbies and the arrival of the white walkers, that I never give a damn.This army of Ice Zumbies often feels shifted from realistic political universe in GoT. Seriously, this plot sucks.The positive points is that stories of Jon Snow, Sansa and Bran became much more interesting in the last seasons by far. It's cool to see Jon Snow standing in his rightful position and Sansa finally standing up for herself. Bran's character, by the way, has finally gained some meaning for me now. I hated him until season six, now I really like him. Hodor's death was touching and surprising. The Battle of the Bastards was epic. So, not everything displeased me.I don't know if season seven and eight will be able to lift the fun and surprises that were the first half of Game Of Thrones. The show feels somewhat lost amid so many changes, and seems to feel the weight of having lost so many interesting characters along the way.
it feels like they really lost sight of the plot for season 5. it just did not have any of the charm, nor many of the incredible sets, costumes, or atmosphere of the previous four Seasons. the character development was weak, the stories didn't feel like they went anywhere, and it just felt like the whole team perhaps is a bit jaded. the writing has suffered, it is just not the same show that it used to be. The characters were not developed much further, and the dialogue got leaden. Not sure where they are intending to go with this, but quite frankly, not sure I want to know. And I loved the first four seasons. I barely feel any motivation for season 6 if there's going to be one. I'm about as excited about that, as the upcoming episode of Star Wars.


                
a. lacking cohesion : loose. b. lacking orderly continuity, arrangement, or relevance : inconsistent (an incoherent essay) c. lacking normal clarity or intelligibility in speech or thought.Because this fault appears to have been deliberately built in by the screen writers and producers, possibly in order to extend the number of seasons over which the story is to be run, I can only rate this 3/10. Without the built in incoherence, this could have lived up to it's 9+ rating.Certainly the actors deserve as much, as I believe the acting to be superb.


                
I'll start by pointing out what i like about this show; Good cinematography and acting. The rest is standard directing, mediocre soundtrack and a poor script.I've been in a situation many times, where a dialogue was going on and they spoke of other characters but i didn't seem to know who where they speaking of. I spent the entire first season trying to memorize the names of many of the characters (including some of the main ones). The second season actually made me memorize some of their names. Excluding the main characters the other characters are briefly introduced, nothing outlines them to make you remember which character is who. Do the script writers expect me to read the books before watching this?Worth mentioning that 90% of the show is dialogue, which is OK if it actually leads to something and it's a drama, instead of a fantasy series. Dialogue is mostly irrelevant and boring. It leads nowhere most of the time and does not contribute to the storyline. And in the rare moments it actually does, nothing happens next. You are hang with the promise of everything happening the next season. And to your disappointment, it doesn't. More dialogue and nothing happening. More promises...The story moves slowly. As if they had to stretch the whole thing to make every dollar of the budget count. Daenerys Targaryen could possibly be my favorite character, but she spends, up until now, 4 seasons to build an army and reach the iron throne (which i doubt it will only be in the 5th season, with some luck). That's how slow and boring this is.Whenever an episode finishes, i feel no urge to see the next one. There is nothing that lefts me hanging. I just feel like if they pulled the plug on this one it wouldn't make a difference to me.Mediocre show with dragons and special effects. People digest this crap because they are hungry for a fantasy series with a big budget. A well made Lord of The Rings style series. That's what viewers crave for. And this is the only reason people watch this and feel good about it. This show has no direct competition or it would be dead in the first season.Oh, and some advice. If you do actually watch this; you can take a leak, prepare your popcorn, grab a beer and call your friends to come over, all during the intro.
Take every fantasy cliché' you've ever seen or read, repeat those in a dull soap opera format that plods from subplot to subplot, and you have "Game of Thrones." Why are way too many of the character in shows today written as female characters regardless of the actual sex of the character? giving lots of dialogue a "prissy," "catty" tone that rings hollow like a soap opera? Where are the male characters speaking and acting like men do? I simply can't imagine feudal warlords having prissy repartee like modern HS students, yet "Game of Thrones" is full of it. Fantasy themes are supposed to be at least as much action as character or dialogue driven. This show is 95% talk and 5% action. GOT is dirt cheap to make and formulaic.Season One wasn't all that bad, but the second season of this show is one of the worst examples of "hook the audience, then bleed them out slowly and rip them off" I've ever seen, straight off a midway. It may be the worst season of a television program I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot.Avoid this if you are over 14 or under 14 and reasonably intelligent.
Really wasn't very interesting. I'd recommend not wasting your money on watching it if you can avoid it. The characters are great actors, but the plot line is actually very basic in the end. Good guy wants justice, bad guy wins. With so many stories of so many kingdoms, one would think something decent and happy was going on. Granted, they pop a wedding or two in now and then, but even those end up in massacre and death. So...I end my review with explaining the next chapters of the game: Part 1 - good guy struggles, good guy has no hope, good guy dies. Part 2 - good guy struggles, good guy has no hope, good guy dies. Part 3 - good guy struggles, good guy has no hope, good guy dies. Part 4 - good guy struggles, good guy has no hope, good guy dies. Part 5 - good guy struggles, good guy has no hope, good guy dies. Get the point?
I saw the 1st season. Very very boring. I think I have wasted 10 hours of my life, for nothing, by watching this series. The first episode was a bit promising, but later on nothing. So i saw the rest of the 1st season hoping for some improvement, which never "came". The script and the plot is nothing special and very very slow. Casting is also poor except, Sean Bean and Peter Dinklage. The production gave me the impression of a low budget film. Too much blood, without any war scenes. Too many sex scenes probably too boost up the ratings. Compared to the Pilars of the Earth (8 mini TV series), The game of Thrones is at least 3 "steps" lower. I really do not understand the IMDb high score of 9.4, No way ! There is no point for me to wait for season 2.


                
like its inspiration material the lord of the rings the game of thrones is much ado about nothing .and here is why, where in lord of the rings the story relied upon magic, luck and eagles saving the day , the game of thrones in itself does not have a real story. characters are introduced in flooding way and all of them seem one dimensional , and here is why. take eddard stark for example, this man is head of an ancient family who have survived so many things , he must have inherited some political savvy eh ? no, he is stupid of course his idiocy is painted as honor. joffrey is pure evil there is no background for him he is just evil, cersei is evil, Jamie is evil, balon Gregory? evil , his children? evil, stark children either cruel and dumb like Robb or just evil like arya, the one that is not evil is related to magic dany ? don't even want to start on that one she is evil , cruel and a hypocrite to the bone i can go on and on but why bother the truth to be told every one in this story is evil and more importantly dumb , like how can tywin lannister a shrewd and calculating politician make so many mistake and create so many enemies? the other thing that bothers me and makes this series unwatchable is the amount of sex and nudity , like how many times do have watch prostitutes of westeros ? how come women have show us their boobs five times in a minutes? what is so appealing about sexual deviance? for me the answer is non. and finally o come back to my starting point, the series ( books and TV series )have no story at all . try to picture it a lot of people have been killing each other and now most of them are dead , so what ? where is the point in that ? and the others or white walkers story is so dumb that can not be taken seriously it seems the writer of the books and the series as well couldn't come up with anything special as major turning event so he went on to right about dragons and ice zombies and people with silver hair and purple eyes and sex .


                
There is much intelligence evident in the writing for this series. The story is solid. But it's presented as something akin to The Lord Of The Rings, full of magic and wonder. It is not only boring and slow, this series, but it's relentlessly grim - like the daily news. I'd rather have the daily news. When I read it, I am looking for the info and expect it to be bad. When I'm looking for entertainment, while betrayal, destruction and good guys and gals loosing may be part of the story, I am not looking for only grim, which is what you get here. As for the supernatural and fantastic, it's next to non existent.You have the odd shot of a cool looking kingdom and that's it. When it looks cool from a distance, once we get closer and behind the gates, there's the same old blah.This isn't entertainment in any positive sense.


                
Game of Thrones is another one of those series that follows the trend of exploiting violence and sex to draw in an audience. Sex and violence would not, in themselves, be a problem, had they any context or relevance to the story of the development of the characters. Unfortunately, this is not the case here. The series follows the story of a number of 'noble families' with fights for power and political intrigue occurring against a backdrop of a fabulous and fantastic world. The premise has potential, however the result is poor. The story is predictable and has been covered from a number of angles. The characters are one-dimensional, either good or bad, no in-between. The only exception to this being Tyrion Lannister, who makes quite an interesting character. There is a constant display of gratuitous violence that is displayed as if normal for the time. Seeing that this is fantasy, there is no historical accuracy to maintain, the violence and sexuality displayed are merely a choice of the writers and not historical depictions of a time and place that does not exist in the first place. Also worrying is the normalisation of the mistreatment of women. Not only there are numerous prostitutes to pleasure the men in many occasions (and not useful for anything else), women are often referred to as 'whores'. It begs belief that this sort of misogynistic behaviour, which is offered as that of 'noble men' and therefore normalised, does not raise eyebrows or even disgust but instead praise and a number of Golden Globe nominations. The acting is far from fantastic and what is it with those English accents coming up randomly? There are instances where the series shows potential and the characters display interesting and unexpected behaviour. Unfortunately this is not as often as it could be to support such as basic story.


                
I have watched GoT from the start, and sometimes I have been absolutely captivated. Had a wobble at Craster's Keep, but decided to give the show another chance.There's always been that sense of sexploitation in GoT. Apologists say that this is just how the world of Westeros is; a very violent, very misogynistic place. People in general are treated badly. But here's the thing, in GoT world, men may be slaughtered horribly, children may be threatened and slaughtered horribly. But only one gender gets threatened, raped, humiliated and slaughtered on a regular basis. And that's a bit peculiar when you think about it.Male rape happens in the most horrible of horrible worlds, as does child rape. But it never appears in Westeros because, quite rightly, most viewers would thoroughly object. So if it's not OK to depict male rape or child rape in a fantasy world, why is it OK to depict female rape in the same situation? Because the audience is used to it? Because the audience accepts it? Because certain parts of the audience may even like it? Sexual abuse as screen filler seems particularly cynical when it has no background in the source material, but covers a very real issue in later GoT; with the charismatic and clever villains gone, the story is slowing a lot. No amount of sexual violence is going totake the place of pace.Bring on the dragons and the white walkers because if we can't have good writing, we might as well have great effects - and if we can't afford to get the audience used to high fantasy blow-outs, what's the answer? More women screaming and sobbing? Don't bother on my account. Whatever I'm watching, it won't be more of this.
Once again I am in front of the TV seeing an extremely over-hyped series. I swore that I'd never do this mistake again after the last flop of trying to watch "Heroes" and drawing the correct conclusion that everything that is too hyped is bad.This time the hype was overwhelming! I decided (against my gut feeling) that I try and watch whole season and continue to watch no matter what, because otherwise people would just make the CLASSICAL argument that "You can't know if it's bad if you've only seen a few episodes".Actually, in fact, a very important point here is that actually all you ever need to see in order to judge is the first episode of a series, the so called "pilot episode". Producers know that the first impression is important and so the pilot is the most expensive episode of all. If the pilot is bad, the series is bad.Nonetheless, I watched the whole first series. Game of Thrones is not good, it is just hyped.The acting, music and graphics is not bad, but the story is. It is boring to watch. Episodes end with cliff hangers that promise that something exciting is going to happen in the next episode. But nothing exciting ever happens and you feel tricked.Never again will I let my mind be hijacked by group mentality and hype.


                
Have to say that shortly after the start of season five I have become weary of so much sadistic violence over and over again and not anything good ever happening. The story line keeps dragging on and on with seemingly only new angles on just what different and graphic forms of killing and mutilation can be devised and delivered with optimum special effects. It is a game of thrones and a game where not only nobody wins but just how badly everyone loses, one at a time, told in layered story groupings, episode after episode. Enough already. Apparently this is what keeps the series ratings high and I just no longer want to be a part of this feed so goodbye Game of Thrones.


                
I watched this show recently after hearing people praising it for the last 5-6 years but I can honestly say now that it is a really bad show built on an immoral society and showing their lust for power. Only narcissistic personalities can write, watch and praise this show.
Western Civilization has been a curse to the mankind since the start and all they care about is cut each other's throat or make them kneel by accepting their culture and religion. I have never even heard about a single moral ruler from the west. Shame on the creator and shame on the viewers for praising this nonsense instead of watching ideal king rule like in Ramayana or ideal justice like in Mahabharata.


                
I enjoy the books and am looking forward to the rest of them. I also love well done films and to some degree good television. I was looking forward to this series very much.I cannot truly see this as a new work - and having read the books, I will inevitably have to compare them... Therefore, I can only praise or lament at the effectiveness of the adaptation. From this perspective, I don't think it works.The production values are pretty weak for being made nearly a decade after LOTR was handled so well. I don't just mean the CG - which is pretty poor - I mean everything else as well. The music is mostly bland knock-off's of Zimmer, Horner, or sometimes Gabriel's Last Temptation soundtrack. You've heard it before. Even the extras are weak. I shouldn't notice this. That's a bad sign something is wrong.However it's the casting, writing and the direction which have failed. I think the show was horribly miss-cast with the exceptions of a very few characters. In a large, complicated story like this, it is necessary to get the right cast or make the adapted characters stand on their own so well that the comparisons to the original source are of limited merit.The direction and writing fail to manage this. Most of the acting is wooden, and the directing didn't get the best work out of this cast for most of the time. I like Sean Bean - and even though his Ned isn't the stone-faced man expressly depicted in the books, he manages to make it work - but needless to say, while his actions will sire many key story elements - he isn't the most important character in this story by a very long shot.Indeed, of the key players in this cast, Arya is one of the few that I feel can carry her dramatic weight. Casting the kids would be the hardest part of this whole thing. But the adults are the most misplaced. They lack any charisma - and when it comes down to it, people who do reprehensible things need charisma to keep you interested in them. They aren't helped by the direction.There is a serious inability to portray any convincing viciousness and malice. Many of the characters are "playing at it" and you never get the feeling they really mean it. In a series with very very few absolutely good or evil characters - where many of them must fight and kill to survive "the game" - this portrayal manages to rob characters who should be dangerous of any teeth. Even the dire-wolves seem friendly.This seriously weakens all the characters. There is not enough tension. Scenes aren't built, and each scene lacks the necessary foundation to build further tension. Tension drives good stories, and good films. If you don't believe it, then you can hardly care about it. There was so much to work with, and so many difficulties that where there - I understand the difficulty in adapting a work like this. Sometimes you have to cut out characters, transpose necessary actions onto other characters, shift lines and add some clarifying dialog in the name of economic storytelling. I understand why you must do this to play to the strengths of this particular form of expression.A perfect, simple example of this is the transposition of an early scene where a deserter from the night's watch is executed. Rather than an old, experienced and hardened man of the watch who is so scared of The Others that he flees south... They've re-written it to be an a young man who looks like he'd run from anything. There is no dramatically compelling reason for this change. It is a small example of NOT understanding what matters.The next scene with the dire-wolf pups, which can easily serve to illustrate the multiple intricacies of the various character's relationships is devoid of almost all dramatic effect. Bran's relationship with Jon Snow. Theon's careless cruelty. Jon's (and all bastards' blatant ostracism) Jon's relationship with Ned. The scene is there, and it takes 4-5 minutes of screen time, but they do so very little with it... just horrid story economy.Even the choice to take the black (a big deal for a major character) is stripped of any dramatic value and just plonked in there. Such ham-fisted direction. It made me sick.Good adaptations manage to retain the essential elements and craft a unique work which can in fact surpass the original material in some capacity.This series has failed to do so.4/10
I used to really love this show when it first came out but after Season 3..."The Red Wedding" specifically, I've really grown to despise it. Its completely predictable and the change in tone doesn't help either. The characters feel under-developed and the atmosphere is not as chilling as it used to be! What I hate most is the abysmal, unnecessary violent nature it seems to be portraying. Was there any need to kill 'THAT' many characters in the red wedding? No.It used to be a well written, well crafted show but now it has turned into something sadistic and completely unimaginative. I give it a 3 only because of the well done Special Effects.


                
The first season is excellent, astonishing, considering how ordinary the literary source is. I was excited.
The second season has been cruelly disappointing. I have spared myself the following seasons.


                
SPOILERS probably.It's mostly people in funny clothes gossiping about other people in funny clothes. Like the books! And they show people talking about action, rather than showing the action.Which means they could skimp on the sets.I watched a couple of episodes and wondered when they'd show a "wight" - then discovered that the "wight" was that tall guy in a long coat: I wish I'd known he was a wight, because then the tall guy in the long coat might have been scary.It's too diffused, too many uninteresting sub-stories going on and too many characters who never seem to do much of anything. Except gossip about the other people who also don't do much of anything. Like the books!
Its 2017 i have been hearing about this series ever since its started and how everyone raves about it. So amazing best thing since slice bread.I recently got netflix and i said hey why not, so the first season went by and i was like OK, its a slow started i guess, but season2 will get better,mmmm no not that much but a few people told me season 3 is where it picks up.. i am currently on episode 4 of the third season and bored out of my mine.Yes the women are beautiful and there is a lot of sex scenes but you can't watch a series only for this. I was expecting lots of fighting, monsters, and so on but you get a small glimpse of it and the payback is far too long.I am not sure if i am gonna give up on the series but this is super overrated compared to stranger things where it got me hook and i watch it in 1 day..... i wish i could say that same about games of thrones.
Show writers and Director of the show don't care about fans any more. They just want to end GOT as soon as possible.


                
