Books were great while they lasted. Show was great while it followed original story. Starting from episode 6 season 7 it lost everything what made this story/show great.


                
My rate for GoT was 9 but as the last season was a rather slightly disappointing experience, and the start of the last season with that "revelation" about Jon Snow's origin is also rather a boring affair, my rate dropped to 7.Of course, the production and the acting is still superb but the more we come closer to the final the more the story/plotline of GoT got into the realm of very ordinary "fantasy" storytelling.The last season we (assumingly) will just watch the opposing forces gather their armies till the final battle, therefore I guess the season and the conclusion of the show will not hold the level of the first 5 to 6 seasons.But the one good thing here is, that we know the curtains will be closed soon for good, whereas The Walking Dead will bore us to hell with maybe a couple of more seasons.


                
At first I have to say that I did not read read any of Mr. Martin's books, and that I watched all five seasons. And, that I do not find this show over-sexed or especially brutal. I do not live in a country where nudity on screen is a problem. Yet graphic violence is, but except in some cases (mostly boring scenes), I never felt the need to fast forward.I enjoyed the first four seasons of GOT (with no real understanding of the hype around it) until the death of Oberyn Martell. The characters were mostly interesting (except that Girl that has only two facial expressions, Daenerys), the story arcs wide and interesting, and the dialogs, precisely most of them with Tyrion involved, razor sharp like no other show I watched before.GOT is basically a family story, and it takes most of its fascination from there. Powerful and powerless families are put together, with their history background lasting over centuries. They are stuck in their age, struggling for survival and power. The Game of Thrones itself seems as a permanent repeated game of success, failure, loss, intrigue, murder, war and humiliation, as history presents itself to us. People want power, are trying to take it like Wolves from their rivals, are succeeding or failing while the only real sure outcome are mountains of dead bodies. It's basically Shakespeare and doesn't add anything to his observations of the human nature, except a bit of Tolkien or Rowlings and Nietzsche. We are allowed to like that (or not).Back to Oberyn. Just when the GOT producers had the luck to bring in another intriguing character - actor Pedro Pascal had the role of his life - they decided to kill him. OK, I have not a very big problem with killing a character, but in this case it was pure waste. Tywin's death actually did make sense, for example, and however we liked Charles Dance, he had to leave eventually.Next, there was the death or disappearance of Sandor Clegane. This character had vast potential and was wasted, too.Together with some other needless things, like the torture and depenitation of Theon Greyjoy, GOT then lost parts of its central themes, particularly the Game itself, and the Family saga aspects, to be a simple series of events, failures and not very interesting stories of fates (Sansa, Arya, Brienne)I put the blame for GOT's current (Season 5) downfall as a reasonable epic equally on both R.R. Martin, the original Author, who lost track of his own creation, and the producers of the the series, who didn't see that their child has to grow up and eventually has to go loose from the author, who cannot handle the complexity anymore and therefore makes the wrong decisions to hold it together.
I've had a real love hate relationship with this show. There are a few seasons in the middle I just don't remember. It gives the illusion of lots happening, but little actually does.Looking forward to the last season but also happy that it is the last. Which makes me a bit sad, but most people loved it so that's cool. Each to their own, I always say.


                
Game of Thrones, perhaps the most overrated show of all time. I know I'll probably get flak for this considering Game of Thrones is so beloved by many, but this show just didn't hit the same stride with me. Maybe it's because I've never particularly been into medieval knights, dragons and such, but I think it's more than that. Now I'm not saying that the show is bad, but just that it's not as good as people will tell you. Overall it's a decent experience. My friend recommended this show to me a few years ago and I binged through season 1 pretty quickly. I really enjoyed it, and thought it would shape up to be one of my favorite shows. Especially since I always heard that the later seasons (3-4 at the time) were better. I was disappointed with Ned's death at the end of the first season, but I understood that much like TWD likes to do, GOT would kill off main characters. So I accepted it. Moving into season 2, I was still enjoying the show. No problems so far, aside from the fact that I noticed that I wasn't really connected to any of the characters any more. The only one I felt an attachment to was already killed (Ned Stark) and no one had fully replaced him yet. Throw in the confusing storyline of the "House of the Undying" and my interest in the series was already starting to wane. I hung in there because I heard that 3 was the best season. After watching it for myself, I couldn't disagree more. GoT was a great show for its first 2 seasons, but season 3 onward, it had fallen and just become a decent series, that is way overhyped by many. 3 was where I really noticed a lot of problems for the show. The fact that it loves to kill off characters, but it never really takes the time to develop others. I found the little character development in the series to be relatively poor. Just compare the characters from the start of the series to current, most of them are relatively the same. This was its largest issue considering attachment to the characters is always something I view as most important to a franchise, a TV series especially. Other problems, like the storyline losing my interest, basically watching people engage in territory wars with nothing really thematically powerful happening, among other things didn't help. It's essentially a Michael Bay movie now, focusing on big actions scenes to please the fanatics. I can't completely bash the show though, because it is still decent entertainment, just not as good as it was hyped up to be. I'm sure I would've enjoyed the show more had I not been subjected to the crazy hype from the GoT fanbase. The acting overall is very good, although some of the actors are better than others. The highlight of Game of Thrones to me is the fact that it successfully built an interesting, large scale world. To me though, this is not as important as the characters are. Which is why I'll always prefer shows like Breaking Bad and The Walking Dead, for their tragic and compelling characters and moments, over a show like Game of Thrones. To anyone considering picking this series up, don't listen to those who give such high praise to this show, and instead, lower your expectations. You may find it more enjoyable this way. Season 1 and 2: 10/10My Overall Rating: 7.0/10
Seasons 1-4 were great and had great writing but after that the show just became a mess with bad writing


                
No spoilers I find this show entertaining enough to watch, but I don't understand the hype. probably because a lot of fans of the books like it and think it's true to the authors words. But, I never heard about it, so I started watching fresh and to be honest, it took me about 3 episodes to get into it. I had the feeling I was watching a mediocre acting crew of a mediocre story from a soap opera in the middle ages. I think it's fairly well made, the settings are nice a lot of the times, but that doesn't make it an outstanding series. Sean Bean is good in his role, but he's born for these kind of parts. But the rest, well, sorry to say, it's just mediocre acting and a very thin storyline, even not always edited very well. a 7 for the way it is visually brought and the fact that it did entertain me enough to sit the 10 episodes trough, but for the rest I think it's overrated.


                
Eccellent up to season 4, in season 5 we see something going bad but overall was still a great series.
Season 6 was kinda meh but its season 7 that has orribly ruined this masterpiece.
Overall 7 average between 10 and 4 (first part and second part).


                
Please note, I haven't read the books.The series has well plotted out stories with political intrigue, warfare, and fantasy elements that spread far and wide through to many characters. Not typical. The ones you think are the "good guys" don't always win. I feel like it's a war story where many different factions are fighting for control of everything, set in the context of a fantasy show.There are almost too many characters and stories. Great if you read the books, and can read one right after another with no time-lag, but this show takes about a year before each next season airs. In the meantime, I forget whom some of the characters are, and what all the story- lines are. Sorry, but I don't spend the downtime watching reruns over and over again. I have a life, bad memory and short attention span. Perhaps I'm to blame, and yet I've seen many, many others say the same.The thing that really bugs me is that the characters don't show their emotions. Afraid to show feelings! It's not the actors/actresses being subtle either. Simply the way the characters are. Many tell sad bitter stories of things that have happened in their past, but do it in a cold distant manner. Tyrion does this. I like it. Suits him. But ALL the characters are like that! It gets tiring.There are no epic love stories. No grand sweeping declarations of love, or expressions of overwhelming grief. Romance is weak. So are the sex scenes. Tepid. If you're going to have sex scenes on a premium cable network, make em hot!There are no delicious villains. I thought Cersei might end up being a deliciously evil villain, but she ended up being just ho-hum. The acting: there is a mixture of stellar, to good acting, to some weak performances by some of the main actors.Final thoughts: Whom do I really care about? It's hard for me to watch and stick with a show if I don't care about anyone. I like Tyrion, Arya, and sort of like Jon Snow. But none, so-much-so, that I shout to myself: "I love this character." I am interested in seeing what happens with Daenerys Targaryen. There has been really good character development with her. I'd like to see how far she gets in her quest to take the throne. I can't say I love this character. Frankly, I find her a little weird, and unfortunately, I find the actress playing her to be one of the weaker performers, which doesn't help. I'm writing this as of the middle of season three. I'm seriously thinking of dropping this from my watch list. Yet I have a mild curiosity to see how things turn out. I admittedly would like the see the Lannisters lose the kingdom. Their dominance and "getting away" with everything is frustrating at times. Yep, would definitely like to see them fall. I think this show must be wonderful for people whom have read the books. I'm happy for them. Maybe someday I'll pick them up for a read, and my perception of the series will improve. 7/10
My husband read the book to this. He loves historical fiction, so as a gift I thought I would buy him the box set. I loved it, couldn't wait to watch it every evening until I found it getting more and more graphic with, from what I can see, no real artistic reason other than to lure in another category of viewers that may otherwise be less sated by the actual quality of the content, story and acting. The scene between the prostitutes was, what can only be categorised as, soft porn. It was gratuitous and made me feel uncomfortable as it was relentless - we get the point Mr Director, you don't need to ram it down our throats. I have 2 or 3 episodes left to watch, but am now left less enthused about getting through them. Disappointing.


                
I knew nothing about this series, neither literature nor this screen adaptation, nor even the author's work and name. This discovery was perfectly casual if it wasn't by my sceptical analysis of recent Conan's adaptation. We discussed John Millus' Conan, Robert E. Howard's and "Savage Sword of Conan", summoning the souls that should be transposed to the big screen. It was mentioned the plastic and orgasmic status Hollywood had presently acquired from the past few decades since its lack of profoundness, lack of critical approach, exuberance of ephemeral sensational effects and deeply poor acting had become its rooted motto of making money by exclusive brief debuts and marketing. The audience is attracted to a blockbuster movie like a donkey is to a carrot, exactly what I was expecting and confirmed later to be the new "Conan". Someone suggested This series in contrast to the cheesy updated blockbuster. This introduction reminds me that I found everything I was searching for not in the new "Conan" adaptation but here, in "Game of Thrones" - the art of narrative, the real acting and the incredible immersion in a fictionalized world where ancient archetypes and human spirit, plots, dilemmas, are all present. For my surprise I had my fingers fondling my beard, synonymous of intensely tasting what I was seeing while following the pilot episode, cursing slang with excellency attributions.Tolkien was always a reference since I remember, directly or unconsciously in my fictional world and I always felt that good adaptations of big tomes couldn't arise from spectacular blockbusters nor compressed movies - its juice would be simply wasted. Lord of the Rings was average but it wouldn't be that juicy if some few excellent actors and some very good special effects weren't present.But what can I say more? Shakespeare, Tolkien, literature, very wise application of special effects, excellent plot and acting, bold posture of using nudity naturally, bold posture of having a "dwarf" as main character (my favorite by the way) breaking bounds of politically correct, excellent costumes and characterization, what can I say more? I found everything here and like a kid I'm anxious to see the next episode (updated:season) already attached to the characters and this complex unpredictable and political world.Congratulations to George R. R. Martin the composer, to David Benioff and D.B. Weiss the marvelous interpreters and congratulations to the Bold HBO that allowed it to be materialized as also as to every mastered craftsman making it possible.


                
Take away the huge amount of money that went into making the last season and there is nothing left. Seasons 1-6 had depth, character studies, great dialogues and a world that was alive.
Season 7 has expensive spectacle that is losely tied together by some quickly hashed plot.
Also, what happened in costume design? It seems everyone is wearing super hero costumes in S7. With the black, tightly fitting costumes everyone is wearing now for weeks at a time. In the earlier seasons the characters wore realistic looking armour, different gowns and doublets


                
This series is definitely a fantasy piece. The locales are outstanding, there are knightly games and battles, and the costumes are what you'd expect for a Dark Ages period story.But don't let any of that lull you into a sense that you'll be seeing a "Lord of the Rings" copy cat. Game of Thrones is a political intrigue story about several Houses (clans, family groups) and their struggle for dominance. The story is very engaging and quite well scripted. It is very easy to imagine something like this had actually happened in history.The acting is standard for the genre. Expect to hear generic English accents from most of the cast, although the story specific language is spoken very well. It sounds like a mix of Elvish and Arabic; the actors must have practiced it a lot. There are a few moments where the acting is stiff or forced but all in all it's good.It should be noted that this is an HBO original series, and like other series from HBO and Showtime you can expect the cookie-cutter formula for "risky and shocking". What it amounts to is an abundance of nudity (male and female) and strong language (F-bombs) that isn't actually necessary. In several places it actually slows the progression as the episode stops for a moment to allow naked people to randomly pop into the scene. If full frontal nudity is a major turn off for you then you will not enjoy the series as it pervades every episode.The only complaint I have is that it seems like something has been left out, most likely for timing. There are a few minor arcs that are introduced and then disappear for quite a while, only to jump back in at an odd time. For example: in the first episode there is a lot of emphasis put on the dire wolves. They get a bit of screen time in the first two episodes then disappear except for parts where it's necessary to move the story forward. I know I'm supposed to care about the critters as much as the characters (apparently) do, but they don't get enough screen time to be more than furry props.Still, this is a very good series. I'd recommend it to anyone who can stomach HBO shows.


                
First thing, I am a HUGE fan of George R.R. Martin books, specially the Songs of Ice and Fire novels.I was so happy when I heard that this novels will be filmed and released as a show. Enormous plus was the fact that it will be filmed in HBO production, which is in my opinion, the absolute leader in the field of filming shows and series.Last week I saw first 14 minutes of the show on official HBO website, and.... shivers went up and down my spine of shear excitement!Finally the day to see the first episode was here. And here were the expectations, so much of them. And that probably is the thing that almost ruined everything for me... First 14 minutes that I saw earlier were so tense, realistic and even scary! Everything was as I imagined while reading the book! Characters were on a highest level, setting was awesome, the winter was coming! I was thrilled! And expectations increased accordingly... After that moment something happened and my overall experience with the episode went down the hill. I found some of the acting a bit weird, music didn't fit all of the time and sometimes annoyed me. Interiors were too artificial and, again, didn't fit my expectations. Everything happened too fast, which is logical since the information in the book are massive and it would be hard to fit them all into the series, but I could notice that, and that is more than enough to give me the reason to think is it possible that one of largest and most beautiful fantasy books ever are too complicated and complex to film a series about them.After the first episode I can only say: Peter Dinkleage and Sean Bean are awesome as usual! The episode followed the book in best possible manner (even though too fast), characters and locations are just as you could imagine them while reading the book. The plot is is intriguing and will pin down to the chair everyone that haven't read the book. Of course, there is plenty of sex, violence and blood for everyone that expect that from HBO.Even though I think that there are flaws, The Game of Thrones episode 1 deserves enough of viewers attention to watch it once again before the second episode, just to give it a shot and I think it will repay you for that in later episodes.All in all even though my first experience isn't the best one, I think this one is a winner which will be a must for every fan of the book, and one of best series in some time in eyes of most of the viewers that didn't read the book. Another HBO's success! Enjoy the winter!


                
Game of Thrones dodges the title of just another sword and sorcery franchise.It does so primarily by refusing to believe in heroes. There are no characters who are beyond harm or human failings. Everyone in this series has their strengths and weaknesses.Its this sense of reality that balances and makes plausible the otherworldly aspects of the series, such as magic and dragons. The acting is in many cases excellent too, with a strong cast who know their craft. That said, at times the medieval cruelty is a little hard to take. It often feels too, as if the medieval torture is used as a vehicle to inject a sense of realism into the franchise. What it does instead, is become distasteful and tiresome. Just as tiring is the rather drawn out and predictable story lines that, in and of themselves, are not too different to any other found in this genre. For me Game of Thrones is different but only just manages to stand out from the crowd. Its popular but then series of this kind tap into a genre with a strong, well established tradition and following. For me however, this fact doesn't justify elevating the series to the lofty status many other reviewers have given it. Seven out of ten from me.


                
This show is good. Excellent actually. But the simple fact of the matter is: the books were better. I know, to a lot of people that seems unfair but I think its impossible watching this show without comparing it to its book counterpart. Everything seems dumbed down. The characters are simplified. For example Tyrion, played by the excellent Peter Dinklage( who despite the criticism I'm giving the character pulls him off marvelously, especially the trial scene in season 4) is dumbed down from a guy who does have a good moral compass but still kills people without any remorse, to a one dimensional hero. The story is dumbed down. Whereas in the Books every action has a heavy consequence, in the show, there either is no conspiracy or Varys and Littlefinger kill someone randomly because the character that killed them in the books(and who has a motivation there) has been cut. But the performances are excellent, for the most part, even though they sometimes misrepresent their original characters (i.e Jaime, Tyrion and Euron). Kudos goes to the child actors who all do a great job despite having no previous experience. The execution of the heavier scenes are great, like the battle of the bastards, even though they don't make any sense. And it does feel like the books, and represents the books mostly well. My favorite aspect of the show is that we see all the great places from the books come to life, it's biggest flaw is the characterization of Jaime in the later seasons. Overall good..... BUT THE BOOKS WERE BETTER
I mainly watch GOT because I like Peter Dinklage - he's clearly brilliant. The show is very well-produced but it does drag. I always multi-task while watching because the plot is repetitive. There are also numerous two-dimensional characters where you just chuckle when they get decapitated or hump each other or whatever. A lot of the actors carry flat, wooden faces throughout their entire on screen existence (including the girl with the dragons). Having posted that, the dragons are indeed cool. So I guess I'm just another fantasy nerd like everyone else who watches this show. Game of Thrones is not 100% compelling and it's hard to believe anyone would watch an episode more than once, unless for clarification


                
It took me a couple of episodes to start liking Game of Thrones. Probable reason is that i expected "Tolkien for adults". Well, there's definitely a lot of adults' stuff here, although closer to reality of Middle Ages, if this might apply to a fantasy novel about an imaginary world turned TV show. Since i haven't read the book(s), i was free to enjoy the show as it is.At certain points Game of Thrones might have passed for a historical reenactment. Magic and other fantasy elements were introduced at a slow pace which adds to the realism mentioned above. The production and sets were impressive and the cast delivered and exquisite performance.Overall, Game of Thrones was television's logical answer to Lord of the Rings. Together with the latter title it has set the bar for fantasy films and TV shows very high. I would even say that they've spoiled the audiences. Any new venture in the genre will have to fulfill very high expectations.EDIT after Season 5My enthusiasm waned although the appreciation remains. My recap would be: Good Season 1, solid Season 2, rather eventless Season 3 and somewhat redeeming season 4. Season 5 was an obvious management decision in an attempt to create the most massive cliffhanger finale in the history of TV. There is one for every story line in the show.What became apparent already in Season 3 is what some fans complained about when discussing G.R.R. Martin's writing. There is a clear lack of direction, what some might label narrative fiction. During Season 5 we've reached the end of plots in the books published so far. This, in turn, enabled the writers to write as they well pleased and stretch the audience's attention span until the end of Season 7.


                
Realistically this show is 7-8 but i just can\t believe the average score is 9.5!!!! No way this fricking fantasy show averages between 9 and 10 over 1M people!!!!!!


                
Games of Thrones,Well it is a series that has excellent:1. Photography 2. Soundtrack 3. Astonishing women and men as actors 4. Great costumes and many more things But... Does someone agree that the story hasn't gone nowhere after 11 episodes? It is very slow and in each episode there hardly happens something and we are getting to any certain point. I hope this will change very soon because if not it will be a big fluke. The same thing happened with the second series of Boardwalk empire and i presume HBO is trying to make a lot of money with long stretched series abandoning there usual quality and amazing productions.Because the story lines are weak i only give it a 7.5/10


                
Game of Thrones was fantastic for it's first four seasons. This is most likely due to the fact that all the content was taken from the books. However as we entered season 5 the lack of talent from the writing team became apparent, the writers are very good at adapting books, not so much coming up with their own stuff.This brings us to the disappointing season 7. This season had a total of 7 episodes, a curious choice as this shortened season became the crux of some of the problems this show faced. Like unrealistic travel times and underdeveloped characters.The soul of this show has been lost in the fan-service mess. Things strictly happen just because it gets reactions. Gone are the days of political intrigue, grey morals or careful planning. That's all been replaced by CGI plastered all over the screen, battles that make no sense, good and evil characters, entire arcs (such as littlefinger's death) that are horrendously written, ruin characters, make no logical sense just so that they can please fans that want 'cool' things to happen and care little for a well crafted story.
I finally caught up with everyone to see the legendary Game of Thrones myself. I'm intrigued to see how the story folds in the final season in the following spring.I watched this series without the actual hype train, which I believe to be a good thing. Game of Thrones is a strong player in the genre of fantasy and mystical creatures. It has some strong characters and interesting, complicated plot lines.However from the very beginning of the show I had a hard time finding my favorite characters. I don't know if it's because of the ruthlessness of the era or just the fact that the milieu is so far from my own reality - I couldn't find anyone to like. The characters are mean, hyper sexual and somewhat blank. Although the acting work in Game of Thrones is amazing, I feel some of the characters fall kinda flat - but that's for the writing to blame in my opinion. Also due to the short lifespan of the characters I found it hard to get actually attached to anyone.Some of the episodes are too slow for my taste and there are a couple of scenes that are made with unnecessary gore.Game of Thrones is a strong drama with a unique and intriguing plot. It has its flaws and you might benefit watching it with someone who already knows what's going on (ie. has read the books or watched the series at least once). The relations of the characters are a total chaos and you'll probably struggle with memorizing the places and families for the first two seasons... let alone adding up all the magic and creatures to this whole mess.Game of Thrones is something I'd watch once. I won't go back to it, but I recommend it with a hand to my heart. (And don't worry, even I found my own favourites after season 7)


                
Charles Dance said in an interview with some gentle sarcasm that he would not read the books because they are too heavy to hold. That tells it all: great artists and filmmakers are doing their best to make an HBO quality show from a pulp fiction fantasy.The story doesn't really go anywhere, characters can be killed anytime, new characters can be introduced as well, and the fantasy world is very far from believable. The budget can never be high enough to produce more than a couple of outstanding action scenes in one season so the writers (David Benioff has seen better days: 25th Hour, Troy) have to fill the gaps with long, never-ending and quite uninteresting conversations.But, fortunately, the greatest stage actors also need the pay, so we can watch an amazing cast: Sean Bean, Peter Dinklage, Michelle Fairley, Carice Van Houten, the above mentioned Charles Dance and so on. Their presence worth watching the show.Aside from that this is one of the weakest series of HBO, not even close to the quality of The Wire, Boardwalk Empire or Six Feet Under. The show could have told us something about human nature, power, politics, love, religion, faith and chaos, but instead of these we get a lot of nudity, pointless violence, and some Hollywood clichés.You can say, it's just entertainment, so be it, but it still doesn't deserve more than 6 stars out of 10.


                
Writing- 7 (Starts pretty great, but falls to embarrassing lows in S7 and declines in general after GRRM left)Acting- 7 ( Most main actors are slightly above average and none are truly great, though many actors are "average")Plot/Story- 7 (Becomes overly simplified and too far fetched for even a "fantasy" show by season 6-7, especially 7. The story "drags" out by seasons 6-7, so much so that it starts to lean more towards bad than good)Characters- 6 (So overrated. This is probably the part of the show's popularity that baffles me the most. I honestly only really enjoyed 2 of the show's 40-50 main characters, and then there was a 3rd one I somewhat liked. Everyone else is either forgettable or just okay. The show's main fans talk about all of these characters like they love them, and it's just perplexing since most are dull, boring, and mediocre.)Costume Design/Set Design/CGI/Production Values- 10. This is the one and only thing that is truly elite about the show, but it is without a doubt top notch. There is no denying that these are the categories where Game of Thrones truly excels and rises above most other shows. But that's like a typical CGI-laden Hollywood comic book or sci fi action flick with a thin script and mediocre acting.All this said, is it good? Yeah, it's good. In fact it is very good, but it is nowhere near the hype and over the top popularity it gets. The fandom for this show is somewhat unsettling. It's like nobody really expresses how they really feel about it. They all jump on the bandwagon and dare not anyone criticize the show because it's the best ever because all the obsessed fans say so so it must be true.Meh. I like it, and I'll watch the final season, but I will definitely admit that half of the reason I'll be watching is just to continue to see how much of a decline in quality it has become since GRRM left the writing team. The other half just wants to see how it ends, and if one of my predictions comes true, which if it does, I will be disappointed since it would be too predictable.


                
To start I should mention that I'm a die hard fan of the books, and consequently had ever-so-high expectations of this series, so of course I was bound to be at least partially disappointed. However, I think they've done a fair job in putting the book to the screen, as much as I can judge from the opening episode. The art direction is commendable, and it was amazing to see the book come to life in that sense (particularly the Wall!). Great care has been taken with costuming, locations, and props. I have absolutely no complaints in this sense. Also, the plot has been followed so far in its critical points (for us fans)... compacted and adjusted when necessary in quite effective ways. The casting is mixed, but in general does a fair job of representing the book's characters. The actor who plays Bran could not have been better chosen. Tyrion, Arya, Sansa, Eddard, and others are very good as well. But still others are not as strong, such as Jamie and Cercei Lannister (they needed to be much bolder and ruthless figures in order for later character development to really pan out). Some characters seem to have been changed a bit... such as Illyrio, who in the book is a much more flamboyant and pretentious character. But in general I think the actors will do. All which bodes well for the series' future. However...My greatest criticism is that they rushed through too many things in the first episode, at the cost of sacrificing suspense and interest in the characters. There really was no need for this. The books are perfectly written to be made into a series (at least books 1-3), and the ambition to introduce all the characters in one go really sacrificed the book's careful character development (one that almost seemed pre-planned to be adapted for television... every two chapters would make an hour of television with a perfect hook point almost without exception). You don't get a chance to FEEL any of the characters. When Bran falls at the end of the episode, you really should have felt a terrible sense of loss. Not just curiosity about seeing the next episode. You should despise Jamie and Cercei Lannister from the start (very important if the series is to take you into the the second and third books). I think it would have paid off a lot more to get you to care deeply about one or two of the characters. There was no need to introduce Pentos just yet, for example. There was no need to make you understand the entire world situation in one go. It greatly sacrificed the suspense. Rushing through thing like that only made everything seem wooden and soulless. I think even my assessment of many of the actors is based on them not having the "room" to really develop their characters yet.I hope it was just the fear of not hooking the audience that led them to this rush, and that future episodes will allow the emotional suspense needed for this to really be a successful series. It does worry me that these are the same people behind Rome (I think it would have been better for the series if say, the producers of Deadwood developed it). Rome suffered from some of the same "soap opera-ish" type development. In some ways it reflects Martin's writing very well (the crassness, the sex, etc.), but so far it's really missing the subtlety of his characters (the greatest feature of the books by far, along with the political complexity). This IS just the first episode, though. First episodes are tough. So I have my fingers crossed. They have gotten a lot of things right, and George R.R. Martin's books were begging to be made into a series... it will be a real shame if the result is mediocre.SECOND EPISODE UPDATE: MUCH better. The pace has slowed a bit, the emotional impact is greater. I think Coaster-Waldau (Jamie) has more promise than I at first believed. Peter Dinklage I thought was perfect for Tyrion and in the second episode he confirms it fully. I still don't think Lena Headey is right for the part of Cercei... not in any way due to her acting, but her style in general. She is too earthy and much too likable. Cercei I thought should be cold, uppity, distant, too elegant. All in all the cast will do just fine if the pace isn't hurried. I now DO look forward to seeing the rest of the episodes. *Phew*
