As an avid reader, I am often disappointed by what is represented by the silver screen. I initially get excited to see one of my favorite series on the big screen, and eventually walk away disgusted. For whatever reason, most shows and movies that are based on epic book series absolutely butcher the original content. So when I saw the preview for "Game of Thrones" on HBO, I was immediately skeptical. Oh, I was going to watch it, but I didn't have high expectations. I did hold a little hope because HBO is known for their high quality shows. I was absolutely shocked to watch the Pilot and realize that it followed the book almost to perfection. The language that is used by the actors is very similar to the way that it was written in the book, and events were not skipped. It stayed very true to the story without adding to it or removing from it. The acting is superb and I actually felt like I was looking into Winterfell for the first time. I feel like I've actually got faces to add to the characters that I've been reading about for a long time. If you have not read the books, you may feel as though the blatant sexuality is an addition from HBO to add some spice to the series. This is not the case at all. The books contained all of the sexuality that is shown in the Pilot. I am very proud of HBO for producing an amazingly accurate product. I will be watching every week for sure. If you enjoyed what you saw in the Pilot, know that there are many other plot twists and action filled evenings to come. "Game of Thrones" has a ton of potential to be one of the greatest series that has ever been produced. I would highly recommend it to fans of the series and newcomers alike.UPDATE:I have now watched 3 Episodes and I wanted to come back and report some more. Even after 3 Episodes, the series is staying true to the written story. Overall the acting is still very good. I hate to watch a show that makes it look like the actors are reading a script. I don't get this impression with this HBO adaptation. Each episode of this series leaves me itching for the next weekend. I really hate watching shows in real time because I enjoy absorbing several hours of a show at one time. But, a good show will keep you looking forward to it the whole week. A special note to viewers that have not read the books... Keep watching! This series has numerous twists and turns and full of epic battles and action. It may seem like it's taking a little while to develop, but the reward is well worth the wait. Even after 3 episodes, I would still highly recommend this to anyone.


                
Damn you George R.R. Martin! Don't do movies, finish the damn next book ... oh wait ... he did! OK! Than let's look at the series...Well, above statement has a meaning: I read the books! Yeah, big deal, but when I did I always thought: "It is not possible to do a movie about this!" And I was right! ... but they did a series! And I can't really believe it, but: It (well, the pilot) is quite good! Never expected that! Also funny how many people talk about the nudity and/or the gore. Yes you see some breasts and so on ... so what? This is a fantasy, that is realistic (if you didn't read the books and don't know, what I mean by that: Wait and watch the series ... and you will be surprised!) so the scenes are realistic too! I like that! Adds more to the feeling of the books!The main problem is, that if you don't know the books you are quite lost with the characters and what happened to all of them. But I hope we will get deeper into the minds and backgrounds of those people! The cast for that is really well done and I hope for they can pass on the feelings I got when I read the book!Overall: Great start, hoping for Brilliance!


                
Having heard much and more of the popular HBO series Game of Thrones, I decided it was time to journey to Blockbuster and acquire mine own VHS copy of the show. So I loaded up my VHS rack, five of my favorite dogs, and a Costco-sized box of Reese's peanut butter cups into my trusty Honda Accord.The only Blockbuster still in business is way in the South part of town, so I was in for a long quest. If it wasn't for the sugary sustenance provided by the Reese's cups, the companionship provided by my dogs, and the listening pleasure of "The Lord of the Rings" (unabridged) on cassette tape, I could have very easily gone mad.Although many long years had passed, Blockbuster was just the way I remembered it. The same off-white plaster, squarish building, with blocky Blockbuster lettering on the front, and the promise of a plethora of VHS tapes within."I come seeking the Game of Thrones," I told the young man at the counter. "On VHS. Please bring it to me forthwith."The young man, who's naming plate said Scott, was a dubious knave, clearly of lowbirth. He squinted his vacant eyeballs and knitted his bushy, bear-like eyebrows and said, "I'm sorry, but we don't carry that on VHS.""Do not play such games with me, boy," I warned him. "I see your Game of Thrones display right before my own eyes.""Yeah... those are DVDs. I can rent you a DVD?""A DVD? Do you take me for a fool, boy?""Hi, I'm Adam, the manager," said a trollish-looking imp-man. He had long snaggly yellow- brown teeth, and two large, watery eyeballs that seemed way too large for his head. "Is there a problem here sir?""This guy wants to rent some VHS tapes," said Scott, the idiot."Okay. I understand. I am very sorry sir, but we no longer carry VHS tapes at this location," said the imp.What game were they playing here? A video store without videos. A riddle worthy of my late tutor, Brometheus.Clearly they were both liars. For some reason they didn't want to rent me the Game of Thrones, but why? What secrets were they trying to conceal?But I was tired from my long journey. And I was starting to crash from the sugar from all the peanut butter cups I had eaten. And the sound of the dogs howling from the car reminded me that I hadn't fed them or given them water in a great while. I had no choice but to leave this cursed place."Psst." On my way out of the Blockbuster, I heard a strange sound. "Psst. Hey buddy. I heard you want a VHS."There was a hairy, hunchbacked man standing half in the shadows. He was clad in stinking garments. He smelled like a rancid applecart full of old cheese and rotting apples."I got all kinds of VHS-es," he whispered breathily. He opened his cloak to reveal a hidden collection of VHS tapes, more than one could count."Do you have Game of Thrones?" I asked."I have Game of Throats," he replied. "It's basically the same thing.""Fine, I'll take it." I gave him five dollars.After watching Game of Throats several times, I have come to the conclusion that the production values are poor, and the script is pretty weak for an HBO series. But despite all that, it is just as captivating as everyone says.


                
And the above comment is high praise indeed from me. See, I had heard of the Song of Ice and Fire books, but most of what I'd heard about them focused on the "political machination". So, not being a terrible fan of politics, I gave them a miss, thinking they might be dry and dull.Then along comes HBO's serialization.....and I'm hooked! First episode has the promise of more traditional fantasy tropes in the form of undead monsters, along with THE most impressive opening credits scene to any show I've watched. To summarize, the credits show you the world of Game of Thrones, with the important areas paused on and expanded. Basically, a camera fly-over of the world. It sounds a lot less impressive than it actually is.Then the story begins. At this point in the first episode I knew absolutely nothing about the setting or characters. However, despite the depth of the setting, I never felt like I was lost, or that I had no idea who was who or what was going on. It explained enough to keep me happy, but did not try and deluge me with information.There is also an energy to the series that was infectious. Although there are (as yet) no major action set-pieces, the show moves along very smartly, feeling neither rushed nor dragging. And the ending of the first show pretty much guarantees the viewer will tune in next week! So it was with me, anyway. Not only that, but after the second show, I ordered the first of George RR Martins Ice and Fire novels. I felt there was more that I could know about certain things that weren't really explained well (such as the tree in the opening credits), and not just could know, but wanted to know.I've now read the first two novels, and have the third to hand. I'm very much impressed by how faithfully the series has adhered to the novels. Yes, there are occasional scenes missing or added, usually to streamline the information flow, but all the characters are there and the plot is, so far, 99% identical to the books.Also impressive, is how adult the series is. The novels never skimp from showing the brutality and sordidness of mediaeval life and neither does the show. I've just watched episode five and the "breastfeeding" scene (which I was sure would not make it into the show having read the book) and it is very creepy to see.As for sets they've not skimped on location shooting, nor have they shied away from other effects. The landscapes are sometimes startling, and the combat effects are gruesome rather than gory.Acting all around is superb, especially given some of the scenes the characters have to act out. A particular favourite is Peter Dinklage who plays Tyrion (perhaps my favourite character from the books) with such wit and dry humour that it's hard to imagine anyone else playing the role.If there is any criticism I can level at the show so far it is that some of the characters have had their motivations telegraphed a little too much so far. But it is a different medium from the novels and the audience does need to know who to root for to a certain extent as there are so many characters.All in all, I'm very impressed with the show and hope that it continues for a long time. I know the second season has already been ordered (presumably following the second novel's story, which will be a riot!) but I'm already hoping for a third season. The show is that good.I don't know how much money HBO have spent on the show, but it does show. There are no Hercules costumes here.If Lord of the Rings is the epitome of fantasy movies, then so far, Game of Thrones is the epitome of fantasy serialisation.
I never read the "A Song of Ice and Fire" series, so maybe my unbiased opinion can be of use.From what I've seen from the TV show (2 episodes), I can assure you it's up to HBO's high standards.The fantasy elements are minimal in the first episodes, with only the chilling opener and some dragon eggs that seem not entirely dead ;) So what we now essentially have is a dark medieval tale. I'm wondering how they will roll out these elements in the next episodes.The atmosphere is extremely grim to American standards and the storyline will grab you by the throat from the very first scene.It has complex characters, all with their own agenda, which you just can't label "good" or "evil". They behave like normal people would. It is totally believable. No formulaic "comic relief" , no "cute" characters... How confusing this must be for some people :-) This is a series that doesn't threat its viewers as children and entirely lives up to the hype.An excellent job, HBO


                
They have left some things out (direwolve pups, a few back stories) and actually added more sex or at least a little more descriptive than the books. Story is Pretty accurate to the book though. Oh and the opening scene I don't remember the bodies in the snow being dismembered so badly (a nice addition). They may be pushing the story a little fast but they have not left out anything really crucial. Those who bitch about this show should go read the book, because they wouldn't bitch if they knew what was in store for them. Great Start! Its not always easy to accurately depict stories in books to the screen. I cant wait for the next episode tonight. *edit/update* after watching last nights episode i guess they did put the dire wolves in (musta missed it in episode 1 or something). It also made me realize that they progressed everyones age about 3 years. I guess they didn't want to show a 13 year old (Daenerys) getting nailed. HaHa i totally agree that that was necessary for television.
Lord of the Rings it ain't... and I mean that most definitely as a compliment to Game of Thrones. Don't get me wrong, I liked Lord of the Rings, but the 'Seven Kingdoms' of Game of Thrones is a spectacularly unpleasant place to live, as any show set in what is essentially the Middle Ages should be. If you find subject matter such as extreme violence, bad language, rape, incest and just generally very unpleasant behaviour unpalatable, maybe give it a miss. It's an HBO 12th century thing with, so far, mild supernatural elements. Two and a Half Men it is not.Sean Bean plays Eddard Stark, the main character and puts in a solid performance, for the moment, never sure how long anyone is going to live in this show. I was always quite fond of the guy, this is by far his beast work to date. Also a shout out to Peter Dinklage, who has the somewhat depressing honour (for all other "dwarfs") of being the first "Dwarf" to receive a decent roll in a film that doesn't mock him. Quite the opposite in fact, he plays an intelligent, womanizing, cunning and witty person who so far is, in my opinion, the most likable, and it has absolutely nothing to do with 'Aww he's a "dwarf" and he's just like us', nah, he's an incredible actor that plays his role with utter class and completely convincingly, and after two episodes was able to make me forget about the brainwashing that Hollywood has inflicted on most people about, and I don't even know what is the politically correct way to say it, so "dwarfs". I apologize to Peter Dinklage if I got that wrong.There are a considerable number of important characters in GOT and at times it can get a little confusing, but you have to stick with it, it's worth it, and you DEFINITELY have to watch it from the beginning. If I missed an episode I'd be totally lost.The investment in everything from costumes to CGI has in no way been short changed, HBO pulled out all the stops on this one, which, I hope, means they're not going to just drop it (at least without giving it some kind of ending, as they DIDN'T with OZ for example).This is my first review, I'm aware it might not be great, but if you have a thick skin and can handle unpleasant content, then this show is definitely worth watching, but again, start from the beginning and watch as intended, don't try to "cheat", you'll only cheat yourself.This and The Walking Dead are the best TV shows currently on TV, but this, so far in my opinion, still has the crown.9/10


                
I cannot, I repeat CANNOT be bothered with elves, hobbits, etc, etc.But here, I found a world of medieval machinations underpinned with supernatural and mythical background that grips then twists then keeps you on the drip like the most powerful narcotic.I have never read the books but will pick up the second in the series for this is exactly the pitch I like my 'fantasy'- rooted in semi-realism, great characters, carousing plot, plenty of adult material - and I mean the language, the intrigue, not just the copious nudity - to get one's teeth into.Notable acting mentions to the tour de force that was Sean Bean and the comic depth of Peter Dinklage - superb delivery that made every episode for me.Take it from a 'hobbit-hater' - this is the anti-Tolkien and the way forward, fantasy without the twee and cheese.A brilliant watch.9/10.-1 for being only 10 episodes long. Cold turkey until next spring :(


                
I'm not much of a TV show fan. And while I recognize the greatness of recent dramas like breaking bad, mad men or house of cards, it is very difficult to get so invested in the characters there, and I don't think i've ever waited anxiously for the next episode. And that, is what Game of Thrones does better than any other series, it makes you care for the characters, and it keeps you waiting for the next episode. Game of Thrones isn't the best TV show out there, that honor would probably go to The Wire, but it is shocking that despite not even being held in our world, it is far more fascinating.The best thing about this show is it's unsurpassable depth, especially in seasons 2 and 3, which have focused more on the characters. Personally, I used to watch this show casually, and skipped the parts I didn't like while asking my friend to remind me what was happening. It is massive and it's hard to keep track of everyone, and so a casual viewer might not agree with my statement of depth. As a casual viewer, I thought so too at first. I didn't like the talkative season 2, or even the beginning of season 3, as the show slowed down there.But during a very boring summer I decided to invest more in the series. I went to a wiki and read the characters backstories, watched every episode again and then read through the first two books. The more time i spent on the series, the more I noticed how deep the story is.I also think, contrary to many other opinions, that the show is steadily improving, despite the fact that the plot is slowing down. It's focusing more on the characters, which is fine with me, considering that they are the most interesting ones out there. The Lannister males, Tyrion, Jamie and Tywin, in particular are some of the best characters in any show, ever.The first season suffers from sexploitation, and second and third seasons have talkative episodes that aren't always interesting, so I'd give it a 9.5/10, but since that's not an option.. 10/10


                
Well done writers, cast and crew. This is a brilliant adaptation of what is for me the best fantasy read I have ever had. Whilst some of the negative reviews have mentioned the vast array of characters and events in only the first few episodes, I on the other hand am amazed at just how well the massive amount of characters and descriptions have managed to be so well filtered or captured for TV. This is a massive undertaking and as someone who has read the book it is very difficult to judge just how understandable the plot is thus far if you haven't. This a tale of the human trait of tribalism, loyalty and betrayal set in the magical world created by a great author where seven kingdoms lie in constant fear of the evil that winter may bring and Winter is Coming. To understand the plot is to move in stealth from one land to another, one clan to another, one bed to another, weaving a thread that creates the patchwork of this intricate yet barbarically woven material. What I can say, is do not worry yourself too much about understanding who, what and where each character fits in, just watch it. You will become familiar with them as the story unfolds. That said, for those who have read the books, the series has had a lot to live up to and that is its biggest test, passed so far as far as this reader/watcher is concerned. I'm hooked, again and I'm loving it. The acting is readily acceptable if not very good and whilst I was anxious about the selection, I feel so far that every actor chosen has physically fit the character described in the book very well with the possible exception of Catelyn Stark played by Michelle Fairley (who should have been a little better looking) and John Snow played by Kit Harrington (although I can't quite put my finger on why). The detestable Tyrion Lannister, my favourite character, played brilliantly by Peter Drinklage is just perfect and as for Arya Stark (Maisie Williams), well they stole her right out of my imagination. I am writing this at episode 5 and may update it again at episode 10.


                
Before I start, let me say that I watched the first two seasons without reading the books, but after season two I was interested enough to read all five novels before season three. In this way I have the perspective of both a watcher and a reader. The purpose of this review is to help people decide whether or not this show is for them. A Game of Thrones (and the series of novels that it is based on) is somewhat unique in its story telling. Although it is a fantasy world, it is more based on our actual history than previous fantasy writings such as Lord of the Rings. It is also very dark, depicting many events that would have (and often did) take place in our own medieval time period. For these reasons, it is very difficult for some viewers to get into the series without previously reading the books. After reading some of the more negative reviews here, I feel the need to clear up some of the main criticisms. There seem to be three major complaints:1. It is too slow. Do not make the mistake of thinking that this is an action show. While there is a lot of fighting, it is often split up between a ton of politics, history, and character moments. This is a political drama, and the characters come first. I for one really enjoy the "slower" moments and find the dialogue just as interesting as the battles. If you like constant action and battle sequences, this is not a show for you.2. Too much violence and sex. This show is not meant for the squeamish. It deals with many themes that are normally shied away from. The violence isn't constant, but when it arrives it is realistic and gruesome. The blood and gore is meant to emulate real injury and death in order to add realism. There is also a lot of nudity and sex. I will actually agree that the nudity sometimes goes overboard, but again, the show attempts to represent reality, and sex and nudity actually happens in real life (if you can believe it). If you cannot handle nudity and violence, this is not a show for you.3. There are too many characters and plots to keep track of. Yes, there are hundreds of characters, spread out over two huge land masses, each with their own back story, motives, and positions. There is a history to the world that stretches back thousands of years, with epic events and battles. And there are many different kingdoms, all battling to better their own political position. It is not impossible to fallow (as some reviewers will have you believe), but it does require some time and patience to understand all of the people and the history. If you have trouble focusing, this is not a show for you.If you got past these three major criticisms without second guessing yourself, and you like fantasy, there is no reason that you shouldn't like this show. Everything from the story, to music, to set pieces, to wardrobe, to acting and beyond, is top notch. It may take a few episodes to be fully immersed, but once your into the show its hard to get out! 10 out of 10.


                
After watching the first episodes I could ramble on about how visually stimulating it all is, how the script is brilliantly interlaced to suite scene composition and the mood, how the sounds and scores multiply the intensity of the setting. I could also ramble on about how great the cast is, how every character looks as if they were born to play this one role, or how from the opening credits you are immediately aware that you are going to be taken deep into this world that you know nothing about and that it will be one heck of a journey.But I won't ramble on about any of that, because in the end, once its all said and done, you will only remember how that movie, that show, that book made you feel. All of the above enthralls you and literally drags you into King's Landing, into Winterfell or (God forbid) into the icy realms of the North.Every character is interlaced with something else, whether this be another character, another place, another being. When something impacts one you immediately feel for them because you understand exactly where they are situated in the grander scheme of things. This systematic entanglement of characters will serve as the backdrop for the script throughout the series. As we hear the knife slit the throat of Lady we see the young Stark awake, you know that something has changed, you know that with every passing breath the young Stark will never be the same.If you want pure fantasy this isn't for you, supernatural elements make appearances throughout the show but they aren't fundamental, they merely serve as a detached entity, something outside the bounds of the world of man, something to understand but not to approach, much like the Great Wall leading to the north.If you want to watch a show which places importance on character interaction and plot composition, then this is for you. The medieval backdrop only amplifies what is sure to become a great television spectacle.Game of Thrones, deserved of the throne, but can it keep it?
Before I write a review I like to take a look at the "Loved It/Hated It". I do this before watching some movies/TV shows that I am uninformed or wary of wasting my time. I have to say I can't even remotely relate to what the "Hated It" folks are rambling on about. This series is well cast,(and a bit daring I think for casting Peter Dinklage (the dwarf) in one of the primary roles), he is excellent, you're not sure at the start of the series if your going to like or hate him but by the end of season 1, if you're anything like me, he has become one of your favorites. Lena Headey and Sean Bean are really the only actors that I was familiar with before watching GoT, but each character seems perfectly cast to me.I did not watch this on HBO and therefore did not have to wait for weeks or months for the next installment, and thank goodness, once I started watching it was almost impossible for me not to go ahead and watch the next episode because the end of each episode left wanting more, and isn't that what a really good show should do.I will say this, I was startled by this series in one way, they are not shy about killing off main characters in this show. I know that this is based on the series of books, A Song of Ice and Fire, I have not read them but I understand that they stay very true to the novels, but I would have found this just as startling for a novel, I won't spoil it for you by saying which characters but I will say steel yourself they come fairly often.Because this is HBO there is a fair amount of nudity, sex and some fairly graphic violence, but I found none of it offensive nor gratuitous, but if that sort of thing bothers you it is the only reason I would say not to watch this series. I have watched all of the first 3 seasons and now can't wait till Season 4 begins, I hope you will enjoy these as much as I have.


                
Being a huge fan of the books and a chronic cynic; I had many concerns when I heard they were making the series; how would they bring these books to film and do them justice. My largest concern was the difficult task the actors were handed. The books are written from the POV's of numerous characters; each chapter having a designated character. So you are inside the head of a character for all the events in the books. You learn the character's traits and motivations through his or her thoughts. This obviously cannot be done on film, so it comes down to the actors to portray what these characters are going through without the audience being able to hear their thoughts. I cannot name a single actor that fails at this. This cast is exceptional. Some notable shout outs go to the young members of the cast who are so essential to the story. Cudos to Jack Gleeson, Sophie Turner, Maisie Williams, and Isaac Hempstead Wright for pulling off Joffrey, Sansa, Arya, and Bran so successfully. Another shout out to Jason Momoa for Khal Drogo. When your character speaks a language created for the show; it becomes even more difficult to portray that character. Mr Momoa does it so successfully you want to stop reading the subtitles and watch him perform.Another thing I was concerned about was the scope of the world and giving an accurate portrayal on film. There are so many descriptive locations in the books that needed to be shown to tell the stories. The locations were amazing. Most impressive to me were the Wall and The Eyrie; both whose features are not only difficult to portray; but vital to the story. The Sky Prison was just as I pictured.My only critique is how difficult it is to take large book with a large cast and portray all the important details within the stories. I watched the series with my wife (who has not read the books) and at least once an episode had to explain some things that got glossed over. But over all an amazing vision of an amazing series of books. A must see.


                
I have now watched the first 3 episodes of what will maybe be known in the future as the Season 1 of the Game of Thrones TV mini-series - or, if fate would have it, the "Game of Thrones" season of the "Song of Ice and Fire" series.Yes, i do hope that all the books will be brought to life on the small screen, because the first episodes have been enjoyable to watch.When I finished the last book of the series written so far, i felt.. sad. A truly wonderful experience had ended, and the words just stopped, never again forming into new adventures, but instead staying the same on the pages. But now, we are given a new, somewhat compressed, but nevertheless enjoyable way of reliving the story. With no changes to make it a different tale, but instead with something extra - a new dimension of faces, places and voices. Its a bit like looking through an old picture album with pictures from the good old days - the memories, the fantasy is your own, the pics are just there to help you remember. Only that in this case, all the pictures might not be exactly as you remember them..Well, in my head, Ned was more noble-looking, Kings Landing never as sunny and Catelyn Stark younger. These self-made constructs are however fading and being replaced by the characters on the screen. Im willing to sacrifice that for the reward of enjoying the good old story one more time, anew.And by the way, Tyrion is just perfect!


                
Reading the book you get into a really grim world. This did not happen in the first episode. To be honest, based on this series of book you should be able to cast a masterpiece in TV history. However, this did not happen. Hopefully the following episodes shall be more grim, as is the series of books, the ages and situations portrayed in those. There should be less focus on the graphics and more on the characters and acting to display the tough emotions and situations they are going through (Hint: make the actors read the books).Nevertheless I am very happy that HBO is doing the series and being a fan of the books I shall be looking forward for the new episodes. Thank you for bringing this on screen.


                
Never having read the books, and being pressured for months by my in-laws to see this, I had the very great pleasure of being able to watch the entire first season consecutively in one day.By the time it finished, I was checking the date for the second season to start, hoping it was tomorrow. Sadly, I had to wait with the rest of the world.My first experience of George RR Martin was back in the 80's with the Wild Cards series of books, which engrossed me with the way each character's story intertwined with the others, how events experienced from the perspective of one would be impacted upon others. To have many authors involved in developing separate characters each was a masterpiece of editing.To have a sense of uncertainty about what might happen next is a difficult thing to bring to any story, with most plot lines having been subjected to a standard format and the characters being stamped out copies of the common stereotypes.Martin seems to have brought a great part of that early concept of straying from the norm to this world, with the unexpected twists following a far more intriguing storyline than the average TV show, where the big names always make it to the end of the episode with all of their parts intact.From Epic scale ideas, and subtle (and at times not so) hints at a rich past full of the best kind of myths, we begin to see the weave coming together on several levels. The way in which personality traits of characters are maintained in the face of life and death decisions brings an authenticity to the progress of events.The separation of information that allows each thread to play out without being warped by events in another thread, that couldn't and shouldn't be known, is a key component in bringing drama to the table.Besides all of that, the casting is good for the most part, and with believable performances it is easy to find more than one character to care about, to invest some emotions with and to hope for.


                
I hadn't watched this show at first, season 1 was finished by the time I started watching and I heard from many gamers (pen and paper roleplaying) that it was a truly amazing series and I assumed it to be good, but I found that it was GREAT! There are few series out there where I can sit and watch the show, truly interested in every aspect of it. I sit there wondering about every single character. The important ones, the non-important ones, the vile ones and the good ones, the annoying ones and the enjoyable ones. Character I absolutely loathe are so well written that I am always interested in what they are up to, what they're doing and what they'll do.There are quite a few twists where for one moment you think things are going to be okay and it's going to be a stereotypical order in the storyline and then all of a sudden the scene does a 360 on you and you have no idea where they're going with the storyline. Everyone who watches this has their favourite noble family that they would like to win and have justice and take the throne. I personally want to support the under-dogs, the Starks but I'm sure others like the other nobles in different parts of the world.I highly recommend this as I have never seen another fantasy series that was done well in so many years. If you are a lover of fantasy I'd go for it. Magic rarely comes into it, but when it does, it is something truly powerful.


                
This series has wittily aggregated ancient and medieval history of mankind - mostly focusing on aristocracy, but this is the history we know, through the eyes of wealthy and powerful people of those times. Both the novelist and screenwriters have done a great job, creating a credible atmosphere and focusing on different "ordinary" persons, not powerful creatures with supernatural forces. Of course, the viewers can recognize various books, sagas and epics of different times and nations, but references, patterns or profiles are not "modernized" copies too often available in the U.S. movies depicting ancient or medieval events. The other strength is the use of different filming locations in different countries, creating a real picture and avoiding intensive use of digital effects. Viewers who have traveled in Europe have nice joy of recognition. And of course, the cast - from several countries, including character actors from Great Britain, and giftedly chosen child actors. As for personal contribution, the most imposing to me were Sean Bean as Ned Stark, Peter Dinklage as Turion (won Golden Globe for his performance) and Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau as Jaime Lannister - a Brit, an American, and a Dane, respectively. But even smaller supporting roles were deliberated and well performed. As for the use of violence or erotica, I cannot agree with them who think it was unnecessary or too much; those thinking so are apparently not good at history :)For the sake of the best comprehension, you should see all the episodes and preferably more frequently than once a week. And it is better to have a graph of characters at hand as - throughout the series - there are several hundreds of them opening their mouth at least once, and most of the names and places are not easy to memorize either.Anyway, I am looking forward to the Season 3 already, although it seems that the weight of fantasy/magic increases.


                
This show is extremely well produced, which is something that I appreciate...the setting and major plot lines are also quite excellent. The problem lies in the direction these great things have been taken. Let me first say that I have not read the books...so if you want to argue "it was in the books!"; well, then my criticisms to come are of the books too. A) While it has slowed down somewhat in season 5, the gratuitous nudity and violence is wholly unnecessary. In most cases, it is necessary to convey the brutality of the universe, however, a lot of times its done as a cheap way to shock the viewer. Did we really need that last scene of Lady Stark being gored on screen? A cut to black and slicing sound would have been fine, but they seem to want to spit on the good work they have done. And did we really need 8 minutes of the queen regent walking naked? B) There are many great characters...and while I don't like "good always triumphs", four of the five characters I have really been interested have died (Tyrion being the lone holdout). A lot of them dying just for the sake of shocking the viewer. C) The plots are divergent and mostly interesting, but to get invested in any of them leads straight to them getting slaughtered.
As many people have mentioned, it is great to see a book to film adaptation that really stays true to the book. The books are so amazing in their depth, and the complexity of the world was unlike anything I had ever read. In a way it was almost like a dramatized version of a true story. The fact that the series has stayed so close to the books is rather surprising since even books with much simpler stories tend to lose a lot going to film. One thing I find very amusing is that most of the negative reviews that I read (and I read quite a few) were written by people who never read the books. It makes me wonder if they would have hated the books, or just hated the series because they didn't know what to expect, and the story doesn't fit the typical fantasy movie/series mold. ( Let me add that starting a bad review of a fantasy series saying that you hate fantasy stories makes no sense. If you know you don't like something, don't watch it!) Anyway, for a story as complex as this one to be adapted so well as this is a rare thing, and I am very glad to see such a great series of books turn into such a great series on film.I do recommend that if you are totally new to this series you read the books, or at least the first book before watching the series. While it is not absolutely necessary, I think you will get more out of it, and enjoy it much more.


                
"Game of Thrones" is an absorbing soap opera that combines elements of high adventure; realistic, gritty medieval lives and mindsets; and a touch of black magic. It is utterly clear to me that--ranging from names of characters to detailed settings and physical artifacts--much material is generously lifted from the likes of J. R. R. Tolkien, R. E. Howard, C. S. Lewis, and C. A. Smith, but, just perhaps, borrowing (inadvertently or otherwise) from the titans of sword and sorcery is not intrinsically evil.I was just a tad disappointed to find that our coming third season is going to rely upon zombies as a major plot contrivance: while a bit of black magic or supernaturalism (e.g., dragons; and persons immune to fire) is fine--even thrilling--here and there, I fear that the show will degenerate into too much dependency upon "Walking Dead"-style tactics that rank firmly among the "been there, done that." Time will tell whether my fears are (hopefully) unfounded.But I fear, most of all, that the show is popular for the wrong reasons. Fundamentally, I have profoundly little faith in the ability of the American populace to appreciate what is valuable in a show. I'll be brutally frank: I don't believe the show is popular because the characters are engaging, or because the swordplay is interesting, or because Tyrion engages in fascinating tactics or because Joffrey is full of sadistic surprises: I believe it's popular because characters routinely spout the "F" word; characters are continually shown engaging in frontal nudity, full-body sex (everything just short of an XXX rating being shown)--to include both gay and lesbian sex; and characters are routinely beheaded and tortured in full view. Indeed, I am dead-certain that the average Joe who does, in fact, watch this with his beer buddies does so so that he can (a) appear to be awfully mature when a nude woman or a heterosexual full contact scene appears; (b) demonstrate to his adolescent-minded cronies how disapproving he is (yeah, sure) when characters engage in gay sex (although--double-standard wise--I'm sure he'll hoot and holler when girl-on-girl contact is featured); and (c) laugh along like one of the tavern crowd when bawdy songs are sung or necrophiliac slogans are shouted.Sorry, guys: the show is fantastic, but--in my ultimate opinion--much of the popularity of "Game of Thrones" is due to the American audience's fascination with sex and gore, not because of its intrinsic excellence, which is most considerable.
HBO did a great job with this show. I was afraid they may not follow the source material (like AMC did with "The walking dead") or that their depiction of certain events and people/creatures would suck) but I was pleasantly surprised. All of the cast members did a great job and most of them really fit the characters their were assigned. The production values are excellent, everything looks as if this were a big budget film, it really must have cost them a fortune to make this show. Except for a few (mostly minor) exceptions they were really true to the book and all of the major events were shown with as much detail as they were in the book. However there were some changes I didn't like. The biggest one is the age of the "children" (the Starks, Baratheons and Daenerys). Almost every single one (except maybe Arya) is way too old. Rob and Jon are 14 in the books. Here they look to be in their late teens or early twenties. The same goes for Daenerys, she is supposed to be 13, here she looks like 20. In her case it would be somewhat understandable since the producers were probably concerned about showing a 13 year old girl f*cking like she does, but in the case of the boys I see no valid reason for the change, and considering that the events in the books so far span a few years where you see the characters growing older the decision to cast older actors seems rather nearsighted. The biggest age difference is from Rickon (also known in the show as the invisible Stark :P). In the book he is about 2. Here he must be 6 or 7 at least. Another thing I didn't like were the scenes that weren't in the book, like the ones with The Spider and Littlefinger or the homo-erotic scene between Stannis and Loras Tyrell and the ones that are in the book but not in the show, namely the battles. There are only 2 battles in the first book but we only see their aftermath in the show (and in one of them an important fact -certain deaths- is not mentioned). I can understand that this may have been due to a time constraint (they were trying to fit the entire book in a mere 10 episodes) but if it was due to budget constraints one has to wonder what are they going to do in he following seasons? Books 3 to 4 (I haven't read 5 yet) have dozens of battles, some very large (including a naval battle), that are essential to the plot. If they choose to only show their aftermaths that will certainly detract from the show.


                
The producers of this series have, so far, done a spectacular job. As a fan of the books (yes, I've read them all), the visual depictions of the characters and the scenery are spot-on with with how I had imagined they would appear (except Jamie Lannister and I don't know why!). However, I am amazed at the popularity of this series. I say this because, as I watch each episode, I couldn't imagine anyone truly being able to follow the storyline unless they've read the books. There is such a mountain of internal dialog and details that are not conveyed by film -- which is true with most book-to-film renditions. Watching the series after having read the books makes for a highly entertaining experience. George R. R. Martin is, without a doubt, a master of his craft. If not, THE master of his craft. 'Genius' and 'masterful' are the words I use to describe Martin's masterpiece of literature {and film}.The HBO series should easily be enjoyed on its own merit, but I highly recommend that everyone read the books before watching the series -- it will greatly enhance the experience.


                
I started watching Game of Thrones on Saturday night, I got to episode 10 last night (Tuesday) and am going to watch from episode 1 again tonight, to say this is the greatest TV show ever made is no hyperbole, it's exciting, looks beautiful, is witty and sly, sneaky, scary, heart pounding and all a little familiar.The acting is amongst some of the best on screen, the characters developed, deep, real feeling and mortal, they plot and grasp and try and die, I really am totally enamoured with this amazing story of amazing people.The intrigue is dialled up to 11, the sets make me gasp that a TV show is making them, the style is so enriching that you always know where you are from the walls or the people.Watch, enjoy, thank yourself and HBO for being amazing.


                
