This is a well written series, well researched and a pleasure to watch. Made me giggle on numerous occasions and go completely historical on others. Absolute gem. It won't disappoint. I have bought myself a metal detector not long ago and I was aware of the terminology within the hobby (the detectorists lingo). Everything from hammys,to predecimals was spot on, you can see that plenty of time was allocated for the research of the hobby and what it involves. The character development is just right. It's hard to wait for next weeks episode once you have started watching it. Therefore I recommend buying the BluRay or DVD as you will want to be watching it in one go. Episodes are about 30 minutes and there are only six. I sincerely hope they will make series two. The soundtrack is by Johnny Flynn, extremely good indeed. I will be buying the album on iTunes.Overall, a strong eight out of ten.


                
Detectorists appears to be a well-written show about ordinary people living ordinary lives facing situations that fall parallel to what most ordinary people will face. It's the simple things in life that fill most people's day, as seen in this show. Detectorists describes and presents those situations and conflicts in a way that helps me want to care about how the characters handle them. It seems that the shows that are written for 'Prime Time' viewing are packed full of all kinds of intended adrenaline spiking circumstances that you never meet the characters or really care what happens to them. You continue to view to find out what 'Oh My!' event will occur next. Needless to say, I don't watch prime time TV on any of the major channels. I won't meet a Jason Bourne or James Bond while waiting in line somewhere, but I very well may meet an Andy, Becky or Lance. I enjoy the simple things in life, this show is one of them.


                
Well written intelligent comedy done only as the British can do. Its a shame they are so few and far between.


                
Mid way through series 2 I switched off an episode of Detectorists. Strengths become weaknesses. I switched off during a conversation between 2 of the main characters and also 2 of the most irritating people you would be likely to meet. Andy is indecisive, slow and miserable. Becky takes almost everything as a joke until she puts on her little miss bossy boots and everyone has to jump because Becky says so!Anyway, I resumed next day and continued to watch the rest of the series. It is great. Along the way there are a few speed humps but you drive slowly over these and get to the other end.Andy and Lance are detectorists ("this is a metal detector, we are detectorists". So now you know). They could be viewed as two of life's losers. They probably just view the world from a different angle to the rest of us. But, yeah, they are far from perfect people. The series revolves around these two, Andy's partner Becky and the rest of the DMDC (Danebury Metal Detecting Club). Needless to say, an odd bunch of people.There are some great story lines and some wonderful humour. Most of the former simmer as the series progresses, most of the latter are understated – you need to listen to what the actors say. There are no signposts. Sometimes the story lines can be blatantly obvious to everyone bar the cast who, as noted, may view the world from a different angle to the rest of us.So, a challenging programme but if you can rise to the challenge you will be entertained, you will be sucked into some moments of high drama and you will share the odd moment of joy experienced by the cast not too mention some beautiful photography – a rare commodity in the world of comedy.


                
Although the plot is very flat, the pillar of the show, two men enjoying a hobby, is very believable. The friendship that evolves from just spending time together and appreciating their short thrill is visualized perfectly.Most of the actors, certainly the two leads, give their very best. But the side characters have poor or no background stories, and seem to be pawns of the plot. The only reason they're there is to engage a change in the friendship and , frankly, pathetic hobby the two lead roles share. But that's where the show truly shows its forte: by humanizing the hobbyists. The location of 'Detectorists', the region of Suffolk and Essex certainly helps. Also, the Nick Drake-like soundtrack of Johnny Flynn adds to the general bucolic atmosphere.


                
