The movie showed the horrors of war very well. The story is indeed very sad and touching. It is indeed one of the best animation movie I have ever watched. SPOILER ALERT. The reason why I gave such a low score is that I was quite disappointed with the ending. How come he waited so long to get their mother's money from the bank to buy their supplies? They had money, yet he chose to wait until his sister is about to die to buy food for her. Frankly I find the ending lacking. I might have looked at the movie in a different perspective. I just stared at my screen and can't believe that he was so st*pid and kept their money instead of buying food and necessities. I get it that it was set in the midst of war, but he was stealing valuables to trade for food so their money would still be worth something right? Besides, he was able to buy stuff after he withdrew the money. Sorry for all those who loved the movie. Just stating my observation. Don't get me wrong. The movie is worth watching. You better get some tissues ready.
Perhaps because I had such high hopes for the movie, but I was so utterly disappointed by this movie. The kids? In a deplorable situation, abandoned by all. But as the relative pointed out, the boy could have tried to find any kind of work to afford things to eat. Before the strike in his neighborhood, he had worked at the local factory, after-all. He kept on waiting for his father, lamenting his sad state of affairs, but in effect, not doing anything about it. Also, the voice of Setsuko really started to get on my nerves about twenty minutes into the movie. Oh, boohoo. The boy was so obviously in denial about everything, the death of his mother, no contact from his mother, his sick sister. I got quickly sick of this movie. To me, the stubbornness and denial of the boy character represented the Japanese Empire's attitude towards reality before, during and maybe even after the war. To that end, I felt no sympathy for the children.


                
if i didn't remember it wrong, the Japanese is the ones who started the war. (unless the story is talking about some fictional country.) They started invading and killing innocent people. Now they're telling this one sided bull crap about how they become the victim of the war? Just a deluded idea to start with! The movie has great visual, and the typical cute Japanese characters. All serve to create such illusion. Plot is okay, if it's describing the Jews all other groups people, I would give it a higher rating. But for now, my prejudice play a major role, and I can't seem to get the premise out of the way when I'm watching it. I just don't understand, if they're aware of the gore and destructions a war brings, why start one in the first place? Or do they think the lives of people from others nations doesn't matter as much? Either way, I'm writing this review as if I don't have sympathy toward humanity, but the reality of history tells another story. And I respect history more.


                
In an opening scene, the Americans are firebombing a Japanese wooded city. One of those made of wood buildings and so this is one of the great war crimes. Far worse than dropping of nuclear weapons in terms of the number of people killed.One Japanese women in the movie asks "Why?".Of course the Kamikaze campaign, the torture of prisoners and civilians alike, the tendency for Japanese soldiers not to surrender even in defeat causing huge loss of life on the part of the US and Allied forces, combined with the near bankruptcy of the US government and the fast approaching, vastly superior military might of the soviets (who actually won WWII, at least in Europe) meant that the US were doing whatever they could to force the Japanese to surrender.But such things are not examined in this "we are not really the bad guys" version of Japan's history.Such a retelling of history was so jarring to me that I turned off this movie. Maybe it is a great movie, and yes the innocent suffer greatly during war..but without showing the same suffering outside of Japan the movie ends up lacking balance, it is like a bully crying to a teacher when someone hits them back.


                
