Animation is often seen as a childish medium, and for good reason as kid's films often are animated. However, every now and then an animated film comes along that extends it's boundaries and manages to deliver a very adult story, and Grave of the Fireflies is one of those films. Through it's well observed and very real characters, Grave of the Fireflies portrays a story of loss, heartbreak and the effect of war on civilians in a manner that is more effective and more firmly based in reality than many live action films about the same subject are. We follow Seita and Setsuko, a brother and sister that have lost their parents in the war and are now forced to fend for themselves in the war torn country. How the two go about doing that and the boy's development from a child to a (somewhat) responsible adult due to the change in the surroundings makes up the spine of the movie.I'm not a big fan of animation, but there are some films that are so great that a person's personal preferences are irrelevant, and this is one of those films. The animation is beautiful and certain scenes, including the air raids and anything with the fireflies are amazing works of art. The way the music blends with the images on screen is haunting and beautiful, and helps add to the tragedy of the story. Because we are able to care for the characters, the tragedy is increased ten fold and the story on the whole is a sad one, but few movies have ever matched up to this film's ending in terms of pure despair. The conclusion is absolutely gut wrenching to an extent that few movies have ever matched, let alone animated pictures. The fact that it's so plain and blatant, with no attempt to console the audience takes the tragedy to a whole new level and I don't doubt that many audience members will be holding back tears upon the film's conclusion.This film is a must see.


                
To give Hotaru no haka a fair judgement is hard. It is without question one of the best animated films I have ever seen. The way most of the kind of action you would expect in a war movie has been scaled of and replaced by plausible characters and beautiful and powerful scenery, always created so that it seems as if a painter were creating a new masterpiece in every cell, it makes the protagonists lives seem more real than just about any other war depiction I have seen this far. It is quite special in another aspect as well, as it depicts japanese civilians during the second world war I can honestly say that this is the first such film I have seen, a situation I think many can identify with. The fact that the film does not demonise any human beings, not even the enemy, which can only be seen as anonymous bombplanes high up in the sky, but just tells a tragic and timeless story about a boy and his sister and their struggle to survive in wartimes is actually what makes this film a true masterpiece. This will be hard for any western filmmaker to surpass.The summation can only come to this: if you haven't seen Hotaru no haka yet, do it, you will not regret it.


                
Had I been able to see this film in Japanese subtitles, I might have scored it higher. The version shown on TCM was dubbed and I think the dubbing detracted from the film because the characters didn't seem the least bit Japanese. While this may not matter as much with some full-length Anime movies, this one was based on real people living through the final months of WWII with all its privations on the Japanese people. So, to me, it just didn't seem appropriate having the characters sounding like Americans--this seemed a bit tacky. This is all pretty sad, as the film itself is a marvelous film featuring some of the better animation I have ever seen and exceptional production values.The story is about two siblings whose mother is killed early in the film during a fire bombing. The movie is spent trying to survive on their own and deal with starvation.The film is apparently based on the writer's own experiences and is extremely important for adults and older kids, as it gives a side of war that is seldom mentioned in films. Although it will probably depress your older kids, it would be a good film to watch with them provided you take the time to discuss the film and process what they see as it is a disturbing episode in history.I do NOT recommend this to younger or less mature kids. Oddly, when the film was released, it was combined with MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO as a double-feature!!! This was so wrong--combining a sweet movie targeted for the youngest kids in the audience with this realistic and heart-wrenching film about death and starvation! What were they thinking?! I do recommend you see the film, but if possible, try to find the Japanese language version with subtitles.
A tragic film covering a young boy and his little sister's struggle to survive in Japan during World War II.Apparently people, including Roger Ebert, consider this one of the greatest -- or perhaps the greatest -- war film ever made. Now, that is interesting because it is a cartoon. You never expect that, and this might not be something you want to show kids. It is pretty bold, with wounded people, maggots, and anyone can die.Even more interesting is how it takes place from the point of view of a Japanese youth during World War II. He is not nationalistic, he is not anti-American, he is just a kid. And is that not the truth of war? No matter who is right or wrong, millions of kids become the victims.


                
Being a die-hard animation fan in all forms, whether it be Disney, Dreamworks, or Japanese anime, I have watched an extensive range but never before have I ever seen an animated film that has caused me to cry at the end. The sytle of animation is like other beautifully Japanese animated films such as Tonari No Totoro, Mononoke Hime and Kurenai no buta (aka Porco Rosso). This style of anime was what drew me to watch it but I was totally unprepared for the 'Schindler's List'-type atmosphere that this movie portrays. The storyline of a brother taking care of his baby sister during the war drew me in so entirely that for many days afterwards I found myself lying wide awake thinking of the message that this movie is clearly trying to send - war destroys. Isao Takahata has made a movie that all older teens and adults should see. Its story is enrapturing, the animation stunning and realistic and its message one that we should all learn from - love not war is what this world needs.


                
I watched a dubbed, letterboxed VHS rental. First off, I'm pretty much an anime novice. I've seen four films from Miyazaki, Paprika, and that's it apart from a few things I saw 20 years ago that I barely remember. I've liked what I've seen, but nothing quite blew me away until Princess Mononoke which I saw a few weeks before this; I was hoping this would do the same.No way to do this without spoilers, so be warned. At the very beginning of the film, a young boy is dying in a train station. He dies, and it is (apparently) his ghost who guides us through and watches over the rest of the film. Seita is an adolescent boy, and early in the film he and his much younger sister Setsuko are orphaned during the late stages of World War II. Bombs level their city and their mother lies seriously wounded for a while until she succumbs. The most powerful single moment in the film for me comes halfway through when we learn that Setsuko, who Seita has been shielding from this knowledge, has already learned what happened.Seita takes Setsuko to a distant relative's house, but she soon tires of taking care of them and they strike out on their own, finding a bomb shelter to live in. Unfortunately, they have little money and no means of making more, and both begin to starve....the inevitable ending is grimly foretold several times in the film and comes as no shock.But throughout the film we find scenes of the joys of childhood, the innocence even in wartime that can allow kids to be kids, games to be played, violence to be forgotten. It is the interspersing of these scenes with the physical and emotional devastation wrought by the war that makes for a powerful experience. Still, for me at least -- though I hate to be churlish -- this didn't quite come together as the masterpiece I thought it might be. It all felt too familiar I guess, and I was irritated by Seita's unrelenting (and stupid) optimism at times; it just seemed out of place and perhaps intended to provoke a response that I just couldn't give it.All in all, powerful but not quite great
Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away are really good Japanese cartoon films, from Studio Ghibli, to feature in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and I was really glad I spotted this one when I did. Basically fourteen year old Seita (Tsutomu Tatsumi) is dead, but the narration continues to tell the story of what made him end up in that way. He and four year old Setsuko (Ayano Shiraishi) are brother and sister living in Japan during World War II, and they witness a mass bombing in their home town. Coming out of the wreckage of the air raid, they find a temporary home with their Aunt (Akemi Yamaguchi), and Seita is devastated when he sees the body of their Mother (Yoshiko Shinohara) and obviously near death. Seita is the only one who knows that their mother has died, and he writes to their father over seas to try and get out of the danger zone, so they stay with the Aunt in the meantime. It is obvious that Seita and Setsuko are getting on the Aunt's nerves, so they leave and make their way to an abandoned shelter to live in. All they need to stay alive is the roof over the heads, to care for each other, and find any food they can, but they still have fun as well. It becomes apparent that Setsuko is sick with hideous rashes developing on her body, and the doctor concludes that it is because of the lack of food. With the low supply of food, they can only entertain themselves while looking gazing at the beautiful light of the fireflies. Eventually Seita finds that his fears about his father being killed over seas are right, and the sick Setsuko confesses that she already knew that their mother was dead also. Seita decides that because she is so sick, Setsuko needs a serious amount of food, so he takes out the money from the bank to get a good supply, and she does take one bite of watermelon, but it is not enough and she dies. The story is nice and simple, it may not be dubbed into English but it doesn't matter, the use of colours was well assorted, and it is quite harrowing viewing which makes it essential. But what I enjoyed most about this film was the beautiful music by Michio Mamiya, not many cartoon films compel you with just some images and the use of excellent music score, but this one definitely does, a most worthwhile animated Second World War drama. Very good!
This is a remarkable film. The sort of animated move that would never be made in the west. An animated film that deals with adult themes and achieves it with excellence. This is the story of a brother and sister orphaned by the second world war in Japan, who end up having to fend for themselves. Everything here is achieved with excellence. I watched the subtitled version (which I always feel is best) and was really taken aback by the great little film. This film deals with the harsh realities of a civilization under siege and also with Japanese culture superbly and the director here must tack a huge amount of credit. There are scenes of great emotion as the film works it's way to a hugely emotive ending. Superb. One to be viewed again and again.


                
This is not just a animation this is picture of life and pain.


                
Whenever people talk about some of the most tragic anti war films out there, this film in particular comes to mind a lot, and for good reason. Being one of Studio Ghibli's first features, this film was released at the wrong time as a double feature with My Neighbor Totoro (quite the mood whiplash, I know). However, while it might not have won audiences over then due to the heavy subject matter, it did go on to be seen as a landmark in both Japanese cinema and filmmaking all together. I must admit, while I myself do find this film to be as horrifically sad as others, there's no denying that it's also told through beauty and grace at the same time.Set in Japan during the near end of WWII, the film centers on two siblings, Seita and Setsuko, and their struggle to survive on their own. What's interesting to note is that it's revealed in the very beginning that the kids have already died (as shown in red), and while that might come off as anticlimactic to some, I think it works in favor of the film's plot. Throughout the film, we see the kids desperately trying to live off little food and shelter outside of the common lands, and there is no attempt to shy away from the brutalities and consequences that could happen from that. So seeing the more tranquil points of view from the characters in the afterlife reflecting upon their tragic past helps convey that the suffering they went through is long gone, and they have made peace together. At its core, the story of Grave is emotionally tied in to its ending. Even though we know they have died, what they go through is so grim that you can only hope they'll turn out fine.As this is an anti war film, there is a raw honesty displayed throughout the feature. Rather than glorifying any of the violence, its anti-war message is conveyed through subtlety and even the more gory moments are played out shortly. For a film about what the tragedies of war can do to people, Fireflies is much more poetic in tone than brutal. A good example of the contrast between shear beauty and graphic horror is when Seita and Setsuko are in the more urban settings, which showcase pleasant backdrops whilst displaying plenty of subtly upbeat moments. Then, once Seita and Setsuko are residing in the more rural nature areas of the country, the real horror of living in such treacherous environments show just how poorly they messed up. Grave may not be all about violence, but it sure knows how to portray the turmoils of running away from home.As for the characters themselves, Seita is rather stuck up with his smug and rebellious attitude towards the war, but even he doesn't know what he's entirely doing, making his actions come off as naive. However, he still shows off compassion towards Setsuko, even when he makes horrible mistakes such as running away from his aunt. Speaking of Setsuko, she is one of the most emotional four year olds in film history, as while she can be a handful to take care of, she doesn't know any better and many of the circumstances that happen to her and Seita are poignantly displayed. No matter how hard Seita tries to watch over her, there's always an uncomfortable feel to how his doings affect her for the worse. Then there's the aunt, who may seem rather snobby towards the two, but she has a very fair point in how Seita should be doing better to do his part for the war. With everything that happens to Seita and Setsuko, one only wishes they would take her advice, but alas.In addition to how beautiful the film is story wise, the animation is absolutely marvelous. The characters have a more pseudo realistic approach to their designs, along with having relatively accurate movements and features. Also, most of their outlines happen to be brown instead of traditional black, which was done to give a softer aesthetic to the feature according to color coordinator Michiyo Yasuda. I think that fits given how dark albeit poetic the film is by nature, so having a more subdued line quality creates a slicker contrast. Not to mention, the effects animation is wonderful, whether it'd be the appropriately treacherous fire and smoke coming from attacker planes or the melodious fireflies buzzing around. Along with the color scheme that can change depending on the mood of the scene (especially during the nighttime), these effects give the right amount of depth needed for an emotional rollercoaster like this.Needless to say, Grave of the Fireflies is a beautifully tragic film that highlights what can happen to those who try to survive on their own during the war without shoving its message down the audience's throat. If you are yet to check this film out, definitely feel free to do so. It may be hard to sit through, but it will definitely give you an intriguing point of view on the innocence of childhood gone wrong. It's so rare that we see the medium of animation tackle subjects like this, because it proves how you can tell a story of this caliber through an art form that requires all the imagination in the world. So the next time you want to see a war film that really challenges your perception on war and survival, this one will have you covered.
I saw this film yesterday, and I'll be honest I cried like a little b*h (I'm 20 something guy) while watching it and tears rolled up my eyes even when I saw just the stills from this film. No doubt, this is very sad and touching film about war and it really made me think about for some time. But the longer I thought about it, more flaws started coming up.First of all, the story. I don't mind that's it is really plain, it did what it had to do: it made me care. But for the problems and the conflicts in main characters lives are quite solvable. The aunt did get mad at them, and there was valid reason for it. The boy could go find a job and help her aunt out, but he didn't. Maybe he didn't want to leave his sister and that's why he didn't get a job, but later in the film, he constantly leaves her in their new "home". Then there's issue with famine and malnutrition.Their mom left some money, so I don't really understand why they didn't spend it on food. Maybe the brother wanted to save money for something else, but when you and your sister are dying of hunger right now, there are no valid reason not to spend it on food now. Basically the problems of main characters could be solved, if brother had swallowed his pride, went back to aunt, apologized, found a job and they would have lived happily ever after.Secondly, the montage that pulls the heart strings and makes most people cry: when we see the little sister on the swing, eating mud and playing around their home. Well, there is no other reason for that montage to be there, than to manipulate with audience's feelings. Why are we seeing this? Are these memories? Whose memories? From whose point of view are we seeing this? Neither brother or his soul is there to see it. And the scene where Setsuko is saluting with a pot on her head - that scene is made purely to play with our emotions and to feature on posters.BTW, the creator of this film said, that it's not anti-war movie. It's original purpose was to show Japanese teenagers at the time (1988), what their parents went through and to teach children not to be so self-entitled little brats.In conclusion: Grave of the Fireflies has beautiful animation, beautiful score, strong message but it lacks in character depth(lack of story arc) its story has logic flaws and it is purposefully designed to make us sad.Grave of the Fireflies is a great animated film, but I don't think it can be called masterpiece
A touching film about the ravages of war.  A young teenage boy is left to take care of his young sister after a bombing raid on Japan during WWII. You have to feel for the two young main characters in this film, it's a tough situation for them to be in.Although Grave of the Fireflies is considered a children's film, personally i think some of the concepts in this film a too much for some children to comprehend, especially young children.  While not gory, "Grave" can be very intense & graphic in its depiction of bombing raids.  I think some children may find this unsettling, but I must admit I am writing this without having seen this film with a child.A great film for fans of film. 8/10


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Hotaru no haka" (1988) is a very good animated movie. It's surely not for children, especially not for children of this generation. "Hotaru no haka" is for adult viewers, who will find here many things that were touched by war. It's a sad story, not inspiring one.Overall, "Hotaru no haka" is a really good movie. It's perfectly paced, it's storytelling is good and it has some truly moving and sad parts. If you in for this stuff, "Hotaru no haka" (aka "Grave of Fireflys") is surely not to be missed. It's not the best animated movie of all time, but it's a very compelling one.


                
The African savannah has an old proverb: "When elephants fight, the grass gets trampled." This movie, based on the real-life experiences of a World War 2 survivor, wishes to teach us that there were victims on all sides. One of the harsh realities of the war was that a great many attacks deliberately aimed at civilians, something none of the Allied nations had done on such a massive scale before.The story is completely straightforward. A brother and sister lose their home and mother. Forced to seek shelter with one of the mother's sisters, they struggle to cope in a nation that is rapidly running out of all the essentials. Food, water, medicine, work...and basic human compassion. Indeed, the steady, interminable dehumanization of the aunt (who is actually very warm and friendly when she first takes her new guests in) is tough to watch; she's every bit a victim of the war as her sister.As time passes and the brother and sister are forced to move on, we see that no part of the once-proud empire has been untouched by war, and the famed Japanese politeness has warped into callous indifference. And yet, the brother and sister endure and get what they can out of life to the very end. Even as the last illusions are shattered and the hopelessness of the situation sets in.Is this a sad movie? I don't think so, at least not the way I understand sad movies. Most of the tragedy happens early on; the rest is how two children deal with it. Personally, I found their righteous struggle against despair right up to the final moments inspiring. The ending (which admittedly is fairly ambiguous and can be interpreted a number of ways) gave me a sense that the original author just wants to put the past behind and move on. No vendettas, no hatred, no pining for the old empire. Life goes on.All in all, it's simply a very pretty story, the kind you rarely see in anime, and quite moving, if not necessarily to tears.


                
I watched 'Grave of the Fireflies' about five minutes ago. I immediately recognised it was one of the best films I have seen, animation or otherwise. I sat, stunned through the ending credits, listening to the beautiful score. I love animated films that make you feel something, and I rank this next to 'Happy Feet' as one of the best animations I've ever seen.The storyline revolves around Seita, a fourteen-year-old boy, and his little sister, Setsuko, who is four. The film details their journey of survival during World War II, and their tender and poignant relationship.The animation is beautiful, and sometimes amazingly detailed and realistic. It makes sense that a film about Japan would be done in a Japanese animation style. The version of the film I watched was the English dubbed version, which I think detracts from the film as you notice that the lip movements do not quite match the words. So, I would recommend the Japanese version with subtitles.The first line of the film shocked me, to tell you the truth."September 21st, 1945 - that was the night I died." - Seita.This line shocked me because September 21st is my birthday. I actually rewound the tape to check that's what Seita actually said. I think the film's opening is fantastic, because knowing how the film ends only makes it more tragic, because you keep on hoping for a different outcome. It gives the film a sense of wholeness, having the end at the beginning, and then the events beforehand, thereafter.It's really quite moving, which some people might find really weird seeing as it's an animation, but the animation is poetic and not distracting. I think I'll be recommending this film to a lot of people.
Grave of the Fireflies is a heart-breaking story told in a beautiful way. It shows humanity in the face of war as well of the perils of pride. The characters feel realistic and the music enhances the mood of each scene. Warning: this film will haunt you for a while.


                
War movie must against war,even the story is about civilian under control like Milgram Experiment.


                
There is not any fantasy in the movie in fact this could even be a true story if you consider the terrible conditions during WW2.Movie shows us that we are lucky and craps at the same time, i mean we don't like some food and bin some food if we can't finish them.Just watch the movie and you are gonna see how the simplest food on earth could be a life or death situation.Rest in peace for those who died during any kind of war.


                
Don't expect the lively, colorful animation you've come to expect from animation films from around the world. The Japanese animated films have their own unique trademark. This was a wonderful and moving story about a protective brother looking after his little sister after their home was destroyed in an air raid during the war. Although they successfully overcome many obstacles on their way, fate ultimately intervened. There is such a beautiful bond between brother and sister, and how he would do anything to make her happy. Although the film is filled with fireflies, I don't quite understand the title, as a grave for the fireflies is merely a scene lasting a few seconds. Wow, such a sad movie.


                
During the war in Japan, filled with fears and escapes, attacks on the enemy have created tragic scenes. Hostility matter from the beginning the animation up to final scenes shown in the first show make more complicated for the viewer.
So that the viewer is somewhat hopeful during the show, but finding a rescue point can be as likely as possible in the real battle.
Air strikes are arranged wildly, leaving nothing to the natural and human geography of people in that area except the ashes, and more interestingly, after the changing process, life continues with its full potential.
There are not very sharp reactions to the death of human beings, as if the reality of the war was accepted from the very beginning, even if it happened near it.
The show is based on the survival of sister and her brother, the bitter realities of a full fledged war cast a shadow over their fate and slowly drown them in the swamp, of simple life-threatening challenges.
Tragedy
Means the decline of these two in the face of the daily routine after the death of their mother and news of father death.
Question;
Are you ready to uphold your pride to continue living, living and livelihood?
If you are in a situation where you have to steal to save someone's life from starvation, do you do this?
Will your pride be challenged with a hard test (accepting the responsibility of a younger sister)?
Questions, though seem to be that grave of the fireflies animation give simple answers in the first place and tragic in the second place.
the animation has done all its work carefully in terms of its effect on Japan's culture and society.


                
I did enjoy it, but I felt like it was just a little too one-dimensional. There were moments of good animation, and moments of great storytelling, but it certainly was not pure magic as we have seen from Miyazaki films, nor do I feel it is something "profound" in any way.I felt like there really wasn't much depth to this story.  Here's some bad stuff.. and some more bad stuff.. but look, the bad stuff is happening to good people.  Depressing for sure, and I got some of the points, but they just weren't enough for me to rate this movie more highly.It sort of reminded me of movies like "In the Company of Men" where they take a depressing idea and beat you over the head with it.  Unlike that movie, though, I didn't come away from the movie with some sort of embarrassment on behalf of mankind, etc.  The movie went down paths I've been before in much deeper movies, and while the story was quaint and interesting, it simply is not a masterpiece by any stretch.


                
A stark and harrowing tale of orphaned teen Seita and his younger sister Setsuko as they try to survive on their own in war-torn Japan. Right from the start the film really pulls no punches in its depiction of the horrors of war. Images of air raids, burning homes, mass destruction, injured citizens and mounds of bodies are just a few of the searing images which present themselves within the first 30 minutes of the film. Interestingly though, there is a stillness to this first section of the film even in the midst of such horror. Not only is there very minimal music, there are many scenes with no sound at all save for the voices of the characters speaking. We don't hear the groans of the injured, the shuffle of the displaced townsfolk, or the crackles of the fires. It's an interesting decision which gives this opening section a very solemn and observant feel that forces the viewer to confront the emotional horror without dramatization or distraction.Beyond the shocking opening, the core of the film goes on to examine how the siblings cope with the death of their mother and loss of their home. At first, they take refuge in a paternal aunt's home who is less-than welcoming. A major theme of the film explored here is how the family unit and society is affected by war. There is a "circling of the wagons" portrayed here where the immediate family is given precedence and the individual begins to fend for him/herself and becomes less willing to offer help to others. Even from the start Setsuko and Seita's aunt seems less than enthusiastic about letting her niece and nephew stay with her and her resentment only grows from there. The lack of food supplies and extra mouths to feed puts a strain on her and she begins to favor her own family over Setsuko and Seita. This theme repeats itself with the other townsfolk as well who are hesitant to share food even as Setsuko grows sick and malnourished. The bond between neighbors slowly dissolves and a sense of impersonality develops. We as the audience watch as these two children are essentially excommunicated from society and even who we would normally consider "honorable" citizens like a police officer and doctor ultimately turn a blind eye to their suffering. The war itself is portrayed with a similar impersonality. We never see any of the soldiers fighting or hear any of their stores. We simply see these nameless, faceless airplanes flying thousands of feet overhead, dropping their bombs and flying on, unaware and uncaring of the suffering that directly results. It feels like a commentary on the depersonalization and dehumanization that must take place for such acts of violence to be carried out.The film also makes good use of its central firefly metaphor for a few very poignant scenes. From what I gathered, the fireflies in the film essential represent those lost to war; they are the silent remnants and glowing reminders of the departed. Keeping this in mind throughout the film gives many scenes an eerie quality. Setsuko and Seita are often seen surrounded by fireflies which essentially feel like harbingers of the death that will eventually befall them both. One scene in particular struck me: the two spend their first night in the converted bomb shelter after running away from their aunt and fill the space with fireflies to keep it lit. It's a beautiful scene on the surface, but with a very dark undertone. At this point, even before their deaths, Setsuko and Seita have left the land of the living and are already taking their place among the dead.Another particularly powerful scene directly follows. Setsuko reveals that she has been aware that their mother has died for some time now, a detail which Seita thought he had successfully kept secret from her. Upon hearing her speak these words, Seita breaks down into tears and this is the first time we see him truly emotionally react to the death of his mother. Up until this point he had shouldered the role of protector, keeping a straight face and trying to protect Setsuko from the horrors that have befallen them as much as possible. It is at this moment that he realizes how futile that action has been, as the war has already made its irreversible impact on Setsuko. At this moment, I feel he is crying not just for his mother, but also for the innocence that he knows his sister has lost despite his best efforts.Although it isn't an easy watch by any means, Grave of the Fireflies is a powerful statement on war and its devastating personal and societal impacts. It feels very fitting that Seita goes against the advice to cremate his younger sister in a church, instead opting for an open field. After being denied help and care from so many of his fellow citizens, he has recognized the grave societal change which has taken place and has all but abandoned tradition or custom. He chooses to grieve the loss of his sister (and himself) only among the fireflies.
Animated films are usually made for kids. And besides the occasional Toy Story or Lego Movie, you don't get animated films that actually appeal more to adults or young adults than to young children. But Grave of the Fireflies is definitely a film aimed at older people. It tells the story of a brother and a sister in the wake of several bombings in Japan during the second world war and the struggle for both of them to survive on their own without their parents. It's as dark as any animated film that I have seen and without giving anything away, the film doesn't really get any better for our main characters. It's just an incredibly devastating look at the other side to the war and how terrible many peoples lives got.The film begins by telling us the main character is going to die at a very young age. Then only a few minutes later do we see piles of bodies burned to ashes from the bombs. Setsuko, the young girl, and Seita, her older brother, try and work their way through what has become a Japanese wasteland and make the most out of their conditions. I really got the 'Life is Beautiful' vibe from the film. Seita is constantly trying to keep Setsuko as happy as possible as their mother was killed during the bombings and the father is nowhere to be found. The bond between them is well represented and easily believable which makes it even more devastating as their conditions deteriorate as the film progresses.I will say the film's English voice-overs could have been better. There were certain times early on that I feel like the timing and the tone of the way the characters presented their feelings to each other were off. The aunt seemed to make certain character decisions that had no merit because of the lack of back-story. I just felt like that character felt contrived in the film's plot and was doing things specifically to move the plot along. But other than that, I didn't have really any complaints with the film.+Beautiful even at it's most devastating moments +Sibling bond+Different take on the animation genre -English voice-overs and the aunt character 8.2/10


                
"Grave of the Fireflies"sure isn't a movie I can put myself through with any kind of frequency, but it does make you think about those caught in the middle during wartime. To really turn the knife, the focus here is on two orphaned children. There's money but no food, jobs or family. Is there any possible happy ending here? Hell no! But it's still a powerful story that goes for the emotional throat. And I still care deeply for these characters even after all is said and done. With such a (tear-jerker) reputation, I have to admit I walked into this expecting to come out a blubbering fool. I didn't to such an extent, but on the other hand, it's not everyday you see such power from an animated film.It's just so bloody unfair what these poor kids have to go through, but I can't recommend this highly enough.8/10
Perhaps for the first time, I watched such a heart wrenching, realistic and poignant tale in an animated movie. The movie charts the tale of a 14 year old brother and his 4 year old sister who are left alone to fend for themselves in war torn Japan. Their mother fell victim to the air bombings which leaves them to shift to their aunt. Slowly the two face the wrath of the war and succumb to malnutrition. Perhaps there is not such distress as of dying of hunger. And the film brings this to the screen, which makes this film just distressing and grim, which you won't dare to go through again.A film that starts on a light note with an undying love and affection of a brother towards his sister ends up with the struggle for survival during wartime where the only motive becomes fulfilling the hunger. The story unfolds vividly in the picture just making you cry. Perhaps this demonstrates the power of the movie to sweep you along. Before this, I felt 'The Pianist" was able to do the same. Besides, the fabulous animation which you can expect from Japanese animes, there is a tremendously moving story to the film which would make it memorable. Well, most of the Disney and Pixar animations have made you laugh all the way, this movie has a power to make you cry.Rating:: 3 stars out of 4


                
