Do I enjoy this show? Yes. It is the first cartoon like it that I have watched (in that it has many super heroes), so I can't compare it to something like Super Friends. However, when I started watching the show, perhaps I had the wrong expectation. After all, it is a kids show and a cartoon. I had grown somewhat used to the blockbuster movies such as Iron Man, Dark Knight, etc, that gave superheroes SOME level of consistency. To me, that is really the only thing that a superhero really needs: consistency.In this show, consistency is regularly thrown out of the window. The formula seems to be this...yes they are all super heroes, yes they all have super powers, but the second that becomes inconvenient for the plot they become weak. Almost every story pretty much revolves around...wow they got really beat down, how will they win!?...and resolves in...oh, exactly what they have been doing, but somehow their punches and strategy just figured things out this time around. That makes the show frustrating for me. Too often was I like, oh come on Superman (based on previous episodes) should easily be able to handle this..but he doesn't. Then at the end, he does without any explanation except you can assume he tried harder or something.Another irritating point is the fact that not all the super heroes are in every episode. I understand for plot development, there has to be more of a focus on some of them each episode, but the episodes where others just don't show up are annoying. This isn't SNL, this isn't a huge collaboration of people showing up for a live show.... were the animators that drew that cartoon sick that day? Were the voice actors not available to record so they left them out? There were too many times where I thought...man, you know who would be perfect for this situation? Green Lantern or Superman. Where are they? Who knows. End of the world scenario all the time, but they seem to be off taking a nap. All in all it's a good cartoon, but it is still a cartoon. It is very formulaic, and can get annoying in that respect. If you ever think about it logically, you'll get annoyed. Of course suspension of disbelief is necessary, but that suspension gets tough for me when these fictional super heroes are inconsistent with their own powers in the same episode or over many episodes. I would still recommend it to people, but only if it's casually on TV.


                
I have no doubt that the first two series of Justice League are the greatest animated superhero series ever. Sure the title sequence, with the cliché-ridden slo-mo walk towards the camera, is pompous and embarrassing, but that is a rare slip in good taste. The wise decision to have most story lines extend over two or more episodes leads depth in writing, characterization and construction which is rare in the format. This is especially true in the hands of the series best writer, Dwayne McDuffie, but the standard is high throughout and so well edited that the characterization remains completely consistent from start to finish. For instance, the Green Lantern/Hawkgirl sexual tension appears early on before blossoming into a full blown love affair in series two. In a weaker series (ie almost any other) this would only appear when necessary then be forgotten about.Some of the two parters are among the best ever Justice League stories. "Legends" with its nostalgic invocation of the silver age (I share Jon Stewart's sadness over the loss of its innocence), "The Terror Beyond" a profound, by any standards, examination of faith and "A better world" perhaps the most important story of all, are among my favorites. Near the end of season two a certain weakness begins to appear. First the only standalone episode: "Comfort and Joy" in series 2, a schmaltzy Christmas story which undermines the serious intent of the rest of the series. Then the 3 part Star-Crossed, a well enough executed, if longwinded series which sadly could not escape its ludicrous and derivative (from the Hitch-hiker's Guide) that Earth had to be demolished to make way for an insterstellar bypass. Oh Brother! At the time, these seemed like a unusual misfires, but alas, it was a sign of things to come...With season 3. and the pointless addition of "unlimited" (a sure sign of gimmickry) to the title, the same standard is no longer applied.Some of the reasons for the deterioration are as follows.1. The excess of characters, many of whom are never named and including a vast amount of civilian staff (surely a liability?) Also presumably the civilians would have to be paid while the superheroes work for free? Wouldn't that cause resentment?2. A focus on too many largely second rate superheroes to the detriment of more interesting major ones (there's a reason why Superman and Batman are big stars)3. The reduction of ambition to mainly single episodes. 4. The best episodes are all spin-offs from much better episodes in the first two seasons. A Better World proved to be particularly rich vein in this regard.5. All the female characters are ultra-aggressive. This worked well enough with Hawkgirl since being gung-ho was part of her personality but when she's gone, we have the equally violent Vixen, Black Canary and Huntress, even the sweet natured Supergirl for goodness sake! It is also interesting that these super chicks who all look like fashion models go in all guns blazing but I don't remember ever seeing a scratch on them afterwards in contrast to the male characters.6. Perhaps because of the high testosterone females there is an unnatural focus of female rivalry in JLU. Hawkgirl and Wonderwoman have issues. So do Hawkgirl and Vixen. So do Huntress and Black Canary. So do Supergirl and Galatea. Funnily enough the men seem to rub together a lot better.7. There's also an inordinate amount of unconvincing romance. In the first two seasons the relationship between Hawkgirl and Green Lantern developed naturally over time. In season 3 an unexplained relationship between GL and Vixen appears in order to set up a love triangle. Then we have Batman/Wonder woman, Green Arrow/Black Canary, Huntress/Question. One almost expected Superman and Amanda Waller to become an item.Rating Justice League: 9 Justice League Unlimited 5 Overall 7
I, for one, was a committed fan of this show. I even collected the seasons, and I hope they come up with a new series picking up where the last episode ended. Why a 7 out of 10 rating? 1)Batman - Was obviously the writers favorite, maybe based on the fact that he was the only one without superhuman abilities at first. 2) Wonderwoman - Was half of the time a warrior born, and the other half a cheerleader going ga-ga over Batman 3) Superman - Seemed to always need Batman to tell him how to tie his shoes. Also his animated artwork could have been way better.Other than that, good action, voice actors were excellent, a good line of villains as well.


                
Much better than "Superfriends", which was based on the early Justice League comic books of the 1960s. All the voice actors are pretty good, Kevin Conroy is without a doubt the best in his role as Batman, which has become his career more or less, but Michael Rausenbaum, Phil Lamarr, and Carl Lumbly are also standouts as Flash, Green Lantern, and J'onn J'onnzz/Martian Manhunter, respectively. However, I miss Tim Daly as the voice of Superman, who for once has some gray hair and some wrinkles in his face (maybe he's been caught up in substance abuse?). George Newbern is okay as Superman, but whenever he talks he sounds like he has a cold, and he sounds a bit too young. Also I think Daly had a better understanding of Superman's character, although George did get better as the show went along. But other than that, this show is worth it.


                
Justice League Unlimited makes some improvements in standards over the traditional JL and can be quite entertaining. The standard of animation isn't great but its an improvement over the previous. In all, it can be quite entertaining.You can see that the writers and animators try really really hard to make this show something exclusive. They really try hard to introduce some realistic dialog and story but it really does'nt work and they fall short. They don't have the special something needed. The overall effort is filled with clichés and the action is highly banal.However, this works quite well as a comedy and at many a time, can be quite amusing. The stories sometimes are not bad too.


                
