For those of us raised on George Reeves, Christopher Reeve, or "Batman: The Animated Series," "Justice League" (or its latest incarnation, "Justice League Unlimited") is a god-send. It is a show that combines superhero daring-do with some witty dialog, intriguing story lines, and superb character interaction that is much more "adult" than most of the fare on Cartoon Network's prime time lineup.Now in its fifth (and final) year, "Justice League," though often pitting the superheroes against invading aliens or super-villains bent on world destruction, has taken some departures from the typical cartoon by presenting some interesting romantic relationships between principal characters: the not-so-subtle romance between Green Lantern and Hawkgirl and the implied attraction between Wonder Woman and Batman. There has also been some rift between the heroes, on occasion between Batman and Superman. Like Superman, the Martian Manhunter has to deal with the loss of his home world and the death of his beloved and children. The Flash is along as the comic relief, as a superhero with a strong libido, always on the "hunt" for a female conquest.The writers get to show more of the human side of those that are considered "super". Even Superman got to show a little emotion when confronted with longtime enemy Darkseid" in the two-parter "Twilight". The Man of Steel would've murdered the villain if Batman had not intervened. In an episode about a parallel universe, the Superman of that world even did away with Lex Luthor.The show has a stellar cast of actors supplying the major characters' voices with a roster of guest talent (CCH Pounder, Michael Ironside, Robert Picardo, Hector Elizondo, Mark Hamill, Clancy Brown, and others) that is second to none.The show, though not a ratings juggernaut (due to frequent changes in airing times), is a treat for the boomer generation and is a welcome addition to the mythos that DC Comics created over six decades ago.


                
The best animated series which gave justice to all the animated super heroes. All the seasons were superb. But the first two seasons were the most exciting ones, as they had complete perfect scripts.The others were also good, but the ending never gave answers to many questions in the same episode.They didn't complete them at all. Even then, they were all fantastic.Dan Riba and Butch Lukic were the No.1 among the series directors. Their series were completed with actions and all human values and they gave importance to each facial expression, situation etc.I am expecting more from them. The Warner Bros. should take initiative to give more episodes through a 6th season, and continue making it, with the same super heroes, rather than making a live action film.Justice League fantastic.... Never let it die...


                
Despite what fans would led you to believe, this series is WAY better than Unlimited. The main reason why this series is so much better than JLU is because all the episodes have 2 or 3 parters, allowing for bigger and more complex story and storytelling, but also having a smaller team/cast allowing for more focus.
 This show really feels like things have weight behind them, feels natural, real, not just exposition like JLU episodes. I only wish batman beyond was also made each episode having 2-3 parters... so much potential wasted.


                
DC Animation is one of the best animation companies today. They consistently do the best Superhero toons, leaving all others in the dust. Great voices and stories, this is well worth watching again and again. It got even better when it became Unlimited.


                
This series is amongst the top five American animated shows ever. Many episodes are full of emotion, and often send chills. The original seven have an amazing chemistry between one another and the romance between Hawkgirl and GL is great, as is the hint at a romantic interest between Bats and Wonder Woman. The first two seasons play out like a series of direct to video movies that are each amazing. The final three seasons play out more like a television series but are still absolutely amazing. The voice acting is the best that has ever been done, every voice for every character no matter how minor is perfect, and that helps each character develop a memorable personality that will stick with you forever.Finally, the final two episodes of the series are two of the most amazing pieces of television ever. Superman's final showdown with Darkseid sends chills every time I see it. Superman's description of the world of cardboard he must live in, always taking care not to break something, is one of the most well written and impactful monologues I've ever heard.
A nice start.  It's good to finally see Bruce Timm's handling of characters like J'onn J'onzz and Wonder Woman.  I'd never really been a fan of DC characters until the recent Batman and Superman cartoons Timm directed.  Now I'm a big fan, as long as they're animated.  "Justice League" carries on the tradition of those shows (the most recent being "Batman Beyond").  I enjoyed it greatly except for one minor quibble, namely that I find this show's incarnation of Superman to be somewhat wanting.  He seems somewhat humorless and way to much of a boy scout to me.  The previous version, in Superman's recent solo series, seemed to have more of an edge and a sense of humor (not to mention excellent voice work by Timothy Dalton.  JL's Supes, disappointingly, is voiced by someone else).


                
Bruce Timm has changed a lot of how we perceive superhero cartoons. He removed the campiness of the predecessors and instead gave the stories the intelligent yet entertaining tone that their source materials aim for. Batman:TAS is hailed as one of the greatest all time cartoons for not only its sharp writing, animation and voice acting, but it even influenced the Batman mythology. Superman:TAS followed the same qualities though in the shadows and Batman Beyond managed to overcome its flip-floppy quality to provide some standout segments. My personal favorite, however, goes to this fantastically compelling series that juggles several fully fleshed characters with suspenseful plots, top notch voice acting, measured pace and entertaining action.Each of the seven lead heroes has a personality that is expanded bit by bit with each of their featured episodes. Rather than have a bunch of lone guns posing as a team, they are written to actually interact with each other in a way that they feel needed. People banter off one another, friendships build and break, romances kindle and it overall feels like a team effort. Paired with great actors that capture their qualities, each person feels alive and expressive.The plots build over the course of forty-five or so minutes in a calculated way that builds tension with well timed reveals, conflict establishment and resolutions. You actually see a constructed arc put in place rather than scattered events tied together. It helps that there are interesting villains pulling off the schemes, but it would be nothing without them doing something truly menacing. Maybe not every episode's scheme is "end of the world" scale, but the variety of schemes both small and big keep things from feeling monotonous. Even the episodes where seemingly nothing happens (like the Christmas episode) are interesting because like the others they are built around the characters and not solely the plot.The art is vivid and expressive, matching the comic book feel to the tone of Timm's more literate superhero universe. The music is epic and booming, particularly that opening theme! The directing is top notch too, with events flowing smoothly from one scene to the next. It is just a well put together project.Sure, not every episode is a smash hit and it does do a few things that will either intrigue those accepting Timm's interpretation or infuriate purists of the characters. Nevertheless, it is a high benchmark for the superhero cartoon and despite Justice League Unlimited's best attempts to screw it over, the original stands strong.


                
As a five year old kid, I was just getting into superheroes.DC Cartoons such as Baman: the Animated series, Superman, and Batman Beyond, and a few episodes of the Super Friends were a big part of my childhood, but the one that would be remembered the most is the Justice League cartoon. What can I say about this series? It got me into the DC universe. Characters such as Green Lantern, the Flash and Martian Manhunter would go on to be my favorite in the mainstream DC comics and introduced me to characters who made guest appearances such as Metamorpho, the Green Lantern Corps, and the Amazons.Even for a kid, I could understand the plots and were very smart. My favorite episode actually has to be "Legends" when they go to a parallel Earth which has the Justice Guild of America, no doubt a homage to the Golden Age Justice Society of America. I have plenty of more episodes I like, but they would take up most of this review.Now here's the part about JLU. To be honest I lost interest maybe because there was too many characters, not enough didn't get any development. Now looking at it in a more mature view, while some of the characters didn't get enough development, it did help me get into superheroes like Green Arrow and the Question.I really love Season 2 of JLU which just kept me at the edge of my seat and made me wanting to see more of it. Overall JL/JLU are great cartoons, they were dark, fun, and amusing at times. All I can say is that I am happy I was around the shows came out and I wish I could go back in time as a kid.


                
