Believing the hype that this Swedish TV series would be as interesting as the recent Danish ones (see my reviews of THE KILLING and BORGEN), I ordered the DVD of Season One (10 episodes). I need not have bothered. I forced myself to sit through three episodes, hoping for improvement, but it only got worse, much worse. The main thing wrong is that the Swedish woman detective who is the lead in this series is played by a woman who cannot act. Sofia Helin certainly gets my award for The Most Irritating Actress in the World, and that says something! She is enough to make me turn off any DVD or boycott any cinema. She has no business being an actress, and should retire in disgrace. There may be some who think she is 'sexy' (which seems to be the only thing that matters these days, as talent is so much less valued), but I have rarely seen a less 'sexy' woman either. Even more bizarre, starting from this rock bottom of non-entity and non-talent, she is then asked to play a role of a woman detective who is very clever but suffers from some form of autism or Aspergers Syndrome. This compounds disaster by utter folly. To say that it is impossible to feel even the slightest twinge of sympathy for Helin's character, with the improbable name of 'Saga' (and this series certainly is a saga of producers' incompetence), would be to understate the case. Helin is enough to make you want to rise from your chair and strangle the television set. Not that that would do any good, because she would still be out there, threatening to bore and irritate everyone to death, though torturing them first by means of ten episodes. The Danish detective, played by Kim Bodnia, is very good and also sympathetic. But he is wasting his time, and so is everyone who watches this travesty. The directing is OK, and it is the producers who must be blamed for everything that has gone wrong here. As has become the fashion these days nearly everywhere, we are treated to endless shots of the most gruesome and ugly scenes. We get to look again and again at people sliced in half, with the camera lovingly dwelling on the states of the severed entrails, and a discussion of the meat-saw which was used to bisect the women. As usual, there is a psychopath at work, though I am inclined to believe he is not only a character in the series, but probably a producer as well. I am sure this series will be very popular viewing in witches' covens, pathology departments, and mental hospital wards for the incurably insane.


                
I have only watched season one as I do not intend watching any further episodes of this Scandinavian abomination. I read reviews here on IMDB stating that this series was "The Best TV ever", "Well acted, brilliant story", "Hollywood can bite the dust" , etc, etc . Where have these reviewers been, watching TV..on another planet? Sure, everyone's got an opinion and good luck to that, but having sixty plus years of TV viewing experience, I can spot bad acting, bad editing, and an unbelievable story-line, even if it's clouded under an alien language with distracting (literal translation) subtitles. I will not bore you with examples of where this TV series fails, but I had just finished watching "The Killing" (US) version before this show which had taken me and my wife to 'TV paradise' for the duration of it's four seasons. The fact that it's story-line had originated from the Danish version had me searching for further Scandinavian products, which finally lead me to "The Bridge". Just like those constant dreadful rains of Seattle in TK, I persevered and continued to watch this show in the hope that "The Bridge" would finally transport me to Valhalla, but I kept wanting to jump from the parapet and end it all. I finally called a halt to the show 10 minutes from the end of the first series when I spotted the final continuity error for me of a head shot wound going amiss- unbelievable!I had watched Breaking Bad many years ago and gave up after 4 episodes as it had not drawn me in to it's plot quickly enough, but thankfully I returned a year later to resume my viewing and have never looked back since. It is my benchmark for TV series and despite discovering gems like "The Killing" of late, it will remain at the top of my list. On the other hand " The Bridge" seems to run 'Hot & Cold" with reviewers and I still need to understand why some of the 10/10 reviewers fail to see the obvious failings in this production... am I just getting old!?
First episode yesterday, Started great – nice scenery and photo and an interesting story. A dead body turns up on the bridge between Sweden and Denmark, and the two countries police forces have to cooporate. Then Sofia Helin appears as the homicide investigator... No credibility what so ever, can't deliver ONE single line that convinces me. She totally ruins the show. The danish actor (from (Pusher) is great though, as always. I can only imagine how he must have felt acting against Helin. Too bad, it could have been a good show. But, casting is everything. I will not give this show a second chance, why should I? Thanks.


                
Believing the hype that this Swedish TV series would be as interesting as the recent Danish ones (see my reviews of THE KILLING and BORGEN), I ordered the DVD of Season One (10 episodes). I need not have bothered. I forced myself to sit through three episodes, hoping for improvement, but it only got worse, much worse. The main thing wrong is that the Swedish woman detective who is the lead in this series is played by a woman who cannot act. Sofia Helin certainly gets my award for The Most Irritating Actress in the World, and that says something! She is enough to make me turn off any DVD or boycott any cinema. She has no business being an actress, and should retire in disgrace. There may be some who think she is 'sexy' (which seems to be the only thing that matters these days, as talent is so much less valued), but I have rarely seen a less 'sexy' woman either. Even more bizarre, starting from this rock bottom of non- entity and non-talent, she is then asked to play a role of a woman detective who is very clever but suffers from some form of autism or Aspergers Syndrome. This compounds disaster by utter folly. To say that it is impossible to feel even the slightest twinge of sympathy for Helin's character, with the improbable name of 'Saga' (and this series certainly is a saga of producers' incompetence), would be to understate the case. Helin is enough to make you want to rise from your chair and strangle the television set. Not that that would do any good, because she would still be out there, threatening to bore and irritate everyone to death, though torturing them first by means of ten episodes. The Danish detective, played by Kim Bodnia, is very good and also sympathetic. But he is wasting his time, and so is everyone who watches this travesty. The directing is OK, and it is the producers who must be blamed for everything that has gone wrong here. As has become the fashion these days nearly everywhere, we are treated to endless shots of the most gruesome and ugly scenes. We get to look again and again at people sliced in half, with the camera lovingly dwelling on the states of the severed entrails, and a discussion of the meat-saw which was used to bisect the women. As usual, there is a psychopath at work, though I am inclined to believe he is not only a character in the series, but probably a producer as well. I am sure this series will be very popular viewing in witches' covens, pathology departments, and mental hospital wards for the incurably insane.


                
