I have to admit that I'm astonished. Nevertheless I will try to make it short. This piece of TV is outstanding. Although it runs over 10 episodes I was never bored. The plot is well thought through, has some nice twists, and is very well told and filmed. More than anything Sofia Helin's performance made me wishing to see more and more. Outstanding job! And believe it or not: I'm really looking forward to the US-remake. I think this story could work very well between the U.S. and Mexico, and maybe even better as there can be added several new topics between such different countries in comparison to the pretty similar Sweden and Denmark. I just hope that Diane Kruger is capable of doing a similar good job as the lead. At the moment I tend to believe she can, as she might be capable of providing this particular combination of prettiness and coldness, just as Helin provided in such a brilliant way.


                
I haven't seen the Killing yet, but I will. I certainly will if it is as good as this Scandinavian crime drama. The story is very compelling, gripping and brilliantly executed. The acting is first rate, especially that of the two leads Kim Bodnia who plays Martin Rohde and the utterly brilliant Sofia Helin who plays the clever but quirky Saga Noren. I have to say she makes the show for me, alright she is blonde, beautiful and Swedish, but her performance is exceptional and you can't help but love her character. Saga works very well with Martin in trying to solve the crimes and the satellite characters and stories work equally as well. I also have to mention the direction, camera work and general production of this series as it is as good as anything I have seen. I shall be very sad when it finishes.


                
Its Saturday 6:00 pm and the last 2 episodes are on tonight! Its a long time since I've been this hooked on a TV series. Acting, story, setting, filming are all marvellous. The two leading characters and their interplay make a new approach to the 'two opposites been thrown together as partners'. I hope it doesn't offend any sufferers but the Aspergers Disorder of one partner is in no way sad or treated lightly but is extremely funny at times. I was fortunate to record the earlier episodes before todays and have watched two on the last 4 consecutive nights (Im not deleting them and look forward further Bridge weeks in the future). Im only saying all this to encourage anyone who hasn't watch it to do so though you may have to wait for the DVDs. Its 6:15 now, 2:45 to go!


                
I absolutely loved this series. The story is intriguing from the start: a corpse is found on the bridge between Denmark and Sweden, carefully positioned so that each half is in a different country. The story that evolves from there is satisfactorily complex, without getting silly, and full of suspense. There are a lot of interesting characters in the series, but the stars are the two investigators. Saga Noren, who clearly has a fairly serious Asperger syndrome, mixes an infuriating lack of understanding of people's feelings with an endearing innocence and admirable honesty. Martin Rohde, a more traditional investigator, is a man that often doesn't really think about the consequences of his actions,and is willing to break rules. The relationship between these two provides a lot of interest and plenty of really entertaining moments. Everything is greatabout this series - the story, the ending, the characters, the music,the photography (the night shots of the bridge and the city that are interspersed during the series are mesmerising). More like this please!


                
The Wire was gritty, politically interesting and great TV. Dexter had beautifully rounded characters; every one unique and interesting, quality acting and intriguing moral questions and there have been several other landmark quality TV productions. Bron or Broen absolutely takes the cake. I've never felt so fully immersed, so entertained and so gripped by film or TV. The complex and gradually emerging storyline, personal interactions, realistic action, the landscape scenes that demand freeze-frame for a second admiring look, the simply stunning acting that portrays the unusual but lovable Saga (many of who's comments trod a knife edge between humour and truth), beautiful music perfectly placed, characters you wished you knew. It just goes on... inspiring... genius.Written after episode #9 Now I've seen episode #10 I'll have to revise my ten stars to eleven. Don't miss this.


                
This Danish/Swedish co-production starts in dramatic style when a body is found in the middle of the Øresund Bridge; half in Denmark, half in Sweden. Swedish officer Saga Norén claims the case should be dealt with by the Malmo police as the head is in Sweden and she recognises the victim as a local councillor. Martin Rohde, the Danish officer sent to the scene doesn't object and it looks as if that will be that until it is realised they are dealing with two half-bodies; the top is the Swedish politician but the bottom half belonged to a Danish prostitute who had been killed a year before! Clearly the killer had been planning this for a long time. It soon becomes apparent that the killer has no intention of stopping at two deaths; he has a series of events planned and each event is intended to highlight some perceived injustices in the two countries.Saga and Martin are two very different characters; she is totally by the book, very direct but not at all empathetic... it is never explicitly stated but it seems likely she has Asperger syndrome; Martin meanwhile is far more relaxed about breaking the rules, he is also feeling rather sensitive in the early episodes though as he has just had a vasectomy! For a series with some fairly brutal crimes there are a surprising number of laughs; mostly because of Saga's behaviour. That might sound as they you are laughing at a disability but that wouldn't be the case; she may behave differently but her total lack of subtlety doesn't hold her back even if it does get her some funny looks; Sofia Helin is brilliant in the role, making her character one of my favourite TV detectives. While a more conventional character Martin, played by Kim Bodnia, is still entertaining to watch and makes the perfect foil to Saga. It isn't just a two person show though; the killer broadcasts his message by contacting a newspaper reporter and an early suspect is a Swedish social worker whose sister nearly becomes a victim of the killer. The mystery might be a little cliché... serial killers usually are... but the execution makes this series a joy to watch; there are plenty of twists and turns before we finally learn who the killer. Once we learn the killer's identity things do get a little melodramatic but that was okay as the conclusion was both exciting and shocking.I would certainly recommend this to fans of detective fiction; particularly if you've been enjoying the various continental imports aired on BBC4... even if you are put off by the idea of watching something in another language give it a go... after a few minutes one barely notices that one is reading the subtitles.
I just finished watching the whole series in 2 days. I've Never seen anything like it and I watch most every show crime and law enforcement related. After the 3rd episode, I had to check out the Saga Noren character, because I didn't understand her behavior. As soon as I typed the character name in google search, Autism and Asperger Syndrome popped up. Then I understood. Wonderful. Saga's peccadillo's' had me howling with laughter. When she thoughtfully inspected her nether region, smiled, picked up a hot date, got serviced, then turned over and went to sleep, I was just as outdone as him, but howled with laughter. When she described the killers profile, I thought she was talking about herself too in the context of the conversation. The look on her bosses' face, priceless, along with all his subsequent incredulous, exasperated looks. I've never seen as perfect a paring as Saga and Martin. Thank God for You Tube & Steven King. Mr. King wrote an article titled "The best things I watched on TV in 2012". That's where I heard about The Bridge. The US will be I'm sure, mucking it up in a remake. We've just got to have that unrealistic happy ending. I'm not so patiently waiting for series 2. Thank you Denmark and Sweden.
If you like the American version, it is heavily based on this one. However, the acting if far superior in the Swedish-Danish version, in fact I think it is one of the best cast series I have seen. If you can deal with the subtitles this is so much better. As you watch the show characters are introduced that seem to have little to do with the plot, but in a few episodes they become important. This is good in that you start to wonder what this character's involvement as the plot progresses. There is a grittiness to drama that is missing from US shows, with the characters being not such overly made-up dolls. It is interesting to see how the scenery differs from what once is accustomed to in the US.The third season was the most fantastic. Sofia Helin really showed what she is capable of as an actress as her character is put into extremely uncomfortable situations, and I Thure Lindhardt was also phenomenal with is character was having to deal with the loss of his family 6 years before and is having problems accepting the loss. The two interact so well.


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this series , and despite comments berating the lead's acting, she is supposed to have Aspergers. I have worked with people with autism for fifteen years , and I must say she does a superb job of portraying a mild form of this syndrome.There are interesting twists and sub plots , as well as red herrings in every episode, and I found the main characters to be interesting as well as likable. Congratulations to the makers of this programme, I wish the UK could make stuff as good as this these days. Every episode is a winner, watch it now!


                
The Scandi-dramas keep on coming on BBC4. This one is a corker. It's right up there with 'The Killing' - and that's saying a lot. OK, the story is not really credible, but it's a thriller, and that's what thrillers tend to be like. It fulfils the main criterion of a thriller: it's thrilling - and it kept me glued to the screen throughout (the subtitles actually help you to focus).The best thing about the serial is the characterisation and acting. Saga! What a character. What an original. How brilliantly played! As time went on she became more and more fascinating, and in the last two episodes... I can't explain without spoiling it for those who haven't seen it yet. Let me just say that it becomes very moving.What about her partner, Martin? At first he seems to be a jovial teddy bear of a family man, but he is gradually revealed as a much more complex person. The interplay between him and Saga is perfect.There are other good characters, too. The son, August, is excellently portrayed, and really comes up with the goods at the crucial time.Admittedly, there are weak points, such as two slightly pointless sub-plots/red herrings, and a killer whose doings are not terribly believable and whose role is not very convincingly acted. Some events are skated over and mysteriously ignored once they have happened. One suspect in particular is questioned in the most perfunctory way, to allow neatly for more mayhem.All that aside, it's fantastic. If you get the chance to see it, don't miss it.


                
Just finished watching season 2 and what can I say....WOW!!...didn't know Sweden/Denmark could write/produce a series like this.Season 1 was great, about 8-9/10 but with season 2 it really took of. Ten solid episodes and everyone was so well written and the whole story so well kept together even though some events didn't seem to fit in at time when you say them.I hope more people watch this series, would be a shame to miss one of the best police TV-show ever sent on.Don't watch in on TV every week buy it. Especially season 2 has so much going on you need to watch the episodes close together.A BIG thanks for this awesome TV-show :)


                
I was amazed with this series. It was recommended to me by my friend. I saw first season in just one day. I like Scandinavian movies such as The girl with a dragon tattoo (all three movies) or In China they eat dogs. The story is such good written, acting is great. Casting was excellent. I love Sofia Helin's character. She is so realistic with her disorder. How anyone could think this was bad acting. I didn't know specific diagnose, but it's obvious that her character is person who is not "from this world". That side of hers reminded me of Sheldon Cooper from The big bang theory in a way. I was curious when I saw that there was American version as well, and I found it and tried to watch one episode. It was so disappointing. One more time, it was confirmed that Hollywood shouldn't film remakes of European series/movies. Swedish/Danish series has such good realistic atmosphere and acting, that makes you feel wind on the face, as you are standing on the bridge between Sweden and Danmark. You feel fear and despair that characters feel. Appearance is not in the first place. Characters are not sexy and super fit, but natural. They are not tough super humans. That realism is something that Hollywood simply can't make.


                
Having being thrilled, shocked and enthralled by the first excellently written and acted season of "The Bridge", I wondered how and if "The Bridge 2" could ever measure up.I am happy to say that having just watched the last episode of "The Bridge 2" on the BBC (bless them), I am staggered at the ability of the writer to engage our minds and tap into our emotions so easily and skillfully. But the writing would be nothing without a core of actors able to turn those words into a believable and passionate story, and boy do they! The two main actors are of course the heart of the story, but this is a true ensemble piece.For lovers of adult drama, well written and well acted, which keeps you both visually entertained as well as mentally entertained, then watch season 1 first and then move on to enjoy a spectacular Season 2.


                
Note please that this a review of the original Swedish version, with subtitles, not the remake. I apologize in advance for preferring originals -- the original, in Japanese, of the Ring, for example, was a much better horror film, but did I admit lack the luminescence of Naomi Watts. And the original of LET THE RIGHT ONE IN, one of the best vampire movies ever -- with an odd POV no one has come close to matching -- was set in the snowbelt of Europe, and no remake in Mexico is going to come close. Apologies aside, this show hit the trifecta of miniseries. 1. First, astonishing story. A body found on the boundary line of two countries, bisected right down the middle, so two cops from 2 different countries who arguably don't even like each other (initially) have to work together. 2. Relationships. I confess by the final instalment I was less interested in catching the bad guy than in the ongoing relationship between the aforesaid two cops. 3. Acting. It is stellar throughout with no weak performances, but the most astonishing thing in the production is Sofia Helin. First, she is pleasing to the eye, and the camera knows this, so 100s of closeups. No objection from this viewer. Second, she has to "sell" a role which sees her as a top-tier female detective in a man's world who clearly has either Aspergers or some form of autism, and yet is constantly trying to do the right thing. I don't want to spoil it for you -- which I guess is why they call em spoilers -- but look at the scene where she has to explain to her new, non-domestic, "partner cop" why, when the teenage son of said cop asked if he could stay overnight at her place ... she agreed! Well, the acting, the reaction shots, the whole tone just screams potential for taking these characters and basing a whole NA show on them. (OK, call that a prediction, lets see what happens on this side of the ocean)
I did not think this series could get any better, but Series 3 is the best one yet. I was not sure how good this would be without Martin, but by episode 2, you are not even thinking about Martin. They introduce a new partner/s for her whom have their own unique story and problems. You are not sure what is going on with them for at least a few episodes, which I liked very much. It ends up working well on many levels. Saga's story goes deeper and is heartbreaking, as we learn more about her. Characters from her life come in and cause her troubles and it is hard to watch yet gives us more insight into her and why she is like she is. The actress who plays her can convey so much with her face and body, the way she shows us her distress as the personal tension starts to ramp up made me want to cry for her. I have to say this show has kept me on the edge of my seat and I have not been sure what is up or who did what most of the time, nor what was going to happen. This show is so well written and unique. I appreciate the uniqueness of it on all levels. There are many plot threads going on at once and they all work. Also I love how they manage to constantly work that bridge into the story visually. It is beautiful and meaningful in the context of the story. It does not feel disjointed but tightly woven and interesting. The finale was excellent and surprising. The acting is so good by the two leads, they are sure to win some awards.I love this genre but after so many decades of watching cop mysteries, there is not much left you cannot guess or figure out these days. This series manages to rise above that.I am sure they will do a season 4. The Bridge/Bron/Broen is wonderful and well made. It deserves to be winning awards in their country and where ever they can. Watch it.
2018 Update- The final season, which was season 4 was excellent. The show is true to each character and ended realistically. Very very good.


                
This show gets 10 out of 10 from me. I binged the whole season 2 on Netflix in the last 2 days. It's eerie how good Sofia Helin is playing this autistic detective, almost unreal. So much is good, I don't even know where to begin. The acting, the storytelling, the opening song, the character development, the relationships, the camera work, the filming of the bridge, the pace, not too fast, not too slow.What I especially like is that all the people act like European people, sorry for that, I mean they have that sober European sobriety, nothing is overdone, no exaltations, even in dying and death.There's only one tiny little problem: you have to keep watching every second, because you can't understand without the subtitles... :) Although I found out that quite some words are similar to Dutch words, but not enough to follow the script.


                
Could go on for ever about this program but I will keep it shortish, well as short as I can as we need 10 lines! Amazing from start to finish, so many twists and turns that keeps you guessing right to the end, simply outstanding writing. And the cast, very well structured with good performances all round. The new guy Thure Lindhardt, who plays Henrick has just added another level to the program. Sofia Helin though, what a performance portraying someone with what I believe is Autistic spectrum of Asperger. Her performance as Saga just pulls you into the character more and more. I do like a good crime drama and there are plenty out there but it is hard to find amazing drama. This is a must watch for anyone who loves great TV.


                
I love a good crime drama, and this is a VERY good crime drama. I've seen Series 1 and 2, and am unsure how Series 3 is or how it ends, but I've loved what I've seen so far. This show has shocked me many times, it broke my heart at the end of Series 1 and even more so at the end of Series 2. The acting is good, the green tint this show has gives it a fairly gritty and noir vibe, also going well with the mood of the show which is often dark and depressing. This show is hard-hitting, intelligent, and knows how to make you laugh, feel tense and uncomfortable, or make you cry your eyes out. That's good storytelling.


                
This series deserves a whole-hearted attempt as it is a slow burner and subtitles can make that an even harder process, but before you know it you are hooked. The acting is top notch and very believable and the plot keeps your interest. If you have watched the american version and actually got through it, then you almost certainly have to appreciate this version. If you have not seen the remake, don't bother. The acting alone is enough to want to turn it off 5 minutes in. If it ain't broke, don't fix it!


                
As the forth and final season is coming close to an end, I am already missing this show.Absolutely brilliant acting, script, main and side stories. Wow. I lived in Malmö for a few years and the way they use the atmosphere of the city and its neighbor Copenhagen to set the tone for the stories is just amazing.
Although there are several crime/police shows out there, this one stands out. From the main concept of the first season, to how the other stories unfold is a work of genius. No wonder there are (so far) three foreign remakes of the show done. None stand even close to the quality of this one, thou. Very few times I've seen such a great cast together in such an involving and brilliant story.


                
I started watching this subtitled show knowing very little about what I was watching (not a bad thing). I found myself sucked in to the drama and really becoming attached to the two main characters. The relationship between the male and female leads in this series are what makes this show stand out. I found all of the casting and acting first rate. The main story has enough twists and turns to keep it interesting. I have watched series one and two so far and I have read that season three is on the cards. Highly recommended drama with great acting, interesting plot and high production values. The music is pretty cool as well.


                
I started watching the second series on BBC4 and immediately got hooked. The chemistry between the two detectives is wonderful, Martin is a very likable fellow and Saga is clever though socially awkward, I particularly enjoy the 'special' conversations they have together which are well written and funny! The story lines are fascinating (Yes, I bought the 2 series DVD so I could watch the first series too) and revolves around The Bridge that joins Denmark with Sweden therefore the police forces from both Denmark and Sweden have to investigate together. I don't speak Danish or Swedish (both languages are spoken during the episodes) but after a while you don't notice the subtitles. Filming is set in both Denmark and Sweden and the bit in between!So to recap :- Best thing I've seen in a long time! Extremely well written, Top notch acting, Very addictive!I gather they are working on getting a new series commissioned - I really hope they are successful! I also realized that The Tunnel (UK/France) is based on this. Storyline very similar but with subtle differences


                
I have just started watching the bridge!
I love it! What a character she is!
The old porsche, the leather pants, the aspergers!
She has it all!


                
The best TV series in recent years (others include The Game (UK) and True Detective Season 1 (US)) because the writers & actors kept the quality at the highest level for 38 episodes over 4 seasons. Each season is as good as any other, and adding new major character in Season 3 allowed the writers to keep the series fresh. You'll have to watch them all more than once to incorporate all that's going on. And lastly, Sofia Helin as Saga is epic. A don't miss!


                
TV doesn't get any better than Bron in my opinion. Great gritty stories, amazing actors (complete with flaws) and a wonderful sound track all come together in a tightly knit package. The theme music for this series is stellar; earworm anyone?I can't rate this series high enough and like a good book, don't want it to end.


                
