First of all. It's sad to say, but "Smockan" and "seattle_kid" seems to have COMPLETELY missed the fact that the female police-officer Saga Norén in the series, played by Swedish actress Sofia Helin, is a portrait of a person with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type. And they unfortunately confuse it with bad acting in their reviews. Well, well...To me that mistake never became a problem. Then again, I am myself a person with a Autistic spectrum of High-functioning type (HFA). A "near cousin" to Asperger. And I was simply stunned. Sofia Helins interpretation of a police-officer with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type was just excellent. Maybe not perfect, but excellent. And it is without a doubt one of the best performances I've ever seen, made by an non-autistic actress/actor. (Watch out, Dustin Hoffman *wink*)The chemistry between the actress/actor Sofia Helin and Kim Bodnia are excellent as well. I'm actually not going to say anything about the plot itself. It would be wasteful. Just be aware that the female police-officer in the series actually is a person with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type (for less confusion), see the show, and be amazed. I was.Me, I'm now impatiently waiting for "Bron/Broen 2", which is planned to be aired 2013.


                
@ Robert-Temple "To say that it is impossible to feel even the slightest twinge of sympathy for Helin's character," As some one with Aspergers myself, I fully appreciate how far you are from being able to understand why you should be able to feel sympathy for Helin's character.Helin's portrayal is fantastic, and thanks to programme like this Aspergers and Autistic Spectrum disorders are finally sinking into the public's consciousness to the extent that, one day, we might be able to live in a world that can find more than the slightest twinge of sympathy for the way that we behave.I had no idea her character was an aspie - I had no idea about anything to do with the show before I watched it, but I picked up she was an aspie in the first scene she was in. She is great. And, despite what another reviewer has said, she is hot. Irrelevant, but fact.


                
I have to admit that I'm astonished. Nevertheless I will try to make it short. This piece of TV is outstanding. Although it runs over 10 episodes I was never bored. The plot is well thought through, has some nice twists, and is very well told and filmed. More than anything Sofia Helin's performance made me wishing to see more and more. Outstanding job! And believe it or not: I'm really looking forward to the US-remake. I think this story could work very well between the U.S. and Mexico, and maybe even better as there can be added several new topics between such different countries in comparison to the pretty similar Sweden and Denmark. I just hope that Diane Kruger is capable of doing a similar good job as the lead. At the moment I tend to believe she can, as she might be capable of providing this particular combination of prettiness and coldness, just as Helin provided in such a brilliant way.


                
This series is about the co-operation between a danish and a Swedish cop in solving a string of murders in the Copenhagen/Malmo area. I would advice readers not to listen to people who didn't even bother watching at least half the series before writing a review. Truth is, the show is a bit of a slow starter. At the end of episode one, I was left with the impression of a fairly mediocre show with an annoying female lead character that is poorly acted. However, one soon realizes that her restrained and unemotional manner is part of her character. Underneath this, Sofia Helin adds subtle nuances and complexity to her character that shows that she is a good actress. The plot also picks up and gets gradually more exciting and entertaining. Contrary to what others suggested, Kim Bodnia (who plays the danish cop) was actually very enthusiastic about this project and had nothing but praise for his female co-star. Needless to say, he is also very good in his role here.So my opinion is that this is a well made series with a complex and entertaining plot, interesting characters and good cinematography. On the negative side, some of the actors playing minor roles are sometimes less than stellar, the plot is far-fetched in places and the sound quality leaves some things to be desired in a few scenes. But with that said, Bron is a very good and well made series. Just make sure to give it a chance beyond the first couple of episodes or so before you decide what to think. Especially the main female character is somewhat unusual and requires some time to get a grasp of. But give it (and her) a chance and you won't regret it.


                
So far (episode 3) "Bron" provides all the classic criminal genre elements with a modern and smart touch. The characters and actors fit their roles well (albeit being caricatures of the genre). I especially enjoy the humorous and feminist take on Saga Norén's character. For me all these little stylistic touches just add to the enjoyment. And the plot elements fit an interconnected Scandinavian/European reality without seeming overdone or simplified. I'd say this is one of the most exciting crime dramas of the decade, even since its function is not intended to be a long-running series with one main protagonist. I like the "issues" approach of "Bron" more than the classic European detective drama we've seen so far in the 2000s.


                
I haven't seen the Killing yet, but I will. I certainly will if it is as good as this Scandinavian crime drama. The story is very compelling, gripping and brilliantly executed. The acting is first rate, especially that of the two leads Kim Bodnia who plays Martin Rohde and the utterly brilliant Sofia Helin who plays the clever but quirky Saga Noren. I have to say she makes the show for me, alright she is blonde, beautiful and Swedish, but her performance is exceptional and you can't help but love her character. Saga works very well with Martin in trying to solve the crimes and the satellite characters and stories work equally as well. I also have to mention the direction, camera work and general production of this series as it is as good as anything I have seen. I shall be very sad when it finishes.


                
No special effects. No 'nice weather' filter/overlay. Not a new case every episode. Instead, a well written, well balanced story. Realistic, suspending and occasionally funny.The main characters are very well written and well played in my opinion. So much better than the Hollywood variants! Both the story and characters are believable and not overacted, like the many, many Hollywood variants.Also a very important aspect is the overall story line. Too many police/detective shows have a 1 or 2 case per episode methodology and hardly a background story. That gets old fast. Bron/Broen does this well: one (big) case (so far) with many other related things happening for following episodes.Have seen only 2.5 episodes so far, but had to mention this. Excellent!


                
Its Saturday 6:00 pm and the last 2 episodes are on tonight! Its a long time since I've been this hooked on a TV series. Acting, story, setting, filming are all marvellous. The two leading characters and their interplay make a new approach to the 'two opposites been thrown together as partners'. I hope it doesn't offend any sufferers but the Aspergers Disorder of one partner is in no way sad or treated lightly but is extremely funny at times. I was fortunate to record the earlier episodes before todays and have watched two on the last 4 consecutive nights (Im not deleting them and look forward further Bridge weeks in the future). Im only saying all this to encourage anyone who hasn't watch it to do so though you may have to wait for the DVDs. Its 6:15 now, 2:45 to go!


                
I absolutely loved this series. The story is intriguing from the start: a corpse is found on the bridge between Denmark and Sweden, carefully positioned so that each half is in a different country. The story that evolves from there is satisfactorily complex, without getting silly, and full of suspense. There are a lot of interesting characters in the series, but the stars are the two investigators. Saga Noren, who clearly has a fairly serious Asperger syndrome, mixes an infuriating lack of understanding of people's feelings with an endearing innocence and admirable honesty. Martin Rohde, a more traditional investigator, is a man that often doesn't really think about the consequences of his actions,and is willing to break rules. The relationship between these two provides a lot of interest and plenty of really entertaining moments. Everything is greatabout this series - the story, the ending, the characters, the music,the photography (the night shots of the bridge and the city that are interspersed during the series are mesmerising). More like this please!


                
The Wire was gritty, politically interesting and great TV. Dexter had beautifully rounded characters; every one unique and interesting, quality acting and intriguing moral questions and there have been several other landmark quality TV productions. Bron or Broen absolutely takes the cake. I've never felt so fully immersed, so entertained and so gripped by film or TV. The complex and gradually emerging storyline, personal interactions, realistic action, the landscape scenes that demand freeze-frame for a second admiring look, the simply stunning acting that portrays the unusual but lovable Saga (many of who's comments trod a knife edge between humour and truth), beautiful music perfectly placed, characters you wished you knew. It just goes on... inspiring... genius.Written after episode #9 Now I've seen episode #10 I'll have to revise my ten stars to eleven. Don't miss this.


                
This Danish/Swedish co-production starts in dramatic style when a body is found in the middle of the Øresund Bridge; half in Denmark, half in Sweden. Swedish officer Saga Norén claims the case should be dealt with by the Malmo police as the head is in Sweden and she recognises the victim as a local councillor. Martin Rohde, the Danish officer sent to the scene doesn't object and it looks as if that will be that until it is realised they are dealing with two half-bodies; the top is the Swedish politician but the bottom half belonged to a Danish prostitute who had been killed a year before! Clearly the killer had been planning this for a long time. It soon becomes apparent that the killer has no intention of stopping at two deaths; he has a series of events planned and each event is intended to highlight some perceived injustices in the two countries.Saga and Martin are two very different characters; she is totally by the book, very direct but not at all empathetic... it is never explicitly stated but it seems likely she has Asperger syndrome; Martin meanwhile is far more relaxed about breaking the rules, he is also feeling rather sensitive in the early episodes though as he has just had a vasectomy! For a series with some fairly brutal crimes there are a surprising number of laughs; mostly because of Saga's behaviour. That might sound as they you are laughing at a disability but that wouldn't be the case; she may behave differently but her total lack of subtlety doesn't hold her back even if it does get her some funny looks; Sofia Helin is brilliant in the role, making her character one of my favourite TV detectives. While a more conventional character Martin, played by Kim Bodnia, is still entertaining to watch and makes the perfect foil to Saga. It isn't just a two person show though; the killer broadcasts his message by contacting a newspaper reporter and an early suspect is a Swedish social worker whose sister nearly becomes a victim of the killer. The mystery might be a little cliché... serial killers usually are... but the execution makes this series a joy to watch; there are plenty of twists and turns before we finally learn who the killer. Once we learn the killer's identity things do get a little melodramatic but that was okay as the conclusion was both exciting and shocking.I would certainly recommend this to fans of detective fiction; particularly if you've been enjoying the various continental imports aired on BBC4... even if you are put off by the idea of watching something in another language give it a go... after a few minutes one barely notices that one is reading the subtitles.
To sum up in short: suspense, good acting, real empathy for the story line, great appropriate music, twists that keep you hooked wanting to keep going. The two leads are very different, and equally interesting and complex. The support cast is first rate, and the suspense just keeps building.Best drama/ mystery that I've seen for ages. Well worth it. By epp2 I was pleasantly surprised that it kept the intrigue up. By Epp3 I was thinking of ringing in sick for work to keep watching. If you like your mysteries to keep surprising you, and adding layers, and layers, then this is for you. There aren't the usual "holywood" dumbed down explanations at the end of each epp, instead it makes you keep thinking.I have to say that they have done a first rate job with the music score too.Although even without it, the storyline gives you plenty of emotional reaction.This is one show to set aside free time for, with out distractions. And just enjoy.


                
A little background: I'm from U.S. and a few years ago, some friends had recommended I watch 'The Pusher' 3 part series, and that was so realistic, so entertaining, that I started following the main actors, see what other films they had done. And recently I'd done a search, and found Kim Bodnia was in this series, so that was main reason for watching it, plus, like many, I'd seen the U.S. version of The Killing and was curious again about Scandanavian movies.So I read the reviews on here, and obtained and began to watch this series. I immediately liked the police officer played by Sofia Helin, and I presumed she had some sort of autism, tho I don't know enough about it to be sure, and figured maybe it was more an antisocial thing, but after a few episodes it became really appealing, and I've always liked Bodnia's gritty acting and he seemed a good counterpoint to Helin.It didn't take but one episode to get me caught up in the crime drama, either. It was complex, and I had to go back a few times, and I could see the subtitles were lame at times, but still, when there are subtitles I just depend more on the acting, and it was great. The violence was there, but not like US movies where it is overdone and become boring and cartoon like, here it was sparse and credible. I found myself truly frightened for the victims, and worried to the last episode over the fate of certain people.Don't miss this one: I couldn't leave the screen it was so good. And I think myself that some of the role comprised in the US version of The Killing comes from this series, not from the original in Sweden, but the lack of emotion and inability to empathize that the police lady had in this series: well I think that was what the US actress was *trying* to achieve in her role. Watch this series, and then think of the US actress who played the police detective in The Killing.Great series though,and one of the best crime stories I've seen


                
I just finished watching the whole series in 2 days. I've Never seen anything like it and I watch most every show crime and law enforcement related. After the 3rd episode, I had to check out the Saga Noren character, because I didn't understand her behavior. As soon as I typed the character name in google search, Autism and Asperger Syndrome popped up. Then I understood. Wonderful. Saga's peccadillo's' had me howling with laughter. When she thoughtfully inspected her nether region, smiled, picked up a hot date, got serviced, then turned over and went to sleep, I was just as outdone as him, but howled with laughter. When she described the killers profile, I thought she was talking about herself too in the context of the conversation. The look on her bosses' face, priceless, along with all his subsequent incredulous, exasperated looks. I've never seen as perfect a paring as Saga and Martin. Thank God for You Tube & Steven King. Mr. King wrote an article titled "The best things I watched on TV in 2012". That's where I heard about The Bridge. The US will be I'm sure, mucking it up in a remake. We've just got to have that unrealistic happy ending. I'm not so patiently waiting for series 2. Thank you Denmark and Sweden.
I guess reviewer Smockan didn't notice that Sofia Helins odd character had Aspergers Disorder which results in a very asocial behaviour. She don't know how to socialize or communicate in a normal fashion. She knows nothing about being diplomatic or "holding back". She's just barging in like a bulldozer. I've seen the first 9 episodes and was amazed by the exciting storyline, the twists and Kim Bodnias acting. Sofia Helins performance isn't top notch but the character is so amusing and hilarious so you cant do nothing but love her. as long as you don't have to meet her in real life. =)Those of you out there who just watched one episode and thought "this is crap. Cant stand watching this piece of *beeep*. Let's watch Wrestling instead" just don't know what you missed. This is a great crime series and it shows that Sweden and Denmark should co op more often when it comes to made for TV-drama.


                
If you like the American version, it is heavily based on this one. However, the acting if far superior in the Swedish-Danish version, in fact I think it is one of the best cast series I have seen. If you can deal with the subtitles this is so much better. As you watch the show characters are introduced that seem to have little to do with the plot, but in a few episodes they become important. This is good in that you start to wonder what this character's involvement as the plot progresses. There is a grittiness to drama that is missing from US shows, with the characters being not such overly made-up dolls. It is interesting to see how the scenery differs from what once is accustomed to in the US.The third season was the most fantastic. Sofia Helin really showed what she is capable of as an actress as her character is put into extremely uncomfortable situations, and I Thure Lindhardt was also phenomenal with is character was having to deal with the loss of his family 6 years before and is having problems accepting the loss. The two interact so well.


                
It was a great pleasure to watch this series. I actually missed the first episode unfortunately, but watched from episode 2 to the last one. One of the reasons i enjoyed it was that the story actually at several points resembled one of my favourite campy b-horror movies from 1971, the British "The abominable Dr Phibes" starring Vincent Price. There were a lot of similarities so i could eventually guess what would happen in episode 9 and 10, but it didn't ruin the experience at all.Acting was great, i loved the characters that Sara Helin and Kim Bodnia are playing, and the complicated story of finding out who the serial killer is and what the motivation is really plays out well. Hope this gets distributed outside scandinavia.


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this series , and despite comments berating the lead's acting, she is supposed to have Aspergers. I have worked with people with autism for fifteen years , and I must say she does a superb job of portraying a mild form of this syndrome.There are interesting twists and sub plots , as well as red herrings in every episode, and I found the main characters to be interesting as well as likable. Congratulations to the makers of this programme, I wish the UK could make stuff as good as this these days. Every episode is a winner, watch it now!


                
The Scandi-dramas keep on coming on BBC4. This one is a corker. It's right up there with 'The Killing' - and that's saying a lot. OK, the story is not really credible, but it's a thriller, and that's what thrillers tend to be like. It fulfils the main criterion of a thriller: it's thrilling - and it kept me glued to the screen throughout (the subtitles actually help you to focus).The best thing about the serial is the characterisation and acting. Saga! What a character. What an original. How brilliantly played! As time went on she became more and more fascinating, and in the last two episodes... I can't explain without spoiling it for those who haven't seen it yet. Let me just say that it becomes very moving.What about her partner, Martin? At first he seems to be a jovial teddy bear of a family man, but he is gradually revealed as a much more complex person. The interplay between him and Saga is perfect.There are other good characters, too. The son, August, is excellently portrayed, and really comes up with the goods at the crucial time.Admittedly, there are weak points, such as two slightly pointless sub-plots/red herrings, and a killer whose doings are not terribly believable and whose role is not very convincingly acted. Some events are skated over and mysteriously ignored once they have happened. One suspect in particular is questioned in the most perfunctory way, to allow neatly for more mayhem.All that aside, it's fantastic. If you get the chance to see it, don't miss it.


                
The unusual character of Saga absolutely makes what would otherwise be a superior crime drama all that much more special. Even through the veil of English subtitling that frequently left us bemused or scratching our heads, and very solid work by all of the cast and writers, it was Saga that often left us howling with laughter even in the midst of the most gruesome circumstances, and left us eager for the next episode. I was surprised to see that some other reviewers either didn't 'get' that Saga has Aspergers, or thought that Sofia Helin's performance was poor. Perhaps we had an advantage in having seen just enough of Sofia's other work to know right away that her portrayal of Saga was very deliberate. If you're looking for a taut, intriguing and often very amusing murder mystery, this is well worth your time. Superb.


                
Just finished watching season 2 and what can I say....WOW!!...didn't know Sweden/Denmark could write/produce a series like this.Season 1 was great, about 8-9/10 but with season 2 it really took of. Ten solid episodes and everyone was so well written and the whole story so well kept together even though some events didn't seem to fit in at time when you say them.I hope more people watch this series, would be a shame to miss one of the best police TV-show ever sent on.Don't watch in on TV every week buy it. Especially season 2 has so much going on you need to watch the episodes close together.A BIG thanks for this awesome TV-show :)


                
Great storytelling with lots of action and very little slack. Moves along like a freight train transporting you from one significan event to another, with your mind feverishly trying to piece clues together and do your own futile police work as things unfold. And a little Danish-Swedish societal rivalry thrown in for fun. Both lead actors are great and Kim Bodnia I recognized from many great Danish films like Pusher and others. Sofia Helin I was less familiar with but her portrayal of Saga Norén and her idiosyncracies was so spot on I thought the actress might be like that in real life! I'm looking forward to Season Two for sure.


                
From the opening 5 minutes of this series I was hooked, one of the finest story lines I've watched for years. This will keep you guessing until the very last episode with many twists and turns along the way.Shot with a cold slick filter The Bridge is gives a very honest view of Copenhagen, Denmark and Malmo, Sweden with the series split across both sides of the bridge. I've never seen two more intriguing main characters, both complete opposites yet strangely they work very well together. The Bridge is not only a series linking two countries but the complex relationships that the main characters form throughout there time working together.I guarantee that is you watch The Bridge you will be hooked as I was and hoping that they make a second series.


                
This is a very intriguing show. The interaction of the 2 lead investigators is great. The Swede's personality is constantly entertaining. I haven't seen all the episodes yet, but so far we are caught up into it. I have seen other Scandinavian series and this one is up there on the list, different than Wallander for example, but quirky aspects that draw you in. The characters in shows from this region have flaws and character aspects that make you think. For US made shows, the lead police are shown at their strongest with some defining characteristic that makes them and their team the best. I think the humanity shown in the Bridge draws me in more. Also, from a US perspective, the morality and rules of conduct interest me for this show.


                
I wont go into much detail but I urge you to watch this fantastic show. It is intelligent, funny and moving. The main reason for my review is in defense of Helin, she was brilliant in this and in fact becomes the more entertaining of the duo. Bodnia's character is more traditional and although they work really well together it is Helin's performance that gives this show depth. It is a real shame that people didn't get this character, the autistic nature of this female detective echos the psychology report of the killer and leaves us amused, bemused but sure that being on the autistic spectrum is what makes her a fantastic police woman. I think her character can be summed up through her inability to lie, or withhold the harsh truth, in order to provide comfort in uncertain times! Having watched the show with subtitles the characters still shine through, very well acted. In my opinion give this a chance and you will enjoy!


                
