First of all. It's sad to say, but "Smockan" and "seattle_kid" seems to have COMPLETELY missed the fact that the female police-officer Saga Norén in the series, played by Swedish actress Sofia Helin, is a portrait of a person with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type. And they unfortunately confuse it with bad acting in their reviews. Well, well...To me that mistake never became a problem. Then again, I am myself a person with a Autistic spectrum of High-functioning type (HFA). A "near cousin" to Asperger. And I was simply stunned. Sofia Helins interpretation of a police-officer with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type was just excellent. Maybe not perfect, but excellent. And it is without a doubt one of the best performances I've ever seen, made by an non-autistic actress/actor. (Watch out, Dustin Hoffman *wink*)The chemistry between the actress/actor Sofia Helin and Kim Bodnia are excellent as well. I'm actually not going to say anything about the plot itself. It would be wasteful. Just be aware that the female police-officer in the series actually is a person with Autistic spectrum of Asperger type (for less confusion), see the show, and be amazed. I was.Me, I'm now impatiently waiting for "Bron/Broen 2", which is planned to be aired 2013.


                
@ Robert-Temple "To say that it is impossible to feel even the slightest twinge of sympathy for Helin's character," As some one with Aspergers myself, I fully appreciate how far you are from being able to understand why you should be able to feel sympathy for Helin's character.Helin's portrayal is fantastic, and thanks to programme like this Aspergers and Autistic Spectrum disorders are finally sinking into the public's consciousness to the extent that, one day, we might be able to live in a world that can find more than the slightest twinge of sympathy for the way that we behave.I had no idea her character was an aspie - I had no idea about anything to do with the show before I watched it, but I picked up she was an aspie in the first scene she was in. She is great. And, despite what another reviewer has said, she is hot. Irrelevant, but fact.


                
So far (episode 3) "Bron" provides all the classic criminal genre elements with a modern and smart touch. The characters and actors fit their roles well (albeit being caricatures of the genre). I especially enjoy the humorous and feminist take on Saga Norén's character. For me all these little stylistic touches just add to the enjoyment. And the plot elements fit an interconnected Scandinavian/European reality without seeming overdone or simplified. I'd say this is one of the most exciting crime dramas of the decade, even since its function is not intended to be a long-running series with one main protagonist. I like the "issues" approach of "Bron" more than the classic European detective drama we've seen so far in the 2000s.


                
No special effects. No 'nice weather' filter/overlay. Not a new case every episode. Instead, a well written, well balanced story. Realistic, suspending and occasionally funny.The main characters are very well written and well played in my opinion. So much better than the Hollywood variants! Both the story and characters are believable and not overacted, like the many, many Hollywood variants.Also a very important aspect is the overall story line. Too many police/detective shows have a 1 or 2 case per episode methodology and hardly a background story. That gets old fast. Bron/Broen does this well: one (big) case (so far) with many other related things happening for following episodes.Have seen only 2.5 episodes so far, but had to mention this. Excellent!


                
To sum up in short: suspense, good acting, real empathy for the story line, great appropriate music, twists that keep you hooked wanting to keep going. The two leads are very different, and equally interesting and complex. The support cast is first rate, and the suspense just keeps building.Best drama/ mystery that I've seen for ages. Well worth it. By epp2 I was pleasantly surprised that it kept the intrigue up. By Epp3 I was thinking of ringing in sick for work to keep watching. If you like your mysteries to keep surprising you, and adding layers, and layers, then this is for you. There aren't the usual "holywood" dumbed down explanations at the end of each epp, instead it makes you keep thinking.I have to say that they have done a first rate job with the music score too.Although even without it, the storyline gives you plenty of emotional reaction.This is one show to set aside free time for, with out distractions. And just enjoy.


                
Great storytelling with lots of action and very little slack. Moves along like a freight train transporting you from one significan event to another, with your mind feverishly trying to piece clues together and do your own futile police work as things unfold. And a little Danish-Swedish societal rivalry thrown in for fun. Both lead actors are great and Kim Bodnia I recognized from many great Danish films like Pusher and others. Sofia Helin I was less familiar with but her portrayal of Saga Norén and her idiosyncracies was so spot on I thought the actress might be like that in real life! I'm looking forward to Season Two for sure.


                
From the opening 5 minutes of this series I was hooked, one of the finest story lines I've watched for years. This will keep you guessing until the very last episode with many twists and turns along the way.Shot with a cold slick filter The Bridge is gives a very honest view of Copenhagen, Denmark and Malmo, Sweden with the series split across both sides of the bridge. I've never seen two more intriguing main characters, both complete opposites yet strangely they work very well together. The Bridge is not only a series linking two countries but the complex relationships that the main characters form throughout there time working together.I guarantee that is you watch The Bridge you will be hooked as I was and hoping that they make a second series.


                
This is a very intriguing show. The interaction of the 2 lead investigators is great. The Swede's personality is constantly entertaining. I haven't seen all the episodes yet, but so far we are caught up into it. I have seen other Scandinavian series and this one is up there on the list, different than Wallander for example, but quirky aspects that draw you in. The characters in shows from this region have flaws and character aspects that make you think. For US made shows, the lead police are shown at their strongest with some defining characteristic that makes them and their team the best. I think the humanity shown in the Bridge draws me in more. Also, from a US perspective, the morality and rules of conduct interest me for this show.


                
I wont go into much detail but I urge you to watch this fantastic show. It is intelligent, funny and moving. The main reason for my review is in defense of Helin, she was brilliant in this and in fact becomes the more entertaining of the duo. Bodnia's character is more traditional and although they work really well together it is Helin's performance that gives this show depth. It is a real shame that people didn't get this character, the autistic nature of this female detective echos the psychology report of the killer and leaves us amused, bemused but sure that being on the autistic spectrum is what makes her a fantastic police woman. I think her character can be summed up through her inability to lie, or withhold the harsh truth, in order to provide comfort in uncertain times! Having watched the show with subtitles the characters still shine through, very well acted. In my opinion give this a chance and you will enjoy!


                
Decided to give this series a go because I heard from a friend that it was good. I was not expecting it to be as amazing as it was! After the first episode I could not stop watching this, and 24 hours later I ended up finishing the entire first season. I can't explain to you how emotionally attached I became to this series in such a short span of time. The first season's plot was phenomenal, with so many twists and turns that you start to question everything you watch. The final reveal and solution were so well executed that honestly I don't think you could have written a better ending. What really stood out to me was the characters themselves. Saga and Martin are both awesome in their own way. Saga is an amazing detective but with some inter-personal flaws. Martin is also a good detective but much more personable and gets along great with others. Their chemistry is really fun to watch.The second season's strong point I felt was the relationships between characters. Saga and Martin's relationship is really touching and complex but I was surprised at how well they fleshed out minor characters and their inter-playing roles with each other. A nice change from the first season when they felt a little bit one dimensional. The plot at times was a little bit predictable and tame in comparison to the first season but the character development in this season more than made up for that. Overall if you really love crime dramas you should definitely give this one a go. The plot in the first season is an emotional roller coaster that keeps you guessing and the second season brings you more awesomeness from the characters you love and you get to know them a lot better. I can't wait to see what they bring for the third season.


                
Bron/Broen simply confirmed Scandinavian dominance in crime drama at the beginning of the 21st century. In certain aspects it surpassed The Killing (Forbrydelsen) and is overall on par with Sherlock.For some reason all Scandinavian crime dramas and thrillers are bleak and grimy. This is in contract to one of the best living standards in the world and supposed happiness it should bring.There have been complaints about Sofia Helin's performance. She plays a person that is obviously afflicted with a syndrome or a condition. In that sense, she offers a finest performance, not a lesson in "wooden acting" as it had been implied. In an interview she stated how her inspiration has been a goat, on a level that she follows her instincts.Kim Bodnia is great and the rest of the crew is above average. Overall, this is a great show.


                
The location and nature of the triggering event is witty already - and the events followed by are realistic, intertwined and puzzling. But not too sophisticated, not full of various similar names and characters difficult to observe. And the bridge between Denmark and Sweden is a good-value element, there is no episode without its presence. Apart from following the story with twists and turns, the viewers get a comprehensive picture of lifestyle and values as well as bottlenecks both in Sweden and Denmark. Well, there are some astonishment related to different suspects, their likeness to the actual bad guy, but those do not mistrust the overall value of the series. The cast is strong, although Sofia Helin as Saga Norén, the lead detective in Malmö and Kim Bodnia as Martin Rohde, the lead detective in Copenhagen give stronger performances than the rest; true, they are most on the screen and their characters are most deliberated and peculiar, antipodes doing team-work... And the length is just about to - here The Bridge outperforms another famous crime series The Killing (Season 1): the latter's 20 episodes is too much.


                
This show is great! It's my first real delve into these Scandanavian dramas, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The character writing was pretty good, the plot development and so on pretty good as well. Saga Noren is just a brilliant character, as you get into the show some of the things she does are just fantastically portrayed. I don't want to mention anything as they would be spoilers, but you'll know it when you see it.The show is really very well done, and having already been on the BBC, I'm sure an American remake wont be long in the pipeline - (Though the location and setting are fairly important to the story line).Strongly recommend to anyone - especially those who are starting to get into Scan dramas like I am


                
The series starts with a dead woman found on the Öresunds-bridge between Denmark and Sweden. As the body is place exactly on the border between the countries the investigation is shared by the Danish and Swedish police. The interaction between Sara Helin (playing Saga Norén, Swedish police) and Kim Bodnia (playing Martin Rohde, Danish police) raises this series above the average serial killing series. It's interesting to see their relationship develop on screen through plot twists and dead-ends. Especially Sara Helin as Saga is brilliant as an asperger affected Swedish police officer.I fully understand how some reviewers can mistake the acting as horribly bad - but given the background of the character it is simply very good. Sagas inability to relate to human interaction constantly leads to a comedy of unintended errors but it never over-shadows the actual plot.The plot itself moves forward with a decent pace (for a European/Scandinavian series; think "The Killing") but it has some sub-plots that seems slightly unrelated to the main story. Nevertheless it is well worth viewing for the brilliant main characters.


                
The fictitious character Saga Noren , believe it or not , is a household name in many parts of Europe . The Bridge, an original Swedish-Danish production is a compelling series with no peg. It is original and challenging to any new watcher. Warning- you'll be hooked before you knew it. Saga Noren , the brilliant but socially awkward detective is the keyholder to the lock. Martin, the partner and the other half of the crime solving duo is like a good Catholic priest. The pair complements each other like salt and pepper, one won't work without the other. The plot is politically , sex & blood-laden yet highly complex for anyone to figure out who the killer from hell is. The reveal is only until the very , very end. Anybody who intends to watch this will definitely not forget this show and the name Saga Noren will be added to your vocabulary.


                
Bron / Broen (The Bridge) is another fine example of the high quality of Scandinavian movies and series. The scenario is original and clever, and the acting is very convincing, with special compliments for the main characters Martin Rohde (Kim Bodnia) and Saga Norén (Sofia Helin). I frequently laughed out loud because of Saga's unintentionally funny remarks, but also had to wipe away tears.I watched it using the Dutch Netflix streaming service, and had to get a grip on myself not to binge-watch all episodes at once, but saving one episode for every evening.Forbrydelsen (The Killing) was the best Scandinavian series I had seen, until I saw Bron / Broen. My respect to everyone involved in creating the series.


                
I loved all of the season. In my opinion it is a very well written script, brought to the screen in an amazing way that makes the viewer intrigued and surprised by the way the story unfolds. I usually find that contemporary TV series and movies have an easy to guess story but in the way that the show givesthe missing pieces, which is not all at once but piece by piece , it seems to me like trying to connect the pieces of a puzzle and that makes it unique. Last but not least i think that this show makes the viewer consider really important issues economical, ethical, environmental etc.


                
After watching 'The Killing' I didn't think that another Scandinavian series could be any better. However, once watching the 20 episodes in a couple of weeks (because I soon became very compelled to the series) I arrived at the conclusion that this series is slightly more excellent.Although it serious crime story it had humorous aspects. It also has a much more realistic feel as the story is in depth and complicated unlike many other crime dramas that I have also seen. I cannot recommend this series more highly, it is better than all the British and American crime/ thriller series that I have seen.Sometimes the British subtitles are inaccurate. Nonetheless, the storyline is still completely understandable and the acting is generally brilliant.


                
With a color palette that ranges from washed-out beige to washed-out gray (except for Saga's green Porsche), the muted register gives it a somber, chilled and forbidding look; perfect for the subject matter which is often very dark. The malevolence of the human spirit is arrayed like some grim 16th century lithograph, again very northern European, bleak and moralizing.The key to the series is, of course, Saga, and her partners, together with her limitations as a person. This set up works well with the landscape and the stories: its exaggerates the person in the vastness of such a cruel world. There is also a very dry humor at work too, which is occasionally sardonic and smart.There are two foreign spin offs from this series, and while they are commendable, they are nowhere near as good as this, the original which sets the bar. The plots may be a bit too clever but it shows that TV is where the good work is being done and that is certainly the case from Sweden and Denmark.


                
It's most certainly one of the best detective series around! The plot is amazing, the cast is successfully selected and the whole atmosphere may excite you from the very first minutes. The first season is ruled by the element of surprise. I don't wish to include any spoilers in the present review but believe me, the end is totally unexpected. Many TV series seem to lose many of their positive aspects in the second or next seasons. Well with Bron, it's not the case! What we actually get is a closer and deeper perspective as far as character development is concerned (which means more Saga ;) ) and once more an exciting plot! So, if you re into this genre, watch it!


                
Handling a case never seems this difficult in shows other than the bridge. In this show you'll be among the investigators searching for answers that you think are trivial and clear but you discover it's like finding a needle in a haystack. That's why the bridge show happened in the first place.It has the element that grips, thrills, and keep you in a cliffhanger, which is unveiling secrets in a cumulative manner without losing the overall enjoyment experience.Characters are well written and their side stories are the thing to count on when they treat a crime case.Best european detective series ever existed.


                
It's one of the best crime TV series I've ever watched.After a long time spent watching American or English movies and TV Series,I once decided to try something else, from another place of from another cultural area.Good for me,because I have found Bron-Broen. And I've enjoyed it.Nine stars.


                
Superb series! Its a must watch for Crime Thriller fans. The acting done by the lead actors is wow! only problem is the availability of the TV series , its not available on any network for the audience from Asia, south east Asia. So its hard to find and then English subtitles is also a problem. But anyhow its highly recommended for fans of crime thrillers.


                
T his show is darkly funny and very well written. Ever since here in mid aughts (2005 I believe) here in the states the TV producers have gone all "reality" and the writer's strike vacated most of the writing talent in Hollywood since. I have not watched anything much on ABC, CBS, or NBC. Most of the states writing talent has gone to TNT, USA,AMC, or TBS...they have done so with less pay and far less respect than they used to have... and of this, it is hopscotch on what decent stuff stays. The less formulaic TV is almost completely vacant now here...and the Scandinavian stuff has filled the void here in the states. We have had some great shows (albeit slow moving) like Breaking Bad and Rubicon... but sadly only Breaking Bad stayed...(as a side note: for more excitement but good writing in the first few seasons from HBO, Game of Thrones and True Blood have been a breath of fresh air) This show is kind of slower moving like Rubicon, with a bit more excitement and the dark humor of Breaking Bad. If you feel like you are tired of typical American TV formulas where everyone is saved and you are sick of your teeth being rotted by a sugary happy end at every episode, this is for you. Like Breaking Bad the show has you in shock the twists and turns and then hooked to see what happens next. This also plays well to the demographic that Hollywood has been leaving out: the over 40 female demo. The lead character is not a bouncing 20 year old something... she is odd and quirky, has aspergers, is over 40 and is far more interesting than any female lead I have seen in a while. If you like this, and feel left out at the over 40 mark, you may want to check out other foreign TV shows such as Rita and Dicte. Another show that is more of a comedy rather than a police show is Lilihammer. Not geared for the 40something female demo, it is still hilarious and is half in English and half in subtitles from Norwegian. Other things you may enjoy is a movie called Headhunters, the French Law and Order like showcalled Enrages (aka Spiral), and the Danish show the Protectors. Theseare all still streamable I believe as I write this. Netflix and Hulu do tend to rotate things. If you can catch the series called The Eagle(Ornen) I highly recommend it as well. I don't think that is still streaming at this time in here in the states.
Bron (The Bridge) is about crime investigators from Sweden and Denmark working together to solve cases. Each season is about a separate case so there are no open loose ends for the next season. The shows main attraction in the first two seasons is the intense dynamics between the Dane (Kim Bodnia) and Swede (Sofia Helin). Their personalities are extremely different, where Dane Bodnia is a trigger happy choleric and Swede Helin smart asperger with almost no social competence at all. This dynamic is also expressing the cultural differences between Denmark and Sweden in an interesting way.It is also a deep portrayal of us as lovers, parents, sons and daughters, siblings. It is the humanity of its main characters , their pasts, their presents that makes you believe in them.The production, plot and storytelling is absolutely top class. Complexity, twists, action and violence. This is probably one of the best Scandinavian (or European) crime dramas to watch. In season three Bodnia is out of the show and his character is really missing and that season really lacks from his absence. But all in all a top show.


                
