I love anime. This movie is artistically pretty good. Otherwise terrible. The plot is pointless, as apparently they had money to pay for food the whole time. And they also could have just lived with the aunt, or found someone else for that matter, even if she was a little cruel. You suck it up. The brother (spoiler alert) was irresponsible and didn't have to let his sister die. She could have lived with anyone. Why couldn't he find a job? I don't want to say that that deadbeat deserved to die, but he did. Is that supposed to be the moral? Indolence kills everyone you care about? This was a cheap film, banking on an attempt to decimate people emotionally. What would make anyone rate this high? Just because it makes you sad doesn't make it a good movie. This movie is cheap and depraved.
/!\ Spoiler ahead] The plot is a pretext to make a melodrama.From the beginning, anyone can foresee what is going to occur at the end. The movie is a boringly long succession of clichés and deja-vus aimed at making cry the most hardened men.None of the soundtrack, scenes or characters are unforgettable. The idea of the fireflies, among other important symbols, should have been exploited more powerfully. The fireflies are actually treated as a mere element of the setting. Same reproach as regards the historical background.It is no hard a task to make a sad film if its main character is a child who eventually dies, nothing to be proud of. This movie is a piece of gratuitous cruelty and pointlessness. Too dark for kids, too childish for grown-ups.The short music clip passage after the death of the girl (when we see her happy, playing innocently and fading to transparency as a ghost) is ludicrous. Awful! It reminds me of the black & white scenes in Baywatch to evoke happy remembrances. It is as though, at the end of the movie, they judged that its emotional impact was not sufficient and added this scene.
When you are in to slow and sad movies this is the one! The post war sadness is depicted very well in this movie. Otherwise it is devoid of any action whatsoever. The storyline is very straightforward and does not offer many surprises.


                
