It's not an unpleasant experience overall: a simple story, cute kids, good scenes - just trying to be too dramatic without actually much content.If you've been watching any recent movies, you can see the art of making you feel has been improving considerably: good timing of dramatic music, paused dialogue and close-ups, etc. Even if you were not particularly caring for the characters, suddenly you find yourself feeling "this is serious" and maybe even your eyes water up - only to ask yourself why a few minutes later.Grave of the fireflies takes the basic formula: sad setting (war) + likable characters (cute children) and lets it unfold, adding cardboard characters as needed (cold portrayal of Japanese society, impolite or uncaring neighbors for no reason, etc).There is a senseless "flashback" from the main characters watching themselves which adds nothing. Character development is a bit limited, as you see the survival strategies ramp up a bit, but no real effect or reason on why that is. In fact, the conclusion arrives for lack of awareness, not lack of resources. Which contradicts the negativity of the war setting..Anyway, not too unpleasant, except for the "intellectual dishonesty" of shoving drama down the throats of the viewer.


                
Having watched other Studio Ghibli films, I had high expectations going into Grave of the Fireflies. However, I must say that I was left feeling exactly the same as I did before it began. While countless other viewers are saying that it was "one of the most emotional and powerful movies of all time", I can't help but disagree. The biggest reason for my indifference about the characters was the lack of a back story- the time in most dramatic movies when the director shows how happy and care-free life used to be. As viewers, we don't obtain a good sense of what life was like for the children before the war. In fact, most of the movie was just Seita and his younger sister looking for food and shelter with strange music playing in the background. There might be 10 minutes or less of dialogue in the whole hour and a half I wasted watching the movie! Who is Seita? What is he like? What does he like to do? When did his father leave? Was he a good father? What was it like for the family once he left for the war? None of this is answered. Therefore, it's hard for me to feel anything for them when they die. You may be thinking that this seems quite heartless of me but I must say that I am often quite emotional when it comes to dramatic movies. Titanic, Where the Red Fern Grows, and Bridge to Terabithia are enough to leave me with tears running down my face. Grave of the Fireflies was NOT powerful enough to do this. It had the potential to, but not enough back story was present to make you feel sad for the characters.
A lot if people say this film is "beautiful" and "tragic". To me the whole thing just feels like a very forced and heavy handed attempt to make the audience sad, while putting as little effort as possible into writing a good plot and compelling characters. It's easy to make us cry by forcing us to watch dying children, but that isn't good story-telling, it's just emotional manipulation. I'm reminded if that episode of friends where Ross writes a speech that makes everyone cry, and Monica tries to do the same thing, but instead of actually trying to write something beautiful and touching she just talks about the dead family dog in a really forced attempt to move people.
(Possible spoiler, though you know about a character(s) death in the 1st 15 seconds anyways) This is NOT a story about 2 kids fighting for survival in war-torn Japan. This is not about kids begging for food. This is not about kids scrounging for food. This is not about kids staying with adults who feed them. This is not about kids who line up to get their rations. This is not about kids who go to an intact city with their money and buy food.This is the story of a moron who unfortunately had the care of his kid sister. The social commentary here is that society was so broken down that it did not notice the brother abusing his little sister.This got a 4 for story and animation. It did not get a higher rating because I really do not like stories about helpless morons who cannot do what it takes to survive but who refuse to see they are unable to care for anyone else. I also did not like that most of the reviews make the moron/murderer into a hero and seem to admire him. I felt deceived by the reviews as I was expecting a sad story of kids who TRY to survive but are unable to. I did not expect a story of a kid who refuses to survive except on his own terms and who makes his loved one live those same terms. He must have been a clueless elitist. Other Japanese were/ are quite good at survival.Within about the 1st 15 minutes, you can tell Seita is a moron and too good to work. It just takes awhile to get to the murderer part. I should have followed my instinct to stop watching the movie when he puts his sister in danger gawking when planes are flying overhead. I really wanted to bash his head in at that moment --- Let me think: save sister vs shoes; save sister vs. watch planes, save sister vs talking to people...hmmm. Perhaps there is another statement in the movie -- that Japanese males were/are like this -- shoes before baby sister.Mothers will starve for their children . . . why do so many reviews seem to admire Seita and call this a struggle to survive? I thought the movie was more a statement that in war, some people will always choose to die, re: Seita, but most of society moves on. Unfortunately, the deathwishers will also sometimes take other people with them, usually those they love the most. Ah...I finally figured this movie out -- this is a drawn out story of a murder/suicide.


                
Nothing happens. It's just boring.Their entire lives could have been changed if Seita had just, oh you know, done some damn work instead of being a lazy ass. How do people feel sorry for this moron? It's HIS fault his sister died. He's an idiot. The movie was bland, nothing happens, I actually fast-forwarded just to make sure there was credits so I wouldn't have to watch a full hour and a half of the movie.If he really cared so much about her, he would've said sorry to the aunt, and SAVED her.This movie is way too over-rated. I feel duped.


                
If this had been a live action movie done with the style, acting, and gravitas of, say, "Schindler's List", it would deserve a place in the IMDb.com Top 10. And it could have been done that way with very few special effects. But it wasn't, and that's exactly what I find wrong with it. I feel that this was a horrible, horrible choice of material for an animated feature. Shouldn't an animated feature give us what can't be done in live action as movies like "Spirted Away", old Disney features, and anything by Pixar so incredibly do? As it was, I could not help but feel the strain as the movie makers tried to turn this into a movie that gets the viewer completely sucked into the emotional aspect of it all. Personally, I got more choked up watching "Spirited Away", and for that matter, "Finding Nemo"!I understand why and how badly people want to like this movie, but for me it didn't work at all. And I find the elevated ratings for it ridiculous. There are much better anime flicks out there than this.


                
This has got to be the most depressing film I have EVER seen.Films about Japanese survival after WWII are usually hit or miss. This was both.The first half was spot on. Dealing with the bombers' aftermath and the death of friends and family can never be portrayed as good. The acceptance of a new life was mandatory.But why did the producers insist on making these kids lives even more and more miserable as it went on? I almost prayed for both their deaths just to put them out of their misery. Couldn't SOMETHING go right for them? Sad movie buffs and guilty liberals will eat this up. I couldn't take it anymore. Sad is one thing, but don't beat us up with it.


                
