One of the great animated films of all time Grave of Fireflies tells the story of a couple of kids as the try to survive in war time Japan. What happens to them should be seen by anyone thinking of starting a war since it tells very graphically what happens to those often forgotten, the children.Like its companion piece, Barefoot Gen, which tells the story of survivors of atomic bombing and the horrors that were experienced by those unlucky enough not to have been killed out right, this film proves that war is hell for everyone, especially the children.Its very hard to send anyone out to see this unhappy little film (The previously mentioned Barefoot Gen spawned sequels, this has not) but at the same time you owe it to yourself to experience, however distantly what sort of monster we unleash upon the world every time we go to war. It helps that however depressing this is, its also a damn good and incredibly compelling story.9 out of 10


                
This is one of the most touching stories I have ever seen. Everything about it clicked beautifully. It was sensitive and emotional, without feeling sappy or too manipulative.The contrast between a teenage boy and a little girl trying to live their lives, and the ravages of war around them was a very strong and moving idea.The standard conceits of anime with large sappy eyes and small mouth movements with short pithy dialog wasn't at all distracting in this.(Spoiler warning)One of my favorite scenes is the sequence when Seito gets caught for stealing and is taken to the police, thus forced to abandon his little sister. The officer turns out to be very understanding, and the young teen Seito is quickly released; only to find that his sister has followed him into town, and is more concerned for him than her own well-being. The contrasts and emotions of the scene are very deep and effective. I loved it because it said a lot without being too heavy-handed.In fact, one of the greatest attributes of this story is its gentle underhanded approach. A few little moments add up to a great deal of philosophical themes, which whole pages of text couldn't really describe.It's really great to see an animated film deal with a very serious and tragic subject matter, once in a while.
I checked out this movie because I was looking for a film similar to Miyazaki's animated films. I was warned by my sister that this was a very very sad film but I decided to watch anyway.The first time I watched it I was completely haunted by the what if's that ran through my mind as other possibilities for a possible happy ending.Also the little girl Setsuko is so much like my own daughter and the fact that the older brother takes care of her...I found the story disconcerting because I have an older son and a little girl. I kept putting my children's faces over these animated characters faces.There is such a reality and innocence in the animated film that is sometimes overlooked but in this film it shines through. There are little things like the girl swinging her legs as she sits down on a train bench and crying as her brother pokes her (probably because her aunt just told her that her mother died) just shows some sweet drama of life that can be beautiful and you want to hold onto it. You want to keep these characters in your heart and not let go or at least I did.That said it was so sad that I determined not to watch it again, for the pain that I felt for these characters was real. I knew from my readings that lack of food was a major problem in Japan after WW II. I knew that things like this could have happened. Problem was I couldn't get the movie out of my mind so I decided to look more into it and study the movie and anything that was said about it. When I found out it was based loosely on a true story I decided to watch it again with my children. I felt like my children needed to know that there is suffering in the world. They were not affected as much as I was the first time.I understood it so much more the second time I watched it. The beginning made so much more sense to me the second time that I enjoyed it more.This is a beautiful movie and story. I recommend watching it and talking about it with your loved ones but at of course your own discretion.
I have to say this movie is really hard to get through. It's so heart breaking. Grave of the Fireflies is based on the semi-autobiographical short story by Akiyuki Nosaka. While the movie is well-made, there isn't much of a story arch. The opening minutes of the film, pretty much explains what happen to the characters of the film. There is little to no point of watching the film if you know it doesn't end well for them. People love watching Survival movies, because they know that the character will beat the odds and live. If you open the movie, knowing the characters are doom from the start. It put out that tribute of the human spirit out, quickly and you're just left in the dark. The movie by director Iaso Takahata (co-founder with Hayao Miyazaki's fame animation studio, Studio Ghibli) has this very dark overwhelming guilt trip hanging over it, like a black cloud. While, some people quoted the film, one of the most anti-war films of all time. The reason why Iaso Takahata made the film, is convey the image of the family living a failed life due to seclusion from society. While also, invoking sympathy in the 1980's youth of Japan, whom the director felt needed to straighten up and respect their elders for the pain and suffering they had experienced during World War 2. I found the movie trying really too hard to make sympathy for the two leads. Throughout the film, the movie had a lot of padding, only there for making us feel warm hearted to the characters. It could have easily been removed from the plot without affecting the story significantly. The film tells the story of two orphans trying to survive on their own, Seita (voice by Tsutomu Tatsumi in Japanese, J. Robert Spencer or Adam Gibbs in English version) & Setsuko (voice by Ayano Shiraishi in Japanese, Rhoda Chrosite or Emily Neves in English version) after their mother is killed in a firebombing raid by the Allies. Most of the English dubbing is mediocre, at best. The supporting cast pretty much read their lines without much emotion added to it. In my opinion, it's just better to watch the movie in Japanese with English sub-titles. The animation is pretty good at the time, but I did notice they did reused multiplies shots for the fire-bombing scenes. Also, in some scenes, the figures in the background tend to limited in animation. I would gladly want more. Like I said before, the whole story and characters are just one-dimension, and has no story arch to it. I think the 2005's life action version, delivers the characters arch even better. In that version, we see why the Aunt became crude and mean to them, due to the limit of food, rather than being told about it, in this film. She has selfish impulses as she singles Seita out and resents the fact that the kids get special treatment because their father is a Navy man. She accuses Seita of being lazy and not supporting the war effort, and praises those who do. Eventually, Seita grows tired of her criticisms and sets off on his own with his sister in tow, believing in his own capabilities to care for the two of them. In the end, he could had learn how to swallow his pride, but nothing is clarify here. All I know is his naiveté and pride end up shutting him away from the rest of society and cause doom for himself and his sister. Blind patriotism is talk throughout the film, that masks selfish impulses during the war and, afterward, Japan's inability to confront this past. The movie does use great symbolism with the fireflies. Like human beings, firefly shine from the inside out, as if liberating its interior beauty. Only in facing darkness, does the fireflies stand out. Fireflies represent light, illumination and mysterious. Fireflies symbolize inspiration and hope. Another symbol of the fireflies represent is guidance. The natural instinct of a being is to follow the light instead of getting lost in the night. And it's true that when you're walking in the night and you suddenly see a firefly, your natural reflex is to follow it, because it is fascinating, and because it looks like it's guiding us towards the right path. The Sakuma fruit drops is another symbol, which becomes a recurrent icon throughout the film. The quick emptying box of fruit candies stands for disappearing hope, that get refill by ash. Ash represented sacrifice, sensitivity and higher awareness. In a way, while not explain, the box that Seita carry around, is indeed his mom's ashes. It's weird in a way, that this film was initially distributed with the 1988's My Neighbor Totoro because the different in the films. One is really happy, while this film lead audience saddened. In the end, My neighbor Totoro became the more popular of the two. Overall: Wonderful tear-jerker based on autobiographic novel. While, the film is market to children and their parent. I doubt many children would like this film. However, I think it's a film that children indeed need to see, when they mature enough.
I would say this is among the most powerful war films ever made, right up there with All Quiet on the Western Front. In addition to this animated version, there is a complete live action version which can be seen in it's entirety on YouTube. Though less poetic, it is also very devastating in it's own right.On a personal note: In 1969 my father was stationed in Japan with the USAF. While hiking in the woods, we found numerous decaying shelters many with old bottles and scratch built stoves. I took an unusual bottle that I have to this day. This haunting film has really effected me. I will show it to my children when they are older and give them the bottle. I don't know whose disrupted life it belonged to, but can only hope that they or their children are out there somewhere today, enjoying fireflies for those who no longer can.
This is the saddest movie i ever see in my entire life.


                
This is a war time story and, while it has a slow pace, it couldn't have been told any other way. It's like a knife being slowly inserted and twisted in the wound.Everything begins with a "La Vitta e Bella" atmosphere: mother dead, father at war, brother and little sister going to a distant relative, brother sheltering the sister from the realities of war as much as possible. But the end of the film (which again, doesn't come abruptly, but gradually) is nothing like happy.This has no action scenes, no fight or physical violence scenes, no sci-fi and no fiction. It's an anime harsh reality that makes you cry your eyes off at the end of the movie. The movie is great, it's a must see for anime lovers or anybody else.I recommend to see again the start of the film after you have seen the whole movie.
The real meaning of tragedy in an animated film. Your tears will be so close. This is the first time I almost cry in an animated film. The film reveals the catastrophes of wars. The film is influential on all ages.The film opens on September 21, 1945, shortly after the end of World War II, at Sannomiya Station. Here, Seita (<U+6E05><U+592A>?), a 14-year-old boy, is seen dying of starvation. Later that night, a janitor digs through his possessions, and finds a candy tin, which he throws away into a nearby field. From the tin spring the spirits of Seita and his younger sister Setsuko (<U+7BC0><U+5B50>?), as well as a cloud of fireflies. Seita's spirit narrates their story alongside an extended flashback to Japan in the final months of World War II, beginning with the firebombing of the city of Kobe in March 16–17, 1945.The flashback begins with a fleet of several hundred American B-29 Superfortress bombers flying overhead. Setsuko and Seita, the two siblings, are left to secure the house and their belongings, allowing their mother, who suffers from a heart condition, to reach a bomb shelter. They are caught off-guard as the bombers begin to drop thousands of incendiary bomblets, which start huge fires that quickly destroy their neighborhood and most of the city. Although they survive unscathed, their mother is caught in the air raid and is horribly burned. She is taken to a makeshift clinic in a school, but dies shortly after. Having nowhere else to go, Setsuko and Seita move in with a distant aunt, who allows them to stay but convinces Seita to sell his mother's kimonos for rice. While living with their relatives, Seita goes out to retrieve leftover supplies he had buried in the ground before the bombing. He gives all of it to his aunt, but hides a small tin of Sakuma fruit drops, which becomes a recurrent icon throughout the film. Their aunt continues to shelter them, but as their food rations continue to shrink due to the war, she becomes increasingly resentful. She openly remarks on how they do nothing to earn the food she cooks.Seita and Setsuko finally decide to leave and move into an abandoned bomb shelter. They release fireflies into the shelter for light. The next day, Setsuko is horrified to find that the insects have all died. She buries them all in a grave, asking why they have to die, and why her mother had to die. What begins as a new lease on life grows grim as they run out of rice, forcing Seita to steal from local farmers and loot homes during air raids. When he is caught, he realizes his desperation and takes an increasingly-ill Setsuko to a doctor, who informs him that Setsuko is suffering from malnutrition but offers no help. In a panic, Seita withdraws all the money remaining in their mother's bank account, but as he leaves the bank, he becomes distraught when he learns from a nearby crowd that Japan has surrendered unconditionally to the Allied Powers. He also learns that his father, captain of the Imperial Japanese Navy heavy cruiser Maya, is probably dead, since nearly all of Japan's navy is now at the bottom of the ocean. He returns to the shelter with large quantities of food, only to find a dying Setsuko hallucinating. Seita hurries to cook, but Setsuko dies shortly thereafter. Seita cremates Setsuko, and puts her ashes in the fruit tin, which he carries with his father's photograph, until his own death from malnutrition in Sannomiya Station a few weeks later. In the film's final sequence, the spirits of Seita and Setsuko are seen healthy, well-dressed and happy as they sit together, surrounded by fireflies. The camera then moves showing the two looking down on the modern city of Kobe.


                
I'd heard about this film for several years, finally saw it at Target for a bargain price, and gave it to my 10 year old daughter for Easter. We're both big Studio Gibli fans. Yes, I knew it was sad and I warned my daughter about how sad it would be. But she's fairly mature and it's about time for her to see films about some of the horrible events of history.Grave of the Fireflies is a beautiful but frustrating film. The first five minutes caused tears to well up in my eyes and shivers to run down my spine, which I had to shake away before watching the rest of the film. I said I've got a spoiler here, but I'm not sure if it is or not. The spoiler is that despite the good heart of brother Seito, it is he who is really most responsible for his sister's death. His pride and, indeed, arrogance prevent him from taking the right steps toward protecting her. The film is anti-war and not anti-American. I actually saw it as being more anti-Japanese. I saw it as allegorical. Brother Seito represents Japan, whose pride and arrogance led to them waging war, promoting the war, and continuing the war long after it knew it would lose the war.Yes, I'm reading something in here. But, as other reviewers have mentioned, Seito makes so many errors in judgment--not just failing to return his sister to his aunt, but also in failing to use his mother's money to buy decent food until it is too late. It just all fell together for me that Seito was more a victim of wartime Imperial Japan than of the American bombs.
I am not a film critic and had never reviewed films......But thought i'd put in my two cents......As I was purchasing Spirited Away and Casstle In The Sky...I came across Grave Of The Fireflies.....I knew or heard nothing about this film...In fact, I didn't know much of Isao Takahata's work at all....And being an anime fan....I bought the movie.... Finally, I had a chance to watch the film.....and I could not stop crying....Not only because the film was a sad film......but also a heart warming.....when the spirits of the two siblings reunited..... The opening scene gave me the chills and haunted me a little....The last thing I expected was the main character telling me the day and year he had died as an opening line of the movie..... True to its nature that not all manga films are made for the children.....This film is quite realistic.......here we see the lives of two orphans in the closing days of World War II thorough their eyes and how little people care for one another when it comes to wars......and how it affects them.....I am going to buy a copy of this film and send it express post to George W Bush........and ask him to review and rate this film....I grew up with Japaness animation and will murder anyone who does not have an open mind or at least appreciate it for what it is..d(*_*))b.....Please watch this film......


                
This fundamentally unsettling film, presented in the form of exquisite Japanese animation, had me glued to my chair. Young lad Seita and his toddler sister Setsuko are left homeless after their Japanese town was fire-bombed during the last months of WWII. Their mother passes away in hospital shortly after the attack. Their father is with the Japanese Navy, somewhere out at sea. The two youngsters move in with their aunt, a very unsympathetic woman who only sees the two kids as a burden. The kids realise they are not welcome and move away to a disused underground bunker next to the river. There they try to manage on their own. When their money dries up, they resort to stealing food. Yet, in spite of their hardship, the two kids seem reasonably happy. Part of their happiness can be attributed to the magical displays of fireflies at night. Unfortunately, due to malnutrition, Setsuko gets ill, and from there on it is a down-hill run for the kids trying to survive in a country left with little food and even less charity. The tragic ending comes as no surprise; indeed, right at the start of the film we are informed that Seita passed away. The visuals are breathtaking, and some of the best I have ever seen in an animation film. The soundtrack perfectly fits the subject matter. The subtitles are clear and makes following the heart-breaking story-line easy. This powerful anti-war film underscores the utterly devastating impact of war on the most vulnerable, the children. It offers a lot of food for thought and, in my view, should be essential viewing for war-mongers. Unfortunately the people who should see this film, most probably won't. 9/10.
I am going to start out by saying that this was one of the most depressing movies I've seen in my entire life. But it was definitely one of the most beautiful animated films I've seen also, a film typical of the late 80s anime films by Studio Ghibli. What I liked about this film was the fact that it wasn't fantasy like say, Spirited Away. This was real, based on a true story, based on events that were definitely not just limited to one pair of children during wartime Japan. That's what makes it so heartbreaking: the fact that this is based in reality and that life is cruel and does not always have a happy ending. But the story of Seita and Setsuko is beautifully told and Setsuko is one of the most heartwarming little children I have ever seen in an animated film, she's just that convincing. The music fit the mood perfectly and the voice acting was top-notch: if you get the chance to watch this, watch it in the original Japanese. On a side note, this film made me appreciate the things I have, the fact that I have food to eat everyday and the fact that I have a place to stay and am not caught in some war. It just makes you feel so lucky to have what you have. Also, I would not recommend this for kids because of events that take place early on. Great film, made me cry and realize how lucky I am. 9/10.


                
This is the most touching animated feature I've ever seen. I truly cared about the characters and was saddened at the tragic events they had to deal with. A young teen boy and his four year old sister are orphaned while their father is in the Japanese navy and their mother is killed in a fire bombing. Though there are a few small bits of humor as a way for them to cope with their situation, I caution you not to think this is a typical Japanese Anime story. It's as gut-wrenching as any live-action war movie and shows the attacks on Japan in a way I've never seen depicted before, from the personal point of view of two children. If you can take it, I think it's an excellent film that tells an important story.


                
This is a very good movie. I recommend you that before watching it, erase from your mind all you've heard about "anime" (Mecha, robots, flying people fighting with super powers, etc.) Just sit there, forget everything and enjoy the movie.And, besides, this is a VERY realistic movie, very well drawn. You won't find anything in it that excuses the animation except little Setsuko behavior.It's more that a sad story, a real story, because...________ WARNING: SPOILER AHEAD _______________ ...because Isao Takahata (or Akiyuki Nosaka) shows us not two heroes nor two people which behavior should be followed as if they were. In fact, I think Seita could have done more: he could have worked in something (when you live in a Third-World country you see poverty situations like this every day, and how people struggles with them, not letting themselves die...). Seita and Setsuko are two very, very, very well represented cases of normal people... Actually, everyone (Seita's aunt, for example) and everything drawn in this movie is very very like real life.________ END OF SPOILER _______________
Rent it or buy it. It's one of the best animated movies I've seen. Disney hasn't (and maybe won't) do something like this movie. 9/10.
The closing scene especially. The ghosts of the children looking down on the cityscape of modern Japan, risen from the ashes of the war that killed their parents, and then took their lives. I wonder if Scorsese drew inspiration for the closing scene of Gangs of New York from this film. In any case, this movie stays with you.
This movie is a masterpiece that shows darkest sides of war, also shows the dark side of humans . a tragedy that never go out of your mind ,hate , anger , sadness ... . The movie is a powerful, touching, magnificent piece of work. Watch it at list once ...


                
I saw this film last night in a theatre as part of Studio Ghibli Fest. I had not been aware of it until yesterday although I have seen eight or nine Miyazaki films.No, I was not tempted to cry and I was sad. I had been coincidentally reading yesterday someone's story about how grateful his father had been for the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, about how despite continuing defeat the Japanese command would not surrender, and about how Eisenhower had decided to "fire bomb" the cities to stop the manufacturing of war materials. I don't know how much, if any, of this was true. I had never heard of the firebombing of Japanese cities until yesterday and here I was watching it in a movie.I was sad because all I could think of was how many children had been killed by the Japanese the previous many years of war and, only because of that warfare, these Japanese children died of starvation. So, if the film is to convince one of the evil of ideological warfare, I was moved. It is often said that truly crazy people are not aware that they are crazy; this is how I think of that Japanese war of conquest. Yes, yes, of course there are other frames of reference and everything I know could be wrong. I do know that this film shows both the culture that began the war and the tragic effects of that war. I thought of the children who died in Nanking, in the Phillipines, and in all the other places the Japanese military conquered. I think this is the complete effect of the movie--that war, for whatever virtuous reason, is crazy and that innocent people always suffer. The genius of this movie is that it shows us the faces of two very innocent lives that were destroyed by the craziness. For that, I rate it highly.


                
I'm not usually one to cry watching a movie, especially in public, but no matter how hard I fought, I couldn't contain myself. I've heard of this movie before, I knew it was really sad, so I thought I knew what I was in for, I was wrong. I assumed, because it was made by studio ghibli, it would be a kids movie, a dark kids movie, but still a kids movie, now I know its not, because if it was, it would follow the don bluth principle "a child can handle anything as long as there's a happy ending" this does not have a happy ending, its not even a bittersweet ending, its a "rip your heart out while you watch this 4 year old get cremated with her doll" ending.
I should acknowledge it's not all "tear jerky, heart breaky" there are some really cute and charming moments, like when the brother is chasing his sister around the beach, but that just makes her death harder to watch, and the flashbacks he has of her, after she dies, I couldn't contain myself during that scene.
(QUICK RANT)
Why are we still doing this, is there no better way to settle disagreements than murdering people. Is that what we are, creatures who have to prove how strong we are by destroying families. This doesn't just affect people who are in the war, it affects their families, their children, and everyone in the nation. How can we be this evolved and still think the best way to settle disagreements is by dropping bombs.
Sorry about the rant, that's just where my mind went to after watching this movie, but anyway, I recommend this movie highly, the only reason I didn't give it a 10/10 is because... well, I can only take so much, despite how much I love this movie, I never want to see it again. Now if you'll excuse me, I need to go cheer myself up a bit by watching a fun, light-hearted movie, like finding nemo, or spirit , or dead man walking.
I first saw Grave of the Fireflies in the fall of 2013 in my dark upstairs apartment in college; after finishing the film, I went straight to bed. Despite it being one of the most beautiful movies I had ever seen, it was about two years before I could bring myself to watch it again.The film follows fourteen-year-old Seita and four-year-old Setsuko in Japan in World War II. After their home is destroyed and their mother killed in a firebombing raid, they are forced to find somewhere new to live. A distant aunt takes them in, but as she grows more resentful of their unwillingness to contribute to meals and housework, Seita decides to move out for good. Now completely on their own, the siblings move into an unused bomb shelter and wait for the fighting to end.This is a complex story. On the surface, it is easy to view Fireflies as an anti-war film, given its brutally honest portrayal of victims of war. Director Isao Takahata, though, has denied this many times, and has said that it is instead a message to contemporary, young audiences to be thankful for the environment they live in. As a survivor of the Okayama air raids, Takahata saw attitudes around him shifting and felt that the younger generation was taking for granted the luxuries that they had.In the film, the United States is never referred to outright and instead provides the backdrop for the story. This is a story about people, not nations.Instead, I see this as primarily a movie about self-destructive pride, which is especially pertinent to a nation that often viewed suicide more highly than surrender, refusing to give up on a war that they had been losing for years. Beyond the attack at the beginning of the film, what the characters experience is a result of personal decisions and of the actions of those around them. There are multiple points at which our main characters' lives would have been changed for the better had Seita sucked up his pride and made the more responsible decisions.Beyond this, Grave of the Fireflies is a heartbreaking look at children as the silent victims of tragedy, war or otherwise; this story could have taken place in the wake a natural disaster and had the same power.Through its story, music and animation, Grave of the Fireflies is one of the most hauntingly beautiful films ever made. This is an experience that you will never forget and is one of the best movies that you may never want to watch again.


                
I've read most of the negative reviews for this movie and I really pity the members making them. There's just a shear lack of understanding and/or appreciation for what had gone on. As a kid during the same war period I can relate to this story and can understand why these negative reviewers really can't see nor understand why this is happening the way it is.For example, them leaving because of the Aunt. This is a classic case not just in Japan but for many cultures. Her attitude towards them is so disgraceful there is no choice but to leave. Yes, he could have stayed and help his sister out but eventually they will not get any food, water or shelter. Worst yet, they'll get beaten to death simply because the Aunt will choose to support her family instead of her Sisters. That's how evil this scene is without even being told out completely. Viewers don't understand this it seems. Maybe everything needs to be explain for them every step of the way, I've no idea.In fact, my Father, sister and I just started talking for hours the other night about the family's "travels" to avoid the war and get the kids to safety and eventually to the US. Let me tell those that don't understand; my Father's sigh from telling the story is a sigh that I will never be able to reproduce. No matter how hard my life has been up until now, it can never compare to what they have gone through and what little I have witnessed during the escape.Honestly, you can't imagine how hard it is until you've been there. Having said that, this movie does a good job at telling it's story. If you're reading the reviews for this movie I hope you consider what I've said. Some people aren't open minded enough to see what is being communicated with the movie and assumes by taking some things too literal, as in the boy not taking up a job. Do yourself a favor and watch the film with an open mind, you'll enjoy it more.


                
Grave of the Fireflies, set in Japan during the hellish summer of 1945, tells the story of a boy who takes on the duty of looking out not only for himself but also his toddler sister under some of the most dangerous conditions possible -- a catastrophic war with a horrible famine -- after his mother is killed in an American air raid. There's much work to do, but practically no food.The son does surprisingly well in letting his little sister be a little girl, introducing her to the beauties of nature and the Japanese culture even under the extreme conditions. Two things are lacking -- food and safety. Not all the fireflies are the innocuous insects; some are the small pellets of incendiary thermite that the US Army Air Corps drops upon the wooden buildings that are the norm in Japan. To go further I would have to spoil the movie ending. The animation is excellent, the symbolism is effective, and so far as I can tell, it could only have been an animation. The situation is simply to dangerous for live actors of any age, let alone children, and the destruction necessary to establish the true horror of war and hunger would be violate every ethic. A must-see, a classic anti-war film that puts the lie to the idea that the common Japanese people of World War II were unfeeling automatons who deserved what they got.


                
Grave of the Fireflies is na 1988 Studio Ghibli movie directed and written by Isao Takahata, which teels the story of ayoung boy and his little sister struggle to survive in Japan during World War II. What makes this film great is how real it is. It isn't always mystical and magical. It's brutal, gritty and very sad. I do love the original japanese version more than the english dub. I didn't like Setsuko's english actress at all. Sata's english voice was possibly the only decent one. The acting was just aful and possibly one of the worst dubs in the Ghibli series. Please watch this amazing and beautfull movie in the original japanese version. The visuals and animation have alot of grit as well as a certain flair to it. The soundtrack is just heartbreaking to listen to. Please watch this on bluray, as the dvd version has a very poor digital transfer to the disc. An overall great movie that odesn't shy away from impactful subjects.


                
There's always something so disarming about Ghibli movies. I put it down to the natural pace of storytelling. The studio is uncompromising in its decision to never spell things out for the audience too much. The pride of Seita, for example, and the tragedy in his refusal to return to his Aunt, leading to the demise of Satsuko. There's no big fanfare surrounding this, just a simple narrative achieved through straightforward dialogue and action. It doesn't sugarcoat Seita's decision, and therefore does not justify it. Like many pieces of art, there is no conscious design upon the audience, and that allows one to sympathise with all characters involved. Themes (such as war) are fully three-dimensional: the honour, the spectacle, and the crushing despair following Japan's unconditional surrender are all given equal weighting. A glorious film, all in all.
At the beginning of the movie i was doubtful how could one combine something so amazing as Japanese animation with the horrors of WW II. But as the movie went forward i did not even realize how me and my life partner stopped talking or moving at all. As i am writing this review, it has been several days since we watch it, but still i am deeply frightened about the horrors of WW II. Despite the main story line the movie had beautiful moments with amazing scenes. I recommend you to watch this movie with someone you love, so you would not feel as lonely as these pore kids had to be.
I am highly emotional person and for that reason i always avoided watching Grave of the fireflies. But the other night i found my inner strength to finally watch this masterpiece. And after the end of it i felt shattered, devastated, little depressed even. This movie is so brilliantly made that no word can describe the feelings you have after the end of it. This is not a movie so much about the war itself, it is a movie about how big of an impact the war have on the poor ordinary citizens of the country. This movie is one of the best, the best even, i have ever seen in my entire life. I still can't quite describe all the things i feel after watching it. I mean i knew it was going to be tough, but this was beyond any expectation i have ever had about it. In the beginning when the older brother dies in the subway station i knew i was goner. In this particular scene there was no music, no background noise, just emptiness and full silence. It was so heartbreaking that i felt i was the one experienced loss of someone dear to my heart. This movie is the kind everyone should see before they die, because it shows the other side of the war. It shows all the things we were never taught in school. It shows all the struggle these poor people experienced. Personally for me this anime taught me and another important lesson - the simple joy. All the scenes in which the brother and his sister are happy even for a few hours just for being on the beach, or running or eating candy are heartwarming even for a few moments. We are so greedy for so much more than we actually need that we don't appreciate all this little moment of joy while we can. As many people said and i totally agree, this is with no doubt the best movie i never want to see again. But everyone should watch it at least once in their lifetime. It leaves you speechless, sad, depressed, but also it educates you! It is a masterpiece indeed. And the fact that is animated it makes it so much more emotional and difficult to watch. There are no words that can describe it. You have to watch it for yourself.


                
