He died stupid. I have lived in Alaska, and I picked up the DVD out of a nostalgia for the place. Apparently the producers did not bother about Alaskan conditions or the realities of "living on the land" before shooting this dog. We have an idealist who burns money and gives his college fund to Oxfam to feed others, but in his wending west seems never to turn down a free meal or a free ride, while turning down implied and implicit offers to adopt him by those who have lost children, and turning down sex from a 16-year-old (ethical, but a bit out of place in a hippie encampment). He gets good advice from all the nice people he meets (the only not-nice person in the film is the railroad guard who beats him) and apparently forgets it all on the spot. In Alaska, it really gets silly. Apparently he is somewhere in the Tanana Valley, if his plant book is anything to go by, living in a steel bus hull lacking a window or two. I know a family who wintered in Tok (in that valley) in an insulated tent with no windows: they cut and burned a cord of wood _daily_ to survive (they did have a chainsaw). He apparently stops cutting wood entirely after gathering some sticks on a beach in California. Certainly, he lucks out in the matter of light--whoever abandoned the bus apparently left gallons and gallons of oil behind--he is never in the dark. Or without matches, for that matter. He kills a cow moose, apparently with a .22, which is really wonderful shooting--moose have been known to pay about as much attention to .22 bullets as they do to yellowjackets. In good weather, he seems to spend his time mooning in the bus instead of hunting, fishing, or bringing in wood for next winter. When he gets desperate for food to the point of delirium, he eats the wrong plant and poisons himself. It was depressing to learn that this was a "real" story, that a genuine kid apparently was this appealing and this dumb. I am sorry for his family who were, according to him, terrible parents. All of our parents were terrible in one way or another. Most of us get over it, at least those of us who live past 23.


                
This movie is it. It was very difficult to separate my own personal taste from objective review but after a day or two of simmering I think I can encapsulate my thoughts on this truly disappointing movie.Basic things like expository narration. This is a movie not a radio play. Having the redundant narration of his sister (which was very poorly done) sounding like an actor reading through lines in a coffee shop rehearsal lacked authenticity and constantly removed you from the ability to make your own conclusions about the emotional state of the characters. The choice to have on multiple occasions Chris stare directly at the camera utterly baffled me. Moments like that (say at the ending of Magnolia) should generally be reserved for situations where character and audience through the weight and momentum of the story are drawn to some mutual realization (not exclusively but you get my drift). Once is maybe OK but, again, as with the narration, the self-centred direction is encouraging us to accept the movie's supposed profundity by continually doing this amateurish nonsense rather than having the confidence to let the story stand on its own merit. Very, very lame direction there.The dialogue was utterly unbelievable and preachy. Now I can take a story with a moral focus or political slant as much as the next guy but it seems like a case of a writer not having a clue what a screenplay is supposed to be. Actions should be more important than words or at least on equal footing but in this movie, words are not parts of conversations between the characters or even thoughtful narration but rather some sermon directed AT the audience. The movie was like its own good review.."Look at how sublime I am! Look at how profound I am!"The acting by everyone except Hirsch was good. Hirsch was a single note playing for two and half hours. Zero empathy was derived from his monochrome performance. The character begins self-centred and dies self-centred. It could be argued that his "call it by its real name" blathering was monumental change in his character that was the culmination of this journey but it was sabotaged by an actor with no range and a director with no confidence in either the story or its performers. Instead we are left with everything being spelled out for us ..yet again.. about how seeing the world through Chris' eyes is the only way to see the world.The only reason I didn't give I a single star was because it looked great. This movie was a pretty big insult I think, since attempts to spiritualize a character or more correctly, spiritualize his "experiences", without ever giving the audience a chance to empathize. Instead we get sermonized. This DVD is only good as a coaster for my drink.
For me, this was by far the single most pretentious and overrated mainstream film of 2007. Even without reading the article on Wiki, I guessed that this guy was either schizo or bipolar. For a guy who supposedly majored in History and Anthropology, Chris McCandless was hugely sentimental and romantic, and ultimately just foolish. So he reads Tolstoy and Thoreau, and trudges off into the wild ?? Perhaps he ought to have read some Kafka and Dostoevsky too : he would have realized that for man there is simply no escaping himself and the world. So yes, society is indeed based on mutual deception and empty conventions, but rejecting everyone and everything isn't the solution. Far from it. Its much more challenging to be a part of society and yet try to lead an authentic life. How many such radicals and "total solutions" have we already seen in the past ?? They always fail.The film itself sheds zero light on the motives of the real Chris McCandless. I don't think it tells the truth about what actually happened to him. He lives in an alternate universe where he can happily live in the wild and on city streets after living a pampered upper-class life for 22 years. No troubles, no complaints. And throughout its long runtime, the film goes on hammering the point that society and civilized men are terrible, and bums, hippies and the dregs of society are the Lord's cherished angels.It figures that Sean Penn, the fashionable self-styled outsider, would make something like this. Its right up his alley. I didn't enjoy this at all. Above all else, its dreamy and unrealistic. Its an ironic film, in that its a lesson for young people what NOT to do, i.e. turn your back on your responsibilities and look for ultimate solutions.
I use IMDb scores as a pretty good guide to a film. If it's over 8/10 I'm pretty much guaranteed I'll enjoy it.Not this time. This was the worst film I've seen this year.The main character was unbearably smug. It was nauseating seeing him almost punch the air at his good fortune, giving it all away and living for the moment. Ho hum, here comes another pan-out on a helicopter. Most of the film felt like an ad but the cans of coke never arrived. In fact ads these days have more conflict in it than this film.I kept wishing ill on him just so we could have a little tension. Sure, a few parental issues but they loved him very much. The negative should have come out a lot stronger. Instead we are narrated the story by the only character more mawkish than our hero, his sister.I'm a nature buff who's lived an unconventional life with lots of travel. But really, it took him two years, 2.5 hours of film and endless philosophising to realise that people need company? Come on. Maybe if he had time to watch one Hollywood blockbuster, he would have learned that and we could have all saved ourselves the bother.


                
How did the bus get there? Of all the questions (pseudo and real) that Sean Penn's latest film, Into The Wild, is so manifestly trying to provoke- and in a semi-retarded hippy-cum-tree hugger sort of way, this most basic and elemental plot point is never addressed. But, more on that later.The film is based upon the 1996 nonfiction bestseller by Jon Krakauer, about a spoiled rich white suburban boy who basically commits suicide in the Alaskan wilderness, although he is so painfully unaware of the real world that he does not even know his own dark- almost Objectivist, impulses, and where they will lead. The book the film is based upon was a good read, even if one might question the wisdom of making a martyr out of such a delusional narcissist as Christopher Johnson McCandless (Emile Hirsch)- the 24 year old who starved to death on the aforementioned bus, after accidentally poisoning himself with inedible berries, in the middle of Alaska's wilds, after adopting the pseudonym Alexander Supertramp.The lead character is simply annoyingly repellant- perhaps only Roberto Benigni's lead character, Guido, in the awful Life Is Beautiful, makes a viewer more actively root for the character's death. In that film the lead character is so annoying that one actually roots for the Nazis to kill him, and in this film McCandless is so pompous and the film so long (140 minutes, compared to a book barely over 200 pages) that, at the hour mark, one wishes he'd just die already, so one can vacate the theater. But, no relief will come for over an hour. But, as repellant as Chris McCandless, the character, is, the direction by Sean Penn- in his first truly big budget feature, is ATROCIOUS! Yes, Penn is a great actor, but his direction, and even worse screenplay, make this film a chore. Only some stellar acting, mostly by supporting actors, saves this film from total disaster<U+0085>. That so many people identify and sympathize with this unfortunately deluded and hollow young loser bespeaks how little they even notice themselves, and their own flaws, much less the many other McCandlesses that proliferate in cafes across the nation. Life is as real, both for the good and ill, in a New York City deli, a doctor's waiting room, or in a tenement, as it is on the peak of Mount Everest, riding the tube of a forty foot wave in Hawaii, or trekking through the Amazon. McCandless never learned this for no one seemed to care enough to even try to stop him. Of course, even had they, he was so selfish and uncaring of others' feelings, that he likely would not have been deterred. And, Penn would likely not have cared to make a film about such a character, anyway.So, given the predetermined mess of this film, I return to the opening query- how did the bus, which the film refers to as 'magic'- thank you to The Who, get there? A Google search reveals the bus was fortuitously left by a highway construction company, decades earlier, to be used as a waystation for hikers, hunters, and campers. Since everything else in this film is so obvious, I just thought you'd want to know that and, also, to avoid this film. Thank me later.
This movie reflects the typical mom and dad's rich boy that is tired of being rich so he wants to break the bonds with society. Interestingly, he keeps taking advantage of what society has to offer, like a society's leech: taking rides from people, going by train without paying his ticket, getting free food from poor souls that pitied him, etc. Into the "wild"... was that the case? The first thing he did once he arrived to Alaska was to live in an abandoned van with "heater", oil, matches, rice?! I didn't know you could grow rice in Alaska in the middle of the hard winter... Everyday you learn something new. My favorite part was when he, a rich boy, was going to stay at the shelter, surrounded by poor people. I wonder what the indigents would say if they knew he was loaded. Its a stupid movie about the life of a tired to be rich boy that could only be liked by people that do not appreciate what they have. Its an insult. I cant believe people worship stupids like this pseudo-intellectual kid. Not worth watching.
good photography. performances OK. mr penn continues displaying his backseat limo liberal fodder in idealizing a self indulgent solipsistic brat. so he gives away the money his family worked for to ,"feed somebody".had he been truly sympathetic to the downtrodden he could have made better use of his time than to be playing vagabond (knowing ultimately that he had a place to go if necessary). to idealize this teenybopper unabomber is vulgar. no feelings of consequence for his action, only let's play some more because it's fun. no contribution to society, no recognition of the pain caused to the sister he supposedly "loved". this guy was by definition a sociopath. for a film to exalt this loser is a sad commentary on humanity. perhaps one day little sean will be able to progress beyond his adolescent ego, but that is doubtful.


                
Read Walden instead. This sad exploration of one boy's stupidity in his quest for isolation left me wondering why everyone likes this movie so much. The pacing is slow. The reasons behind our hero's actions are not explained enough to make them believable. The "interesting" characters that he meets on his journey are mostly hollow shells of some "meaningful" stereotype.The cinematography was solid. The images of Alaska were stunning. The feeling of isolation was very real. I like deep, thoughtful films about life, meaning, and self discovery. This just was not one of them. Though it tried.


                
Why in the world is this self-indulgent fool being hailed as some kind of modern hero? If a man decides to wander off into the wilderness with no preparation, no survival skills, no food and no water, there is only one inevitable outcome: he will DIE! Apparently, this reality was lost on Chris McCandless. He thought that if he had a rifle, he could hunt for food. Strike one. I guess he found out the hard way that there is actually some technique involved in hunting game and not just firepower. He also thought that if the had a book on flora, he would be able to forage. Strike two. Many plants and berries look very much alike and without some actual experience, the poison looks very much like the fruit salads. He thought that shelter was just a luxury that modern folks had become accustomed to. Strike three! You're outta here! Actual explorers throughout history made similar journeys, but with one major difference: they prepared for every conceivable situation. Even with that preparation, many of them died. For this arrogant little twerp to think he was better than all those who came before him shows a profound lack of respect for the wild. That lack of respect cost him his life. His story should be a warning to others, not an inspiration.


                
Well Mr. Penn certainly made a beautiful film, filled with great acting performances and I always appreciate good storytelling. I do find it a shame that this wonderfully told story is the most unmoving story I can remember in recent history. I love the notion of following one's dream no matter what the cost but I can't help but feel that this kid just needed to be loved and in not feeling so ran from his pain. That is not following a dream, that is running from disappointment that he was not strong enough to deal with after a childhood of being spoiled. I find it a real shame that so many people in our society live with similar disappointment that they are moved by a story that is so over-told it's tired.


                
The lovely scenery. That's it.This is Sean Penn's valentine to a dead, spoiled rich boy-brat's pretensions. Nothing more. McCandless was a cold hearted, selfish creature who seems to have thought that everything should be all about his wants and needs. He whined about how sick our twisted society was and made no attempt to correct anything. He simply scooted off into the back country, where he traveled about, got beaten up, and finally died a needless, useless death.The one person I found interesting was the railroad bull. Undoubtedly, we were meant to see him as a violent, savage support for the evil old society That Poor Chrissy so righteously despises. I've worked on a railroad and the bulls know what they're up against: many of these freeloaders are not the cheery, story telling hobos of yor-- many are ruthless professional criminals who will kill somebody for five bucks. The bull doesn't necessarily enjoy what he does but he does it because it must be done to protect the railroad, us (think of the merchandise you buy that travels by train,) himself and yes, idiots like Hirsch's McCandless, who never think of how dangerous riding the rails can be.And in the end, the movie McCandless' journey ended as did the odyssey of the real one-- a miserable, pointless death in the middle of nowhere. One thing that amuses me is how Chris' worshipers like to blather about how, unlike so many of us, he wasn't content with the 9-5 routine in our allegedly sick society, he lived his life the way he wanted, the way it was meant to be lived, etc., as if the path he took is the only authentic one. And of course, the ones who rant the loudest against our technological society in the process do so while using a computer to post on the Internet. Thus proving that they are hypocritical fools perfectly matched to the arrogant McCandless, a kid with very little to be arrogant about.
This movie is hardly deserving of the rave reviews it has received. This shallow movie has no point, the main character has no redeeming qualities, and though this movie has a lesson, it is so sorely obvious it is not worth watching the entire movie to figure out.The movie is a jumble of random events and flashbacks from a troubled boy's journey to Alaska. He meets some hippies, works at a few fast food joints, and lectures an old man who lost everything about the meaning of life. The events are broken up, scattered, poorly written dialogs and clichés and full of dead spots where the "protagonist" is simply sitting there in a filthy condition which is meant to represent his hard and meaningless journey.The main character has no purpose. He is simply a deeply troubled intellectual whose family completely messed up. It can be described as a soap opera: His father left a previous marriage to marry his mistress who is already pregnant with this story's main character, during the time which the movie takes place, his parents are currently thinking of divorce, and he is so deluded and depressed he thinks he can take on the Alaskan wilderness and find some deeper meaning to life outside the populated world which he views as more twisted and false than he is. Summarized: the main character is so arrogant that he thinks he can do anything.The lesson of this movie?: Don't go into the Wilderness. Ever. Especially if you are a demented kid with no training or experience. Countless people told him he would, with 99.99% certainty, die. He dies. No one saves him. Not even the books. Here's what the main character learns and advises: Call everything by its proper name. Wow, I am so inspired.However, I gave it a two. Why? The sister's monologues were good and some of the camera shots of the wilderness were just beautiful. The rest is horribly misguided mess of clichés and overrated stupidity.Enjoy.
As far as I can see, this movie was and is pandering to people with their heads in the clouds, who will think movie is great, and that Christopher McCandless is some sort of idealized, wilderness casualty. Christopher was a bad planner, a bad organizer, a bad hunter, and a really bad navigator. I almost believe he had a suicide mission, (which later I believe he changed his mind about, but it simply was too late, and he knew this fact with desperation), doing this trip without any of the things he needed. Christopher was educated, smart, so there is no excuse for his actions concerning this venture of his into the wilderness. Delirious starvation, led to not finding a river crossing. Bad circumstances made food in cabins nearby not edible. One of his last entries in his diary made it clear he was afraid to die, to die alone, and that he was desperate to live, but hopeless at the same time. He should have had a compass in his travels, but he did not have one at the time of his death in his possession, which does puzzle me. People will always go where angels fear to tread. One can only hope other people won't make bad decisions to go on trips unprepared, but some people always will, so one can only hope the best for those people, and hope no one follows their footsteps to their death also.


                
I stumbled across this movie over the weekend on cable. I kept watching thinking that there would be some redeeming quality for this movie by the end. Not so. The idiot sets like a spoiled brat pouting at his parents. It is supposed to be such a thumbing his nose at the material world in search of realism. His existence is only supported by the fruits of others labors and kindness. He is idealistic and ill- prepared for to sustain himself in his folly. After the ending I was less sympathetic to him and more for the time I can not recapture watching this feckless brat. Having not known it was based on a true story till the end I did feel somewhat compensated by the outcomes.
I was a little hesitant to see this cos of Penn's over-emotionally charged material he directed before.Guess what I was right at the beginning.I'm sure that guy has been through a couple of things in his life but.It's a brave thing demands guts to leave your family like that.Overall is this the right way of telling his story.Penn is so much pretentious it made me puke.Over-long and just cos you have the rights to use Eddie Vedder's beautiful voice doesn't mean you should every minute.Multi layered time structure sure added some grip in it but that's all.Penn demands your empathy way too much, why the audience ought to feel sorry for him cos he ate a bad fruit ?
First off, no disrespect to the actual people portrayed in this film. I don't know them, and I haven't read the book on which this film is based. Therefore, I'm writing this solely about the impression I had of these individuals after seeing the film.Let's start with the positive things I can say about the film. I think Emile Hirsch did a fine job in this role. You can see his dedication play out on the screen and he gives the character a believable quality. Also, the nature shots and scenery were at times beautiful.Now let's go onto the negative things. 1) The film did nothing to make me care about the supposed "hero". In fact, he's downright annoying, selfish, and hypocritical. He flees his home on a nature quest because he no longer wants to participate in society. We see flashbacks of his parents being abusive to each other, and the narration tells us that the parents often put the kids in the middle of it all. I realize people can have pretty awful childhoods, but was his really that bad? The parents clearly were trying to do right in the present day (they attended his graduation and offered to buy him a new car!). People go through a lot worse and do not try to solve their problems by running away. It really made me feel like the main character was a spoiled brat who read a few literary classics about surviving in the wild, threw a tantrum and just ran away. I cannot sympathize with this character. I did not feel connected to this character. I actually rather disliked this character. He accuses society of being hurtful and people being so mean to each other, yet he seems completely unaware of how his actions have lead his family to suffer (particularly his sister, who REALLY did nothing to deserve it). It's really selfish and totally naive. At the same time, he offers advice to others about what life is all about. This guy didn't have a clue what life was about. He didn't have a clue how much pain he caused his family. He didn't realize how selfish his actions were. I didn't realize until after the film ended that this movie was based on a true story. I feel very sorry for the family whom had to deal with this, and there may be more to the story that is left out of the movie. But as far as I'm concerned having just seen the movie, this guy seems absolutely crazy and rather horrible to cause so many people so much suffering (not to mention the police, state, and government resources wasted on trying to locate him).2) I don't think the film can decide what it wants to be. Is it a nature flick? Is it a documentary? Is it a drama piece? It tries to be everything and misses on all accounts. This is not to say that there aren't good moments in the film. For instance, I rather liked the interactions the main character had with others on his nature quest. Yet, that's a minor part of the film. Most of the movie is just Emile Hirsch running around in the wilderness, and it's kind of boring. The film runs on about 45 minutes longer than it should have. For fun, try fast forwarding through the movie at 10x. You'll notice you can still catch almost everything that's happening. It's THAT redundant.3) Horrible narration throughout the movie. The main character's sister does not have a good narrating voice, and the narration seemed almost unnecessary. I could go on to say more, but it's not really worth it. I think there's too much to be grateful for in life to behave like the main character did. Maybe that's the point of the ending - that he came to the conclusion that he was wrong about life? It's not clear, but what is clear is that it was too late to get me to care about him or the movie.
The only reason I'm giving Sean Penn's tedious, pretentious vanity project a "2" is for the sometimes spectacular cinematography. After all, it's pretty hard to get a bad shot of the Alaskan wilderness. Aside from some amazing exterior optics, pic goes downhill quickly, dredging up unsavory memories of decades past of the sanctimonious, hypocritical faux-hippies who sponged off of their families, charities, or suckers for handouts. The 2017 term for this is "Beg-Packing," in other words, backpacking vagabonds who become lazy street beggars or buskers, getting sympathetic donations from suckers to fund their misbegotten odysseys. These days, the more ambitious beggars even have online sites grubbing for "crowdfunding" donations to bankroll their next latte or airline ticket. Emile Hirsch's portrayal of this quintessentially unlikable punk, Christopher McCandless (who myopically sees himself as some sort of an iconoclastic young rebel) distills down to a self-entitled brat who enjoyed a cushy, full-ride through college, thanks to the funding by his parents, but who has since turned into a bum. Hirsch's character simply goes aimlessly on the road as a hobo, and decides that it would be a great idea to become totally incommunicado with his family, leaving them frantic with worry over his fate or very survival.I can't decide what makes Hirsch's character more obnoxious, his disregard for the feelings of the family who raised and supported him, or his ignorant, foolhardy, and ultimately fatal trek into the Alaskan outback without a scintilla of preparation or knowledge of the hazards of wilderness life. By the way, "Into the Wild" is a gross misnomer since Hirsch's character hikes in a whole ten miles or so into the Alaskan wild, then he ends up setting up housekeeping in an old abandoned bus that someone had converted into a makeshift home, compete with a serviceable if somewhat decrepit stove, a bed and so forth. This is not a pioneer's life-style - it's that of a bum who lucked into what had once served as someone else's abode, temporarily delayed his death as a human interloper in the frigid world of snow storms, dangerous bears, and questionable food sources.I ended up rooting for the bears, the only living creatures in pic that evoke any empathy. It's not a bear, but an unwisely scavenged wild food choice, that finally finishes off our self-styed anti-hero (that's what I meant about preparation and knowledge of the wild). McCandless in real life might have achieved some of the nobility he thought he possessed by doing something that was actually worthwhile, you know, like joining the Peace Corps and helping other people in the wild, instead of leeching off of them. But begging and bumming it are far easier than working to help the lives of others less fortunate.An "8" by IMDb reviewers? Seriously?!
For anything based (especially closely) on a true story, there is no getting away from the basics of the story. And for this one, there's no getting away from the fact that McCandless made decisions throughout the narrative so bad most 6-year-olds would do better. I have thought this since the original Backpacker article, and do not understand why anyone cares why this particular person got himself killed in the wilderness. The movie had a chance to do that regardless and I totally gave it a chance. Films can use the medium to express a different perspective even of topics that you disagree with. In that, Penn and his cohorts totally, totally failed me. It's 100% an L.A. version of what the outdoors is about, repeated encountered with what I can only characterize as the idealized version of hippie/dropout culture; really every scene to me was trite. The narration, overly-digital handwriting, and whole structure (everything, all the way through contemporary pop music every 11 minutes to set the timeframe,) completely ruined it for me and not once did I ever get totally absorbed into the story, and think I was watching anything but a TV movie.Two stars only because it was executed in a fundamentally workman-like manner, and there was no actually painful acting, mismatched footage, overly visible crew or FX, etc. But it was a close call. Bad show.


                
I've seen Into the Wild without prior knowledge of the topic apart from the fact that Sean Penn directed it. Therefore my review is based on what i've seen and not what i've learned while researching afterward.Sean Penn has always been known as a rebel, sometimes with and sometimes without a cause. Christopher McCandless, the main character of the movie, was hardheaded, as well, which presumably caught his attention.The movie has been made during George W. Bush's second term as President of the United States. Sean Penn has been dissatisfied with his administration and very vocal about it. Therefore there might be a cryptic message that people like Christopher McCandless built the United States. They were valiant individuals (and individualists) who gave their best to fulfill their dreams of a better life. And what time is better to send this message than before the elections...Despite art-house ambition, Into the Wild is rather mainstream in it's essence. The main character travels across the United States and even changes several lives on his way. Although i wouldn't agree with his relation to reality the movie was still watchable.However, at the moment when Christopher McCandless moves into the wilderness, the message of the movie became questionable. He didn't only go without a map, but almost without provisions. Yet, it was still his choice to do so. But the movie goes one step further and implies that it is alright to pursue your dreams, even if you put your life in danger.The soundtrack by Eddie Vedder fits wells into the movie, although i'm no fan of his and wouldn't listen to it again.


                
Film begins after 16 minutes of actual playtime. Endless voice-over, endless soundtracks, minimum useful conversations, lots of slow-motion. Multiple narrators telling the story in simple words but even with such an approach lots of details and pieces in the story are missing. Poor direction!Cinematography was OK. The names of places are not shown which should be important part of the story as the protagonist is always on the move. Filler scenes could have been more interesting.And of course someone is always preaching things for you on how to live your life.Btw, I have not read the book.
I was just waiting for something good the main character will do...but no, he just keeps you disappointing at every minute of two and half hour. So my best suggestion is to not watch this movie and get irritated by wasting your time for such a mindless journey of the world's most dumb person. But if you want to know how people go so low and die in the end then its a movie for you.
A man who was not very satisfied with his life .. of say his parents lies .starts to hate the society .he is a bright kid .good in academics. wait he even like adventure.so the lies and the adventure adds to his running away . good . but after a point the movie seems a drag . although the acting of the characters was very good. very well character development . although some parts of the movie were interesting . his interaction with others was repetitive.as a documentary it has a very good profile but 2 hours was far too much .it goes in a ultra slow mode. after watching the movie i felt bad partly for character . but mainly on the movie .
i usually like watching movies based in true story, but when the main character just lacks basic common sense and is celebrated for it, and not exploring the real victims like his family...sure sometimes going backwards when broken and figuring out where we went wrong is fine as long as we are not hurting ourselves and others in the process. but i guess that kind of angle cannot be expected from a director with abuse issues...
Last night I finally gave up watching "Into the Wild". Sean Penn's take on an individual's search for his own identity seemed to me to be too much of a movie seeking to lay blame on his parents for him running off to do what he wanted to do and pretty much getting by with that for several years. He ultimately died alone, but from what I could glean from it, that's what he wanted to do. I feel like this movie which has an 8 rating on several scales is a cheat, sort of the way "Dead Poet's Society" was a cheat. It blames people. I don't care for the blame game. The movie would have been better if it celebrated this young man's choice in leaving society and being happier for the last years of his life. I've read some reviews that say he's a spoiled rich kid, and there is that. He could have chosen to be more altruistic; however you have to love yourself before you can love others. He was looking for that, but chose to die in the wild rather than go back and be altruistic. I didn't see evidence that he ever saw love in our culture. That indicates to me that he didn't love himself either. I've read this is a true tale. He chose to die alone. The film would have been much better if it celebrated his choice and left off the blame game.
I would nominate this story for "Darwin Award". A movie about nothing, about a stupid young man and a foolish death. Something was wrong with this guy, he was an outsider tramp. Waste of time and my brain needs to be rehabilitated! Don't watch it. Not a good movie. Contradictory views of main character. I would nominate this story for "Darwin Award". A movie about nothing, about a stupid young man and a foolish death. Something was wrong with this guy, he was an outsider tramp. Waste of time and my brain needs to be rehabilitated! Don't watch it. Not a good movie. Contradictory views of main character. I would nominate this story for "Darwin Award". A movie about nothing, about a stupid young man and a foolish death. Something was wrong with this guy, he was an outsider tramp. Waste of time and my brain needs to be rehabilitated! Don't watch it. Not a good movie. Contradictory views of main character.
