The movie is well shot, got some nice nature in it, and well, some claim this guy to be a hero, but for me he (or better, the character in the movie) is just a self-righteous prick, one of those guys who know everything better, have the right intentions and if one does not comply and such a guy is in power he will burn you as a witch.Anyway, this guy died a silly death, because, well, he was even too "intelligent" to learn something basic about nature - what kind of plants you may eat and what kind you better leave alone. Na, if you got the right intention you may eat everything. But let's face it, nature got one basic rule: survival of the fittest. The guy didn't stand the test - I am not claiming that I would be ready for living out in the wild, but at least I know my limits and if I would dare such an experiment/experience I would do some (lots of) preparation. A hero!? No. Imho more a candidate in need of professional mental health care - living in the wild is harsh, unforgiving and laborious, not the romantic bulls++t this guy got somehow in his mind (maybe too much Jack London is to blame). The movie is not bad and well shot and got good actors, but I got one main trouble and mixed feelings with Into the Wild, the movie is imo trying to make a hero of someone who was everything but a hero and with professional help, he would maybe be still alive. But in the end, who cares!?
"Into the Wild," has the ingredients that should lead to a good film; a talented cast, an Oscar-winning actor at the helm, and what should be the compelling story of a young man who left everything behind to find himself in the wilderness. Unfortunately, the movie is marred by several problems. One of them is the two hour and twenty minute running time. The film would greatly benefit if it were trimmed by thirty minutes. There are constant shots of Emile Hirsch as Christopher McCandless, standing on top of a mountain, bus, anything he can stand on and spreading his arms towards the sky. The film is also weighed down by an overly dramatic, pretentious voice over that reminds the viewer they're watching a movie every time they hear it. Sean Penn's direction is at times heavy-handed and self-conscious, which is surprising coming from an actor as gifted as Penn. Emile Hirsch is appealing but his performance has a self-awareness in certain key scenes that are meant to illuminate what drives Christopher. This is especially apparent in the scene with his parents, played by William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden, the first encounter with Catherine Keener's character, and the bar scene with Vince Vaughn. I have not read the book on which the movie is based, but probably the biggest flaw with the film is that Christopher McCandless comes off as a spoiled, self-righteous, whiner. The people Christopher meets along his journey, however briefly, are infinitely more interesting and engaging than he is. The best part of the movie, and the most meaningful, is the section with Hal Holbrook, who does a beautiful job. It's a shame the rest of the movie is not as seamless and unaffected. I know there are people who will find this film to be profound, and they are correct. It is profoundly boring and in love with itself.


                
The great Writers, Photographers, Painters, Poets have toiled and struggled for centuries to understand life. Their joy and pain and happiness and suffering is all there for us to study. Instead what do some people do, they hero worship a fool like McCandless.It irritates me that Sean Penn needs to idealize Christopher McCandless and his little adventure. I don't doubt Penn's skills as a filmmaker but I think his ideas are somewhat pretentious. Penn does not make an attempt to truly understand the psychology of what appears to be a very disturbed young man, instead he tries to suggest that 'Supertramp' is some sort of messianic character.Nature, like life, does not suffer fools well and making heroes of people like Christopher McCandless just distracts us from the journey that centuries of civilization has been partaking in-- Life. - PCL


                
I came into this movie knowing nothing about the true story behind it, only that it was well received by critics, Hal Holbrook got an Oscar nomination, and Eddie Vedder did some cool songs for the soundtrack. Little did I know I was about to watch what happens when a spoiled 22 year old goes off the deep end because he hates his parents. There are people who romanticize his tale, but it's all essentially a cliché: young person thinks they have life all figured out and slowly learns the hard way that they don't have the first clue. Nothing insightful that was gained was worth his life, and I have no doubt had he lived he would have regretted how foolish and reckless he had been.
With the exception of "Across The Universe", this movie may very well be one of the most pretentious movies I have ever seen. Are there good points to this movie? Absolutely. -The scenery is utterly breathtaking. -Chris's adventures have a dreamlike, peaceful quality to them that lets you appreciate the beauty of the wilderness. -The supporting characters Chris meets along the way are interesting, wonderful characters. Here's where the movie gets lost in its own self-absorption-The philosophical rants are best described by watching "Good Will Hunting". Spouting famous philosophy and preaching "deep", recited understandings of the world in such a way that completely undermines the vast array of viewpoints and experiences of the many different people in the world end up looking so egotistical that it's nauseating to watch. -Blaming one's problems on the crap that life brings is pathetically immature. You can't sympathize with a spoiled, rich kid who decides the world is a sham because his parents were not perfect. His sister, spouting her robotic reflections on Chris' life, reflects no emotion, no true reaction, just a passive acceptance that is completely unrealistic. -It's hard to buy into the hippie, anti-materialistic celebrations in a movie that shows only the superficial, commercial-like beauty of both nature and people- for much of the movie, nature is friendly and nourishing, without acknowledgment of the dangers and harshness that are equally present. The characters met along the way often look like they are on their way to posing in a beer or shampoo commercial, rather than natural, human, real representations. Nude bodies in the real world are not so perfect as that. This kind of hypocrisy always makes me laugh in movies who try really hard to be deep and real, but only by following the standard Hollywood beauty formula. -The main character is not likable. He is not someone who a person can connect with, understand, or relate to, despite his desires to escape, which we all feel from time to time. The fact that his immaturity and absolute arrogance are celebrated rather than explored ruins the film for me. All in all, there is something in this film, but that something is utterly lost under the rubbish.


                
It was critically acclaimed, full of stars, and Academy nominated, but Into The Wild wasn't for me. The film is based on the true story of Christopher McCandless, a young man in search of true freedom. A recent college graduate, inspired by naturalist literature, McCandless decided to travel to Alaska and live off the land. The film follows his journey, from college graduation and is an amazing story. Emile Hirsch gives an unbelievable performance as McCandless but was snubbed by the Academy. I suspect it was for the same reason I didn't like the film, it is unbelievably slow. The story and cast are amazing, but everything is so sedentary and precise, that you can barely sit through the thing! Some three hour plus films, don't feel anywhere near that long, that's how you know they're great. On the other hand, Into The Wild easily feels much longer than three hours and unfortunately doesn't do the story justice.


                
I think I may turn off one movie in a hundred, and I rarely am tempted to review a film, but seeing the extremely high rating for this film, I thought the least I might do is warn people -- though, since I usually rely on IMDb to give a trustworthy rating to a film, I guess not many people are going to read what I have to say.The main problem with this film is the main character. He is arrogant, not very bright, and inconsiderate of others. Watching a film about a jerk -- especially a long film that seems aimed at lionizing him -- is difficult. I love nature, am a big fan of Thoreau, and about as anti-establishment as anyone can be. Nevertheless, this kid is a moron. He tells his parents he thinks his grades will get him into Harvard Law -- but it is graduation time. Applications to Harvard would have been decided long before. So if this has any truth to it, he is being gratuitously cruel to give his parents false hope.I watched in the hope that he might prove to have some depth. He had none. If it is true that his father had a role in making him sufficiently famous to get Hollywood's attention, I pity the poor man. If I was his father, I would have sued the studio for defamation.


                
Well, I usually agree with the ratings on this site, but I am surprised about this high rating for this movie. It is definitely overrated. I rated it a 6.It is very boring, too long. And the scenes jump back and forth, so it was a little confusing. When I watch a boring movie like this, I read a book, magazine, newspaper while it plays on the background. And that is what I did when I watched this DVD. It was so boring that I had to watch it in three nights.The only reason that they made this movie is because he is a white guy from a middle class family. It is just that simple.There are plenty of street bums like him living on the streets, in the wild. They don't bath, they don't eat proper food, they are dirty all over. I am sure that you can find some veterans who fought in some glorious wars, who ended up living on the streets just like him. How come they don't make a movie about those people? Did this guy do anything great? nothing. Did he save anyone's life? No. So what is so great about this guy? nothing.He could have used those free time to volunteer to save the world, instead he chose to live his life without any purpose. In a way, you can say that this guy is weird, he thinks differently than normal people. He thought that he was invisible, so he didn't have a cell phone, just in case there is an emergency.Yes, it is sad that he died, but he is just an ordinary man. People die all the time.Suppose that someone made another movie about a non-white homeless man who traveled all the way to Alaska to live in the wild, what rating will that movie get? Surely, not many white people will like to watch that even though the story will be exactly the same.


                
i'm going to resist giving my opinion here on this guys actions, because it's not my place to do so and because most of this movie is fiction sown together by some facts.. what we know is: Christopher, graduated, went travelling (like thousands of graduates do every year), naturally met some people along the way, and died on his travelswe know very little about his behaviour, his motivations, the order of his writings, his past, his plans for the future or the reasons for his death although it seems that he intended to be in Alaska for just a few months before moving on perhaps to a life of perpetual travel or a life as a rich lawyer who can say. it does appear that he made a pretty bloody remarkable kayaking trip which I'd like to know more about and which should perhaps have been the focus of the film i would expect that the main character had a love of nature, and i found this was totally lost in this movie. the wild is pretty much depicted as being alien, hostile, claustrophobic, and something merely there to be conquered. i didn't feel at any moment that Penn has a love of nature. surely it needs to be at the heart of this movie otherwise we risk describing a person without purpose. i actually found that Penn revels in this concept, and paints his romantic notion of a nihilistic central character. maybe his interpretation is right, maybe it's wrong. but either way going to Alaska is clearly a big deal for the guy, so why not show us more joy instead of focusing on his death and rewinding from that point? given the lack of concrete information i wonder why this movie was made as a factual account. it would have been more sensible to leave it alone and make a movie about all those fabulous people, perhaps like Christopher, that go travelling with purpose and end up doing something very special instead of tragically starving to death alone in a broken bus


                
First, let me begin to say that I'm rather perplexed by the high rating here on IMDb and that this film is in the Top-250 range. But perhaps I shouldn't be. Not if one considers, that many an impressionable teenager and young adult since the films release has equally ran off into the wild, presumably in order to perish like their idol.To tell the whole story in a few simple terms: Bright young teenager Chris McCandless is sick and tired or living in luxury, decides that the materialism of his background is not for him. He abandons his family, savings and worldly possession, taking off on a road-trip, that will take him across half the country, eventually leading him to an abandoned bus in the Alaskan wilderness. There Chris hopes for the sanctuary and natural living that he has for so long desired, but instead starves (the movie opts for the theory that McCandless succumbed to eating poisonous plant) in his sleeping-bag and, after being found by moose-hunters, his ashes are shipped back to his family. The End.We could call this the rich-kid's version of "Easy Rider", but rather, another film comes to mind namely Werner Herzogs "Grizzly Man". Equally based on a true story, with a similar tragic end. However, Herzog (and most of those being interviewed by Herzog) do not stylize the subject or try to make Timothy Treadwell looks like anything other than what he was: a full-blown narcissist with less common-sense than your average lapdog, who was literally begging for some hungry bear to come by and consume him (eventually having his wish granted and taking down his girlfriend with him in the process). Sean Penn chooses another approach. His "Alexander Supertramp" - the nome de guerre Chris McCandless - is a martyr, if not the template for a hipster-martyr. But Penn doesn't seem able to describe what this particular form of martyrdom should be. Should be pity McCandless? Because his parents are rich, but shallow, and quarrel a lot among themselves? Who could imagine a fate more horrible than that? There's a telling scene in the beginning, where young Chris contemplates the misery and misfortune of his parents wanting to buy him a new car. His refusal to accept this gift is interpreted by Penn as an act of rebellion. Sorry people, ain't buying. These are sentiments that are reserved for the Upper-10,000's, who can afford the luxury of disdaining money (since they have enough of it anyway) and claim that a bout of depression caused by boredom equals the suffering of a Christ on a crucifix.Some of the movie could have worked as your typical road-movie and coming-of-age story. Except: the figure of Chris McCandless never comes to come-of-age. He sets out with the determination of somebody who has already consumed the entire bowl of knowledge, culled entirely from a book-shelf. On his way he bestows shallow wisdom and platitudes to all that cross his path (well-meaning hippies; simple, yet down to earth farmhands; a lonely veteran and a horny, under-aged trailer-trash chick), Never once does our protagonist considering things like responsibility - perhaps for your friends and family, who are worried sick about not knowing where or how Chris is - or even the consequences of action. Like, finding certain death in the inhospitable wilderness. In other words, the character of Chris seems to have respect for only one thing in the world: his own intellect, which he considers superior since, you know, he has read a lot of books, from Tolstoy to Jack London. Again, I remind you, we are supposed to root for this character. Did the real Chris McCandless have a death-wish? Did he subliminally commit suicide without having to get his hands dirty? Or did he suffer from a mental-illness, like paranoia or schizophrenia? Much of the evidence that has been presented since, point toward those directions. Yet, the film chooses to ignore each and every one and goes with the martyr-figure right to the end.So, despite the film having redeeming factors on the technical side, the moral of the story escapes me. What should have been a cautionary tale, is presented as a triumph, where the ultimate fail is portrayed as a victory. Victory over what? Common sense? I'd give it a 4/10-rating for beautiful cinematography, nice editing, good soundtrack (even though to some the Eddie Vedder-compositions may end up sounding too schmaltzy) and the occasional good performance. But these are just technical aspects, that camouflage the utter lack of substance or meaning that is deeper than the bottom of a tea-cup.
This movie is based on a true story. I thought it would be full of Philosophical truths and some old hippy "wisdom". Its not. The story is actually ..a little ridiculous. Clever college graduate has a less than perfect up--bringing (parents quarreling etc.), and he is SO upset, he goes on the road---to seek truth. His dream is to go to "freezing Alaska", to see if he can tame that barren wilderness, while searching for the truth. He cant---he freezes to death. This is a --flashback movie--and thats O.K. The use of music here is very annoying. A song is sung (with lyrics that suit the scene the audience is watching) ...just in case the viewers are dumb. Our hero Alex, goes through many adventures and meets amazingly "nice hippy type people". The only violence in the movie is when Alex gets kicked around after a railway hard nut chucks him off a freight train. In the end Alex finds the "Truth". Happiness only really happens...when it is shared. (How original .!!) This is a heavily sanitized version of "The Truth", and simply not satisfactory.
This film was well shot, directed and acted but it lacks originality. Surely a film such as this should engage the audience and prompt them to think something new? How many films have we seen where someone tries to define themselves against their upbringing and or their society? This film does, as all reasonable films should, ask questions but it doesn't offer another way forward. Watch it and ask yourself this; if it weren't a true story would it have been as successful? If yes then it has something to offer but if you can honestly say no then it might just be another victim of hype.It is a typically reasonable cinematographic representation of a book but doesn't go any further than that – disappointing considering its potential.


                
Decided to halt the viewing after 50 minutes of nothing. I can watch nature documentaries if I want to see landscapes. As for the main character I could not care less. His death is predictable which makes the viewing experience so much more excruciating. If you are more of logical person, I would skip this movie.
Into the Wild was swarmed with actors and actresses that I just adore. The plot was great. I love the idea of going off and living my own life by my own rules and to hell with society! And the acting was wonderful. I didn't like this film though. I was completely into it and my eyes were glued to the screen for the first half hour and then nothing happened for the rest of the movie. There was no climax. Everything pretty much just stayed the same. Emile Hirsch ran around looking for food and shelter and such. That was pretty much all of the excitement of the movie. I had no idea until the very end that it was a true story. The words telling the tale of the real guy came up<U+0085>and I was shocked. Who knew? Not me<U+0085> Well this movie was nominated for an Oscar, or the actors were. Not quite sure. But either way, maybe it's just me. I am beginning to think that it takes a lot to keep my attention.


                
First, the good things about this movie (which in no means excuse the terrible) - beautifully shot and beautifully acted. However, this is the story of a petulant, arrogant, self absorbed and completely selfish person who deserves a Darwin award - and let's face it - gets what he deserves at the end of the film.Why would Sean Penn want to shoot such a beautiful movie about such an idiot? OK - I get it, he had terrible parents. Lots of people do, but you don't see them taking off without warning and putting the people who love and care about them through hell. I also get that convening with nature and isolating oneself from the modern world is attractive to some people. But why oh why would you be so incredibly stupid as to take off without letting someone know? I love how he had the realization at the end of the movie that he would only attain true happiness if he had someone to share it with. Blech. Nature abhors a vacuum, and at the end of the film when the Universe treats him with a dose of his own medicine. When he died I found myself really caring less about him and more about his poor family who had to deal with the news that, had he not been selfish, and told someone where he was he might still be alive.Plus I hated the narration from his sister who kept trying to make excuses for his behaviour - Honey - stop trying to peg his pitiful excuse for not being a decent human being on his "journey to find himself". He's simply an incredibly selfish human being.
Didn't really know how to rate this.And it is hard to write an opinion for everybody here to read it without spoilers.The film is based on a true story.It certainly is an unusual story but I hated the way it was presented.We have a college graduate, Christopher McCandless who is very smart(because he read many books)and runs away from his family to make an adventurous journey to Alaska.In order to do this he takes a shortcut trough Mexico.He rejects civilization and things like money.So before starting the journey he burns the few bucks he has. Short after that he suddenly realizes that you actually need money to buy things and starts working at a farm to earn some of the greenbacks he so much hates.Later he works at Burger King who seem to hire illegal workers since he has no ID whatsoever(he destroyed his ID, driving license and credit cards in the beginning of the movie cos those things are part of civilization).In the movie McCandless is presented as a heroic 23 year old full of philosophy and wisdom adventurer, who cares only about nature and doesn't give a damn about things like money, family, love, society and similar human crap.He hates his family cos his dad got his mom pregnant while he was still married to another woman.He doesn't hate his sister but still doesn't bother to give her a call after being away for over two years.So after this time he finally reaches Alaska and starts living in a junk bus.After some deeper reading of Tolstoi he realizes that coming to Alaska was not a good idea and heads back to the humans. But his way back is cut by a river.So he has to stay in Alaska and starve to death.This movie worships stupidity, irresponsibility and ignorance!In the end of the movie McCandless was so pathetic that even the grizzly bear didn't bother to eat him.The moral of the story: Even after graduating from college you can still be stupid!! I gave it 4 stars though because of the good acting in the movie.Hal Holbrook is amazing!Even Emile Hirsch wasn't that bad.To all the "loved it" users here:rating this movie with more than 5 stars means you like McCandless and agree with him.Guys, you should unite!!Make a sect like....Witnesses of Alaska...or McCandlesstology!Sean Penn will be your guru, and McCandless will be your god.The "magic bus" will be your temple.You should all go to Alaska and follow the footsteps of your idol!
The best thing about "Into the Wild" is Hal Holbrook, the venerable actor whose name will forever be associated with his traveling one-man show, "Mark Twain Tonight!" Here he is utterly convincing as a solitary old man who befriends Chris McCandless (Emile Hirsch's character) on his way to the Alaska wilderness and offers to adopt him as his grandson, having lost his wife and only child in a head-on collision with a drunk driver. But the focus, of course, is on McCandless, who is fleeing his parents (Marcia Gay Harden and William Hurt) and his own middle class life. I haven't read the book on which the movie is based and I don't intend to. Chris McCandless may be a real person but his story isn't all that interesting. Moreover, since he communicated directly with no one, not even his beloved sister (Jena Malone), his story has to be conjectural and its reconstruction on the screen is unconvincing. Frankly, I couldn't bring myself to care much about him or his reasons for ditching his parents or their pain. I kept wondering, however, why he never bothered to communicate with his sister, whom he supposedly loved. That he undertook an adventure for which he was essentially unprepared and eventually died because he could not cross back over the fast-flowing river he had originally forded during the winter when it was reduced to a trickle did not move me and his slow starvation was not heart-breaking because I was impatient for the movie to end.


                
It was hard to feel sympathy for the kid. The first tantrum he threw in the restaurant after his parents wanted to buy him a car made me dislike him and from that point on my mind was made, he was a brat. No matter how hard the actor or the script tried nothing could make me like him and nothing could make me symphathise with him. Poor little rich kid. He shuns society to become supertramp but every step of his journey is marked by society's influence. He pays for a book to help him find stuff to eat. The Magic Bus offers warmth and a bed. When he goes back into town he asks a mission for a place to stay. The list goes on, he couldn't have enjoyed his lifestyle choice without society and it's influence. He was nothing more than a rebel without a cause. It's just really sad that Hollywood would want to immortalise him on film.
"Into the Wild" can change according to his/her feeling. I think this movie was not riveting. I was so bored, while I was watching it because it is so long and really waste of time. The story can be real and people can impressed this reason but his desire to wild live is nonsense. He has great life, he graduated from great university, why did he do this? He could have nice job and he could start a family. I think he really big made a mistake. However, If we look from a different viewpoint, this movie can be hope to make a real to dream for us. Although all difficulty, he didn't give up and it is so influence but I wish his dream would be different thing. He died in vain :( All of us can be Christopher McCandless. This movies is chance for us but I hope our latests are not like this :))


                
(SPOILER ALERT:I will discuss the end of the film so if you don't want to know, don't read on.) Yesterday I watched Sean Penn's film of INTO THE WILD. This is the story of a college grad named Chris McCandless, who turned his back on civilization and wandered off into the wilds of Alaska. Its based on a book by Jonathan Krakauer who wrote Into Thin Air about a climb up Everest that went all wrong.I waited a while before posting this because I had to think about it. There is a great deal to love and a central character who was very hard to.This is a beautiful movie. The marriage of image with the exceptional score is truly amazing.I loved watching the sound and image dance across my TV screen. The problem for me is that once the characters began to talk I couldn't careless. For what ever reason I couldn't connect to McCandless at all. He sounded like a spoiled brat. I don't know if its because McCandless was a twit or because Sean Penn has chosen to portray him as an epic hero for individualism. For me there was nothing he did or said that deserved a two and a half hour movie other than living a life that we could project a sense of longing and lost utopia on to. Clearly it connects with some part of ourselves that connect to Thoreau's Walden the great tale of self reliance (and which apparently is a lie since Thoreau went home every night for a good meal and a warm bed). It was clear to me that he was heading for trouble, and even if I hadn't known how it all came out I probably could have guessed.Technically I think this is probably one of the best films of last year, but emotionally I don't. I know a good number of people are in love with the film and it's just outside the IMDb top 100, but I'm lost as to why. For me its a beautifully told film that is in its way close to death porn, where the death of the hero somehow makes everything transcendent- or rather is changed into something transcendent so that someone's life has meaning, instead of being a cold lonely painful death all alone somewhere in the wild. For me there was no transcendence only sadness at a life lost.
When I first read Into the Wild, by Jon Krakauer, about two years ago, I started reading and found myself staying up until far past midnight, unable to put the book down, so enthralled was I with the story of an idiot boy who discarded his former life to travel to Alaska and ultimately die in the bush there. The book was a first class page turner, the type of thing you don't put down until you absolutely have to. I'm sorry to say, the movie was nothing like that. Perhaps it was the fact that I watched it while my eyes were already drooping from the exhaustion of the day, but to put it plainly, this movie was excruciatingly boring.Basically, what you have is a bunch of clips of Chris McCandless' life, both prior to and during his ill fated Alaska adventure. Sean Penn tries desperately to make the audience feel something, and fails. Why not just present the kid's life and let the audience feel what they will? You can tell Penn thought highly of this lad, and in order to make the viewer share that opinion, included a bunch of scenes tailor-made for Chris to spout platitudes in. You know, deep stuff like "don't let your life pass you by". If you've watched the film, you know for yourself how many times he spoke variations on that theme. We see plenty of shots of Chris in the wilderness, lots of slow-mo scenes, and we're also introduced to a cast of supporting characters ranging from a sweet old man who offered to adopt him, to an underaged love interest. When I heard Chris tell the old man that he was just "sitting on his butt", I wanted to jump through the screen and punch the kid in the face for being such a pretentious little twit. There he is, some wet behind the ears rich kid, telling an old man who has lived a long life that he should go do something. It was enough to make me gag, but I can't blame Sean Penn for that one, because in real life Chris McCandless was an obnoxious jerk, who thought nothing of disappearing and leaving his parents, who were by no means perfect yet who loved him and did the best they could for him, and his sister, who idolized him, to wonder what happened to him.I agree with the other reviewers who hated the grating voice-over which seemed to be a lazy substitute for actual storytelling. In the absence of a well thought out script, what else are you supposed to do, I suppose. There will be those who love this film, I am sure. Every one is entitled to their opinion. For me, though, it was a poorly made, overly long movie about a kid who died in the bush because of his own stupidity and arrogance, a self indulgent piece by Sean Penn, who after this, should henceforth be required to stay in front of the camera.
I guess even if i over judge the movie, since it made me think it accomplished something. Here are my thoughts on the movie.I thought the character that brought the most to this movie was Ron Franz (Hal Holbrook). Acting was perfect and most realistic in film. I did get negative feelings regarding Chris. He had more than average childhood and just had it too well and was of a genius (out of normal not materialistic) brain. But otherwise film frustrated, it shows a man with future and great contribution to the world but being selfish and abandoning parents, sister, himself.


                
This film is the portrayal of the life of a troubled young man, haunted by the thoughts and words of authors past and how their thoughts create within him, an inability to form meaningful relationships. Based on a fascinating true story, Penn nevertheless finds a way to destroy it. The real life subject, Chistopher McCandless, a recent college grad, sets out to "find himself" but in doing so, thoroughly and completely - and I do mean completely - destroys every prior relationship in his life. In the film he is portrayed as a Christ-like healer, saving the emotional and spiritual lives of everyone with whom he comes in contact despite the fact he remains aloof from them all and refuses to share his past with any of them. The closest he comes to any thing resembling a meaningful relationship is his implied sexual dalliance with his Oedipal Hippy Mom via which he totally destroys her relationship with her Hippy dude. Despite this, the film continuously portrays him in some sort of Messianic glow along with his Hippy benefactors who despite having no visible means of support, manage to own, maintain and fuel an RV as well as feed him for weeks at a time. And in typical liberal Hollywood fashion, Mc Candless' parents are economically successful upper middle class white college grads and therefore evil. They are featured as the exclusive source of all the young man's troubles with no consideration given to the possibility that he might have his own psychopathology. The film is well acted. The story is incredible. But the direction is plodding, slow and predictable. Full on, full steam Hollywood liberalism all the way: Bad parents. Christ-like abused kid sets out to find himself and saves everyone he meets along the way. Meh.
Sold to many on the score alone, a film musically endorsed by the Pearl Jam legend that is Eddie Vedder, fails to live up to expectations. The profound protagonist, Christopher McCandless, embarks on a 'meaning of life' expedition literally in to wild to do battle with the demons within born from a material world and a loveless upbringing. At two hours and twenty eight minuets there are endless life affirming statements that ultimately add up to a rather pretentious take on a self-discovery voyage. I simply wanted to shake the chap by the arms and tell him to stop being so down right silly. The film spends too much time covering the same ground to be truly compelling. However, when it does finally arrive at its climatic end it is undeniably emotional and a pouring of sympathy is well deserving. I personally only realised that this was a true story at the very end of the film. This of course makes the circumstances that McCandeless finds himself in all the more difficult to bear. A good performance from Emile Hirsch and top draw direction for Sean Penn certainly makes it worth a look in, but it for one hour and nineteen minuets it does not match up to its own hype.


                
