I'm finding it hard to see why this film has taken such a tongue lashing (or keyboard lashing) by some people...mostly it is said that the main character is selfish and self indulgent, and that this film builds him up to be some kind of hero..but I think that's missing the point...through-out I was thinking about how, on one hand it was admirable that he wanted to break from the materialistic, money grabbing oppressive shackles placed on us by modern society, but on the other, how he had gone about it in such an irresponsible, hurtful and self-righteous way...the way he abandoned his parents and loving sister without a phone call note or explanation, and from the people he met along the way, like the kind old man and young romance, especially compounded this...and ultimately he realised this at the end by scribbling into a book, "happiness only real when shared" surely that is the lesson here! that his selfish, hurtful adolescent behaviour was wrong, and he ultimately paid a terrible cost.So ignore that haters...they are looking at this story the wrong way! Very much worth an open minded viewing!


                
Who Is Chris McCandless? A true supertramp? An obsessive, emotionally damaged egomaniac? Suicidal thrill-seeker? A Kerouac-like drifter addicted to the search for an ever-evasive truth? A high-functioning schizophrenic? The 21st century youth culture reincarnation of John Gault? Or just a kid going through a difficult time and looking for some distance to sort it all out? Sean Penn's pop-philosophical examination of this young man's voyage across America, to Alaska, and to the depths of his young soul will give you an interpretation at least. While it is not clear exactly whose interpretation we are seeing, it is very clear that Penn respects his subject and gave this film about as much thought and power as he could inject it with. And the film did remind me of something very true about the self-righteous naiveté of youth.I am not concerned at all with the accuracy of the film, and, while it is tempting to compare this film to Werner Herzog's excellent but less fictionalized "Grizzly Man", the subjects are really too widely disparate; Herzog and Penn's perspective on humanity is too different to produce a meaningful comparison. The targets of this comparison, too big and too easy. But I will make one comment about the two films - Penn's film is much more or a tribute to its protagonist than Herzog's.I found Into the Wild to be a gripping, thoughtful film. The script was good, but sometimes a bit pretentious - occasionally crossing the line between character development and character worship. Penn's direction and cinematography are masterful. The acting - every member of the cast included - is absolutely excellent.Recommended - but not for light cheerful entertainment.


                
I watched this movie on the aeroplane after searching through the movie list and not finding anything else interesting to watch. I didn't even know what the film was called until the ending credits. However, what I saw was amazing - the acting and scenery was excellent and the plot was thought provoking. More people should watch this to appreciate the message to us all. I was also surprised to see it was was actually a true story which made it even more interesting (I love films that are based on true stories). It is one of the best movies i've seen that portrays the contrast between a materialistic world vs the natural world that is at the core of the universe. This is a film that can easily be overlooked but not forgotten.


                
The best stories are those that even the greatest novelists couldn't make up. Real life, the real world creates some incredible adventures led by incredible characters. In this film, we follow one of the most amazing true stories ever captured on film. Into the Wild is a very deep and engaging one-man trip through the unknown portions of the United States. Based off the best-seller written by John Krakauer, Into the Wild is about a man that gives up all his material possessions and life altogether in search of purpose, in search of happiness, and in search of a direction to head towards in his life. Written and directed by Sean Penn with a lot of love and detail, this movie is beautifully shot, beautifully edited, and even though the third act drags quite a bit, you'll remain hooked on Christopher McCandless' travels up until the bitter end. In case you had not read the startling true story, Christopher McCandless was a very gifted athlete and student with high marks and an extremely bright future. But, spiritually, he was extremely lost; emotionally, he was empty. Upon this, he donates all his money to charity and runs away from his family, his college, everything he had worked for. Now, whatever your stance is on his decision-making, we can all agree he was clearly a man that was lost, and needed to be found. You can be unhappy for only so long before you decide to do something drastic. Some move to another city, some pursue a new career, some search for love. In his case, he chose to become one with nature. Like I said, you can question his common sense and decisions, but don't question his desire for something more. Sean Penn and John Krakeuer clearly admired the emotional strength and bravery of our main character, as they infused his story with a lot of love, a lot of content, and a lot of overall emotion.The main core and best element in this film is the overall acting. While not one performance stood out, everyone did an exceptional job. Emile Hirsch does a spectacular job portraying a strong-willed yet spiritually lost man hellbent on achieving true happiness. The smaller roles (people Christopher meets during his journey) added charm to the overall flick, including Vince Vaughn, Kristen Stewart, Hal Halbrook, and Catherine Keener. The writing supported the acting, as not one line sounds forced or shoved upon, and it adds an added layer of realism to the already-true story. The directing however is a bit of a mixed bag. Sean Penn really loved this story and definitely displayed it with the elongated running time, insistence on shooting every scene on location, and the artsy final moments; but sometimes the French-style directing was a bit too much. There are instances in which the characters look at the camera and make faces or pose, and that totally breaks down the fourth wall and throws you away from the main structure of the film. You realize it's a movie and not a story when the main character glares at the camera for a few split seconds. Then the final act, when the climax drags, hinders the overall quality of the movie. Approximately ten minutes could have been cut from the last third and it would have been fine. Finally, we have the controversial element of morality. Sometimes, moral codes amongst each of us prevent us from sympathizing with the main character, leading to some issues. A recent example is Sex and the City's first movie's final act, which results in us totally losing sympathy for the main four (with the exception of one, but avoiding spoilers). Into the Wild also suffers from this. While we can clearly understand and see the frustrations of Christopher against the world we live in, his actions are heavily on the selfish side, despite what he's gone through. Instead of seeing a man that has suffered through the childhood and teenage years and needed to escape everything, we see a person so closed-minded on his journey that he shuts off all the people that cared about him throughout his trip. All the offers of help he received, and he practically shuns them all (especially the final human encounter, in an especially gut-wrenching scene). Upon seeing this, the viewer knows how he is going to end up. And whether or not you'll feel sorry for him is entirely up to you, the witness to all his decisions.Bottom Line: Enjoy the journey, even if the destination and bumps on the road is going to create some discussions and disagreeing points. Into the Wild is a wonderful film that is beautifully shot, despite the direction being misguided at some instances. Once you get past the questionable directing though, prepare for a visually stimulating trip chronicling the adventures of a man on a self-discovery expedition like nothing else seen before on film. While this movie will not convince you to do what he did, it will lead you to questions concerning fulfillment, love, faith, and happiness. Into the Wild is about a journey in search of answers, and despite it being a beautifully flawed (mildly) flick, it does lead to more questions. Great movie to emotionally digest, just do it slowly.P.S. Where on earth is Eddie Vedder's Oscar for his musical contribution?
Never read Jon Krakower's book, but nothing prepared this viewer for the intensity of the life it describes. The mere idea of a young man pursuing an ideal such as to be on his own, be self-reliant, follow his dreams, is something no one can easily comprehend. The fact that Chris McCandless, a young man with a bright future decides to leave it all and go search for a world unknown is to be celebrated because of the trappings of this society probably would have interfered in his quest. That he persevered, and even had to pay a dear price for following his dream is almost incomprehensible, given the kind of life and background where he came from.Sean Penn, an uncompromising man in his life, as well as in his profession, shows a keen understanding to his subject's motives for going on his own to discover what was out there and spend his life doing exactly what he wanted. Mr. Penn has given us a work of love and beauty in his screen treatment of the life of a man that found fulfillment in doing exactly what he wanted.Thus we follow the travels of Chris, who becomes Alexander Supertramp as he starts roaming the country. His goal is to get to Alaska, which to him probably his last frontier. Along the way he meets people that will touch his life, as well as his will touch theirs, no doubt. There are the hippie couple Rainey and Jan, free spirits that will get to meet him on a couple of occasions. Farmer Wayne and Alexander find they are much alike when they get to know one another. The most touching person the young man bonds with is Ron, the retired man who feels strongly about adopting him and leaving whatever he has to Alexander, who is not into material things.One sad note is the way Chris rejects his parents. Perhaps he felt his rebellion against everything is because their own sad lives. Not even his own sister, Carine, is able to comprehend her brother's decision to leave them. The family never thought they would not see him again after he leaves home. There are so many unanswered questions in this story.Emile Hirsch, the talented young actor, was a magnificent choice for the main role. He gives his director, Sean Penn, a performance of epic proportions. Mr. Hirsch, one of our best screen performers injects life into the man he was asked to impersonate. Mr. Hirsch runs away with the film.The supporting cast is excellent. William Hurt, Marcia Gay Harden and Jena Malone are seen as the parents, and sister of Chris McCandless. Brian Dierker and Catherine Keener are the hippie couple that befriend the young man. Vince Vaughn appears as Wayne. One of the most impressive actor in the film is without a doubt, Hal Holbrook, who outdoes himself as the kind Ron.Sean Penn has established himself as an important voice in the American cinema. With "Into the Wild" he proves he has a great talent.
With "Into The Wild" Sean Penn achieved something that only few actors from his mold have succeeded in: he proved himself a worthy director independent of his acting laurels. "Into The Wild" is just so good, that it blows the last bits and pieces of doubt away. Penn is not only directing this beautifully, he also managed to write a screenplay for a three hours movie about a guy who basically just wanders around in the wild and then starves, without ever slowing the movie down so much that it becomes boring. Sure, you have to be in the mood for this (and it's best to see it in a cinema, I guess), but if you really let yourself in for "Into The Wild", you'll be deeply touched by the story of this remarkable young guy who chose to live by his own rules and by his own rules alone.There's not one weak link in the cast and Sean Penn directs all the actors to perfection. Emile Hirsch carries the movie. His resemblance to the real Christopher McCandless is uncanny as evidenced by a self portrait of McCandless at the end. What Hirsch did for the role - losing 40 pounds - is reminiscent of Christian Bale's engagement for "The Machinist" and speaks for the soul he put into his performance. All the supporting actors - in fact everybody other than Hirsch is a supporting actor here - are great as well: Marcia Gay Harden, William Hurt, Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn and the wonderful Hal Holbrook. Last but not least Eddie Vedder's soundtrack adds a lot to the haunting atmosphere of the movie."Into The Wild" is something that won't let go of you after you've left the cinema and it might actually make you rethink your principles in life. I applaud Sean Penn for realizing his vision so well and hope to see more of him in the future. By him, actually.


                
Into the Wild is Sean Penn's adaptation of the same-titled novel by John Krakaeur. Filmed, among other places, in the wilds of Alaska where a good deal of the real story it tells occurred, it is a faithful presentation of an interesting tale.The film is the story of Christopher McCandless, a college graduate who becomes disillusioned with the world of upper class life, and goes off into the wild to find something more meaningful in his existence. Meeting many interesting characters along the way and affecting their own views on life, McCandless aims forever toward Alaska, the final point of his lengthy journey.I found myself instantly drawn into this film. The primary element in this effect is the soundtrack. Eddie Vedder creates a beautiful score which chronicles this adventure and compliments the sprawling beauty of the unoccupied landscapes. The visuals of the film are incredible, the natural shots of this better, effulgent world spellbinding. Penn beautifully directs some of the most stunning images that can be captured. Undoubtedly, the film owes all to the main performance. Emile Hirsch creates a character so real, emotional and three dimensional that we cannot help but be pulled into his vision of the world. The voiceovers from Chris and his sister give us a deeper insight into his motivations as the film flickers between our hero in his perfect world, travelling to get there, and experiencing his personal hell at home. All comes together to create a stunning experience which left me breathless and amazed at its power. The strength of the film is impressive, staggeringly poignant and uncompromisingly brilliant. Especially touching, for me at least, was the performance of Hal Holbrook, a genuinely upsetting and tear-jerking addition.With some of the best acting one can ever hope to experience in film, the natural beauty of the Alaskan wilderness forms a backdrop for the genius of this film. Straying from outrightly stating the moral correctness of its protagonist, Into the Wild poises questions which continued to haunt me for weeks and weeks after seeing it. Add a wonderful score, a deeply meaningful story, and a director who obviously believes incredibly in his work, and you have one of the best films I have ever had the pleasure of watching.


                
The question will always be: Once you get INTO THE WILD, what do you do there? Of all the people to ask this pertinent, profound question of Chris McCandless - it is Vince Vaughn.From a book by Jon Krakauer (who also wrote Into Thin Air), Sean Penn directs Emile Hirsch as Christopher Johnson McCandless (Feb 1968 - Aug 1992), who shucked off his earthly possessions, did a Henry David Thoreau and flitted into the wilds of Alaska to live off the land. Vaughn plays a farmer employer that Chris (Hirsch) meets along the way.After graduating as an 'A' student from Emory University, Chris stuns his parents (William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden) and surprises his sister by giving all his money to charity, burning his Social Security card - his strongest link to an identity in the "civilized" world - and setting out on foot with nothing but a backpack and seeming enochlophobia (fear of crowds).He renames himself Alexander Supertramp and travels from Arizona, kayaking illegally down to Mexico, then trudging/hitching up to Alaska. Along the way, he meets a cast of characters who each tells Chris, or at least fears, that his quest to isolate himself will end in tragedy, and unwittingly offer him three staples of "civilization": Vaughn offers money - the steady job; a hippie commune (with Brian H. Dierker and Catherine Keener) offers female companionship (in the form of waif Kristen Stewart, who knows how to woik cut-offs); and a doddering Hal Holbrook tearfully offers family, asking if Chris wouldn't mind being adopted as a son.In retrospect, we see that Penn compresses McCandless's journals to present us with only these clichés, but while viewing, the characters are oddly compelling. We are rooting for McCandless to make his journey, yet we also want him to experience the fullness of life as WE have become accustomed to it (i.e. take the new car your father offers to buy for you; plonk the sexy chick before you walk away; at least take your Blackberry, dude...).For anyone raised happily in First World society, it would take a lot to convince him or her of Chris's determination to get away from it. Emil Hirsch sells Chris's wanderlust state of mind and body completely.When Chris arrives in Alaska, the searing beauty and welcome quietude lasts only as long as it takes to realize that the land is unforgiving to idealistic puny humans who were not born and raised into it. Chris finds an abandoned "Magic Bus" and sets up a cozy HQ from which to drink in grand vistas, hunt and store food, but soon comes to realize the folly of drawing all his wilderness knowledge from books.Chris narrates the realities of killing a big animal for food - a moose; in a disturbing scene, he is one man with a small knife, trying desperately to cut it into small pieces, but he cannot cure and cook the meat before the flies leave it crawling with maggots, making the death of this magnificent beast worthless. He writes, "One of the greatest tragedies of my life - shooting the moose" and tearfully relinquishes it to the wild, watching the wolves and bald eagles pick at the flesh. "... clearly felt the presence of a forest not bound to be kind to man. It was a place of heathenism and superstitious rites, to be inhabited by men nearer akin to the rocks and wild animals than we." Chris must have been one wicked misanthrope to abjure the embrace of humankind. Yet there is hypocrisy in people who wish to excise themselves from the world of man and yet leave behind a journal for the world of man to read. Writing is the provenance of creatures who perceive a future; anyone who engages in lyrical flourishes like the above passage is writing for other people to read them eventually.And we see that this is true, for Chris fully intended to return to the world, his Walden experiment having run its course through his veins. That's when Penn springs the dramatic hook on us: when Chris realizes life is only good when shared, it is too late. He writes (still fantasizing about that book deal, we presume), "I have literally become trapped in the wild." Penn is unflinching, showing us not only the grandeur of Chris's adventure, but also its fatal mistakes. Chris eats a poison plant by mistake, that suppresses appetite, thereby killing its victim slowly. For author Krakauer to reconstruct Chris's last days from journal entries and other evidence, Chris must have been a pathological writer to document the symptoms of his death even as it slowly overtook him, Emil Hirsch doing a Reverse RAGING BULL and turning skeletal before our eyes, his final moments spent in agony yet gazing up at the open sky.I always wonder, with these wilderness guys, how an ailment like kidney stones, or a thorn stabbed into the foot turning it gangrenous, or - like Hanks in CAST AWAY - a decayed tooth, would make them feel about hanging out so far from drugs and busty nurses.But in the film's final narrated words of elation, Penn allows Chris the benefit of the doubt that he enjoyed his life to its end. Free. "What if I were smiling... and running into your arms... would you see then... what I see now?" Whatever he might have meant by that enigmatic passage - that every person's perception of happiness is wildly different - Chris achieved what I believe was his most joyous goal: immortality.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).
I saved this movie for a special occasion, a time when I was sensitive to the written word. Its because I know Sean Penn and his blind spots. Its because I knew that this will appear as a celebration of a special soul who discovers the purity of life through simplicity, or nature, however you handle this sort of sublimeness.And I knew that it would make me unhappy, because it will have been extremely effective at telling that story, but it is one that I will find unsatisfactory.Why isn't important, other than to say that it demeans the human spirit to pretend it is so thin. And if it matters, it isn't fair to any lost, broken soul like this poor dumb kid to turn his pain into something glorious because we are afraid ourselves.Regular readers of mine know that I get frustrated when there exists a fine reading experience, and then it is made into a book and people think somehow that if the events are conveyed that is sufficient. Its because reading is a sacred thing. Cinema, when handled well, is too. And so is that special state where the mind is attuned to whatever elements of nature you see. Its that attunement, that process, that "shifting into" that matters.Penn understands this. He's a serious artist. He knows that this is a film not a story. And it is about the word, the written word, not some likable runaway. It starts well, and with this notion, us seeing the words from his journal in the foreground, the images mere annotation. One of the hardest things to do in film is to start. You have only a few moments to create a world.Throughout, we have a constant battle, a battle of words with images. The images nearly win, or so it seems. The end has our hero escaping the words of the idealistic books he carts around to see, actually see something transcendent. We are supposed to go along.But here is where the words govern, they shape and control. The first level of course is that this is a movie made from a book. It is a book written by a man whose job is to weave the notion that ascetic communing with nature is the purest of pursuits. Its got enough truth and tradition near it to allow it to create a powerful fiction. This boy's life wasn't important or interesting. What made him the target of Krakauer's book, was because he was a writer, and left documents.Its like the great Antarctic Scott expedition who perished for much the same reason, and were celebrated for precisely the same reason: they left compelling journals until they died. So we have Krakauer's words, fabulated and extending the boy's words. And these are based not on any internal vision, but on the words of others who he not only read, he carried books into the wild instead of food.So three layers of words, each one stepping closer to an idealism of nature while using notions and media further removed.The final irony of course is that he dies because he misread a word in a reference book on edible plants (as it happens in the film).Words matter in this film. They control the story as they run into the wild and incidentally carry this guy and the others he encounters, all obviously written not born. Penn could be a really important filmmaker, and here he comes really close to making a film about the compromises of film. Penn has only a few times where he crosses the line for me. They all have to do with the segments concerning the parents. One is particularly egregious. We are told that his dad was a smart enough man to be hired to engineer communications for NASA satellites. When we are told this, we see a NASA-supplied clip of a rocket being launched. That clip and its cousins have been seen countless times and is semiotically loaded. Its a shorthand for "high tech" whatever that means. Its a problem for two reasons.One is the simple rule of overshowing. The cinematic effects here depend on the visions coming from the outside, slowly permeating that shell of consciousness. Penn does fairly well on this, avoiding the Carroll Ballard effect of human-manufactured natural ideals. But it depends on consistency, and he breaks it here. It takes a good 20 minutes to recover.But the other problem: the irony is that satellite communications isn't about rockets and power. Its about isolation, desolate vacuums, sterile modes, the inability to touch. It also happens to be cinematically accessible through some other stock footage, and when appropriate, folded into the images of winter and bus... and writing.Emile Hirsh is very good. He's been now in three expertly edited films, and I mean truly cutting edge.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Okay. I actually quite loved this movie. There was definitely something about his spirit that was worthy of your admiration. Clearly in reading many of the reviews many people were moved by Chris McCandless's spirit. And as I understand it many have trekked north themselves turning Chris's bus (you mean it is still there?) into a shrine.Indeed it is very difficult to fault the film which after all centered on Chris's spirit and did not try to turn it into a debate. But sorry to throw a dash of realism on this but Chris's "into the wild" was worthy of a Darwin award. Trekking off into the wilderness with nothing more than his backpack, minimum equipment and supplies, little in the way of food except for his 10 pound bag of rice and worst of all no compass and no topographic map is not worthy of heroism and admiration it is just plain stupid. Good thing that James Galien gave him those boots. At least he had something.The reality was Chris was sitting barely a 1/4 of a mile away from a tram that could have gotten him across the river and to safety. He essentially came apart after discovering that he couldn't cross the river (yes those rivers up there can be low and shallow sometimes and raging torrents at other times). I have been to the Yukon and Alaska and believe me it is absolutely stunningly beautiful country but if you wander into the wild without proper preparation it is a totally unforgiving.It was I admit a poignant moment when Chris in a deteriorating and emaciated state crossed paths with the grizzly bear that wandered into his camp. That the bear didn't tear him apart and into dinner was more to the credit of the bear. He probably took one look at the guy thought to himself "what a puny looking excuse for a human being". The bear got it right. Eating bones just wasn't worth it.There was also a wonderful scene between Chris and Ron Franz who was played by Hal Holbrook. Knowing already the fate of Chris the scene in the car as they said their goodbyes was very emotional. No wonder the wonderful veteran actor Holbrook received a well deserved Oscar nomination. Chris - you are a beautiful guy - but so dumb. And of course sadly no longer with us. But I loved your spirit and the film was a beautiful obituary.
When I spotted an advertisement for this film in a British newspaper, complete with rave reviews, my interest was piqued enough that I looked it up on IMDb, saw the 8+/10 rating and read a couple of the bits of trivia and thought "Fantastic." and pretty much ran down to the video library.The initial comment I made to the friends with whom I watched the film was: "Hmm. That was a little different to what I was expecting." - and therein, I fear, lies the rub. The problem with having expectations built up about a slightly unusual sort of film is that they are, almost inevitably, confounded. I would point to the example of Napoleon Dynamite; a totally different sort of film that can be hugely enjoyable if one watches it with no expectations of any kind (as I did); or lame nonsense if the film has been raved about by your friends (as happened for one of my friends who disliked ND).However I was curious as to what most of the negative reviews of this film said - almost without exception, they seem to have come from people who have little to no idea about how to critique a film of this kind, and while I am no professional critic I would point out the following.The production values of this film are outstanding. There are any number of light touches of camera-work and editing that quietly assert the thought and effort that have gone into this film; so that to rate it anywhere below 7/10 is shameful. I need not go to any lengths to heap further praise on the soundtrack. Penn's casting and directing skills, likewise, cannot be questioned. The film felt so authentic that it was frequently more akin to watching a documentary than a screenplay; most of the bit-part characters (ie. the lesser roles; not the parts played by Hurt, Harden, Keener, Holbrook and Vaughn) felt so real that I wondered if they were professional actors at all - thinking that if so, they were outstanding. The decision to film exclusively on location, while perhaps obvious by film-making standards, is a brave one considering that filming in Canada, for example, would have sacrificed comparatively little in return for the financial savings.The biggest problem in terms of reception, it seems, is in Penn's dialogue - the screenplay itself. Not having read Krakauer's book, I feel it is not something I can criticise fairly. A number of the adverse comments about the film posted on IMDb seem to rage against holding McCandless up as some kind of role model - sorry folks, you've missed the point. The art of cinema is one of STORY-TELLING. Penn is telling a story of a young man who lived by his ideals. Does anyone have the right to question the beliefs of another? Or to criticise an artistic portrayal of such a tale based on fact on the grounds of plot? Expect an engaging story, well-told, and enjoy Penn's direction and Hirsch's performance.
(Flash Review)A poetic true tale about college grad who refuses to live an 'expected lifestyle' that his parents had envisioned. As opposed to getting a job or acquiring an advanced degree, this fellow sets off into the wild world to live in nature or very rural locals without anything aside from a shotgun for hunting. This film follows him through encounters with assorted people across the country and some time of him surviving in nature. Lots of cinematic montages carry the film and help build the character and what he endures through beautiful visuals. Some may call him brave while others will call him an idiot. Where will the world lead him and for how long?
The consensus from the haters of this film was that the main character was crazy or selfish or stupid or whatever, and that the film portrayed him falsely. Well if you watched the movie and came away with that opinion, how exactly did the film mislead you? I felt that though his motives were intriguing, his quest became an obsession to the point of complete ignorance of his affect of the people in his life, past and present. Luckily, the film was descriptive and neutral enough for me to formulate that opinion.I would worry if all viewers of the movie came away with the same opinion of Alex Supertramp. Then you'd know Penn was serving Kool-aid.


                
I watched this movie at the cinema this week and I was completely sucked into this great story. The director has done a great job for two main reasons. The first is that he tells the story in such a way that the main character as well as his parents and sister are displayed in a just and appropriate manner. I believe it is often attractive, and easy, to make some of the characters to be more rightious. I think Sean Penn has been very brave on this point not to include judgments, either subtle or hard, into this movie. Any judgment is left to the viewer. The second great thing is that Penn moves away from the standard Hollywood way of filming. He does so by portraying things from the viewpoint of an observer that has a very wide scope. Especially at the end of the movie this is displayed in a very beautiful and moving way when the protagonist dies. At that very special point the two qualities that distinguish this movie merge and make the ending of it into an equally transcendent and immanent apotheosis that is neither good nor bad, but indescribably beautiful and completely transparant. True freedom knows no definitions nor boundaries!
Who among us hasn't, at one time or another, dreamed of one day chucking the whole "corporate rat race/adult responsibility" thing and moving to an isolated cabin in the woods where we would be free to get in touch with our inner selves and become one with nature? Yet, even though many of us have fantasized about doing such a thing, few of us have had the intestinal fortitude or psychological wherewithal to actually go out and do it. Well, Christopher McCandless actually DID go out and do it - though with sadly tragic results for both the young man and those dearest to him.At the age of 22, McCandless could have had the life of privilege, comfort and financial success natural to one who had just graduated with honors from a prestigious institution like Emory University (especially one with wealthy parents). Instead, he chose a different path for himself, one that would reject the materialistic values of the world around him and send him on a journey of self-discovery which, despite the best of intentions, would prove fatal to him in the long run. Over a two-year period, from 1990 to 1992, Chris traveled all across North America - on foot, by kayak, by bumming rides off strangers - finally ending up in the wilderness of Alaska where he was to meet his tragic fate. Along the way, he encountered numerous colorful characters who made a mark on his heart. This adventure was popularized in the best-selling book "Into the Wild" by Jon Krakauer, who reconstructed McCandless' experiences largely from notes and journal entries left behind by the young man and through interviews with certain key players in the drama.For the movie version, writer/director Sean Penn has made Chris' devoted sister, Carine, the narrator and chief commentator on the action. It is through her reflections that we come to understand some of the reasoning behind Chris' remarkable willingness to forego all the creature comforts of the modern world that the rest of us seem to cling to so tenaciously. As with any tale of a picaresque nature, "Into the Wild" is more a series of vignettes than a fully fleshed-out drama, and, thus, it has an occasional tendency to ramble and wander aimlessly. Yet, its narrative looseness is clearly a large part of the story's charm. Moreover, Penn keeps it tightly knit together through the narration, the use of flashbacks, the scenes involving Chris' parents, and the mesmerizing fluidity of the camera-work. And, naturally, the evocative, richly variegated landscapes against which the story unfolds play a crucial role in the overall richness of the film.Some have charged the movie with romanticizing and glorifying an individual who was arguably sociopathic and whose actions and decisions ultimately led to his own death. Yet, while Penn clearly wants us to identify with Chris' sense of idealism and carpe diem spirit, the filmmaker also acknowledges that there are some serious psychological issues at play here, mostly brought on by the young man's being raised by two obviously dysfunctional parents. Yet, the movie is also about how important it is for us to forgive those who have wronged us and to not allow bitterness to determine the course of our lives.With his boyish looks and unprepossessing manner, Emile Hirsch embodies the devil-may-care spirit of what is, essentially, a 20th Century version of Henry David Thoreau. In relatively small but crucial roles, William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden leave an indelible mark as Chris's parents. The many individuals he meets along the way are embodied by Brian H. Dierker, Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, and, most memorably, Hal Holbrook, heartbreaking in his Oscar-nominated performance as an old desert-dweller who offers to adopt Chris as his son.In the end, "Into the Wild" can be read as much as a cautionary tale as one championing the cause of unbridled individuality. Like "Grizzly Man," it shows how an obsession with nature and an unrealistic disdain for civilization can lead to disastrous consequences for individuals unequipped to deal with the harsh realities of the natural world. If anything, both films serve as a call for reasonableness and balance in determining mankind's proper place in the overall scheme of things.
Into the WildBy Daniel RosadoDirected: Sean Penn Cast: Emile Hirsch,Marcia Gay Harden, William Hurt, Jena Malone, Brian H. Dierker,Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, Kristen Stewart, Hal Holbrook Into the Wild is a film about a young man, that just graduated from college. Itseemed everything was going great for him, graduated with good grades,had a nice home, and was going to become a big success. But that lifestyle wasn't for Chris McCandless (Emile Hirsch). He wanted to escape. He wanted to escape from his family, all of the world's problems and most of all society.It was summer time, and Chris went out for a drive. He parked the car at a beach and fell asleep. During high tide the ocean totaled his car, but Chris safely escaped. He saw this as an opportunity to just leave. He chose to go traveling alone into the world, and leaving his family behind.His sister, Carine (Jena Malone), understood why he would leave. Throughout their childhood they've seen their parents always yelling and arguing. Chris usually had different opinions than those of his father, Walt (William Hurt), which always led to an argument, while his mother, Billie (Marcia Gay Harden), would pretend she had a perfect family. His whole family was worried about Chris's whereabouts, but only Carine understood what he was going through, and why he did it.Chris's main goal is to travel to Alaska; so that he can live life the way it was meant to be, out in the wild, not thinking about bills or taxes. On his epic journey, under the name Alexander Supertramp, Chris encounters many different people. First he meets two hippies, Rainey (Brian H. Dierker) and Jan (Catherine Keener), that he really bonds with. He also meets, and works for Wayne Westerberg (Vince Vaughn). Shortly after Wayne is sent to jail, and Chris decides to back to traveling. He meets some foreigners while rafting, but has to leave after a couple minutes, because of the rafting police chasing him. He then once again meets up with Rainey and Jan, he also meets a young girl that was usually with them, named Tracy Tatro (Kristen Stewart). Chris once again leaves them, and meets the last person he gets to really know before Alaska, and old man named Ron Franz (Hal Holbrook). Chris becomes Franz's unofficial adopted grandson. But after a while Chris finally heads for Alaska.When in Alaska Chris finds an abandoned bus. He lives in the bus, and at first has a blast living off the land. He goes around climbing things and running around, and has the time of his life. Later on, Chris runs out of animals to eat, and has to turn to eating plants. After making a fatal accident, and eating the wrong plant, Chris starves to death.Into the Wild is based on a true story. There really was a man brave enough to go out into the wild, and lived life the way he believed was best. The movie was written based on what the true adventurer wrote in his book.This movie tells the great story of a brave man. A man who sacrificed his life, to live life to what he considered, the fullest. The world would be a much better place if people were as determined as him, and had his mindset.3 out of 4 stars
A college graduate (Emile Hirsch) turned rootless drifter embarks on a peripatetic journey across America that ultimately finds him alone in Alaska.Into The Wild is a poignant, episodic portrait of real-life drop-out that is perhaps too taken with its subject; for the film to work one has to find him fascinating, rather than merely foolish and narcissistic. The film appeared on many critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2007. The songs on the soundtrack were performed by Eddie Vedder, guitarist and lead singer of Pearl Jam, and Jerry Hannan. Vedder won a Golden Globe for Best Original Song for the song "Guaranteed".
Glorious or inglorious, that is here the question. Alex Supertramp is a down-shifter par excellence, who still needs at first the non-down-shifters for his gradual self-realization. He is an adventurer and freedom-seeker and he is not satisfied with little. He resigns materialism, the urges and lies of the American society and tries to break out into the wild nature, to experience "real" life. To late it dawns upon him that nature is no garden Eden and that some attainments, not so much of the civilization, rather of the socialization are reasonable. It is a surprising end that Krakauer describes with the help of the diary of the unfortunate. The movie is here not so much stringent. The end of Alex is cruel and shows that it is vain to romanticize nature. Unfortunate could be the wrong word. If Alex would not have renounced such reasonable artifacts like a map, which he intentionally left back, or at least if he had informed about the locality, he could have made it easily to survive. That he wanted it is shown clearly by his desperate struggle against death. Experienced adventurers always calculate with emergency cases when they plan their special tours. Idealism needs carbohydrates! Alex was sheepish, overambitious maybe simply silly. Yes, exaggerated idealism is sometimes nothing else than density. But it would be wrong to judge this young man. He made a decision and he paid for it. Did he find self-determination? No, no man can exist for himself, the freedom some are searching is nothing but an abstract and nature is not nice at all! She is like she is. Without man she is nothing at all. Nature is there for man, but she does not know it. But man has to know it. The sojourn in nature is a good opportunity for self-reflection. Krakauer implies that Alex could have reached the goal to live his idealism until the very bitter end. He is not different to mountaineers who notwithstanding the risks want to have their extreme experience. There is nothing left than the hope, that instead of the romantic transfiguration of a life in the wilderness or the intended union with nature <U+0096> a thing that cannot exist <U+0096> in the face of death the simple recognition prevailed that life, that loves and can be loved is the most sensible and praiseworthy. A lot of knowledge for a young man in our times. A recommendable film and book. Krakauer did not draw conclusions. He did not want to interpret too much into it. Perhaps because he is guilty himself of extreme adventures.


                
Watching 'Into the Wild' again a few years after first watching it found me unprepared once more for the shocking realisation that it was based on a true story.There's so much anger and self-abnegation (and self absorption) in the central character that it seems too far-fetched. Maybe we all go through such phases on the rocky road to adulthood but few with such driving intensity and single-mindedness as Chris McCandless. The assorted cast of fellow travellers and strays seem to share this astonishment and exasperation in their futile attempts to steer Chris from his path. This is a deeply moving film that leaves you thinking about its message for a long time. It gives us a glimpse of the lives of the marginal characters at society's edge, all to some extent chewed up and spat out by 'Life'. It's a tough world and there are no easy answers.A fine and brave central performance, and excellent sympathetic performances from the ensemble cast. For me though Hal Holbrook, despite occupying the screen for mere minutes, steals the show with a heartbreaking performance of searing truthfulness.


                
(2007): Into the Wild is a tragic movie based on the tragic real life story of Christopher Mccandless. Chris was different and surely his foolhardy ways were directly responsible for his death, and yet you somehow feel for the guy. A part of you wishes he made out alive from the Alaskan tundra, from that yellow bus. The book on which this film is based, Jon Krakeur, is also a must read in my opinion. The lead Emile Hirsh is more than adequate and the director Sean Penn must be commended for not just deftly directing the film but realizing the need to tell this young lad's story. This is a great nature vs man feature film all the more hard hitting because it is true.


                
Chris's life (in his own words) makes one realize that, "Happiness is only real when shared". The movie also has some pretty good dialogues. The acting and the cinematography were also great. 
But what that kid (Chris McCandless) did was a little bit stupid. He threw away his life unnecessarily. Instead of facing his problems, he ran away and he didn't even write a single letter to his sister who loved him. In the end, it was too late when he had learnt his lesson and he had to pay a high price for his actions.
Nevertheless, a great story! Watch it when you have nothing else to do...........


                
Into the Wild is a tragic movie based on the tragic real life story of Christopher Mccandless. Chris was different and surely his foolhardy ways were directly responsible for his death, and yet you somehow feel for the guy. A part of you wishes he made out alive from the Alaskan tundra, from that yellow bus. The book on which this film is based, Jon Krakeur, is also a must read in my opinion. The lead Emile Hirsh is more than adequate and the director Sean Penn must be commended for not just deftly directing the film but realizing the need to tell this young lad's story. This is a great nature vs man feature film all the more hard hitting because it is true.


                
The journey of one free-spirited young man has captured the hearts of people all over the world for his bravery and remarkable attitude towards life. Chris McCandless is a unique film character in that even though we know his outcome isn't great, we support his decisions along the way. Based on a remarkable true story, Sean Penn captures the heart and soul of the physical and emotional wilderness inside and around man. This film could have been done poorly is just any director tackled the project, but Penn gives the film a gorgeous layer of emption that makes the audience dig deep into the true story he's documenting. Eddie Veder's original songs written and performed for the film are superb and capture the nature of the film perfectly. What steals the show is Hal Holbrook as an elderly loner who meets Chris along his wilderness journey to Alaska, giving as heartbreaking a performance as they come. This is a film nearly everyone enjoys and is worth seeing and thinking about long after your viewing.


                
I love this film even though I really don't agree with the main characters actions.


                
To begin with, it is very difficult to make movies by adapting from books because there will always be a limitation to environment details and also outcome of a decision. Books usually do not conclude any rationals to the actions taken by protagonist. In cinema, director has to decide a direction of motive during post processing.I read a lot of reviews which were negative because they felt character was stupid to have done that. But director is not naive enough to have ignored that fact. Director does a decent effort in presenting the story. That must be appreciated. Regarding how stupid the character was or how much of a life he wasted can be spoken about in a different context. But I felt, as a movie, this was very good. It makes you react, you react to it, maybe in a good way or bad. But this one leaves a lot of questions in mind regarding solitude and relations. Great performance by the actors and wonderful music. And visuals are really good.


                
