So, if Jimmy Stuart had really lived I wouldn't sip a Martini now - but I would know and maybe even befriend a valuable citizen called MISTER Martini who lives because Lionel Barrymore died at the right moment? Or is it the other way round? I liked to speculate along those lines, when I was a child.Watching It's a Wonderful Life made me quite mad. The message is pretty cruel. It goes like: you are needed here and don't you dare planning to go on a world trip or anything like that. It's for other folks only. This strongly smells of Calvin's doctrine of predestination which, some say, is one of the foundations of the spirit of the USA. The main character is practically denied a free will, due to the circumstances a non too benevolent god arranged for him. I must admit, Stewart's hysterical shrieks on the bridge, as it dawns on him how valuable he is for the community, sounded to me like the first signs of full fledged madness.Ironically, the Potterville Stewart's character prevents through his sacrifice seems to be a much more thrilling place than the Bedford Falls he preserves, at least to a modern day audience. I am not against modesty, a good community spirit and loyalty, but inertia and values that are declared absolute and unchangeable will not help to solve the world's problems. I don't know how Frank Capra weathered the HUAC hearings, but the rigid categorizations of the citizenship this movie makes in order to propagate American values could well have pointed at him as a <U+0084>Commie sympathizer".James Stewart's George Bailey is the exact opposite of Gary Cooper's Howard Roark in The Fountainhead, made three years after this movie. The both represent American extremes in movies that I find overbearing and simplistic.


                
I really don't get it. I just watched it for the first time and did not like it...And I wanted, really. I like old movies, I get a nice feeling watching old classics and I enjoy some over sentimental holiday movie at the right season, but this one just didn't do it for me.I do like the main idea. That no matter how disappointed you are about your life and yourself, just take a step back and see how you may have affected other people's lives. How many good things would not have happened if you weren't there. This is all nice, but I didn't like how it was made and presented.It is sooooo loooong and boring until the last 20 minutes or so when the angel finally shows him the world without him. And you know what, it seems it would have been better if he wasn't born. Seriously, what is so bad about Potterville? It has entertainment and people having fun? Oh how evil, so immoral! Apparently life is only good if you don't have fun and never pursue your dreams!.Don't like George's character either. He is the one who never went for what he wanted. And while James Stewart might be a good actor, he wasn't one in this movie. I thought he was awful.I also don't like how they made the girl who enjoyed to have fun the bad one. Well once again, people who enjoy life, especially females, are just horrible aren't they? This is still a common sentiment. Although the idea that Mary would be an "old maid" librarian without George is a bit outdated by now. Now she would have a cat as well. Poor her, she didn't get the joy of being a housewife but had to be a working woman without a man.So yes, I don't get the love for it. Is it just sentimentality of having watched it back in childhood for Christmas or is it the redneck hype of the "good old days" and "family values"?
Considered to be an extremely uplifting movie by most and hailed as the greatest Christmas movie ever made (and even the director hailed it as his favourite movie until he died... that doesn't make him sound egotistical at all!) I was intrigued and decided to watch it and... It suffers from being both too dated and (for me personally) not being that realistic, I mean - yeah, I could tell by the concept that it wouldn't be realistic but I'll elaborate more on it below.So the movie opens with everyone in town praying really hard for George Bailey, a man who seems to be going through problems. So God decides to send down a novice angel to convince him out of suicide by looking at his life and subsequently showing him what life would be like if he never existed.Okay, the story is really really good. No, really - I love concepts like this and I'll say to this movie's credit I can see why it had the impact it had in the 1940's. I probably will continue to praise the idea and say that I usually love it when premises like this show up. What doesn't work for me however is the execution.I don't know, throughout this movie George Bailey frequently has to be a doormat for the people around him. Stuff like him taking his father's job and ensuring the greedy rich guy (whom God himself introduces to the audience as "The richest and meanest man in the county"... SUBTLE!) get richer, okay I can see him trying to stop the town living in slums which is basically what he does but giving all his honeymoon money away to the clients at the bank for loaning just makes me think that might be a bit too much. But the thing that really pushes my buttons is when the poor guy has to take the fall for a mistake made that wasn't even his fault! Oh and the ending where despite losing $8000 1940's money the townspeople manage to chip in and pay it all off? I don't know if that's a product of this movie ageing but I can't see this happening. I'd say if the bank I had lost the equivalent of $8000 to the 1940's I'd be very scared about my finances first.Okay, now onto the part that makes me dislike the "What life would be like if you were never born" well... It's too short for one thing. It's extremely out of proportion with introducing this character and we have what feels like 20 minutes spent in bizarro-world. Either way, I have problems with it. What happens to the wife is extremely dated and sexist, if you want to watch a movie where it's portrayed as the ultimate crime for a woman to never marry and learn at the library then this won't bother you so much. Oh and one last thing plot related, everyone - EVERYONE is portrayed as either the paragon of all niceness or a cold-hearted, thieving maniac, this really is the source of most of my problems with this movie, nobody seems to be a shade of grey at all when it comes to the character's morality and that to me is unrealistic.Okay, what else? I'll say this movie is quite well shot though and the acting for the most part is pretty good (I say for the most part because the child actors are terrible) and I will re-iterate that I really love the story. I'll say that the execution either doesn't work or doesn't age well. I will also re-iterate that I know my opinion isn't the popular consensus and if your opinion differs from mine then I'm not asking you to dislike the movie with me, I just feel as though I should share my own opinion.


                
*Spoiler, for the most part* While Donna Reed and Jimmy Stewart did some of their best acting with the amazing telephone scene, the movie can only be deemed "classic" because of its subject matter. Frankly, this movie is puzzling, and I can see why it was a "box-office flop" upon its original release. Considering it was just after WWII, it could have done a far better job of lifting people's spirits.
When Mr. Bailey goes bankrupt and suicidal because of a mean greedy banker, an angel is sent to show him how much worse life would be for others had he never been born to help them. But this only happens after an hour and a half of a movie that drags; it's long and slow to the point and dated. And in the end everything turns out fine in a sea of roses (sorry... money), because he helped so many people, all of them his good buddies, friends and comrades, that they save him (and his family) from bankruptcy, storming inside his home on Christmas Eve to give him money because everyone is so altruistic that time of year! Only in the movies... I only see two positives: some good camera work and scenery production.
I understand this move is from the mid 40's, when most US American's thought the United States was the only nation on the planet. (not unlike today really) But WOW! Can this move get any more Americana? I guess the writer's felt that God prefers US American's over us ordinary people.At the beginning of the movie some "angels" are boasting about the main characters brother, that as an US American soldier, he shot down Japanese planes saving US lives. Because that's what God would want, right? They make reference to the brother again as an "All American", as though in heaven that would really be of some significances. If they edited out the first ten or fifteen minutes, the movie would not be so absolutely intolerable from the get go. However, half way through you might feel a little numb from all the unfiltered good will by George Bailey. If by midway through this movie you don't feel like punching George Bailey's uncle in the nose, you're a much better person than I.
I only got about one hour and twenty minutes into this dated, boring slog, but I think that's enough to determine that most of these 10/10 reviews are fake. Or maybe just made by people who love optimism? Anyways, this movie is ridiculously boring and mediocre and I can't recommend it to anyone.


                
