How does this show have a 9 rating on IMDb? HOW?I don't understand what's so amazing about this Turkish series, there are WAY better Turkish shows out there that are actually funny instead of being unintentionally hilarious with 'Leyla ile Mecnun's incredibly awkward romance! The characters are forgettable, the dialog is boring and the story goes no where. There is no direction here and nothing about it that makes it unique.I got no sense of adventure at all and the only surprise I got was from the high rating on this website that is massively undeserving. At least the acting was good but unfortunately that's not enough to warrant it this current status!


                
I just wait to say I made a whole account to write this. This series is the worst series ever in human history, I really really don't understand why anyone likes this. This movie is set in a normal day with a romance and all, but then there are people with magic, and I like magic. I'm 14 and I love magical movies but this movie is stupid. It's is not good at all. I can't find words to write this, and how stupid it is. There one bit it, where there is a girl and if you smile at her you get good luck. Even me writing this sounds more clever than it really is. The girl that plays that part is in it for 1 episode. The girl that plays the part is one of my favourite actors and I love her. I would not say bad things about something that she plays in. The the series is awful and can't describe and i know a lot of people that feel the same way. If you watch it I think you would known what I am talking about. (I have watched a lot of series, I have probably watch over 50 series, talking about other series not this. So I now the difference. I watched English, American and Turkish shows) I watched this series about till episode 18 till I saw how immature it was and I m 12 when watching. I love, love magic and this has magic but not in a normal way.overall this is my opinion you would need to watch it yourselves to decide.


                
