It's been a long time since i became an IMDb user and for the first time i couldn't help myself but write a review! I personally volunteer to write English subtitles for this wonderful most amazing TV show I have ever seen in decades.Coz this show has it all.. It's so cleverly written, acting is amazing and very well directed. It captures you and makes you wanna be a part of it just within a few episodes and you start feeling like these characters are your friends, their problems are your problems and their joys are yours as well. Each and every character has real dept and originality. It's also unique in a way that it can catch the young audiences' attention like no Turkish series could ever catch before. I'm thankful for all of the cast and crew for introducing this absurd comedy which is full of clever references, sarcasm and intelligence. Very well done. Two thumbs up, what the hell i'll just trow in a standing ovation as well. Keep up the good work.


                
Having an interesting story is one of the most important factor to be excellent comedy series. This series has the most time we are laughing at while watching. Let me compare two comedy series. "How I Met Your Mother" is a very funny comedy series and it is approximately 20 minutes per an episode and generally we are laughing all the time it lasts. Although "Leyla ile Mecnun" is very long (70 - 100 minutes), comparing with the others which are not Turkish, it makes spectators laughed almost throughout the episode. As an advice to people who do not watch "Leyla ile Mecnun", you should meet this comedy series. It is obvious that you will be a fan or follower or lover... You can use whichever you want.


                
this is a good show. it's even safe to say that this is the best comedy that comes out of turkey in recent years. is it really deserving to be top five in the IMDb? or even top100? it probably doesn't but this rating has nothing to with a deliberate attempt of flooding.the thing is; this series became a social media phenomenon in Turkey. it sparked great interest from the young, with a fresh sense of humor that young-adults can relate. these are the people that votes in such sites and turkey has a very big young online community.though, would a regular person like in the case of finding the chance to watch it? it really depends. this show is really in a different format that American people are used to. this is a 90 minutes comedy -industry standard in Turkey- that airs weekly, with just one (yes one) writer. they create 40 episodes a year and with a relatively low budget. so you are not going to find comedy that is crisply engineered into half an hour like Coupling UK, Seinfeld or the like. this is rather a fully fleshed out low-tempo humor created by the chemistry of an absolutely brilliant cast and a genius writer (Burak Aksak that is). They manage to create hilarious situations and heartfelt moments with very weird plot- lines and larger than life characters. I can easily claim that they are doing a much more enjoyable\laughable work than modern sit-coms like how I met your mother or 2 and a half men. lastly and it is pity, cultural difference is a really big obstacle to enjoy this show. every two line in a subtitle would require an another paragraph about why that is funny.(I wrote this as a response in the boards but I think it could pass as a review)


                
Leyla ile Mecnun would be an entertaining, if somewhat hard to get, show for those who are not familiar with daily Turkish life. For us, Turkey dwellers it is a hilarious show which is also quite unusually critical as it is broadcast on the mainstream medium in turkey trt which is known to be very conservative almost bigot in their broadcasting policies in order to project the governments ideology on viewers. If as a stranger to the culture you want to enjoy the there are few things you should know about Turkey: --spoiler-- 1-there is a severe restriction and ban on consumption of alcoholic beverages and tobacco on screen(also in real life). 2- there used to be old American cars used as transportation means in 70's, but not enough technical services- or the cars were so old that even the ignition was a miracle. "to make hit a car on the slope" is a term inherited from those days . 3-In Turkish soap operas the poor do not kiss, or they are very reluctant to do so, as a sign of high morality.right now it is an entertaining show but i think in a decade it will become a must see in Turkey.
