Much has been made of the intertextuality of this revisionist western, but as a movie it's pretty much ruined by pompousness and good taste. This is the second time I've viewed this in an effort to reassess it's merits. I didn't think much of it the first time, because it simply could not compete with a better version of "Unforgiven" in my mind, compiled from my brothers enthusiastic retelling (before I saw it). He tells it better than Eastwood does; offering praise for all its clever ideas while leaving out all of it's many deficiencies.The whores of a old west town pool their resources to avenge a hooker (Delilah) who was attacked after mocking a mans small penis. Within ten minutes the movie has passed on a rumor that is incorrect; that the perp has "cut out her eyes and cut off her teats;" this is patently incorrect. We also hear that "she ain't got no face left." And by the time the victim arrives, the over the top violence of the early scenes is represented by two or three minuscule scars, not the knife wounds you get from the arm swinging motions we witnessed. Most liberal film-makers can't bear to depict true immorality (as in Costner's A Perfect World) and waffle like this. So when constructing a movie as an argument, they find the need to be dishonest. Eastwood wussed out and gave her scant injuries, making all the ensuing violence pretty pointless. It never deals with this issue, even after Mundy meets the barely-scarred hooker.Anyway, William Mundy (Eastwood) hears the rumors. He retrieves pal Morgan Freeman, who leaves his own wife (Sally) presumably defenseless (and eventually widowed and unsupported) to go off half-cocked as wrong-headed moral avengers.The movie has a sufficient number of intriguing ideas in play; Hackman building a rotten dream house, a man chronicling the old west for public consumption (Mr Beauchamp). But it's burdened by a moral agenda which is very unsubtle. This production is offered as an apologia for Eastwood's earlier, violent work. But I can't name an Eastwood movie where his violence is due to "craziness" or "liquor," the two excuses given here. Mundy's sainted dead wife Claudia is painted in hallowed terms, but she's also responsible for his goofy gender baggage which causes the conflict to play out. The movie strands Eastwood as the same self-appointed, easily-confused morality-ranger that took us into Iraq.Little did we know he had an even larger hunk of rotten sanctimony in him (Million Dollar Baby) and would win the best director Oscar again. Just a reminder; Fellini, Howard Hawks, Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick have zero Oscars between them, but Eastwood has two.The movie strangles its intelligence with a lackluster script and too much sanctimony. Skip this and rent Once upon a time in the West, a movie likewise burdened by artistic pretensions, but which occasionally delivers.
I never got what is so great about this movie. At least other Eastwood Westerns could entertain. Even "Pale Rider", a pale hybrid of "Shane" and "High Plains Drifter", was better than this, entertainment wise. Whatever message of anti-violence in the film made no impression on me. John Wayne's final film "The Shootist" was better at that with the last scene in the saloon where Ron Howard throws the gun away and John Wayne nods in agreement and dies. Certainly the director of that movie, Don Siegel, were he still alive at the time, would have done a better job with "Unforgiven", as he had as director of earlier Eastwood films. It was only Eastwood's aging that allowed him to make this particular kind of Western, and with that aging came a consistent decline of quality in his output. Not that any of his movies are all that great to begin with. None of them inspire. Not even this "message" Western. It needed a much more involving story to relay its "message".


                
Clint Eastwood with a gun, shooting people, and somehow justifying it. This movie did not capture my attention at all, especially with the first scene being a whore and a client. I don't approve of any form of prostitution so the fact that Eastwood' s character and his cohorts were trying to get revenge for them only sickened me more. You know why this is a classic movie? Because out of the two cohorts, it's the African American one that dies. The only parts I found funny were when the blonde prostitute got her face cut up, and when her assailant gets shot. Scenes that were supposed to be funny but made me want to roll my eyes were when the writer pees his pants, the guy that gets shot while he's in the outhouse, and when Kid cries about his first kill. This film had absolutely no point and a very strange conclusion. There was almost no part of this movie that I actually liked. The fact the Munny comes off as this laid back peaceful kind of guy, while we all know he has a bad past, makes for a very predictable movie. Why else would Eastwood play this role if he didn't get to shoot people and fake an anti-hero? My neck hurt so bad after watching this movie because I couldn't stop shaking my head at the cheesy-ness of it. One question I have is, how do people find these kinds of movies even remotely interesting? The only way I kept from cutting my wrists while watching this movie was from the knowledge that it had an ending. To give the move some credit, the use of the terrain and natural lighting did make the movie easier to watch, other than that I found the acting and plot as a disappointment.
Ok, here goes. I didn't particularly enjoy Unforgiven. I'm not bothered or disappointed with myself though, because there are many movies which have across-the-board acclaim which leave me cold; A Beautiful Mind, Goodfellas, Moulin Rouge, The Matrix etc. I just didn't think this would be one of them. But then, maybe I just don't get Westerns...Beautifully shot: yes. Excellent star cast: yes. Impressive sound: Yes. Oscar worthy editing: yup.It's just...flat. The dialogue probably disappointed me the most, we're told from the DVD commentary, that the dialogue was researched thoroughly and is as authentic as possible. Fine. But does that make it any more inspiring? No. I found the dialogue clunky at best; "you ain't like that anymore Will", "always remember, your dear departed mother is watchin' over you", "You think I'm kicking you. Well I'm just talking to you" , "Well you sure killed the hell outta that guy."The whole film has an uneasy air of not knowing what type of Western it wants to be. Is it a tribute to the old tradition, is it a new updated Western for the nineties, is it a dramatic exercise in accurate historical depiction? Also the few moments of comedy really are flattened by the overly earnest dialogue surrounding them, rendering them pointless and awkward. Only Richard Harris seems to treat his dialogue with the derision it often deserves, but in his case it actually adds to his performance since the character is ridiculously flamboyant in the first place.It's hard for me to assess the acting because if I don't like the words the actors are saying then we're off to a bad start straight off.
I know for many this will be a ridiculous comparison to make, but for a moment consider Gene Hackman's performance in Unforgiven alongside his (in my opinion) incredibly similar one in The Quick and The Dead. The Quick and the Dead is often written off as a silly popcorn Sharon Stone vehicle, but I got so much more enjoyment from that film. Compare similar scenes; addressing the town's people after violence in the main street in both films. Hackman's sadistic maniac of Unforgiven yells "What ya'll lookin at? Gawn, scoot!" while his sadistic maniac of Quick and the Dead shouts "This is my town! If you live to see the dawn, it is because I allow it." It is highly likely that Unforgiven was a major source of inspiration for the later film, but Sam Raimi's The Quick and the Dead has better dialogue, better performances, and is for my money generally a better film.


                
This may be the worst-directed movie to ever win the Best Director award. It meanders positively all over the place.  Excessive violence is everywhere, and every character seems to share Clint's own brooding and laconic nature.  The world may be a hard place but this movie is just that much harder to watch.  Far from being a seminal western, this mishmash makes Heaven's Gate seem like a classic.


                
Ok, let's get this straight. I read something about the Oscars, lamenting it's lack of truly great Best Pictures, except for movies like Unforgiven and The Godfather. ...Wait a minute. This movie is mentioned in the same breath as The Godfather? No way. I saw this movie, wondering why it won so many Oscars, and to tell you the truth, I thought it stunk. It's a decent western, but there are so many other better ones. Plus, I don't see the "intellectual" side to this movie. I thought Gene Hackman was horrible, and I thought the ending was against the grain of the whole movie. How does the end make sense, after the message the movie is trying to portray? You could have taken that scene straight out of any other western, even those without a "moral center." I think this movie is like the French Connection and is way way overrated. It's a decent movie in it's genre, but is not near Best Picture caliber. If you want a genre-defining Best Picture nominee, see Saving Private Ryan or The Godfather. But of course, this is just my opinion.


                
