Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman play two retired wild west bounty hunters, back in their saddles to chase one last bounty after decades of silence. Agonizingly slow, its two leads take their sweet time collecting their belongings, mounting their horses and trotting at a leisurely pace across state lines, sharing less than a few sentences along the way. We gather that Eastwood was a shady character in his day, reformed by the love of a deceased wife, but he seems more like a caged animal than a redeemed spirit and we're never given much reason to pull for him despite the presumed change of heart. Though his beloved bride's spirit lives on in the couple's two young children, he barely acknowledges their presence before leaving them on their own for a month to randomly hunt a new bounty. Freeman tries to drag some character development out of him on the trail, but Eastwood holds onto it with an icy grip and piercing eyes, and there we sit for the rest of the picture. Gene Hackman is noteworthy for his portrayal of a smarmy, cocky town sheriff with a chip on his shoulder, but on every other count this is a western that misses with each squeeze of the trigger. Despite a few beautiful panoramas, the world feels stiflingly tight and compressed. Outside of Hackman, there's no fire and passion in the cast, even when Eastwood turns the page and transgresses to his wilder young persona. Finally, the atmosphere, crucial to all films of the genre, feels too clean and polished where it should be gritty and dirty. Much as I would have loved to see Clint don that familiar parka and revisit the days of his Sergio Leon sunrise, it's just not happening here.


                
Near-sighted twenty-something wannabe gunslinger goads down-on-his-luck reformed alcoholic widowed bad man into one last bounty hunt to revenge the maiming of a naive young whore. Predictably filled with clichés and stereotypes speaking twentieth-century phrases and cuss words. Moments of good story can't make up for the inconsistent lighting and outdoor scenes, and the fragmented editing, possibly due to insufficient film footage. Should have kept the original working title of  `The Cut Whore Killings'. The truly unforgiven in this movie are the writer, editor, movie critics and Academy voters who gave 4 Oscars for this body of work recognition of Clint Eastwood.


                
I have heard much about this film, about how it is the greatest western ever made, etc, etc. Well what a load of codswallop!! Although a fine film and a well made western, it is by far and away not the best western ever made.  There are far more deserving westerns made many years ago.I think the reason that this film got this response was because many modern audiences havent seen older westerns, it was seen as Eastwood returning to westerns by critics and the revered nature at which many of the cast are held in provoke an emotional rather than independent response (Eastwood, Hackman, Freeman).


                
And now for another point of view: I didn't like it. I didn't finish it in fact. I know that "Unforgiven" is ranked by some as one of the greatest Westerns ever made. I know that it stars and was directed by Clint Eastwood, one of the icons of American cinema. I know that it won a bunch of Oscars. Still, I didn't like it. I don't like Westerns, and that's clearly a matter of taste, but I also don't admire Eastwood's acting. He is not and never has been a leading man. He is no Burt Lancaster, no Paul Newman, no John Wayne. In this film alone he is dwarfed by Richard Harris and Gene Hackman; they are both actors. No, Eastwood is a tall guy with a reedy voice who usually plays tough guys. Here he plays a retired tough guy. When I see him on screen, I see a man laboring at his acting. Then there's the anti-Western Western plot. It is too obviously intended to inject contemporary values -- a respect for the role of women, blacks, native Americans, and single parents; a disrespect for violence and drinking; the wholesomeness that comes with marriage, including interracial marriage, and small adorable children -- into a century in which those values weren't necessarily accepted, at least in these ways. By promoting those values, the movie comes across as mannered, if not preachy. Then there are the hoary movie stereotypes -- prostitutes with hearts of gold, the kid who can't shoot straight, the city slicker new to the wild West, the sage brush shimmering on a summer afternoon with a musical accompaniment in major chords. Finally there is the pacing of Eastwood's direction. I gave up after an hour. Eastwood was still riding north, chatting with Morgan Freeman and the kid who couldn't shoot straight, sixty minutes after the plot driven by the slashing of a prostitute was set in motion. It was way too slow. Somebody had to find these elements uncompelling. I am afraid it was me.


                
"It's a helluva thing - killing a man.  You take away all he has ... and all he's gonna have."  Say that with as if you're Cecil B. DeMille reciting from the Book of Genesis and as slowly as possible, and you'll have some idea of what "Unforgiven" feels like.  It's one self-important speech after another, as Eastwood tries to atone for the sins of much better films like "Pale Rider".It all starts when a prostitute is violently beaten by a client.  He had a comically small penis, and she laughed at it ... Yes, that really is what happens.  It's not only implausible: it's a forced genuflection towards feminism, and just the first in a long line of forced genuflections. Anyway, the prostitutes are unable to exact legal revenge on the man, so they offer a bounty to anyone who will kill him (and his friends, who have done no wrong and who, more importantly, the prostitutes have no particular reason to even dislike).  Word gets around; the country swarms with would-be-assassins; and eventually the men are killed by an aging Clint Eastwood character; except that HE kills them in a way that demonstrates the futility of violence, or some such.  On the way we meet a variety of unpleasant characters who walk onto centre stage and then walk off, to pad things out.I'll be honest: I loathe Westerns as a rule, but I'm not incapable of recognising a good story that, for some reason or other, can be appropriately set in 19th-century America.  This bloated movie, if it's about anything at all, is about other Westerns.  "Look!" it cries.  "Other Westerns glorify violence!  Other Westerns are ignore the role of blacks! Other Westerns don't admit that prostitutes were mistreated!"  At least other Westerns were films in their own right.


                
You know, the true "Unforgiven" here is me. Because I'll never forgive this movie for disappointing me so badly. Actually, completely disappointed is not even beginning to express what I feel. I mean, I watched this movie because: - it's Clint Eastwood..enough said! - it's ranked among the top 100 movies on IMDb - it got like 4 OscarsSo there I was all excited to see it and prepared for a fantastic movie, with great acting and a deep message to think about...boy, was this a let down! seriously, maybe I watched the wrong movie or something, it's so so so so bad. And what makes it worst is the fact that it has gotten such high praise, awards and reviews! UN-BELIEVABLE!Hands down worst Clint Eastwood movie (and I truly admire him as a director and an actor,it's so frustrating so see how bad this is when you like the director!)! The plot is full of inconsistencies, as other reviewers mentioned before (he can't ride - how did he go to town?? on foot? for miles and miles?how did he go visit his friend?; he leaves his kids behind all alone - hello, it's the wild west, you don't let kids alone even in our day and age), but the main problem is that it does not have any message at all. He was a bad man, he reformed for his wife, then when she's gone and things go bad on his farm, he returns to his old ways. What does that mean? That he actually never changed? That sometimes there are plausible reasons for killing someone? That he does not have a choice, because he's forced by the situation? Shoot me if you want, but I did not like it one bit, it's not a true western, and it's not a psychological movie either. The only scenes I liked was that cowboy trying to give Delilah the pony, and Munny in delirium afraid of dying. Oh, and "The Duck of death" was funny. The rest is....just unforgivably bad!
Directed and starring Clint Eastwood, this classical Western is a plot that we've all seen many times over. Clint Eastwood's character William "Bill" Munny is a killer/ alcoholic cured of his sins by his deceased wife. His old partner in crime and recently re-united Ned Logan is played by Morgan Freeman.The film begins when a young new hotshot shows up at Bill's farm with a proposition. Hearing of Munny's reputation as the worst gunslinger of them all, The Schofield Kid, played by Jaimz Woolvett, asks Munny for his help in a well paid job to kill two men. The men the Kid was hired to kill, cut up a hooker in another town. Munny at first says no, even when the Kid agrees to split the money with Munny. However, soon Munny is on his way to catch up with the Schofield Kid and even stops along the way to pick up his old partner in crime.While this movie is conventional in its plot, setting, and every other way, it's ending is everything but conventional. The ending of Unforgiven is not a typical ending where everyone is happy in the end, and all is perfect. I really liked the fact that this movie took a chance and didn't go for the predictable happy ending.Though the ending wasn't the usual conclusion to a film and took a risk, it also left the viewer unsatisfied. It wasn't really much of an ending at all. One minute guns are blazing, shots are firing and the next nothing. I really think that a better ending could have been written, conventional or not. Another thing that really bothered me the entire movie, the hooker whose face got cut up "so badly" wasn't even cut up that badly. The movie was made in 1992; they absolutely could have done a better job on making her wounds look worse.Unforgiven definitely had an all-star cast with actors like Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman. However I don't think that the roles that the actors were in were interesting or showed any talent whatsoever. Bill Munny, Clint Eastwood's character doesn't speak much of the movie and has the same snarling ho-hum demeanor the entire film. Eastwood also displays the same facial expression regardless if he is sick, sad, happy or excited. Ned Logan, Morgan Freeman's character, is a typical Morgan Freeman character. The character is calm, wise and unable to hurt a fly. When push comes to shove the ex-killer is unable to pull the trigger; surprise, surprise.The film isn't horrible, it is just not memorable. The plot is the same as most other western movies you have seen and the acting isn't that great either. Unforgiven's unusual ending makes the movie somewhat stand out of the pack, but in the end it leaves the audience confused. I would recommend not wasting the 2 hours this movie takes to watch in its entirety. All in all I would rate this movie a 4 out of 10 stars


                
Clint Eastwood's much-ballyhooed revisionist western became the first western in decades to win a Best Picture Oscar, but most viewers will probably wonder why. The film is beautifully photographed, but over-rated, overwrought and over-populated with extraneous characters that pad out the film's already questionable running time given its flimsy story. The film opens with a puzzling on screen typescript that ultimately becomes laughable as it has nothing whatsoever to do with the story and discusses a woman that never appears in the film or is really even discussed. Eastwood trots out his old stock character of the tired gunslinger prodded back into action by young whippersnapper Jaimz Woolvet to accept the commission set out by a group of prostitutes in Big Whiskey to avenge the disfigurement of one of their own by a local ruffian. Corrupt sheriff Gene Hackman is not too keen on the idea of cavalcades of gunslingers parading through town and naturally becomes an obstacle for Eastwood. Truthfully, this story has been done to death, and the only thing Eastwood really brings to the table is making his character aged and the entire tone of the film melancholy to the point of inducing sleep. None of the "action" scenes are especially suspenseful and there are so many characters that are just simply not needed. I enjoy Richard Harris, but his participation in this film is pointless. Morgan Freeman seems on hand only because Eastwood likes to stack the cast with older actors and because someone needs to die in order for him to go all "man with no name" on everyone. The women - who one would think should hold some sway over the film - are relatively interchangeable and given little screen time. Woolvett is little more than an irritant and is given short shrift. Eastwood looks and acts pale and decrepit. Only Hackman seems aware that he is in a film and there needs to be some energy or life to resuscitate the audience watching. The conclusion is predictable and most viewers will have little, if any, emotional stake in the outcome. A beautiful looking waxwork of a film, which copped Eastwood his first of two completely undeserved director Oscars. With all due respect McCabe and Mrs. Miller did this revisionist western thing much better more than a decade earlier and Eastwood's film merely comes across as a poor copy.
I don't like western films as they remind me of history in secondary school, which I hated. However I decided to give them a chance after watching the more recent '3:10 to Yuma' and thoroughly enjoying it. I'm a younger audience member so my film knowledge goes to around the late 90's onwards, so I thought I'd broaden my horizons. And I have come to the conclusion that if you're not a fan of westerns, then you won't like this film. Unforgiven is paced so slowly that it takes over half the film to get the main plot. There are hardly any action sequences, and when there are they evoke no excitement in me - they just take their time, which is perhaps more realistic, but I watch films that help me escape reality not mirror it. Which leaves you with a slow plot that offers very little substance, and the characters. The character are good, however, with Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman and Jaimz Woolvet providing convincing performances. My problem, however, is with Clint Eastwood's acting. It's clear that he has thought about his character, but he only has one expression. This is the first film I've seen him in, and his face stays the same the whole time, as far as I could tell. His voice portrays grief and regret well, but even when he gets angry, his face stays the same as before making him impossible to read. That may be just his style of acting - not everyone has to be extremely expressive, but even his body language didn't convey anything to me, and it just irritated me throughout the whole film.Overall, I can't determine how good this film is, because I know it's intended as a tribute to westerns; for fans of the genre and as such I'm a poor judge because of my dislike for it. I gave it 4/10, based on what I felt as guy who has seen one other western in his life.


                
Weirdly ambivalent, slightly incoherent 1992 story. Looked at from one point of view, it seems to have been patched together using a wide selection of stereotypes from earlier Westerns: the Silly, the Unreal, and the Ugly. Bits and pieces from "Liberty Valance", "A Fistful of Dollars", "Ride the High Country", "Lawman", "Young Guns", even a touch of "Badlands" and "Cat Ballou", no less. A jug of whiskey greatly improves your target-shooting. A mash-up. One of the silly scenes happens early on, when Clint flounders around in his pig pen; and then can't get on his horse. What's he been doing for the last eleven years, since he stopped gunslinging? How has he been getting into town, or anywhere, except on horseback? Has he just been sitting in his shack with his two kids, for the last three years, since his wife died? There's a try at explaining it away. In any case, it's very badly shot and performed.A second silly scene is inserted to show that the Kid is seriously short-sighted. He starts shooting with his rifle "all over creation" because he thinks Ned and Munny are two unknown characters following him (why would they?). How did he see them in the first place? He can't handle a rifle anyway. OK, so he's an unusually stupid little git. The part was excellently well-acted by an actor completely unknown to me.Third silly scene: "Little" (in the original script he's supposed to be unusually large --- like Robin Hood's "Little" John Little) Bill Daggett and his house-building. His incompetence, especially as demonstrated during his rainy night-time session with Mr Beecham, is as madly exaggerated as the Kid's semi-blindness. Then there's another scene, perhaps more puzzling than silly, where one of the girl billiard-markers, Little Sue, delivers the $1,000 (equals $110,000 today) bounty pay-off to Munny and The Kid: how did she know where to find them? Perhaps that was the old oak, a pre-arranged meeting-place between Munny and Little Sue. The script makes this fairly clear, but it's not obvious from the screen. Was she psychic? Could be. Hints of supernatural forces at work in this film. Mr Beecham suggests hanging the carpenter, but mightn't that be crucify the carpenter? Hendershot lives again.(NB Wikipedia: "<U+0085> assigning the title "little" typically relates to a person who expresses kindness, compassion, empathy, and a certain level of optimism and joy toward life and other people." Huh? --- not always!) A lot of this film seems unreal. One reviewer reckons it's "unbelievably real"; but if something is real, it's not unbelievable. From another point of view, it is compelling entertainment. It makes you want to know what happens next, and it stimulates thought. There are scenes which are powerful, well-paced, and tense, probably because they are also brutal and ugly, involving sadistic violence and merciless cold killing, giving many people a thrill. Contrary to some opinions, much of the dialogue is sharp, and well-delivered. The acting is pretty good in most scenes. Woolvett is very good. But Saul Rubinek has a deeply comic persona, which seems out-of-place here. He was much better, in fact really funny, in "True Romance", a comedy. The scene with English Bob where Saul wets himself is a bit silly. English Bob makes a number of good points, but he's far too old for this sort of life.The writer is D.W.Peoples, who also had a big hand in "Blade Runner", 1982. There are situational similarities. Both settings feature cold, inhuman, functional communities entirely devoid of families. Big Whiskey's population seems to consist solely of a few merchants, whores and gambling, drinking, cowboys. "The town of Big Whiskey is full of normal people trying to lead quiet lives". You could have fooled me. One short 5 or 10 second shot shows what looks like a man and his wife entering the place together on a buggy. There is a long catalogue of goofs and anachronisms listed on this site, which is one reason why "Blade Runner" (rated 117 on the IMDb list) is a much greater film than "Unforgiven" (rated 99). Ridley Scott is a compulsive perfectionist, and Eastwood isn't; but there are many other reasons for Blade Runner's vast superiority, including theme, conception and execution.There's quite a good scene where Hackman delivers a short lecture on how to be a successful gunfighter, by staying cool, calm and collected, as well as aiming carefully, but not necessarily fast. This is pretty well a rip-off of a similar lesson given by Burt Lancaster to Richard Jordan in "Lawman", 1971. "Lawman" is also a much better film than "Unforgiven", though criminally under-rated. Lancaster fills the roles combined by Munny and Hackman, as law enforcer, judge, jury and executioner, and he is also a greater actor, and a far more powerfully charismatic personality, than either. Moreover, "Lawman" expresses the judicial dilemmas of the mythic Old West more cleanly than "Unforgiven".The message of "Unforgiven" is even more confusing than that in Duck Wayne's 1962 movie, which ends with the line: "Nothing's too good for the man who shot Liberty Valance". The point being that it was the old-fashioned gunslinging pioneer who shot Liberty. Is the moral, in spite of everything, simply that Might is Right? Nothing really matters, so long as you can survive by shooting down the other guy(s)? Extermination silences opposition.I'm truly not sure who is "unforgiven" in this story. The girls (well, the Head Girl anyway) were definitely unforgiving. An alternative title might be "Hitman Makes Good". San Francisco dry goods put Munny in the money. Marxist subtext? Probably worth more than 4 stars, but so over-rated on this site that some balance needs to be restored. Four Oscars --- I ask you!
Many better anti-westerns have hit the screen than this lumbering, unnecessarily violent film.  But, it apparently was time to give Clint his career achievement award.  The acting is uniformly good, some classic scenes, but mostly one-note: ugly and depressing.  I lost interest after awhile.


                
I just don't get how this movie got so much praise. I get what they were going for, it's a throwback to the spaghetti western genre that Clint Eastwood became associated with, and it's out of his friendship with long time collaborator, Sergio Leone, but I think Clint tried a little to hard to match the genre. I can watch a spaghetti western at any time, and be entertained by the filming techniques used and macho attitudes of the stars, but with this movie, I watch it and find myself being bored stupid by it.So it seems like a good story, we've got a washed up criminal, played by Clint, trying to get back in the game along with a whiny little bitch trying to prove himself, and Clint's old partner, played by Morgan Freeman, who is undoubtedly the best part of this movie. Morgan can take a bad movie and make it watchable. Unfortunately, his characters death washed that down the crapper. The only real good part in this movie is the bar shootout at the end. That scene felt the closest to a spaghetti western, and was well executed. I also like how this movie was dedicated to Sergio LeoneMy beef with this movie comes with the cast. Clint Eastwood and Gene Hackman are terrible in this movie, and all the female cast members are annoying as hell, and the fact that Richard Harris has 20 minutes of screen time. Also the grittiness of the genre has been replaced with sympathy, apparently, and that is not a good trade in a western.
