The film claims in the opening credits to have a historian as a consultant, Wilbur G. Kurtz. And, at the time of its making, what he did sufficed as history.The Old South was claimed to be a "pretty world," "a dream remembered," and full of gallantry. There are innumerable problems with the film the greatest of which is racist sentiment.The portrayal of "Mammy" is particularly racist. Manny has no name and her entire life is invested in Scarlett's. She says the happiest day of her life is when Scarlett has her child. She is always worried about the family's reputation and lives vicariously through them. She becomes terribly upset and emotional when Rhett and Scarlett fight. Most outrageously, Mammy is seen pushing USCT soldiers aside to allow Scarlett through as if Mammy and other former slaves have no interest in their own freedom.If the portrayal of Mammy is bad, the portrayal of Prissy is even worse. Mammy is at least portrayed has having some sense whereas Prissy plays "the simple-minded darkie" with no courage at all. Her high pitched voice serves to emphasize her inanity.Mammy and Prissy's characters are part of a larger lie that the movie attempts to tell: the myth of the "loyal darkies." In the scene where Atlanta is under attack by Sherman, some black men say, "Don't worry! We'll stop them Yankees!" When one slave is given a watch he refuses to accept it and insists that Scarlett should keep it as if to say, "Look! These white people were so great to us we want nothing from them!" The film also advances the myth of benign slavery. Scarlett's father tells her to treat slaves gently, as if the only problem is a few bad masters who commit excesses. When Ashley complains of misgivings about white prison labor, he says that he kept all of his slaves well-fed and would have freed them when his father died if the war had not done so first.Finally, the film advances the myth of the evil carpetbagger. "Carpetbaggers" are shown to be terrible and vicious people who kick injured Confederates off the road and ride with nicely dressed black men sitting in a position of equality. One night, the white southerners "clean out the woods to protect their women," which is just code for organizing the KKK and committing murder.The film is rife with faux sentiment, posturing, and social strategizing. Scarlett O'Hara is simply a terrible character. She is screaming, crying and whining. She's weak, flirtatious, boy-crazy, and hopelessly in love. She slaps Prissy and tells her she will sell her south. Scarlett is manipulative, lying, deceptive, lovesick, and obsessed with looks. And all her tribulations are emphasized by melodramatic music and foreboding weather.Even scenes which would otherwise be wonderful must be condemned because of the vicious intent behind them. The contrast of the tree, Scarlett, and her father against the setting sun is simply perfect. But, it intends to advance the myth of the idyllic Old South. After the attack on Atlanta, the camera shows the land covered with soldiers and pans back up to the Confederate flag. While expertly shot, the scene is used to evoke sympathy for the Lost Cause.This film competes with Birth of a Nation for the title of "Most Celebrated Terrible Film of All-Time." Gone with the Wind is less racist, but much more celebrated than Birth of a Nation. Given the two criteria, it is difficult to say which is worse. Birth of a Nation has been kicked off AFI's Top 100 Films while Gone with the Wind still sits perched at #4. Whereas films like Christmas with the Kranks are unequivocally awful, Gone with the Wind is worse. The reason being that it is much worse to be shitty and pernicious than it is to be shitty and harmless.To paraphrase a quote from Scarlett, "As God is my witness, I will never watch this film again!"


                
This move travesties the history of the war and especially of the Reconstruction, which was not at all the disaster that pro-Southern historians and their sympathizers would have us believe. This film is awash, as one would expect, in nostalgia for the ancien regime, and not even the charm of Vivien Leigh and Clark Gable can make me forget that fact. Such scenes as the one in which the director has an African-American character riding along in a carriage singing Marching Through Georgia are obviously meant to inspire bitterness and resentment in the viewer, and the Federal troops are uniformly portrayed as brutes. This is nothing but polite version of Birth of a Nation--at least so far as its politics go.


                
The facts speak for themselves: a (to date) 62-year-old film; one of the all-time best box office grossers; enjoyed five major theatrical releases, including wide-screen versions; VHS, laser disc, and now DVD transfers--and three major restorations.  Folks are still talking about it: debating its value-- agreeing, disagreeing, agreeing in part but taking exceptions... It's quite a work that David O. Selznick and his superb production company fashioned. 
On the purely technical achievement side, there's almost unanimous consent that the film is a historical milestone. After that, opinions are beginning to vary.There's evidence that some folks today aren't quite as smitten by it as in the 40's through, say, the 60's.  They're beginning to take note of some of the sociological implications, as the narrative is told from the perspective of the land-owner/slave-owner/ruling/upper  class.  The narrative begs the audience to identify and empathize with this aristocratic echelon, and to see the beauty and grace of this society through the land owner's eyes.Well, some folks aren't completely buying that perspective any more. They're starting to think about the sweat, tears, and broken lives upon which this aristocracy has built its so-called genteel world.  They're also beginning to embrace characters and situations untold here -- while applauding such efforts as Alice Randall's 2001 spinoff/parody ("The Wind Done Gone") to at least help set records straight.  Of course, there are many tales told from the perspective of the ruling class, whose power has come from the enslavement and domination of others. So it really depends upon how the viewer tends to see things.  One has a feeling, though, that GWTW will continue to be viewed with an increasingly suspicious eye, as years pass.  There's also a feeling that it will remain a "classic," being a genuine marking point in cinematic history as to how films were made.  It's technical influence is still felt today, and many audience members are still captivated by the total sweep and power of its superb production values.So, the Wind's still heartily blowing, and there's every indication it will continue to do so for some time to come.


                
Unfortunately Gone with the Wind remains a most overrated film in history. It tells us a story of a spoiled, egoistic girl, incapable of loving anybody but herself, ready to do anything to have her stomach filled. What is her turning to Rhett for money to restore her Tara but a kind of walking the panel? If that's a heroine what are the nation's morals? Unfortunately it is Vivien Leigh that saved the film. If it were not for her nobody would have noticed this run-of-the -mill production. It has no cultural or intellectual worth. At least it has no story to tell the world. I am sure that American history could have furnished a film crew with a better plot or a more breathtaking love story. Only incurable pragmatics can learn something from this film and this is how to kill a human being in oneself to earn money. Scarlett is a failure and a disaster in everything, she couldn't even look properly after her own child. If she had had an eye open for her daughter nothing of the kind would have happened. On the whole, the rich also weep, soap gives suds and leaves scum behind.


                
I've never been that interested in seeing this movie, but I finally decided to watch it, to see what the deal was. In the opening scroll, as it described the glories of the Old South, it spoke of 'Here was the last ever to be seen of Knights and their Ladies Fair, of Master and of Slave...' My mouth hung open. I couldn't believe it was so overt about slavery. I expected it to circumvent the issue, much like The Patriot and Cold Mountain today. Instead Gone with the Wind glorified slavery, right in the opening act a character decries the North for telling them they can't have slaves.We see Black children fanning napping White women, an abhorrent image. Blacks working in the cotton fields seem to be having the time of their lives. In the post-Civil War years, the character of Ashley talks of how well-treated he treated slaves, never mind that they were human beings treated as property. Ashley saying he would have freed them is a nice way to evade what he was.As days went by and I couldn't get Scarlett always saying 'fiddle-dee-dee' out of my head, I realized I also hated this movie as a movie. As so many old movies, it was completely overacted. The colors were too good for their own good, bright to the point of being fake. The more realistic colors of today are a vast improvement over the gaudy colors of old.I will admit Scarlett's escape with woman and child as Atlanta burns was well done. There is room for moral complexity in this movie. People fighting on the wrong side still have romantic entanglements, and still are devastated by the effects of war. Rhett and Scarlett could be seen as flawed characters not just because of personality but because of racism. But there is not much room for moral complexity in Gone with the Wind, it takes a clear stand.Unlike DW Griffith's Birth of a Nation, Gone with the Wind does not have the KKK riding in as heroes in the last act, instead its last act was tedious and overly weepy. However its portrayal of Reconstruction South was not much different than Birth of a Nation, with Blacks as either newly wealthy bullies or animalistic rapists of White women.Gone with the Wind does have important technical and artistic innovations, but so did Birth of a Nation. The difference is that with Birth of a Nation there is no separation. You cannot talk about Griffith's innovations without talking about his abhorrent politics. Gone with the Wind seems to get a free pass. The majority of IMDb reviews do not talk much about the racism. I found the usual digs at CGI in today's movies to carry an irony. The CGI alien character of Jar-Jar Binks is reviled as a racial stereotype, where as the flesh-and-blood racial stereotypes of Gone with the Wind are mostly ignored.What is most shocking is that to this day liberal Hollywood, and liberal critics, celebrate Gone with the Wind as a masterpiece, while ignoring and apologizing for its overt racism, which went beyond the usual stereotypes of the time, but in fact idealized the slave-owning South. How can this be?


                
I gave this film 1/10; I would have scored it a perfect 0 if there was the option.  I'm probably doing the film a disservice given that much, much worse films have been made.  A true reflection of this film would probably be somewhere closer to 4, but I feel an obligation to counterbalance the thousands of perfect 10 scores from people who regard this as a "timeless classic."  Anyone who considers Gone With the Wind a timeless classic should ignore the fact the it's an old film highly rated by emperor's-new-clothes types and ask themselves what they would think of a modern equivalent: an extraordinarily overlong film with a meandering, muddled storyline punctuated with cheesy dialog and hammy acting and done on an "epic" scale because the budget allows it (It's starting to sound like Titanic! Another zero).


                
I should know I've sunk several relationships simply by saying I found this movie to be funny. I've gotten assaulted by women who've insisted that if I watched this movie with them I wouldn't find it funny.This is a great achievement in all areas of film making, except one, that one is the acting. Never in my life have I witnessed so many good actors and actresses going so far into parody that I'm convulsed with laughter every time I watch their work. If you think I'm joking about how bad the acting is, please tell me one other movie that when spoofed or joked about simply requires the lines from the film to be rendered as in the film to be fall down funny? None.Only Clark Gable gives anything approaching a real performance. If you don't believe me then try behaving as people do in this film and see if you're not viewed as if you've gotten a second head.Of course this film is a classic and I'm in the minority so you probably shouldn't take my word on it.


                
This movie is on every single list of the greatest movies ever, and I'll never understand why. Conversely, Citizen Kane is also on every one of those lists and certainly deserves to be. So many truly great movies both from here and abroad, old and new, and this tired old warhorse continues to get accolades. It's a complete cartoon and for those of you who think Margaret Mitchell is some great writer, you may want to check out the book she based it all on: "So Red the Rose."


                
Wow. This was a bad movie. I can't believe this is one of the "best" movies of all time. I always had my reservations about David O. Selznick and now that I have seen his epic "masterpiece," I can see his fingerprints all over Rebecca. I am a huge fan of Hitchcock and always wondered how much he was overruled in the making of that film. I will wonder no more. I can't imagine why anyone would like this melodrama. I laughed more than I have at some comedies. I could not keep a straight face as the movie Scarlett argued with Mammy to make her green velvet dress. I was taken back to Carol Burnett's fantastic portrayal of Scarlett walking down the stairs with a curtain rod stuck in her dress. I can't say much for the acting, Leigh and Gable left much to be desired. Hattie McDaniel was great, besides the other African Americans that made up the cast, that was it. The only good thing about this movie was that it gave African Americans speaking parts and was one of the only post code films in the late 30's the 40's and much of the 50's that was shown in the South that gave African Americans speaking parts and showed them in the movie. Many films of this time did not. I would not recommend this movie to ANYONE!


                
How can this movie be so popular? Boring and way too long. Plot flops around. Instead of one terrible movie, this would have been better split into 3 very bad movies. Went to see as school group. Teacher cried. Students wanted to cry too because we wanted out.


                
This is a romanticized version of the South during the slavery period and restoration.  I saw it when I was 16 and hated it then, and have not changed my mind. It is utter nonsense and insulting to my intelligence and sense of history.  I do not like love stories; I do not like soapy melodramas; I do not like Scarlet; I do not like distortions of history.  Rhett Butler is some school girl's wet dream.  Okay?  I guess I've said enough.


                
"Gone With The Wind" is one of the most overrated movies of all time. It's one of those 'emperor's new clothes' movies ("Citizen Kane" being another prime example) which has created its own myth and which it seems to have become almost blasphemous to criticise. Call me a Philistine if you like, but to call this load of old toffee the greatest movie of all time - or even one of the greatest - is just plain rubbish. It may have been okay in its day, but now it's just so dated. Clark Gable is nothing more than a kind of proto-Timothy Dalton, and the much lauded Vivienne Leigh is positively hammy all the way through. In parts she's quite nauseating. And those hideous frocks - oh dear me. Big thumbs down I'm afraid.


                
This is another of those movies I wonder "HOW is this a classic?". Maybe the book was a lot better than the movie! I was watching this, not expecting much, but expecting to earn my respect, the way "Scarface" or "Casablanca", movies I don't like but have earned my respect as classic movies.It didn't. Apart from the 20 minute "Overture" sequence involving a painting of a sky, the words "Overture" and the canned music of a symphony orchestra playing random notes, which really annoyed me ><, the movie really was a load of crap that just looked good and colorful.The story was a long and winding tale about a girl Scarlett O'Hara complaining and whining about her pampered, sheltered little life while men are off dying in the Civil War fighting for the Confederacy, and she falls in love with a scoundrel blockade runner (sounds like something out of Star Wars) named Brett Butler or something.The movie goes on fairly well, impressing me with its simplicity and its strict sticking to the plot of Scarlett and Brett trying to stick together while their society crumbles as the Union starts to win and invade the South.Then comes the climax, when Brett is finally reunited with Scarlett, and the most disastrous turn in movie history happens... in the midst of their crumbling society, with the Confederacy pushed down to the brink, the Union swarming over their town, and fires blazing in the background... Brett decides to join the Confederacy. After YEARS of avoiding service. Scarlett asks him what we're all asking the screen: "WHY?!" "WHY?!WHY?!WHY?!WHY?!WHY?!" And do you know what his response is?!?!: "I've always been a sucker for lost causes" That killed the movie right there. I stopped watching after that. I know there was another 30 minute interlude scene of a painting of a dusk sky and a symphony warming up. Then it goes on with Scarlett living in the burnt out shell of her house, growing food, killing Union soldiers come to rape her or some clich thing like that, and helping one of her slaves give birth, while waiting for Brett to come home.Worst movie ever.
Gone With the Wind. A movie that has stood the test of time to prove that there are still people out there, normally perfectly reasonable people, that believe that a disgusting, repulsive, and manipulative woman such as our protagonist is a "model of feminism". Throughout this Civil War epic, we are treated to a glimpse into the life of "Southern Belle" Miss Scarlett O'Hara. A four hour glimpse, but a glimpse, nonetheless. Throughout this tale of love and passion, we watch our leading lady, played magnificently by Vivien Leigh, lust after a boyish man called Ashley. Miss Scarlett pleads, and begs, and manipulates herself into the arms of her love Ashley. But Ashley wants to marry Melanie, a character with so little emotion you would think she's a recovering crystal meth addict. Soon, the Yankee rascals attack Scarlett's simple home, a lavish mansion full to the brim with slaves who "just want the best for the white folk." Scarlett is forced on the road,where she takes refuge in Atlanta, which is then burnt to the ground. Scarlett meets Rhett Butler, a gentlemen pimp who runs a seemingly very successful brothel. They hit it off, but Scarlett still wants the now married Ashley. So, when the time is right, as the wife Melanie lies dying in the other room, Scarlett pounces on the grieving Ashley. What better time to seduce a young man than when his wife is near death next door? Well, that doesn't work for our model heroine, so she falls into the arms of Mr. Butler, where they proceed with a passionate love affair that ends with rape, pregnancy, death of the child, and Mr. Butler getting so fed up with his filthy wife that he leaves her. That ends our movie. Four hours after it started. And what better quote to end the movie than the awful "For tomorrow's a new day!" in regards to Scarlett having to rush to the train station to win back her turned off husband, the pimp, but being just a tad bit to late. Which means she never leaves the mansion. It is worth mentioning two characters: Mammy and Prissy. Mammy is actually a pretty fine woman, but Prissy, oh Prissy! The most annoying and high- pitched sack of dead weight you'll ever find in film. Who happens to be a slave that is beaten regularly by our protagonist.
I finally got around to seeing this film in 1995 after putting it off for years.  I assumed I would find it an overblown melodrama, and that it is, but it is far worse than I had expected.This is a racist film. I do not use that term lightly.  I found it offensive, banal, and grossly over-rated.


                
This is not a good film, folks.  Let's look past all the hype and hoopla and acknowledge that fact.Clark Gable didn't just phone in his role; he friggin' TELEGRAPHED it.  As the vastly irritating Scarlett O'Hara, Vivian Leigh tested the strength of my vow not to hit the "Mute" button on my remote.The production values are decent, but that doesn't come close to compensating for a ridiculous script based on a ridiculous novel by Margaret Mitchell.If you want a TRUE epic, go watch "The Godfather."  If you want an example of how a big box office can vastly exaggerate the public view of a horrible film, watch "Titanic" or this.


                
I didn't think Plan 9 From Outer Space was the worst film of all time. I think either The Creeping Terror or Gone With The Wind. At least, that's what the interviewee I refer to in my summary said. Not having seen The Creeping Terror myself, I will just nominate Gone With The Wind. The reasons why this film is horrible and overrated are numerous. Some of them may be considered politically correct, I don't know. But even the politically correct reasons have some pretty solid sub-reasons built into them.One such reason, and it shows the mentality of the times, is Prissy, the maid who simply cannot seem to talk in a normal tone of voice. When she is telling Scarlett how she knows nothing about birthing babies, I could have sworn that if the lines were being ADRed (highly unlikely in those days, but bear with me), someone in the studio was putting a live wire somewhere where they probably shouldn't. African Americans constantly complain about how they are unfairly stereotyped, but I never hear them complaining about this film, which bewilders me to no end.The opening crawls describe the lifestyle led by the so-called heroes as something "gone with the wind", hence the title. Well, things die for a reason. It's funny how they don't mention the rampant smallpox or measles that killed more Americans than the last five wars (that's wars, not three-month skirmishes) put together. Eras are only as wonderful as your investigations allow them to conclude. There are people, after all, who seem to believe the Middle Ages were a better time to live simply because the church had greater control over our society. Never mind things like bubonic plague (and people wonder why I consider Paul Verhoeven, maker of such realism exhibitions as Flesh + Blood, one of the greatest filmmakers who ever lived).Clark Gable makes a decent fist of his role, playing the cold, cool heroic character that has served as a prototype in everything from Elvis pictures to The Godfather. Vivien Leigh, on the other hand, is utterly annoying, and comes off more as a spoiled, bratty child than a heroine. Seriously, listen to her "fiddle-dee-dee"s enough, and you'll be instantly reminded of that brat whose head got stuck in the lavatory bowl in a boarding school on a regular basis. Such a scene would have improved the film immeasurably.And that, in a nutshell, is why I gave Gone With The Wind a one out of ten. People look back on the pre-civil war days with fondness, perhaps, but they only do so because of the rose-coloured glasses they look at the past with. Were I to make a film about the eMpTyV era that I grew up in, I'd describe it as an era that has gone with the proverbial wind, and like the one depicted here, I'd thank my stars that it has.


                
This movie should have been destroyed not restored. not worth watching Very Bad Movie very very bad movie! very very very bad movie! extremely very bad movie! boring & will never watch again! poor Acting Extemly bad directing! Cast paid off voters for Oscars! This Movie stunk up the movies & should be banned! Very Very Very Very poor acting by every single person who was in this stinking movie cast & crew paid off voters! Very extremely poor movie should have never been made! Never was this poor excuse for a movie. extremely bad acting from every member of the cast! Very very very very very bad movie. Don' waist your time on this one!The DVD now hangs in my tree outside to keep the noisy birds away. The birds have never come back because they can't stand to look at the stupid title on the DVD


                
This is probably the cheesiest most melodramatic nonsense to ever appear in the 20th century.  The only thing saving this is the lush photography.  I find the sentimentality stomach churning as well as 3/4 of the dialogue. Clark Gable's presence is stuck up and annoying and he just oozes greed. Vivian Leigh was a nobody when she was cast and remained just that after the movie.  The pacing, even for an old movie, is horrific and insipid. The 4 hr running time is excrutiating even if there's a violent storm outside.  This movie is just too overrated.


                
Why is it so popular? Especially with the apparently popular line at the end. What was that all about?! Wasted 4 hours of my life! What I hated about this movie is, my favorite people died, Rhett left Scarlett in the end, she never changed, and she was so fickle about who she loved or who she hated. Besides, it really had nothing to do with wind or the civil war. People, don't watch it because it's so popular and because of the dumb line at the end. Please don't waste your life watching this! Although, prissy did a pretty good job on her part. Those parts with her were funny. But you shouldn't watch it because of that. You really don't want to let your kids watch this too. They will never forget it.
As a black woman I despised having to watch this film. My mother made me watch this. She hated this film because could never speak out on why this film was disturbing to black people, but "A film that white people hold up as one of the best movies ever made"The film makes my mad because "Prissy" was simple minded and her mother was named "Mammy". Mammy of course was fat and loud but seemed to love taking care of the white folks.What is shown is how rich white people suffered during the "Civil War" but it does not show black people that suffered the years before or after the war. In the same time period they could of shown how black people lived and how they were seen.My mother took me to see this movie in 1989. She watched it with me and then said "We Need to Stick around the Lobby after it ends" and you will see how white will "Go On & On" about how wonderful it is but nobody will think about how inaccurate the film truly is. Yes I hate this movie. How would white people feel if we made a 4 hour epic about the LA RIOTS of 1992. We make heroes out of the people out of all all black people and made all the cops "On the take". The ending scene is where we make a holiday out of OJ SIMPSON'S BIRTHDAY or "Verdict Day". Think about it when you start watching this again!


                
I know there is big market for boring movies. I am not some one who likes boring movies. I do not care for them. I do trust people who like this movie. Do not wast your money. The acting was good. The story line is awful. The actors wasted there talent. I is a big wast of time and life is to short. This movie glamorized the civil war. I need more line and I am running out things to say. This is a chick flick about the civil war. It is very overrated. Movie that get this much hype suck most of the time. And this one is no exception. This movie is pooh pooh. This is not a good movie. This is a very bad movie. It is very long and very boring. I can not believe people like it. It is pooh pooh.


                
UGh! cannot explain how anxious I was to turn the thing off. Set in the south, it replicates us southerners as stupid and ignorant people. I saw it once and I saw it enough.Why do people love this movie, it is the all-time most upsetting movie. The lighting sucks, the dialogue is non-existent, the dialect is southerner from the English men. I'll admit if they had real southerners in the movie it wouldn't be half as bad. But in short, this movie SUCKS EGGS. I'm not kidding. There are so many questions that remain: why oh why would Rhett fall for scarlet? He was half-good looking?


                
GONE WITH THE WIND & BIRTH OF A NATION HAVE DONE MORE TO PROLONG THE 'SOUTHERN' WAY OF LIFE - ITS LYNCHINGS, BEATINGS, BURNINGS - THAN ANY OTHER MEDIA, PUBLISHED OR SPOKEN. iT'S A PRICE THAT JUST KEEPS ON GETTING PAID....!


                
Of all the people, white people had it worst during our civil war. They lost their homes, plantations, and worst of all, their relationships. The war put a heavy burden on those who were looked no for a mate. Then we are made to feel sorry for Scarlet O'Hara for feeling hungry as if no slave had ever gone to bed hungry before. And the Yankee is portrayed as this cruel lootin' and rapin' hooligan.This is all what the movie portrays.


                
