Okay. That's a pretty bold statement, so I'm going to try to defend it as completely as I can. I am willing to acknowledge that the film is very nicely presented. The acting is excellent, the sets are good, and of course the color is magnificent. I'm sure it was even more magnificent at the time. But that's not enough to make a good movie, and pretty much everything else about this movie is completely off.First of all, this whole film is based on the idealization of the south and the demonization of the north, and I find that highly objectionable. I could deal with it if it were a question of showing the perspective of the people living back in that time and their values. That would be a genuinely interesting thing to do, and it's the sort of thing Goodfellas does. But that's not what this is. It's a complete fantasy-denial that anything bad ever happened in the South and that there were any redeeming virtues to the North. I need not delve into the actual historical picture of the South, or the actual ugliness of slavery, or the actual behaviors of the soldiers and carpetbaggers. Look it up if you don't know. Oh, and don't get me started on the racism in this movie. It was practically intolerable.But even besides that, the plot is wrong. This did not need to be four hours long. Worse yet, after sitting through those four hours, you don't get anything. It feels like Wagner's The Ring. A lot of people are dead, but other than that, everything is precisely where it was at the beginning for our characters. Rhett is wandering, and Scarlett is at Tara. Great. And there were problems along the way too. At no point was there any remotely sympathetic character. This can be handled well, but really wasn't here. A lot of the people kept changing character, like Rhett caring for no one one second and then fighting for the Lost Cause the next, or Scarlett continually swinging between having courage and whining helplessly all the time. And I won't bother to try and summarize the plot. I doubt you can either without naming every event because it meanders around pointlessly. At one point it's a romance, then it's about a lumber yard, then who-knows-what. It comes out to four hours of rambling, Confederate nothing.Frankly, I think if this had worse actors and was in black and white, no one would have heard of it. There's nothing much going on. Catch Lawrence of Arabia if you want a good old epic film.
Though named after the ephemeral qualities of breeze, "Gone With The Wind" moves like a lead balloon. The plot? Vivien Leigh plays Scarlett O'Hara, a strong willed Southern belle who's forced to flee her lavish plantation come the outbreak of the American Civil War.Scarlett embodies the South's indefatigable spirit, the film watching as she remains strong and steadfast in the face of war, hardship and much adversity. People and loved ones die, Scarlett marries and widows a lot, but nothing will dent her optimism. "As God is my witness, they're not going to lick me!" she proclaims. "I'm going to live through this, and when it's all over, I'll never be hungry again!" You go girl.Much of the film watches as Scarlett lusts for Ashley Wilkes, a man who embodies the South's honour, codes and subsequent defeat. With Ashley's passing goes the ideal of the American South, a better time which finds itself "gone with the wind", passing into history and so oblivion. Insidious? Audiences at the time didn't think so. Nevertheless, this is a racist, wholly ahistorical film which abounds with stereotypes, which panders to the South, which nostalgically pines for and glorifies the Confederate cause, and which suggests that the Union brutalised an idyllic, simple, gallant and peaceful world. In keeping with such historical re-imaginings, the film portrays white women as perpetually elegant and menfolk as noble and dashing. Black slaves, of course, are dutiful, content, clearly incapable of an independent existence, dopey and easily duped (none of the three main black characters have real names). White Southerners, meanwhile, are portrayed as defending traditional values, the issue of slavery is ignored and the Ku Klux Klan - called a mere "political group" in the film – is portrayed as an organisation of fine Southern gentlemen formed to protect white women. Elsewhere the usual Lost Cause myths are espoused, the Confederacy's motives noble and its leaders exemplars of old-fashioned chivalry who are unfortunately defeated by violent, scheming Unionists. The point is not that the film "takes the wrong side" - the North was as bad, if not worse, than the South – but that the film is just plain stupid.Officially "Gone With the Wind" was directed by Victor Fleming. Unofficially, directors George Cukor, Sam Wood and William Cameron Menzies directed huge chunks. Producer David O. Selznick was the film's driving force, though, the man overseeing the production with customary gusto.Scarlett is typically hailed as a feminist icon and a character who boosted hopes during America's Great Depression and Dust Bowl years. But while strong willed, she's also manipulative, is forever stealing other women's men and occasionally loves being bullied and raped by dapper rich dudes. Ayn Rand in a hoop skirt, it's hard to get behind a wealthy white woman who's pretty much oblivious to the suffering of everyone else around her. Indeed, Orson Welles would famously bash "Gone With the Wind", stating that Selznick was a "fool to mistake the picture for art". Robert Altman would call the film "total ****". Malcom X would tell the story of how the film's sanitised outlook made him feel like "crying and crawling under a rug". Hilariously, Nazi Germany would ban the film. The Soviet Union would also try to ban the film for being dumb crap. Selznick would later say they hated it because the film was "too classy". But you know how communists are. They hate class.Like most artists who make dubious or outright racist films, Selznick spent much time espousing "Wind's" virtues. When black organisations threatened to boycott the film, he launched a massive PR campaign and explained that he would have black activists and Harvard professors working on the picture to "ensure that it's not racist". Worried that ticket sales might fall, he then tasked civil rights activist Walter White with ensuring that "the Negro position is greatly improved in the picture" such that it is demonstrated "that we have the greatest friendship toward them and their cause." Nevertheless, after the film's release, various black organisations signed an article stating that "we consider this work to be a glorification of the old rotten system of slavery, propaganda for race hatred and bigotry", comments which spurred Selznick to launch another PR campaign in which he proclaimed himself "a persecuted minority who also identifies with the black plight" and in which he proudly noted the benefits of his film, which "undoubtledly provided many acting roles for blacks".Such back and forth bickering is typically brushed aside today. People were simply less enlightened then, it is said. And besides, there is nothing as bad here as, say, "Birth of a Nation's" fried chicken scenes. But this misses the point. People weren't dumb in the 1930s, and "Wind's" worse elements are found even in our contemporary, enlightened age. Just look at the environment in which "Wind" was briefly re-released in 2009; "The Blind Side" was winning Oscars and America's bestselling book was a self-help guide to help kids get into heaven. In a similar way, "Wind's" not about going, or impermanence, but covertly about something else: about things staying the same, about a reactionary longing for the past, and the preserving of dubious traits and/or institutions we, like Selznick, beautify with glitz.Aesthetically, "Wind" looks amazing, with gorgeous cinematography, rich, evocative colours, beautiful browns, vibrant reds, gorgeous textures, strong camera work, opulent sets and one impressively composed scene after the next. On the flip side, it's a dumb, stiff, impersonal and ponderous melodrama. More paint-by-numbers colouring book than art, the film is the quintessential Hollywood product; the grand-mother of all event movies (the film's premiere led to several statewide holidays). Totally kitschy, its influence would remain strong even a century after it's release ("The Color Purple", "Titanic", "Cold Mountain", "Australia", "Far Away", "Heaven and Earth" etc) 3/10 – Worth one viewing
Not sure where to start. To save my reputation, I have to say I read the book only because I was ill, and there was nothing else in the house I hadn't read. The lead character Scarlett is thoroughly offputting - bitchy spoiled, without real intelligence (beyond a good business sense, I suppose that's a nicer name for greed). Melanie is so very good you can't possibly believe or like her, most of the other characters not worth much attention either. The only half likable person was Rhett Butler; no, not for his masculinity (heroic males are bad enough, but needy useless females flocking around them are worse). No it's because he essentially respects nothing and doesn't take part in the pretentiousness of the time.As for the film, the acting was on the whole so ludicrously poor that the participants of a school play would be hard put to be less convincing. Again Rhett Butler's character is the only one you can believe and enjoy watching (the scene where they have to leave Atlanta, and he turns up saying "I hear you want to take a trip" just ideally portrays his laid back coolness). Other than that characters from the book which help you understand the setting are missing. For example the gossipping spying busybodies in Atlanta. Not that that sort deserves any airtime, but those small-minded essentially unoccupied women just set the general tone and illustrate the mentality. On the other hand I'm tempted to speculate if the seeming falseness of the film actors is in fact a faithful portrayal of those times. Even in the book nobody is ever straight forward, so maybe the lack of believability in the film quite accurately represents the general hypocrisy of that society.Either way, it is beyond me to understand why everyone is so moved by this story. Or are they? Or is it just generally accepted that this is "a masterpiece", and all follow this established truth like sheep? (Like religious doctrine really, yours not to question.) Anyway, sorry I simply can't oblige the public by agreeing.
The only and I do mean the only reason why I gave this movie a 2 and not a 1 is because of the most famous line in the movie...you know what it is. Otherwise, I would rather swim in an ice cold pond filled with extremely hungry (insert fish or animal of your choice here).  This title drags on and on and on even more.  After 90 minutes have past you start become one with the movie...but little do you know this is only the beginning of a downhill slope and at the bottom of the hill there are land mines that will explode you into pieces of guilt and shame.  I suggest this title to those who wish to fall asleep.


                
One of the ways I knew I really did love my wife was that I was able to sit with her all the way through this monstrous tripe. Had tried a couple of times before without success. Afterward we had a big argument about it of course--she was stuck on the hopeless romanticism of the thing which I saw as Grand Ole Soap Opry. Not to mention the simple fact that whether you like it or not, both book and movie glorify the most degrading and longest-lasting oppression visited by one people upon another since The Grandeur That Was Rome. Imagine this story in a more modern context, with Scahlett and her precious crew as Germans in the 1930s and Mammy and her folk as Jews. Somehow I doubt such a movie would've been made. I will allow that the movie unintentionally provides an accurate barometer of the pathetic state of race relations (non-relations?) in pre-WWII America.And oh those AWFUL accents! A Georgian friend of mine thinks the movie was made as an insult to the Old South that no one gets.


                
Vivien Leigh plays Scarlett O'Hara who is powerful, sometimes nasty, and beautiful and that matches perfectly with Clark Gable who plays the muscular, arrogant and seductive Rhett Butler who is handsome. Many of the film's characters are horribly arrogant in their own ways and that is one of the things I hate about this long, lifeless movie. Other bad points are that the film's storyline is so hard to understand, Scarlett and Rhett hardly ever get on, Rhett getting drunk so many times annoys the life out of me, all the nice characters die - like Melanie and Scalett's mother and so on, Scarlett suspects rivalry with Melanie over Ashley Wilkes who is dull and even just that little bit unattractive and I would expect someone like Scarlett to have a crush on strapping young men who have nice looks. Some scenes he looks better than others. I don't see what people love about this movie - it drags, its drama is extremely heavy, there is hardly any romance instead there's constant rowing and that doesn't create much of a love-story I don't think. It's on for 4 hours so I believe and to most people, "Gone with the Wind" would seem like 4 hours of romance, action, melodrama, difficult situations, stunning fire effects for Atlanta in flames - it's got the lot some may say, but I personally think that I can be so boring throughout most of its 4 hours. Very soon, in a couple of days or so I hope, my mum will watch it with me (I've got it on video and 4-disc DVD) and help me to get to know it better meaning she will hopefully help me understand the story and, who knows? I may grow quite fond of it. I do like the scene when Scarlett is forced to nurse a pregnant Melanie who is also very poorly and Prissy lies about being good at helping to drop babies she gets hit when she is caught out. I love the scene when Scarlett and Rhett take Melanie, her newborn baby and Prissy back to Tara and the fiery backdrop. It's not the best film I've ever seen I can tell you. I did watch it with mum and I did start to understand the story a bit better but I still find it rather uninteresting and irritating there really are so many things about it that irritate me arrgghh! - you wouldn't believe it! Oh, and by the way, as big, sometimes bullying and rather offencive Rhett Butler is (to all except little Bonnie who he spends his life and money around) Clark Gable was actually quite a wimp in reality and I found that out on the special 4-DVD box set. I'm not surprised he wanted to turn down the role of Rhett Butler he looks like such a twit but, I suppose, he did his best and nobody can do better than their best. Vivien Leigh looks like she's getting rather overexcited as Scarlett and not thinking about the proper character of Miss O'Hara mind you she is rather a gorgeous girl and I can see why Rhett was so jealous of the unattractive Ashley Wilkes. If you can endure people who always shout in a very grating way whenever they open their mouths ALL THE TIME instead of just talking like normal people do, seeing beautiful but abrupt Southern belle Scarlett O'Hara suspecting rivalry with a sweet-natured young lady over an ugly old man, Scarlett and Rhett's love affair lasting about a mere 10 minutes throughout a massive 4 hours, kind-hearted characters dying every two minutes at the end, seeing drunken Rhett trying to attack Scarlett and then take her daughter from her the very next morning then you are probably very likely to love GONE WITH THE WIND but if not then don't bother.


                
I REALLY didn't give a d*mn!!!!!I watched this as a child with my parents who wanted to introduce me to the classics. I fell asleep then.Much like Dickens, I realized later that this was something to re-examine, post-education. I was fully in a mindset of eager treasure-hunting, film-wise (I assumed I'd appreciate this as the "masterpiece" it's said to be), but sadly I realized that, while this is a good film, it's certainly not worthy of the time-honored accolades it's amazingly managed to accumulate.As an American History major, I appreciate the period. The characters are, however, thinly-drawn caricatures trapped in a lingering melodrama.The acting is over-the-top, unconvincing. The interpersonal relationships are soap-opera material at best.Too many people simply assume that, just because a film is an epic LENGTH, it's an actual epic. The wasted sequences of pomp are overwhelmingly unnecessary and yawn-worthy. Nearly detestable.Much like "It's a Wonderful Life," this film wastes a multitude of your life ( and expectation) on minutae; seems void of competent editing, yet STILL MANAGES TO BE UNINVOLVING!I tried to enjoy it! These characters remain unrelatable, despite so much extraneous camera time. Nothing timeless here.I really tried, but I just didn't give a d*mn.


                
If you are not a fan of romances, you will definitely yawn at this movie. I certainly did. I understand no one who calls this a masterpiece. The story is uninteresting and it's just painful to sit through. A definite 2/10 movie. The only reason I didn't give it a 1 was out of respect for the people who think this movie's so wonderful.


                
Gone with the Wind is an extraordinary book and I was looking forward to seeing the movie, but it was horrible. It cut out so much important from the book and included all the minor details. And all the good lines were changed, and the actors don't look like their characters at all! Viven Leigh does not even remotely look like what Margaret Mitchell described Scarlett to be. Her eyes aren't even green! And Clark Gable DOES NOT look a bit like Rhett Butler. He's too kind to Scarlett. Rhett is supposed to be sarcastic and disliked. That's what makes the whole thing fun. He finds something to laugh about (even if its not right to laugh about) and makes Scarlett laugh too. And the other actors were good as actors, but not as who they were supposed to be. The movie cut out a lot of scenes when Scarlett arrives in Atlanta, and it gets rid of all of Wade's early scenes and Melanie isn't even pregnant when she's supposed to be! These scenes were probably cut out because they didn't have Rhett in them, but its not Rhett's movie! Clark Gable's role can't be made into a leading one when its not! Rhett Butler is a supporting role and Scarlett is supposed to be the star, but in the movie almost all of Scarlett's scenes without Rhett are cut out. All in all this movie was a waste of four perfectly good hours. I'm just going to go read the book again- at least that's the way its supposed to be.


                
For twenty years I have been trying to watch and appreciate this movie. It is boring and I hate the characters.
I love film. It bothers my very much that I can not figure out why this is considered the best movie ever.


                
But I am a man. I watched this movie more than thirty years ago. I was around twenty on those days and the movie was released for wide screen.We were told that the movie was colored for wide screen and sound system was surround sound. Wow, those were all brand new. I remember how bored I was after the first fifteen minutes and watched an opportunity to escape. Years have passed and I got a DVD copy a few weeks ago. I tried to watch the movie. My every attempt to watch it at once was failed. Actually I succeed to finish watching I don't know how many interruptions I made. My sincere thanks go to the inventors of DVD technology. The movie was made for the romantic girls, women, not for the young guys or men I believe. It is apparent that producers spent a lot of money, and this film proved the power of advertisement. I am sure they collected every penny they spent. It is very, very, very boring film. 2 out of ten and these 2 points are for Vivien Leigh


                
Well, I have to say this movie is a little over rated here. The direction, production, and the cinematography of this movie are amazing. It's shot wonderfully but I'm really not that impressed. This 4 hour long soap opera has an abundance of over used sentimental bull crap. I have no sympathy for Scarlett or the Confederacy. Scarlett is the type of woman I've grown to hate with a passion. Rhett is the only character in this film I like. He's just a cool guy, he tells it like it is and he doesn't lie. So over all I have to give this 6.5


                
I really wanted to see this Movie after all the Hype that i read of critics about this movie. and i bought its DVD 2 years ago, i thought it would be a great addition to my Collection. and i was waiting for a right time to watch this movie. Because like others i watch movie according to my Mood. But after watching this movie i got shocked, that how come its in IMDb top list. It wasted my precious 4 hours of my life. i was so disappointed, though the direction, the acting, the screen play was good. but there wasn't any need of stretching the story for FOUR Hours. I think the main reason of its success must be; Its one of the few movies that were released in Color. People came to Cinema and watch movies to get Entertain, Personally i am not in favor or slow lengthy movies.So i advice all the Critics to Please Improve your ratings scale.


                
Considering that Gone with The Wind is more than 60 years old, it is holding up well. The plot moves along interestingly enough, even though I am not a guy who likes dramas or romance. But special effects have really improved since then.Unfortunately for "Gone with the Wind", it is no longer fashionable to long for the Old South, primarily because of the connection to slavery. We see plenty of stereotyped African-Americans in the film, childlike and speaking poorly. We also see plenty of men abusing women, bubbleheaded weak women, and other glories of the Old South. (There are plenty of white males portrayed as idiots, too.)There are other problems. The main character of the film, Scarlett O'Hara, is an anti-hero and hard to identify with. The movie doesn't really have a story -- it spans over a century and we see little vignettes taken from a whole life. An epic saga is a valid form for storytelling, but it's not quite as gripping as the usual story arc with a primary endgoal to be resolved.All of this added up for me. I did find the film engaging, but I couldn't ignore the anti-women and anti-black stereotypes, even though they weren't the main focus of the film. So I have to give "Gone With the Wind" a 3 out of 10.


                
I did not read the book, so I do not know how the original story begins and ends exactly, but for one thing, I checked the novel, I wanted to see if the novel has a first-person narration style and I did see that it has not.Throughout the movie I thought that there could only be one rescue for the novel to escape a type of harsh criticism, if it has a first-person narrator, we, as readers, can shape our comment with the sight of a Southern lady I figured. Yet, as I indicated before, it is presented without the first person narrator, and that's why it is irritating enough as the movie itself. I am actually bewildered by people's reviews on this movie as many cannot realize its one-sided and politically biased perspective on Civil War. It has disturbing scenes filled with folks from South who treat their slaves with such "eloquence", "courtesy", and "consideration" and how Unionists let these "slaves of their own" have property and such. Those were the times of collapse for them.. I do not even comment on characters who are akin to their sisters from Queen Victoria's Kingdom like they are thrown into this world from there, and Melanie... Oh, Melanie... What a type. No need to elucidate more as it may well be a verbose setting for a simple comment on this picture; one of the most overrated movies of all time.


                
