I have yet to figure out the allure of this film.  A whining girl falls in lust, watches a whole lot of other people much worse off than herself for a while, whines some more, goes home and vows to make her own life better rather than helping others.  There, I just saved three plus hours of your life.  Go help a homeless stranger, since you now have the time.


                
I'll freely admit my girlfriend and I have quite different tastes, but we usually both recognise really great films when we see them. This meeting of minds, alas, has not happened for the much-vaunted classic 'Gone with the Wind' - she loves the costumes and Vivien Leigh; I loathe the slave-era nostalgia, weak script, hammy acting, overlong show-time (and I'm a Peter Jackson fan) and above all, Vivien Leigh. Only Clark Gable gives a creditable performance as the charming rogue, Rhett Butler.On the first viewing, the film lost me early on with the depiction of cheerful, singing slaves returning from a day in the fields; it continued to elude me as Scarlett O'Hara, initially portrayed vividly as a spoiled, shrill, ego-centric rich girl, proceeded through the film to become...well...a spoiled, shrill, ego-centric rich woman. If I ever hear her breathily begin a sentence with "Oh, Rhett!" one more time, I think I may scream.For sure the most overrated film in the IMDb top #250 I have seen, more so than Citizen Kane or Dr. Strangelove, both of which have at least some merit beyond the production values.


                
The acting is mediocre or histrionic, the plot is a bore. The sets are big and the costumes are good.  It had so much hype even back when they were casting for Scarlet O'Hara that no one ever maintained much objectivity about it.  Typical of that era, the blacks are displayed without any dignity at all. I didn't care about even one character.  It was an appropriate precedent to modern-day Hollywood in which enough hype and budget get all the attention regardless of quality.


                
A good vine can age and thereby become even more superior but this surely isn't the case with "Gone with the Wind".The acting had a theatrical quality to it, the relationship between colored and white were embarrassing to watch, Ashley was totally miscast and the outdoor scenes felt very much like indoor studio.What was interesting to follow was the relationship between Scarlet and Rhett and specifically the way their gender roles were. Scarlet was deeply "affected by poverty and the war" as stated by Rhett and she had therefore developed a personality that was like a patriarch. She was cold hearted, mostly occupied with surviving and getting Tara (the family farm) back on foot again. In a sense she is the impersonation of the saying "The south will rise again". She has a lot of strength and will but lacks the tender side which Rhett on the other hand has. He is a very caring father, has a lot of affection towards Scarlet and is being eaten up by jealousy since Scarlett is in love with Ashley. The depiction of their roles in the relationship were interesting to engage in but at the same time their attitudes towards each other fitted to much into a pattern of "when Rhett approaches Scarlet he is turned down and vice versa". This made it tedious to watch in the long run.Regards SimonPs. When you read reviews that gives max score check to see if the user has made more than one review. If not consider the possibility of a lobbyist. If you agree consider putting this post scriptum at the bottom at your own reviews.
I'll state right off the bat that the cinematography and art direction of "Gone With the Wind" is extraordinary,and ahead of its time. I will also say that is were my liking for the film ends. The fact that the heroine is a manipulative bitch who doesn't care about anyone but herself(contrary to popular belief, Scarlett DOES NOT love Ashley OR Rhett and as for Tara,it's basically an extension of herself), coupled with a skewed, disgustingly idolatrous view of the American South and the Civil War in general is probably the most honest reason for my intense dislike for this film(as well as the book).I admit to empathizing with two characters: Melanie and Mammy. The former because she is everything that Scarlett is not, and the latter because she's the one that sees through Scarlett.For a meaningful Civil War story, I pick "Cold Mountain"(film and book both) over "Gone With the Wind(book and film both) any day.


                
I just don't get the big deal about this movie. I wouldn't go so far as to call it actively bad, but why everybody insists on praising it to high heaven is beyond me.Sure, the statistics are impressive enough: monster length, color, all-star cast, ambitious special effects which were probably unique at the time. It's clear enough that the movie *wants* to be big. The problem is that sheer flamboyance by itself does not make a great movie. The heart of a truly brilliant movie is in the characters and the plot.And there's the rub. Neither the characters nor the plot do much for me. The characters are, to put it mildly, unlikable. Scarlett in particular has no redeeming features at all; she is just the whiniest, prickliest, most selfish piece of mischief I have ever wanted to say "Frankly, my dear, you make me want to hurl" to. The other characters are either just as selfish and unlikable or so downtrodden that my initial pity for them has eroded away to nothing by the end of the movie (another drawback of its ambitious length).As to the plot--well, it's basically one melodramatic potboiler run into another melodramatic potboiler run into another... I can stand (even like) melodrama in small doses, but "as God is my witness, this movie will never move me to tears again" (as a matter of fact it never did in the first place, but anything for a pun...).For the reasons just outlined, I do not agree with the widespread opinion that this is a great movie. Whether it is a good movie is a matter of taste and probably depends largely on how easily one can stomach its lesser flaws, the most glaring of which is its casual racism (that one carpetbagger just *had* to be an "uppity n---er," didn't he?). But I wouldn't call it a flawed masterpiece--just a flawed melodramatic potboiler with rather uninteresting characters.


                
I've heard many people say how great this movie is.  The worst part is they claim it is a great love story.  I'm appalled that someone thinks this is a love story.  Scarlett loves a man who will never love her and marries two men she does not love, the second being Rhett.  Rhett, for some reason beyond me, loves this more than rude woman although he barely treats her better than she treats him.  He puts up with so much from this lady only to turn her down when she finally falls in love with him in the last few minutes of the movie.  This movie was a total disappointment.


                
I finally sat down to watch this "classic" movie....and boy what a waste of my time. The acting is over the top, and by that I mean High School theater-like. Clark Gable seems like he wishes he was somewhere else during his scenes, very distant. Vivien Leigh's performance was as dull(two dimensional) as dull can be. Reminded me of Madonna in Evita. The background landscape imagery was a real distraction. Looked like they did scenes in front of a motion picture screen. I guess they couldn't afford to do location shots. The lighting is terrible, indoor and outdoor scenes. The cinematography was mediocre at best. Not much happens during the 3 plus hours, that could have been covered in 1 hour. I most definitely won't be watching this movie ever again.


                
Gone With the Wind is a racist, ridiculously long Southern "classic" that is two hours too long, and deserves a place in the IMDb Bottom 100, not the top 250. It begins with an unnecessary first half that involves Scarlett, our rich, spoiled, manipulative, and obsessive "heroine", fawning over boys, especially the spacey and idiotic Ashley. Then, the horrible and evil Northerners come and ravage the homestead of Scarlett, much to her dismay. The next half, after a long, boring intermission, has Rhett, a rich, "fine southern gentlemen", falling in love with her, only to be rejected by Scarlett, who is too busy trying to seduce Ashley in the room outside of the one where his wife, a girl whose character was so "goody-goody" that I couldn't even remember her name, was dying. Then, Scarlett has a change of heart, marries Rhett, they have a baby, baby dies, (in shockingly bizarre and random scene),a hilarious "rape scene", Scarlett actually starts to love Rhett, Rhett leaves, and Scarlett ends the horrific film with one of the worst lines in history: "For tomorrow is a new day!" A four hour long soap opera. Really.
" . . . and going to Hell." So says Katie Scarlett O'Hara Hamilton Kennedy soon-to-tack-on Butler, and well she should be. After gunning down one of Abe Lincoln's Black-slave-liberators in his face and using her own visage NOT to launch 1,000 ships (A La Helen of Troy) but rather the Ku Klux Klan, Ms. O'Hara embodies everything Satanic. Starting with the opening title quote from Margaret Mitchell's apartheid source material to Scarlett's constant abuse of every African American who comes within shouting or beating range of her, this movie is the American equivalent to Germany's 1930s propaganda masterpiece, TRIUMPH OF THE WILL. Tragically, THE WIZARD OF OZ--jobbed out by WIND for 1939's "Best Picture" Oscar--probably would have been an even better movie if WIND producer David O. Selznick had not kidnapped Oz director Victor Fleming from the Emerald City and literally driven him into a mental institution by foisting upon him the impossible task of attempting to bring coherence to this misogynistic marathon melodrama. The best way to experience WIND is simply by listening to a CD of composer Max Steiner's outstanding score.
Scarlett wants Ashley, Ashley loves Melanie, Scarlett meets Rhett, Rhett wants Scarlett. Melanie dies. Scarlett tells Ashley he can have her. Ashley tells Scarlett he doesn't want her. Scarlett realizes she actually loves Rhett, but Rhett doesn't love her anymore and leaves. How cheesy can you get ? To fill out this stupid story, we add a colorful backdrop of the civil war and paint a romantic Picture of the old south. The problem is that to make a story interesting, You need to be able to feel some sympathy for the main character, but unfortunately Scarlett has absolutely no redeeming qualities. She's spoiled, self centered and completely not interesting as a person. As to the movie itself i suppose it lives up to Hollywood standards technically. There wasn't really much they could do with the story, but visual quality aside, sitting through 4 hours of this romantic rubbish is pure torture.
As I write this review (in 2017) we have violence in Charlottesville, Virginia by white supremacists, a church group killed in Charleston, South Carolina by a gunman enamored of the Confederate flag (2015.) And over the last eighty years, we have "Gone With The Wind" as a kind of statement of a nostalgia for the "good old days" when slaves catered to the whim of white people, where white cousins married each other, where mistresses slapped their servants around, where people didn't marry for love, but for power, money, social standing and lust. Talk about depressing!As if the institution of slavery weren't vile enough, we actually see the effect of slavery on the slave owners themselves who aren't able to have an honest romance with each other because they can't respect humanity enough to treat all people equally as "endowed by their Creator" with "inalienable rights of life, liberty and happiness." If the basis of Southern society were based on the denial of these rights, is it any wonder that the pursuit of happiness was forever out of reach for these people? If people can't love or respect those who labor honestly and serve them well, how can they possibly love themselves or each other?Scarlett is a spoiled young woman, always scheming in the ways of love, who never grows up. Rhett sees the futility of war with the North, but yet he enlists with the Confederates after Atlanta falls because he can't keep himself from supporting a losing cause and because of his warped sense of "honor." The movie-goer is subjected to many rounds of deviousness, deception and tragedy, just as the Southerners deceived themselves about their own supposed virtue even while subjugating and enslaving of a whole class of people.Men are always depicted as "genteel," women as "belles," slaves as "simple and accommodating," the North as "oppressive and ruthless." The North and South are depicted as two separate countries, two separate civilizations. It's an affront to Lincoln's vision that the United States was one country which should remain united and held together as such.The only character who shows any depth is Melanie, Ashley's wife, who is long-suffering and sacrificing, but her frailty and meekness overshadow her goodness.It is unsettling that in 1939 and even today that this movie is considered one of the greatest ever made. To me, it's detestable! It's a national tragedy that slavery should ever have existed, but this movie is also a tragic in that it invokes a nostalgia for a civilization that should forever be relegated to the dust-bin of history. Just three years before this movie was released, Jesse Owens won four gold medals at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, and yet in his home country he was a second-class citizen. It would be another eight years that Jackie Robinson would become Rookie of the Year in Major League Baseball. The black actress, Hattie McDaniel, who won the Academy Award for "Best Supporting Actress" in this movie was forbidden by Georgia authorities to attend her own movie's premiere in Atlanta! Let us not forget that 1939 was also the year that Hitler sought to create his own racist society by killing millions of innocent Jews, Slavs and other undesirables in WW2. When you have people praising this movie so glibly and glossing over the prevailing ideas of racism even today, one wonders to where our sense of moral outrage has disappeared.Greatest film ever made? I just don't see it. It made me angry, nauseous and offended. I couldn't find any redemption for the film from a purely romantic point of view either. Everyone deceives each other, nobody is honest and for this reason, tragedy abounds. I think the film says more about American racism than it does about theatrical art. And this racism is not a theoretical racism incidental to the story line, but it's about the prevalent racism that had allowed the original institution to exist, this particular movie to be made and our present racial strife to perpetuate.
Why to prolong the indecisiveness of the heroine at every stage. Too boring to sit for 4 hours.


                
