As with the headline here, this was "home run" with audiences....but it was only a single to me. Maybe just a long fly out. I was greatly disappointing after all the hype that has been generated over the years for this movie.I'm not saying it isn't good, and a true classic. It's just not my cup of tea, as the expression goes.Why? Mainly because the main character, the famous "Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh). is an extremely annoying woman. She is a spoiled brat who usually gets her way, scheming for this and for that and marrying out of spite, etc. Who wants to watch and listen to this lady WHINE for four hours? Not me.For me, the best parts of the movie were the cinematography and the segments in which Clark Gable tells off the spoiled brat. Gable is the one person who really gives this movie some spark, although Leigh certainly is effective in her role. Leslie Howard plays a nice guy and Olivia de Havilland is about as sweet as you could get.In many respects, this is just one, long soap opera centered around O'Hara's selfishness and the men around her. To be fair, it's a powerful story but one I think is overrated, story-wise, unless you like melodramas.


                
Before I eviscerate this film, a word in its favor. This is, in many ways, a wonderfully shot movie. It is certainly a masterpiece of Technicolor, with lovely painted backdrops, etc. Much of the acting is, in my opinion, wonderful. Personally I think Scarlett as a character falls a bit flat, but beyond that I have few complaints. Except, perhaps, for the nearly 4 hour running time... but hey, people like an event, I won't knock them for it.That being said, here are a few problems I have with the film: note that some of these objections could easily be answered by turning to the censorship of the period, but I don't see that as much of a response.1. It "whitewashes" slavery. From the very beginning the film takes cheap-outs to avoid difficult and real subjects. In the beginning, the overseer's impregnation of the "white-trash woman" is clearly a poor substitute for what they're really getting at, the rape of black women. The slaves/servants are portrayed throughout as stupid and or slow, or liars (Prissy for example). Without coming right out and saying it, a later reminiscence on the "glorious past" casts slavery in a similar light as Joel Chandler Harris, essentially as "the laughing times."2. Misogyny. Scarlett (letter anybody?) seems to make the key mistake of sexual agency, and of not knowing her place. Again and again it is drummed into our heads how "evil" she is for conniving to steal other women's men. Again and again it is driven in that women should know their place (Belle for instance, while noble, is clearly a "fallen woman" or a "low woman" who realizes her position and respects it). Ultimately Scarlett "must" pay the price.Sexual violence is also simply passed-over. The build-up to the "rape" scene (I'll call it what is so clearly is, non-consensual sex, aka rape) alludes again-and-again to what will come... what with Rhett and his "if I want to come in, no door will keep me out" tirade and demonstration. Bam! Kicks down the door. And what is Scarlett's apparent reaction to the morning-after Rhett has drunkenly raped her? Happiness?Again, I laud the film for its technical achievements. However, if you were born post-lib or raised by a feminist in the post Women's Lib years, or perhaps are a History major and not someone simply nostalgically wishing for a past that never existed as portrayed, I would urge a critical eye. I am reminded of a quote from Vincent Canby of the NYT regarding Liliana Cavani's "The Night Porter" and I hope my direct reference of the source will suffice for copyright purposes. To butcher his comment somewhat, I have just reviewed "a piece of junk."


                
While most will argue with me, I must begin by saying that I was not impressed with the overall final results of this "epic". The hype surrounding it, the overuse of Rhett's infamous line in pop culture, and the fact that most people rave about this being one of the most romantic films ever produced set my standards extremely high. I wanted to be blown away by the scenes, I wanted characters that would invite me into their worlds and never make me leave, I wanted tragedy on a grand scale, but alas, that wasn't what I witnessed with Gone with the Wind. Somehow I ending this film with a sense of astonishment, a sense of being robbed, and not at all the romantic film I thought I would be enjoying. Instead I saw hatred, sexism, racism, alcoholism, anti-love, pro-Confederacy, and ignorance all rolled up together into a two-disc packaging, which would be later called Gone with the Wind. It was embarrassing to watch and call as one of our "greatest love stories ever". While it may show us what society was like during a pre-Civil War era, that doesn't mean we have to condone it and embrace it.I realize that the point of this film was to show us a different side of the war. That all Southerners were not fueled by hatred and surrounded by a violent slavery system. Instead, there was quite a bit of beauty to the old South. A sense of pride, a sense of gentlemanly nature, and a sense of honor, which was difficult to witness being trampled on as the North continued its destructive war path. In that sense, I think it gave us a glimpse of what we lost with the Civil War. That image of the South was beautifully captured in this film. This film gives us some of the most beautiful sights of lavish plantations, beautiful greens, and civilized parties. The technical aspects of this film are astonishing. While I will agree with most that a widescreen version of this film may have swayed me to giving it one more star, the full screen still demonstrated the amazing sights of the South. The wide shots of the mansions, the bustling Atlanta area, and terror/tragedy of war was beautifully captured in this film. For that, I cannot fault this film, but what I can fault it for are the stereotypes, the shallow characters, and the faded ending that just didn't seem to match the overall tone of the film.To begin, the stereotypes. While most will say that the stereotypes in this film accurately depict the voice of the South, I just didn't feel comfortable watching it in today's society. I realize that this was made back in 1938, but I still didn't feel comfortable with slavery, sexism, and ignorance surrounding these characters. Does that make this film dated? Perhaps if I witnessed our characters going through some form of change I would have softened a bit, but I did not see that at all. With the continual struggles that minorities have in cinema today, is it wise to continue to think of this film as a masterpiece of cinema? Is it worth of all the accolades that it received? No. In fact, I am surprised that this film hasn't been shunned by a majority of communities during each release. This is a pinnacle example of what obstacles African Americans are trying to overcome in today's Hollywood.There are those that speak so highly of Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh's chemistry, but for me, it was non-existent. I did not see why there are those that fall over this film and praise the story. I thought that Leigh was horrid as the early Southerner turned feminist. Gable was so inconsistent with his character that I didn't know whether to love him or hate him. There was no chemistry or connection between Leigh and Gable. They were together because the director (which this film eventually went through three of them) knew that audiences would want to see them either together or going to get together by the end. The rest of it was just trivial. With the fuzzy direction of Leigh's character, you never quite felt that Scarlett had an ounce of passion in her heart. She wanted what she couldn't have, like a spoiled child, and that was reflected again with the inconsistent ending. Gable's character of Rhett was underdeveloped. We knew nothing about this man except that he randomly continued to jump in and out of Scarlett's life. Where did his wealth come from? What was his past? Who knows <U+0085> and none of it was fully explained. This can be said the same with Ashley. Who was this guy? Why did Scarlett choose him over the other possible suitors? Was it simply because she couldn't have him, or because of some darker reason? Did anyone else notice that she was Irish, not quite the Southern belle that we had originally hoped for? Overall, these characters hurt and built upon the ultimate downfall of this film. They were forgettable from the first time that we met them until the very end of the film. Underdeveloped, unintelligent, and downright dull. All elements that gave us too long of a film centered on nothing.Overall, I just didn't see what all the hype was surrounding this film. Our society has moved forward from this period, but do we need to be reminded of it continually by giving this film more and more accolades? I don't think so. I do not wish to see this film again and hope that it does not continue to be a staple of our cinematic society. From the unexciting, unloving characters (of which we all hate, yet are supposed to love by the end) to smile on Scarlett's face after the marital rape scene, this movie was a disaster.Grade: ** out of *****


                
Gone With The Wind has a reputation as an all time classic, but it is unfortunately hollow and even fluffy. The film is ultimately a four hour soap opera concerning the travails of a spoiled brat, an obnoxiously self centered loud mouthed young woman. Scarlett is not easy to like, and neither is the smug Rhett. It's difficult to sit through four hours with two lead characters that are hard to sympathize with. The film romanticizes the south in a laughably superficial depiction, and the portrayal of African Americans are demeaning stereotypes; it's too bad that the first African American Oscar Winner, Hattie McDaniel, had to play such an exaggerated stereotype to win. Of course, this was 1939, so it wouldn't be so much of a problem if the rest of the film was not so melodramatic, especially the last quarter of the film. The rather limited story is stretched to fit the epic running time, but it feels flat rather than majestic. You may say it's a timeless classic, but frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn.


                
Easily perhaps the most over-rated film of all time, "Gone with the Wind" would be a better movie if it ended with the war. The first half of the movie is a solid 7 out of ten nostalgic/historical piece - the script (of the first half) could be tighter and the characters a bit more realistic, but it's "good enough" and the large budget produced some great scenes to push it up a few notches. However, the second half of the movie is an unmittigatable disaster with more schlock and worse acting than anything that ever pushed detergent on afternoon TV. End result? A disjointed, overlong, overly sappy train wreck of a movie. While I am sure that this movie appeals to people who like the 'fairy tale' aspect to the story and the romantic idea of Southern Belles and gentlemen like Rex Butler, for me, GWTW borders on unwatchable.


                
This is nothing more than a four-hour soap opera focusing on the one character who couldn't be less likable if she tried.  There seems to be an obsession among romance writers about the antebellum South; this movie (and the book that spawned it) was no exception.The film itself would be just another Hollywood big-production weepie except for the treatment of African American characters.  Any who didn't kiss the Massa's rear end are portrayed as evil and dangerous (coveting Miss Scarlett and other Flowers of Southern Womanhood, naturally), and the others are portrayed as child-like and nearly helpless, with the exception of Mammy (Hattie McDaniel).  Here's a fun fact -- Klansmen are shown as good guys here!  It all adds up to one word: repulsive.  Yeah, I know it was made in 1939.  Guess what -- it's 2000 now.  We should be embarrassed by this flick,not celebrating it, just like Birth of a Nation (1915).I remember when Roots was on TV in 1976 and the Klan protested and asked for equal time.  This movie would provide it.


                
I used to love this movie but not anymore. Scarlett is ridiculous, pining over a guy that is already taken. She's just sad and desperate and pathetic. Also I don't get how Melanie is so naive and stupid about Scarlett. When Scarlett finds out that she can't finally stand Ashley, she loses the one guy (Rhett) who loved her. Even at her worst, even when she was unlovable, he still loved her and tried to understand her and tried to help her and be loyal to her.But I really don't respect Melanie. She just acts like an idiot. The acting by everyone is so melodramatic. Also Ashley is annoying. He's a wimp and a coward. I don't get why Scarlett married guys she didn't love and that she couldn't stand. I like the theme song. I think if they ever remake this movie then they should make the characters less ridiculous. I never want to watch this movie ever again.
The doting hysteria surrounding this overblown tome of a film amazed me when I first saw it 50 years ago. It is as tedious now as then. With a few exceptions (especially Gable), the acting is overdone and phony. After the fourth silhouettes against the setting sun shot within the first 30 minutes, even the beauty of those scenes was diluted to visual doggerel. One of the few entertaining scenes was the newly widowed Scarlett dancing a jig below the serving table top at a soirée. As for historical accuracy - never mind. I know that I am in a small minority who rate this between 1 and 6 but there is always hope that more people will be less impressed with the scope and grandeur and notice what a silly soap opera this thing is.


                
I know this comment will be viewed as sacrilege from the vast majority of movie lovers.  This is just one woman's opinion.  I find Gone With The Wind to be one of the greatest pageants ever filmed.  The opening scene at Twelve Trees is a dressmaker's dream.  The breadth and depth of the cast is amazing. This is clearly a big-budget epic.  There are many people who love grand-scale epics for, well, the sheer grandiosity of it.  This is what makes movies such an individual experience.  I am not one of those people.I love believable characters, thoughtful premises, clever plot twists, terrific acting, and witty dialogue.  Gone With The Wind has all of these things, but only a sampling of them.  Clark Gable is tremendous as Rhett Butler and Ona Munson is unforgettable as Belle Watling.  But (here comes more heresy) Vivian Leigh's over-the-top frenetic performance of Scarlet O'Hara is bad acting at its zenith.  She is never anything but a cartoon. And, she is supposed to carry the film.  Even worse is an insipid Leslie Howard as Ashley Wilkes.  Hattie McDaniel is great as Mammy (It is a disgrace to realize that it was 62 more years before a Black woman could win another Oscar, also for Supporting Actress).  But Thomas Mitchell is present in body only as Scarlet's father.  The rest of the all-star cast fares much better in their bit parts.  This is one movie that has never lived up to its legend for me.


                
When I was growing up, we were all told that "Gone With the Wind" was the greatest film ever made - by anyone - anywhere - of all time. When I finally saw it, years later, it was a colossal disappointment. When I was studying cinema I came across a survey by Sight and Sound, the magazine of the British Film Institute, asking critics around the world the nearly impossible question "What are the best films ever made?" or something to that effect."Citizen Kane" easily got over fifty votes while "Gone With the Wind" received only two, both from American critics by the way. In fact there were dozens of American films which ranked above it on the lists, so what happened? I'm suspecting the Selznik super-sell is responsible for the hype. Someone joked that the the book "Memo from David O. Selznick" was trimmed down from twenty-seven volumes to only one in order to sell it. The funny thing is that people are still listening to the publicity after all these years and some actually are still swallowing it. The film was grossly over-produced and suffered major damage with its hodgepodge of directors. In fact the bogus "Southern accents" have been the stuff for many take-offs and comic skits. So much for "The Greatest Movie of All Time".Curtis Stotlar


                
As I seem to keep hearing, time and again, from the so-called 'real' movie connoisseurs who are out there, everywhere in the world...(till I'm sick of hearing it)....Is that Gone With The Wind (GWTW) is, without question, one of the absolute, all-time, greatest movies ever-ever made...Well, I say - Oh, really!!??...I repeat - OH, REALLY!!!!!????? Well, hey, I gave GWTW a fair chance. I did. Yeah. I endured this tedious mess-terpiece (in its ridiculous entirety of an unbelievable 222 minutes) and I didn't think it was so great. It wasn't! In fact, it was nothing but an over-long bore for a good part of the time. I couldn't believe how utterly pretentious most of the main characters were to me. I especially found that poor, little, rich girl, Scarlett O'Hara, to be insufferably annoying, far too often. I actually began to physically cringe and wince whenever Miss Scarlett uttered that mega-sickening, little "Fiddle-Dee-Dee!" line of hers.....Ugh! I understand that GWTW has, ultimately, been hailed, from one end of the planet to the other, as one of the greatest, most dynamic love stories ever presented (for our envy) on the silver-screen. But I wasn't particularly impressed with the dysfunctional relationship that transpired between these 2 wacky-doodle-dandy 'love-birds' Scarlett and Rhett. It seemed to me that for a good duration of GWTW Scarlett and Rhett were, literally, at each other's throats. I detected lots of real nasty, hitting-below-the-belt type dialogue going on between these 2. I mean, if anyone ever talked to me the way Scarlett and Rhett did to each other, I'd never have anything to do with that person ever again. I wouldn't. Not even if they looked as gorgeous as the honey-child Scarlett did.What I thought was absolutely hilarious in this flick was Scarlett and Rhett's first round of 'married bliss' together. Here we had Scarlett carrying on like a, literal, frigid bitch all the time. (can you believe it?) She was even choosing to sleep apart from her husband in a separate bedroom, every night, and subjecting randy, old Rhett to the cold-shoulder treatment, non-stop.Well, as it turned out, Rhett, literally, had to resort to physically, forcefully raping his own wife, the 'new' bride, Scarlett, just to get some sexual satisfaction. And, wouldn't you know it, Scarlett actually liked being 'taken' this way. She did. So, ironic as it was, rape was the key ingredient to a happy marriage for Rhett and Scarlett. Eh?......Hey, it was either that for Rhett, or go bang a hooker. What could he do? Surely there were plenty of hooker-types around for Rhett to choose from. Yeah. Even some real sleazy sluts who would've probably done Rhett for free, I'm sure.Now, don't get me wrong here, I don't completely pan GWTW, altogether. I mean, it was a mighty impressive production, as far as productions go. There's no arguing with that. And the sets were nothing short of stupendous. And the costumes were pretty fantastic, too. Yep, they sure were.But, all in all, I think that the grandness, the splendor, and the glory that this story apparently stood for was largely lost in the muck, due to the focus that was deliberately put on such an incredibly petty and nonsensical affair, as the one that was taking place between Scarlett and Rhett.I guess what it all comes down to is that I'll never, ever understand the irrational mind of the true Romantic. Never. It's all gone with the wind to me.
I just recently saw GWTW, and I didn't like it. I can see why it's such a classic because it was the first movie to do a lot of things (the first movie to use a curse word, first movie in color (I think), and so on. However, I thought it moved slowly. I know that the book was about 1000 pages and that 4 hours was probably the appropriate length, but it seemed that some scenes weren't necessary.Don't get me wrong, though, I can appreciate this film for its place in cinematic history...it's just not my cup of tea. Forgetting about the apparent racism in the film as a reason not to like it, the film just does not deserve all the hype it's getting for the acting (even though Gable and Leigh were good) and for its plot. I understand the the backdrop is the Civil War and it's a love story...blah blah blah, but I just wasn't able to connect with this film...at all!


                
. . . are Self-Evident to ALL Loyal Patriotic Normal Average True Blue Progressive Union Label Americans. From its mendacious opening scroll to Rhett Butler's final words about Damnation, GONE WITH THE WIND (as well as Margaret Mitchell's poorly-written source material) perpetuates and celebrates the most Evil BIG LIE in all of American History. If Leni Riefenstahl were alive today to make a sequel to her star-making vehicle for Adolph Hitler (TRIUMPH OF THE WILL, an equally over-rated Propaganda Piece that came out within a few months of GWTW's Grand Premiere), and IF Der Fuhrer were alive and kicking (and able to rant in semi-coherent English), Hitler could easily co-opt the supporters of Red Commie KGB Chief Vlad "The Mad Russian" Putin's White House Sock Puppet Don Juan Rump in a New York Minute. Such is the power of Big Money Cinema, even when this sinful enema is flushing out the most vile excrement imaginable, such as TRIUMPH OF THE WILL or GONE WITH THE WIND. It is ILLEGAL even Today for Germans to own a copy of Ms. Riefenstahl's Satanic TRIUMPH, and the U.S. Government MUST take similar action against GWTW immediately! How many Heather Heyers must die before this KKK recruiting tool is eradicated?!When Kiddie Porn was outlawed, there was no "Grandfather Clause" to allow perverts to retain the smut that they had legally purchased in the 1950s for "Old Time's Sake" or "to Preserve Film History." (You can still Google stories about Oklahoma State Troopers seizing Blockbuster VHS tape rental records so that they could kick in the doors of folks who'd just rented the PG-13 movie version of Gunther Grass's coming-of-age novel, THE TIN DRUM.) Also, ISIS beheading Youtubes now can be found only on the Dark Web--NOT in public Art House Film Festival Revivals or in University Film Appreciation Classes aimed at Impressionable Youth. America MUST follow Germany's lead Vis a Vis Nazi paraphernalia in regard to GWTW. ALL copies of this Demonic Fake Facts Racist Screed MUST be incinerated ASAP, along with ALL the Rhett and Scarlett dolls, GWTW posters and lobby cards, Grand Premiere newsreel footage, and so forth. This should be VERY easy to do--all the GWTW offal added together amounts to less than 1% of the Kiddie Porn already stamped out by our Brave FBI Agents. For each person killed by Evil Kiddie Porn, more than 100 have died at the hands of GWTW's Racist White Supremacy "Romance." EVERY Black person who's lived from the 1930s up until Today has suffered at least some harm from GWTW, even if they have not paid the Ultimate Price by being Lynched or run over by a Dodge Charger. If YOU have seen GWTW more than once, go get your head examined to see if you're a ticking time bomb like Dylann Roof, or if your name merely belongs on the coming-soon National Registry of Racists!
