So, I've been calling myself a movie buff for ages, but it took me to get to the tender age of 23 to see one of the greatest classics in the history of cinema. I must say I was pretty impressed. The film has some outdated touches of the theatrical and romantic, but much less so than I expected. It's also interesting how the main character of Scarlett O'Hara- nicely portrayed by Leigh- is so very unsympathetic, almost an anti-hero. Still, Scarlet is a strong and interesting character who gains depth throughout the film. She goes from being a detestable manifestation of a privileged, unproductive lifestyle to an independent, even cruel persona full of determination and courage.This one was at its best when depicting the cruelty of the American civil war, when the focus of the story was less on relationships and more on the agelessly political.


                
Gone with the Wind is a classic Civil War movie that recognizes the of faults of the War. The protagonist of the Gone with the Wind is Scarlett, who struggles through the hardships of Reconstruction and the Civil War. Gone with the Wind shows the weaknesses and strengths of the struggles of Reconstruction and how life was to be lived during the Civil War.Scarlett can be described as determined as she drives to achieve everything she desires. Scarlett aims to win Ashley Wilkes, and her failure to do so guides the plot of the novel. Scarlett loses her true love, Rhett Butler, because of her persistent desire to win Ashley. Gone with the Wind is based in the South. The movie is very persistent in allowing the viewer(s) to know that the Yankees in the war,are the bad people. Vivien Leigh is so powerful, passionate, magnificent and beautiful that you she plays the role of Scarlett perfectly. She brings something so convincing and human to the role of the selfish spoilt Scarlett, she is larger than life.The complicated relationship between Scarlett, Rhett, Ashley, and Melanie is the fuel that keeps the movie going. The performance done by these characters really allows the viewers to feel the urge of the desire portrayed by the characters to try and make their relationships work. Both parties would do anything for each other. Despite Scarlett's hardness, she grows as a person. She slowly comes to value Melanie's friendship and support. At the end of the movie, she finally realizes how ill-suited she and Ashley have always been for each other, and how little passion ever actually existed there. She realizes that she really does love Rhett and would do anything she could to get him back, so she goes after him.
Gone With the Wind is a classic antebellum masterpiece, addressing the turmoil of the conflict of the Civil War through the eyes of a manipulative southern belle. Despite the destruction wrought by the Yankee invasion into Georgia, Scarlett O'Hara is resilient in her determination to restore the Tara plantation to its former glory. "Do you mean to tell me, Katie Scarlett O'Hara, that Tara, that land doesn't mean anything to you? Why, land is the only thing in the world worth workin' for, worth fightin' for, worth dyin' for, because it's the only thing that lasts." Scarlett's father, Gerald O'Hara instills in her the southern ideal of property and station. Throughout the movie, Scarlett draws on Tara and "home" for strength. Despite some historical inaccuracies, the feel of the Old South is clearly present in this timeless classic of love and war.
Story-telling technique doesn't get much better than this, so it's no surprise that the movie is still so well-known despite its age and length. From the detailed, lavish settings to the carefully filmed action scenes to the well-timed, steady pace, many things are done masterfully.  These and other strengths make it an entertaining and sometimes exciting classic despite some weaknesses in its characters and its historical perspective.In one sense, you have to wonder whether it would have been a better story if the main characters were more worth caring about.  Nothing against Gable or Leigh, who both give fine performances that bring out exactly what their characters are about, but despite Rhett's resourcefulness and Scarlett's strength, they really are not very admirable persons, and it's just hard to care very much whether they are happy or not.  It makes the whole movie rather less affecting; it's always interesting yet only occasionally is it really compelling.  Yet at the same time, the characters in themselves are convincing, and perhaps their less-than-admirable nature makes for a more believable balance to the historical backdrop, which is a highly idealized, not to say sanitized, portrait of the Old South.All that aside, whether you like the characters and settings or not, it's filled with good examples of how to tell a story on film.  The escape from Atlanta sequence deserves its place as one of the finest set pieces in movie history, and although nothing in the rest of the film has the same intensity level, there are many other good scenes that make it a picture well worth watching.


                
It's always fun to find out where The Simpsons get their inspiration. Here, it's the iconic image of Scarlet O'Hara standing underneath the giant tree (saying "There's always tomorrow.") that was used in 'Principal Charming'. The Technicolor look of 'Gone with the wind' is pretty amazing, for instance in the aforementioned scene, and otherwise mostly in similar grand scenes and images. During the film I had guessed the film was from the fifties, so discovering that it was made in 1939 rather blew my mind.I loved this movie, but only up until just after the ending of the Civil War. Then it became much more like a soap opera (though still better than your average soap series), focusing mostly on Scarlet and Rhett Butler and their turbulent 'romantic' times. I can't say I got bored with it, nor was it really bad, but their characters went all over the place without really convincing me of their sincerity. Still, it's not hard to see how this is a classic, and I'm very likely to give it another chance some other time. Scarlet O'Hara is in any case a terrific movie character that will stick with me for a good while - great balls of fire!Until then, a big 7 out of 10.
"Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn."One of the most famous lines in film history, is perform brilliantly by Clark Gable, But everyone in this historical romantic epic is fantastic. With Vivien Leigh possibly being most suited to her character Scarlett O'Hara. The love story between Scarlett and Rhett butler (Clark Gable) is a doomed romance from the start but takes on a intriguing ride.They just don't make films like this anymore, the grandness of the film is rarely matched. The nature filled rich landscapes. the colours used are truly stunning. The characters relationship does come across as still relevant and realistic possibly more inkeeping with modern day romance.Where i had the problems in this film was not so much the story and anything technically wrong with the production. But it is how unlikable i find the two main leads. As Scarlett and Rhett are so manipulative of each other and others, and at times say and do things that are absolutely unforgivable.The film is a legendary piece of Cinema, but for me the central characters are to unlikable for it to be an all time classic for me.


                
A movie that's certainly worth watching, but it's hard not to be conflicted, and it's a tough one to rate.Positives:
Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh are outstanding in their roles of these two selfish people, who, while difficult to like, spiral around each other and deliver iconic Hollywood moments. He recognizes they're cut from the same cloth and loves her for it, she sees the same thing and hates him. A sexual current runs through their relationship from the first time he undresses her with his eyes, and she remarks "He looks as if he knows what I look like without my shimmy." Later he'll tell her "You should be kissed, and often, and by someone who knows how," and it's clear without saying it when he helps her what he wants in return (after all, he's "not a marrying man"). Gable's character is perceptive throughout the movie, and he's an interesting mix of rogue, gallant, bemused observer, and doting father.The filmmaking is extraordinary, particularly for 1939. There are exquisite scenes in glorious color, and the soundtrack is fantastic. War-time shots in the first half, like the horse and carriage escaping a massive fire, the one of all the wounded laid out, and the operation are memorable.Hattie McDaniel is a delight to watch in the role of Mammy, the tough-minded servant who tries to keep a proper sense of decorum and the willful Scarlett in line. While some criticized her for taking a stereotypical role (similar to the criticism Anna May Wong suffered), this was the part available, and it was a step forward for her to take it, own it, and win an Oscar. Special favors had to be called in just to allow her to get her in to the Cocoanut Grove nightclub for the Oscars, and even then she had to sit in the back at a small table. I recently visited her simple grave in Angelus-Rosedale Cemetery, where she was buried instead of Hollywood Cemetery because she wasn't allowed in to the latter. She was discriminated against even in death, and it's important to remember that racism and segregation weren't just occurring in the past, or only in the Jim Crow South.There is a feminist message in the strength of the two main female characters. Scarlett is manipulative and shallow, but she's also tough and a survivor. She makes it through bleak times, shoots a ravaging Union soldier in the face, and at one point while trying to run a business "Great balls of fire! Don't bother me anymore, and don't call me sugar!" Similarly, while Melanie (Olivia de Havilland) can be almost maddeningly pure, seeing the good in everyone despite their obvious evil, she acts as an almost Christ-like role model.Negatives:
There is no point sugar-coating this: the movie, and the book it's based on, is racist. It perpetuates the horrifying myth of the loyal, docile, and simple slave. These smiling African-Americans have no interest in freedom, and in the few scenes they're in, they look simply like employees of Plantation, Inc. The character of Prissy is feeble-minded and helpless. The film tried to avoid controversy and be as neutral as possible, but what we see for the most part are essentially cartoons.From its opening credits, the movie perpetuates a myth about an entire way of life, that the South was noble and filled with honorable people, and now sadly all of that is gone. Historically this is inaccurate, and morally it's outrageous. And yet, 70+ years after the war, this was the narrative, with a message diametrically opposed to that of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin'. The slaveholders are shown to be kind and thoughtful aristocrats, and it's instead the Yankee carpetbaggers who are portrayed as cruel and vicious. Deviations from the book are apparently rather modest, but one major one is Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard) and another character no longer being members of the KKK; instead they go off to a 'political meeting'. Before the war, Ashley says that "Most of the miseries of the world were caused by wars, and when the wars were over, no one ever knew what they were about," as if this particular war fit that case - being fought over for some vague reason. After the war, he says without a hint of irony "I will not make money out of the enforced labor and misery of others." Even Scarlett points out the hypocrisy, but it's as if this male voice, this Major in the Confederate Army can't bring himself to mention slavery or race issues. This is consistent with the shameful Southern apologia that has never truly been dissipated, recent statue removal notwithstanding.In addition to my problems with his role, Leslie Howard does not fit here. He does not seem like a Southern gentleman from the period at all, and does not bring nearly the authenticity that Gable brings in his scenes of passion. In an otherwise fine cast, he is quite weak.The second half of the movie is far too melodramatic, and practically a soap opera. To some this is faithful to the book, entertaining, and helpful to create an epic feel to it all, but to me it's overdone, and artistically sloppy. It also leads to a bloated four hour run time, and I think it would have been more powerful condensed. Summary:
The film is insidious because the story, its characters, and its production value are all so compelling, and yet the background context is so toxic. Can we mentally set aside those gigantic elephants in the room, and forgive it? Is this like a romantic Southern version of 'War and Peace', where we note that in his epic, Tolstoy didn't write of the ownership and oppression to serfs? Can we see it as the viewpoint of a defeated secessionist country, and understand what de Havilland would say in an interview years later - that "All countries have experienced war and defeat. And survival. They can identify with that film for, I think, that reason." It's tough. Very tough. I can neither love not despise this film.


                
So what can you say about 'Gone With The Wind' that hasn't blah blah blah... I don't know for certain, but I'll try. How about it's the grandmama (as opposed to granddaddy) of all chick flicks? I think it is. I watched it for the first time in years the other night and although it's still terribly familiar, I was able to pick up on some things with a fresh perspective. I've never understood why Scarlett O'Hara is considered in some circles to be an 'admirable' character. Maybe 'enviable' because of her gorgeous appearance, which is how most of the other females in the film seem to feel about her. But she's spoiled rotten, enjoys being spoiled rotten, and apparently her sole ambition in life is to go on being spoiled rotten. The admirable things she does at various points in the movie- shooting a marauding soldier, delivering a baby- she only does because she absolutely has to, and she hates having to do them. Or, to put it another way, Scarlett only does them because she can't be bothered with the alternative. Make no mistake, she is a fascinating character and Vivien Leigh is cast to perfection as her, but it's frightening to think a couple of generations of girls might have considered her a role model of sorts. There is an intrinsic dopiness to 'Gone With The Wind' that all the wonderful sets and beautiful costumes can't conceal. In fact, sometimes those costumes seem to be more what the film's about than the story itself. The film is a Selznick Production, but it has the look and feel of a top-shelf MGM flick. And as with every major MGM production of the time, there has to be an overriding theme, a heavy-handed moral to be taken from the film, and in this case, it is that Scarlett learns to love the land as her father did. Which she does. But nobody buys it, in fact her final words are barely remembered. Most people think, "Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn" is the last line in the movie. Just like most people remember the green dress above everything else. There are some undeniably powerful scenes in 'Gone With The Wind' (at over three and a half hours, there had better be) and some funny ones, and Clark Gable is perfect too as Rhett Butler, rogue, reprobate, and all-around Southern Cavalier. To me, one frustrating aspect of his character, or I should say everyone's reaction to his character, is that he is forever speaking blunt truths and common sense and nobody seems to hear him. Certainly Scarlett doesn't. Likewise, his warnings early on about the South's chances in the upcoming Civil War go unheeded. One wonders why he hangs around with people who treat him like a cad, a liar, a man with no honor when he's actually the most honorable person in the movie, with the possible exception of Melanie Hamilton. Now there's a ingeniously thought out character- Melanie. She provides poetic justice for Scarlett. Nothing Scarlett says can rile her; in fact she takes every hateful, venomous uttering from Scarlett and turns it around into something wonderful. It is almost a running gag that the meaner Scarlett is to Melanie, the more forgiving and admiring Melanie becomes of Scarlett. The scenes of death and destruction in Atlanta are memorable, including the famous long shot of the dead and wounded soldiers lying in the main street. The torturous soap opera that makes up the second half of the film will see male viewers rapidly losing interest, as it begins to resemble a 1930's version of 'Dynasty.' Even Rhett Butler's character lacks purpose for a long stretch, and his increasingly pointless upbraiding of Scarlett and her shortcomings becomes tiresome. She will never change and he begins to look foolish in thinking anything he says will make a difference.There obviously was no scrimping on any aspect of production for 'Gone With The Wind,' and the film succeeds in dazzling the eye throughout, whether it be a soiree at the plantation or Atlanta being set afire. Too many of the images have a 'glamor shot' feel to them, such as an early one where Scarlett's father runs after her in front of the mansion; it fairly screams "look at her dress!" There is a constant tug-of-war between such scenes and meatier aspects of the story. Again, given the film's great length, there is plenty of room for both, 'something for everyone' as the saying goes and it certainly is a classic of its kind. Still, it says something about both 'Gone With The Wind' and its loyal audience over the years that its most fondly recalled image is of Scarlett wearing a green gown made from the living room drapes.
I kept hearing this was a classic film that did excellent back in 1939.So I watched it, and my gosh it's longer than GodFather or Lord of the Rings.Gone with the Wind is a Drama and Historical Fiction movie.It's taken place during the Civil War. It doesn't feature any battle scenes just focuses on those who aren't fighting in the war.The movie's all about Scralet who's a wealthy girl who'll go through a lot of hard situations through this movie. Including trying to find a life she'll enjoy and a possible love of her life.I'm very surprised that they were able to make a movie like this back then.It's not bad for a Civil War film. Just it's very long to watch.Nothing inappropriate to watch but this movie might bore kids to death.If you like seeing a memorable classic film, then you might like to check this one out. I suggest renting it before buying it.It's different from the other classics.


                
This is an obvious classic. But, what makes this movie so "classic"? Nostalgia? High production cost? Popularity?...Personally, I would agree that the *first half* of this movie is excellent. However, I totally lost the point of the movie around the start of the second half. Tragedy after tragedy and annoying character behaviors are enough to drive a person mad.Basically, if you are going to watch this movie, be aware that what you see in the second half of the movie will not nearly equal the brilliance of the preceding half. It is worth checking out, but personally, I believe that this movie does not live up to the image that people built it up to be in my mind. But, its a "classic". Just leave it at that.


                
There is no question that the pure artistic cinematic achievement of Gone with the Wind is extraordinary as it features one of the greatest pieces of cinematography i have ever seen, but its main purpose of connecting with main characters over such a long journey seems to be lacking a bit and therefore its reputation as one of the all time greats really isn't an objective one.First we should obviously name the good, and the first thing that comes to mind is the cinematography. With such incredible indoor set design, elegant costume design, fantastic camera angles and beautiful outdoor scenery which mostly looks absolutely timeless, it is visually a masterpiece and an absolute delight to the eyes. Take the scene following Scarlett from the crane for example, slowly showing more of the victims of the civil war while Max Steiner's beautiful score plays, resulting in in itself an even emotional scene which also subtly shows us anti-war statements. However, the final scene or the scene right before the intermission with the camera showing silhouette's of characters next to a tree while zooming out when Max Steiner's score hits its climax has to be the ultimate cinematic perfection to such a long epic journey. There are also many of these kind of silhouette scenes throughout the movie, especially the first part before the intermission, and these scenes have once again gorgeous backdrops. As one can tell by my praising above of most of the aspects of the film, there is mostly just one simple detail which alters my perception of the film into just a 'good' one, and that is Scarlett ( Vivien Leigh ). Scarlett is fake, manipulative, selfish, stubborn, immoral & plainly just unlikeable to a degree that you would want her to get shot from the moment you first see her. It is not possible to build an emotional connection with her, and i just did not care at all about what happens to her. Not all characters are this unlikeable, as even the sleazy and arrogant Rhett Butler ( Clark Gable ) has his good moments and is even likeable, or Melanie Hamilton ( Olivia de Havilland ) who is a stark contrast to Scarlett yet somehow the two of them can be best friends which is something that is not very realistic to start with. Unfortunately instead of following Melanie or Rhett we are subjected to 4 hours of torture because we are constantly following Scarlett and her pathetic schemes and cheating along the way. True, main characters do not have to be likeable as long as they are well developed, but Scarlett has to be one of the most annoying irritating leads in a film ever shown, and with a last hour built to severely heighten emotional value, it doesn't work because a connection with her cannot be formed. It also doesn't help that her character development is non existent as she ends as the pathetic cheat that she started out as.A slightly smaller issue is that it is too fast paced, and especially when the final hour draws near main characters start dying one by one but scenes are cut short and are not dragged out which leads to one person dying and the other dying shortly after that while barely showing any of our characters responses to it. ( Except for Melanie Hamilton's, that one was done right ). In a cinematic experience, scenes, and especially scenes like this that are supposed to invoke emotion in the audience, need to be dragged out a bit so you can build a connection to it, but going from one dropping dead to the other dropping dead so quickly is a bit of an anti-climax and lessens the emotional connection because you cannot absorb what has happened before the next thing already happens. It is still such an incredible experience that i cannot truly objective rate it any lower because of the absolutely beautiful cinematography, original score and long running time, but it isn't as immersive as it could have been due to Scarlett's character taking you out of the film and making you care less about what happens to her, and even to most of the people dumb enough to hang around with her. ( For example, Rhett seems like a smart guy, but still wants to marry Scarlett even though he should probably know that would end in disaster ). But its stunning visual beauty cannot be ignored and therefore its positives still far outweigh its negatives.
It was a movie filmed on 1939! The costumes, the dresses, the laces, and the architectural style, they are so gorgeous and sophisticated. What an amazing masterpiece! Very dramatic and unpredictable plot.Scarlett is a captivating and attractive character, yet she has an unfortunate life, always losing her loves. However in my opinion, her capricious thoughts also are the factor to lead this tragedy. She is like a spoiled child, always want something she thought should be good, but not really in reality. Beside Scarlet should be blame for keep tempting her friend's husband. Marriage is built on faith and responsibility, being faithful to the other half is an oath under the god and law. Nevertheless, no matter how selfish Scarlet is, I still appreciate her courage, it is amazing to live totally free from heart, and never betray her own wills.


                
Perennial, timeless classic and perhaps the most beloved movie of all time is Victor Fleming's 1939 best picture "Gone With the Wind". An epic in every sense of the word, and one that must be viewed with a big audience at the cinema.Margaret Mitchell's novel, much celebrated in its day, about the Grand Old South at the time of the civil war, is lovingly and lavishly brought to the screen by David O. Selznick, the producer, and a cast of thousands. Vivien Leigh plays the headstrong, manipulative Katie Scarlett O'Hara very well, an attractive young Southern belle who appears to have literally dozens of beaux chasing her hand, as all the while she pines for the one love of her heart that she can't have, Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard). Clark Gable plays the dashing Rhett Butler, a womaniser who says he's not the marrying kind, but is completely taken by the determined young Scarlett. The rest of the cast are very enjoyable also, especially Hattie McDaniel who puts in a wonderful performance as the O'Hara's old mammy, an hilarious turn that is truly superb.Production values are splendid too, with art/set decoration and cinematography being particularly spectacular, and Max Steiner's music nothing short of grandiose.Definitely not for the restless or impatient at over three and a half hours, but certainly a must for anybody who calls themselves a movie buff or anyone who loves a sweeping saga of war and romance.Sunday, August 14, 1994 - Astor TheatreBest Picture for 1939, "Gone With the Wind" absolutely defines the word epic, and doesn't do a bad job at defining melodramatic either, or sweeping saga or whatever you like.Clark Gable is positively charming as the dashing Rhett Butler, Vivien Leigh is a true diva, stunningly beautiful and incidentally not a half bad actress. In strong support of these two shining stars are Leslie Howard and Olivia De Havilland, as the sop Ashley Wilkes and the pure-hearted Melanie. Simply outstanding in her Oscar winning role is the O'Hara's shrewd old mammy, played delightfully by Hattie McDaniel.The superlative technical team have provided some wonderful, extravagant costumes, incredibly convincing sets (Art Directors Lyle Wheeler and William Cameron Menzies) and amazing -for 1939 - special effects. The Atlanta fire is especially impressive.Director Victor Fleming supplies fine direction throughout, though it is widely accepted that many others helped out (perhaps including producer David O. Selznick). Sidney Howard's screenplay adaptation does justice to Margaret Mitchell's enormous tale of the 'Grand Ole South', making for splendid story telling, though you may want to tackle it in two or three sittings. Max Steiner's music is grandiose, as is the cinematography from Ernest Haller, Ray Rennaham and Wilfrid M. Cline.Saturday, October 7, 1995 - Video
I have seen "Gone With the Wind" three or four times and I appreciate the strength of the story, direction, acting and costumes. Nevertheless, I have problems with Mararget Mitchell's racism and lack of knowledge about African Americans. Mammy who is the main black character seems to exist only to serve white people. Where is her family? Where are her children? These questions remain unanswered. Another flaw is that none of the black characters really seem to be fully dimensional human beings. What are their wants and desires? Historically, many blacks ran away from their slave masters. Others left as soon as the Civil War ended. Few stayed with their former owners. Moreover, the novel and the movie distort Reconstruction. Many of the blacks who served in the legislatures, the House of Representatives, and U.S. Senate were well educated. The country made tremendous progress in racial progress from 1865-1877. Then, it ended with the Hayes Compromise. Gone With the Wind is a fine movie,technically, but inaccurate and racist.
Finally, seeing the film the way it was meant to be seen (in the newly released and restored, theatrical-ratio, letter-boxed format, digital transfer 4-disc DVD set, {phew!}) showed me more than I bargained for. "Gone with the Wind" has been (immediately following its 1939 release) hailed as a classic. And it does have all the makings of a classic: Sprawling sets, beautiful cinematography, amazing music, brilliant directing and the desire of two studios working together to get the job done properly. No expense was spared (and it shows) in the making of the film, and the audience was given a true visual treat. The script was fine, as most of the dialog was verbatim from Margaret Mitchell's novel, and the actors read their lines and performed their scenes to the best of their ability (some obviously better than others). Unfortunately, the problems with the picture far out weigh the positives and it was the same problems that the novel had. The characters that these wonderful to mediocre actors play are despicable. The lot of them. Scarlett is the most hateful female character I have encountered, ever. She is petty, selfish, dishonest, she puts on airs even when she has no reason to, she is unfaithful to her family (marrying her sister's romantic interest - even if it was to save the estate), she is manipulative and generally just an out and out witch (choice of first letter optional). Likewise, and making the perfect couple from Hell, Rhett is a scoundrel; an abuser, a womanizer, a drunk and would turn sides against the North or the South or his own mother if it were to raise his bank account. Ashley is horrid; he is wishy-washy (especially for a soldier), unfaithful to his wife - who is also his cousin (if not in body, most certainly in mind), weak-willed and idiotic in his decision to go to Atlanta instead of New York (away from the evil and manipulative Scarlett). Even Melanie is unlikable; at the very least because of the blind faith she places in her husband and the unwarranted, misplaced trust she places in Scarlett, if not for the incestuous relationship with Ashley. And those are just the leads! The secondary characters are no better. Mammy is arrogant and often unnecessarily angry; Prissy is a liar and a dolt; Ellen O'Hara (Scarlett's mother) is cold, bitter, distant and unpleasant, Gerald O'Hara (the father) is stubborn and rigid, and later weak and detached. In fact the only truly pleasant characters are Big Sam who saves Scarlett from attackers (much to this viewer's disappointment) and the prostitute-with-the-heart-of-gold who gives Melanie money for the hospital and later safe-houses Ashley for Rhett. And all of the above (well, except maybe Mammy, Prissy and Big Sam) are all in support of the Old South. If these characters are not hateful for the above reasons given (which they are - at least by yours truly) then they must be condemned simply for holding dearly a philosophy which, not only accepted, but championed slavery, incest and war and put more stock in keeping up appearances as opposed to accepting reality. I am not hater of great art, and I know a good movie when I see it. I loved this film for the cinematic genius that it must have taken to produce it. But watching loathsome people for nearly four hours is a bit hard to stomach, regardless of the ingenuity and obvious skill provided on-set and behind the scenes. In other classic films like "Citizen Kane", "Shadow Of A Doubt", "Casablanca" and "The Godfather" (and more recently with "Falling Down", "As Good As It Gets", "Fight Club" and "Pulp Fiction"), the audience is able to enjoy the viewing experience because even though the main protagonist is disliked, dreaded or despised, at least they remain sympathetic. I did not feel sorry for one character at one time during "Gone with the Wind". They all got what they deserved. Even Bonnie is better off dead than have to live with the soul-sucking Scarlett as her mother. So, my final review: 10 stars out of 10 for production, direction, cinematography, musical composition and performance and faithful adaptation of the novel; 8 out of 10 stars for acting (brought up 2 whole points - one each for Clark Gable and Olivia de Havilland, both of whom were remarkable, regardless of their awful characters); 2 out of 10 stars for the characters and story (these are terrible people from head to toe, from page to screen; people whom you would walk across the street to spit on, but a 1 out of 10 stars is a score reserved for films like "Glitter", "Crossroads" and "You Got Served"); and my overall score (10+8+2 divided by 3) is 6.7 stars out of 10. This film is obviously worth seeing and (this new version is) probably worth owning, but worth loving? I'm not so sure.
The immortal "Gone With the Wind" is regarded as a classic in many quarters, both with film historians and the general public. However, labeling it as such might be stretching the truth somewhat. It may have been the most financially successful film in the history of motion pictures, but box-office receipts do not automatically translate into quality. The film has many strong points, but it also has its share of weaknesses; being completely uncritical towards it, as many have been, is a closed-minded attitude. It went through several different directors and writers, most of whom have not received credit for their efforts, which may explain its unevenness. The true "author" of the film is legendary producer David O. Selznick, to whom the movie was his pride and joy.The first half is undeniably the strongest, containing most of the scenes that have cemented it into film legend. One of the most memorable shots is of the camera pulling back to reveal hundreds of dead and wounded soldiers on the streets of Atlanta. The sequence showing much of the city being burned is dramatically potent and visually compelling. A genuinely moving scene depicts the townspeople eagerly awaiting word of their loved ones' fates on the front, and their reactions to the inevitable bad news. The epic sweep of the Civil War is staggering, and for once the story is being told from the "other side's" perspective. The cinematography and set design is of uniformly high quality. However, the remainder of the movie, while still well-done, is overlong and redundant at times. At this point, most of the story has already been told, so chunks of it could easily have been omitted without harming the narrative. It threatens to become a soap opera, but the stars' chemistry help somewhat.The best performance comes from Vivien Leigh, as Scarlett O' Hara. I admit to disliking her character at first, since she initially came off as a spoiled brat. However, as the film went on, the character grew on me. It was interesting to see how she adapts to new situations; she grows from a privileged, dainty young woman to a survivor, forced to salvage a meager existence from what is left of her estate. Leigh herself is consistently compelling, regardless of O' Hara's shortcomings. Though Clark Gable is first billed, his Rhett Butler character is actually a supporting player; he nonetheless gets some of the best material, and has great chemistry with Leigh. There are also solid supporting performances from Leslie Howard and Olivia de Havilland. However, Butterfly McQueen is simply irritating as a servant girl.Hattie McDaniel has been noted as the first black person to win an Oscar, and she does a fine job of transcending what could have been a gross stereotype. "Gone With the Wind" may not be politically correct by today's standards, but it's not nearly as racist as I'd been led to believe. Nonetheless, the depiction of the Old South is still too romanticized. In fact, this aspect of the film is what dates it the most. Its downplaying of issues such as slavery or racism seems (at best) naive today. The fact that viewers continue to cherish it after more than sixty years does say something about its lasting appeal though. Despite these more complex and cynical times, its romantic allure is still, at least for some people, just as strong as ever.*** (out of ****)Released by MGM
One of the longest movies I have watched. It was like diving into another world or a lot similar to time traveling. If you are not a fan of long duration movies like me, it will be very difficult to finish in one sitting. And the background music that never seems to stop makes it barely tolerable. But the annoying need of 'to know how it ends' kept me going and in one sitting! Now thinking back I'm glad that I did so. Even though the story description says about a girl so spoiled I see it differently. Maybe because I belong to the twenty first century where we witness much worse levels of "spoiledness". A girl with limited span of experience trying to survive and thrive in the physical and emotional conflicts that follow afterwards in the best way she thinks she is capable of. Nevertheless the character Scarlett; the protagonist is not easy to like or to approve. Yet she is interesting to observe and comical in more than one occasion. The gorgeous Viviane Leigh portrays her perfectly. And in the end she comes to a stage where anyone will come after such a hard journey disregard of the defeat or the victory that they might experience. It's a wonderful story yet we are so accustomed to everything fast delivered it's prone to get boring and tempting to walk away. For someone who's gifted with patience and abundance time at their hand this is a must watch movie because it'll be gone with the wind... Have an enjoyable movie time!!
Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh) is a 16 year old headstrong Southern belle just before the civil war. At every picnic and gathering of folks near her father's plantation in Georgia, our Miss O'Hara is knee deep in admiring men, for she is beautiful and saucy. Unhappily for her, however, the one gentleman she really has eyes for, Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard), doesn't seem to be interested in becoming a suitor, although he considers her a friend. This is because, after tradition, Ashley has been "promised" for a long time to his distant cousin, Melanie (Olivia DeHavilland). Being a bold lady, Scarlett tries to court HIM, when she is supposed to be napping before a ball. He turns her down, reluctantly and leaves the room. Scarlett throws a fit and a piece of china and narrowly misses another man, Rhett Butler (Clark Gable). From that moment, Mr. Butler has admiration for Scarlett, for he has defied a few conventions himself. Stung from Ashley's rejection, Scarlett marries Melanie's brother in haste, for the war has just started and he must leave to fight. Through the war, Scarlett and Melanie live together in Atlanta and when Sherman comes marching, Rhett rescues the ladies and actually declares his love for Scarlett, before leaving her on the road home, as he is enlisting, finally. She is as mad as a hatter, both from his hot kisses and his abandonment. Yet, Miss O'Hara makes it home, keeps hold of the plantation through the reconstruction period and still harbors love for Mr. Wilkes. Yet, when Scarlett's second husband dies, she agrees to, at last, marry Rhett, for he is very rich. But, will it be love everlasting? Wait and see. First, let me state that I LOVE the book and got it as an eighth grade birthday present. It is one of the great love stories of all time, set in the South at a difficult point in history. But, I've never been overly fond of the movie. There are several reasons. The cast, while some call it a "dream", is merely good. Hattie McDaniel, who plays the faithful mammy of Scarlett, is my favorite while Leigh, Howard and DeHavilland are certainly fine. Gable is good, too, but he's not my idea of the perfect Rhett, though many others think so. I always wanted Burt Reynolds, in his "Dan August" heyday to star in a new version, for he was smoking hot. Obviously, this won't happen. But, while sets, costumes, and photography are nicely done, the script is overly melodramatic and maudlin, taking power away from the story, and the direction must be blamed, too. All in all, there are so many remakes of classics today, why doesn't someone give this one a modern take? But, it probably won't occur, for most film fans, unlike myself, consider this the classic of all classics and feel any new version would fall on its face.
It is always a shame not to have grown up with something that is considered a classic.  I can't draw back on my childhood memories of visiting a movie palace and taking in this movie in the time for which it was intended.  I saw this movie for the first time on DVD, remastered in 5.1 dolby digital. It is a beautifully photographed movie, but other than it's historical significance I can find little positive to say about it.  Much like Star Wars for my generation, this movie lives in the glory of its period.The acting was, for the most part, good.  I can't really criticize any of the actors, as they all play their parts well.Much of what makes a movie enjoyable to watch, however, are the characters. When have lead characters been so unlikeable?Scarlett O'Hara may be the least likeable female romantic character ever conceived.  I did not, for one minute, give a damn (no pun intended) about her.  She was whiny, bratty, conceited, and annoying from the first scene. Nowhere in three hours and fifty-two minutes did I find myself with any sympathy for her.  Her epiphany was about three hours too late in the movie for me to even consider.  And the glory of her ancestral home was lost on me.  "As God is my witness, I'll never go hungry again!".  Hmmm.  If the purpose of Scarlett was to annoy and alienate the audience, I must say, she was beautifully acted.The altruistic Melanie Wilkes, played convincingly by Olivia de Havilland, was another character I could not bring myself to care about.  Her fragile naivite made her feel weak and stupid to me.  Constantly abused by Scarlett, she never came away from kindness.  What a little angel.  The anti-Scarlett, (and equally extreme in goodness as Scarlett was in whinyness) I found her character ridiculous.  Olivia, in my opinion, was the film's most physically appealing actress.  By far.Hattie McDaniel's character, Mammy was archetypical, but appealing nonetheless.  Her acting was excellent, with well timed deliveries and always an appropriate look of fear on her face.Clark Gable is a charming actor.  I enjoyed his performance.As for the plot, drama, drama, and more drama.  Endless ridiculous drama. This movie is like a realization of Murphy's law.  Everything that could go wrong, does.  Despite the extreme length, the movie moves along fairly briskly.  This is due to the continuous string of tragedies that play out over its course.  Make no mistake, this is a soap opera, in perhaps it's grandest form, but soap opera nonetheless.  Non-stop yelling, whining, death, unhappy marriages, and more death.  I threw up my hands on more than one occasion.  Isn't there a limit on the number of horse-related accidents you can have in one film, no matter the length?  No rest for the weary, let me tell you.Wow, this is sure starting to sound cynical.  I gave the movie 7 out of 10 stars, based solely on a few good performances, the stunning cinematography, and the historical significance.  I can't say I enjoyed the film, and honestly, I don't think I'll ever sit down to watch it again.  But I think everyone should see this film once, simply to make up their own mind on it's value.In sum: a glorious relic from the past that has acquired a sour taste in the present.


                
Say what you will about Scarlet O'Hara, Gone With the Wind was a classic when it came out in 1939 and it will remain a classic for years to come. A movie marvel, Gone With the Wind was a triumph to be made. Not a single weak link in the film, Gone With the Wind is an example of what an American film should be. Unlike GIANT, Gone With the Wind does not represent the American Blockbuster. Instead, it represents everything good about film. The acting, direction, the production, the story, it all came into place with Gone With the Wind.


                
Civil War-era love story, with spoiled Southern belle Scarlett O'Hara sparring with frequently-reluctant Rhett Butler, a blockade runner and smooth-talking charmer. From the sprawling bestseller by Margaret Mitchell, this beautiful-looking M-G-M production is filmed in eye-popping colors and enacted grandly by a well-chosen cast. Still, for modern tastes, this period in history is becoming more uncomfortable to tread through, especially for those with an unobjective eye. Emotions or personal bias may tend to rule out the romantic drama at the heart of the story, leaving the rest of the narrative seeming like ripened balderdash. Even so, it would be difficult to fault the main performances, with Clark Gable's Rhett the quintessential playboy and Vivien Leigh winning the Best Actress Oscar for her nearly-flawless performance as Scarlett (though real Southerners tend to balk at her accent). At nearly four hours, one begins to squirm after awhile, though Victor Fleming's Oscar-winning direction keeps the calamities coming at a spirited pace. Screenwriter Sidney Howard received a statue for his adaptation; Hattie McDaniel was also awarded for her typically rousing supporting turn as Scarlett's all-seeing, all-knowing "Mammy". Second-half, in which Scarlett returns to Tara after the Yankees have scorched the land and raped the property, is the most gripping section of the movie, let down a bit once Leslie Howard's Ashley Wilkes returns from a Yankee prison (Howard's performance is fine, if colorless). The film was named Best Picture of 1939, no small feat as this is generally considered one of the most prolific years for the entertainment industry. *** from ****


                
GWTW is a woman's picture about feisty Scarlett and the men in her life. Ostensibly about the American civil war, it degenerates into a story of marital disharmony, recognisable in any era with its overtones of women's lib.David Selznick's MGM background leads him to mimic their films which predominately reflect the lives of upper middle class American society. Scarlett comes from the upper echelons of the cotton plantation owners and when Ashley goes to fight the Yankees he becomes a Major. This is an unusually high rank for a young man with no previous military service;likewise Scarlett's first husband, Charles Hamilton, becomes a Captain.Most young officers would have been second lieutenants. GWTW is atypical as it does not therefore represent the life of the ordinary fighting man. This fascination for the affluent in life reflects Miss Mitchell's own life since both her father and second husband were lawyers.The film opens with Scarlett and her friends jabbering away at nineteen to the dozen. This fast pace of dialogue continues for several minutes making it impossible to catch much of what is being said. Eventually the film settles down to a more acceptable pace. All of her beaux seem to be West Point graduates which reflects Miss Mitchell's day dreaming at 15 of being a boy and entering West Point.Mr. Howard as Ashley is so bewilderingly miscast that it is hard to understand why another player could not have been found. He comes over as a father figure rather than a newly wed young man. He looks his age (45) and is far too serious; he rarely laughs or jokes and is never frivolous.Of the supporting actors, Thomas Mitchell plays Scarlett's father very convincingly and his Oscar was well deserved; in a smaller role Dr. Meade is very well played by Harry Davenport. Miss Mitchell probably based him on her own days as a beginning medical student.The film is so drearily long because the plot is structurally unsound. The first part deals with the Civil War in a conventional way but only as it affects the privileged few. In the second part Scarlett eventually marries the likable rogue Rhett, based on the real life blockade runner Charles Trenholm, but after the birth of their only child she forsakes her marriage vows by excluding him from the marital bedroom. To which Rhett, obviously seriously hurt emotionally by Scarlett's rejection, responds "You know I could divorce you for this?" Forget about the Civil War from here on it's just the well-worn story of battling embittered spouses. Miss Mitchell's mother had been a suffragette and this seems to have rubbed off on her and her novel. One night a drunken Rhett, carries her upstairs in his arms to bed and ravishes her. This has parallels in Miss Mitchell's own life as her first marriage was annulled after she suffered the same fate from her husband.I have not read the book but at over 1000 pages in length it has been considerably condensed; one major change is that Scarlett has three children by Rhett compared with just Bonnie in the film. This significantly changes the situation when Rhett leaves her with his oft-quoted farewell 'Frankly, my Dear, I don't give a damn' (a simple but effective piece of alliteration), a similar emotion must have passed through the mind of many an exiting spouse. Scarlett is left alone with no children compared with two in the novel. However this is where both the novel and the film end. Was this done to make Rhett's departure more morally acceptable? The entire film revolves around Scarlett and Rhett but although Scarlett is in almost every scene it is Rhett who is the commanding presence and steals all his scenes. At the beginning of the second part action drags without Rhett and Miss Leigh fails to hold her audience. The tedium which sets in could have been relieved if there had been a sub-plot to the story. This is an essential element of such a long story and is a weakness of Miss Mitchell's novel.A further weakness is that there are too many convenient deaths. Characters are killed off willy-nilly when they hinder the story's development. Very early on, Scarlett's first husband, Charles Hamilton, dies after a short illness. Later, her second husband Frank Kennedy is conveniently killed when they go out to a 'political meeting' concerning shanty-town raiders and get involved in a skirmish with Yankee soldiers. There is the death of Bonnie which lets Rhett off the hook morally as there are no children to support after he leaves Scarlett. The death of Scarlett's mother of typhoid fever is acceptable. This is another parallel with Miss Mitchell whose mother died of Spanish 'flu. Melanie conveniently dies in childbirth leaving Ashley potentially free to marry Rhett after he eventually leaves Scarlett but both the novel and the film only make this point obliquely when Rhett tells Scarlett that 'all you need now is a divorce and your dreams of Ashley can come true.' Finally he realises he has seen through Scarlett's scheming ways and tells her ' you think that by saying: 'I'm sorry,' all the past can be corrected'. In fact, Scarlett loves no one; she is incapable of love and just loves herself. She proved herself to be unsuited to married life as she rejects the act of procreation and behaved like a vixen throughout.The story would have been more true-to-life if the clergy had been represented, especially in the hospital scenes.The film is more outspoken on marital matters than the feature films of the period. It also makes it clear that the 'saloon', a centre point of westerns, is not just a place for men to have a drink, gamble and brawl but is a bawdy house.The restored DVD has a sharpness and clarity previously unseen and I recommend it to any fan of GWTW.
In the first scene when Melanie is introduced to Scarlett again by Ashley, Melanie is wearing a dove gray and white lace costume, an understatement to the more flamboyant Sarlett. She is also wearing straw bonnet with a dark peach velvet ribbon. In a subsequent scene between Melanie and Ashley where they are discussing Melanie's joining the family and the fleeting beauty of the southern way of life and, if war comes, it will not matter to their commitment to each other. This is a touching scene; one of a deeper understanding than the superficial one experienced by Scarlett and Ashely.Melanie and her betrothed are standing in front of a curtained window facing each other. The window overlooks the gardens. This is one of the most private moments in the whole movie and quite a contrast to the rest of the movie.Melanie is wearing the same dove gray and white lace costume a straw bonnet with a light maroon gross-grained ribbon.


                
Before telling anything about the movie I just should say that I always read the book before seeing an adaptation. "Gone With The Wind" is book that sounds like a book having racist elements in it. I am pretty aware that the book was published before nearly 30 years of the time activists like Martin Luther King but I can sense that M. Mitchell has a sympathy for the social strata of the South. She limns house slaves like Mammy and Pork as devoted and loving servants whom the whites treat like family. In the novel, all masters treat all slaves well. Although some admirable characters dislike slavery, Ashley and Frank among them, once the slaves are freed both the characters and the narrator describe blacks as "trashy," "insolent," and "creatures of small intelligence." Plus we can easily feel that the writer approves the acts of Ku Klux Klan. In the movie it's not too easy to see that element but you can catch a few words like Rhet Butler's description "poorly-brained darkie"... Vivian Leigh as the strong,selfish,opportunistic Southern belle Scarlett has a good performance while Olivia de Havilland as the physically frail but spiritually strong and good-hearted Melanie is satisfactory enough. But let me tell you that Hattie McDaniel as the old heavy set mammy deserves the "Best Actress in a Supporting Role" she got as the the first African American to be nominated for and win an Oscar. I had admired Leslie Howard as Professor Higgins in "Pygmalion" but I thing his performance as "the honorable but weak Ashely Wilkes" is really poor. The performance of players give really something to the should of the movie but really I am a person who attaches importance to little details in a movie. It is not possible that you can see a detailed technical description of fall of Atlanta towards the end of civil war. Even f there were the necessary technology the runtime would not permit that. It's already 225 minutes. Another thing is that Scarlett has one kid from each of her three husbands but we don't really see any of her kids other than Bonnie. In the book characters use alcohol to cope with stress, but when they abuse alcohol, disaster ensues. Drinking is partly responsible for Gerald's death: he rides his horse while drunk, misses a jump, and is thrown to his death he doesn't actually dies because riding crazily after Jonas Wilkerson the white trash as he is called both in the book and in the movie.He gets drunk after refusing to sign an oath stating that he was a Union sympathizer, and breaks his neck jumping his horse over a fence on the way home.Morover in the book, Suellen ends up marrying Will Benteen, a "Cracker" who comes to live at Tara after the war.Will Benteen is not a character in the movie<U+0097>and so Suellen's marriage is never mentioned. One more thing is that...that night when Frank Ashley and other decent people go to a Ku Klux Klan meeting(the movie never mentions that name openly) well when the Yankee guards come to search Melanie's house they read David Copperfield at home in the movie but actually they read Les Miserables in the book and we never see Archie-Scarlett around in the movie! In the book, Archie is an ex-convict whom Melanie allows to sleep in her basement, and who stays on out of obligation to her. In the movie, several of Archie's lines in the scene where they are waiting for news of the ill-fated Klan raid are said by Mammy. But after all this is a pretty adaptation for such a 1000 page book. The performances of the players and the technical skill of the film in spite of its time make up for that.If someone is a book-worm he/she will definitely love the book more. The is not a flawless masterpiece but still worth-watching after all!


                
It is really difficult to review a movie negatively that is considered universally a masterpiece.From a technical point of view, Gone with the wind was well done. Really good shots, acting done well by everyone. I particularly liked the visuals with the rose clouds.Also, the story was great for almost all the notable lenght of the film. The first three hours made sense and were enjoyable, especially the part regarding the civil war in the middle, and this actually saved this film from getting a 5 rating in my list and made it got a 6.What frankly seemed to make no sense to me was the second portion of the story. It might be caused by something that has been taken out of the book, or just me because I'm used to coherent plots like Nolan films or Citizen Kane. Until pretty much the scene where Rossella decides to marry Rhett, it actually all worked, and would have worked on later too. What I refuse to believe is that a girl who already managed to survive hunger during the civil war by hard work would behave as childishly as Rossella does in the last hour of the movie. The ultimate ending, with Rhett leaving the moment Rossella realises she doesn't love Ashley (something that should have happened when Rhett left to London, about 30 minutes before) and particularly her famous quote just made me question why did I spend four hours watching a movie which had practically no ending. Because that's not an ending.
