It is always in people's nature to put down great things and to nit-pick or sometimes just be plain mean. No matter what anyone says, this is utterly fantastic: in story, in special effects, in casting (with perhaps the sad exception of Leslie Howard as "Ashley") and in captivation. Vivien Leigh is so powerful, passionate, magnificent and beautiful that you could watch it 1000 times on that ground alone. She brings something so convincing and human to the role of the selfish, spoilt Scarlett; the character is larger than life.Leaving Vivien's astounding performance aside, this remains a sweeping unrivalled epic. Watch it. Esther's rating: 20/10


                
One of the most well-known films even today. Still the highest-grossing film ever released if you account for inflation. A grand epic about the times of American Civil War and how it affected a group of Southern landed gentry.Starring the indomitable Vivien Leigh as Scarlett O'Hara, the oldest daughter and presumed heir of the Tara plantation, and Clark Gable as Rhett Butler, her on and off mentor slash rival slash romantic interest. The story revolves around Scarlett in the months leading up to the Civil War and in the years that followed. And what a character. Very few movies I've seen in my life I have been able to call Films with a capital F. But this belongs on that elusive list.I find it especially intriguing how jaded they portray Scarlett. She is not a pleasant person, not at all. She's scheming, manipulative, almost purely after her own interest and she most certainly does not take a no for an answer. And yet the scene just before the interlude, where she swears that she and hers shall never suffer like they have suffered, is one of the strongest scenes I've ever see put on film. And the reason for that is the fact that you can understand where she is coming from. Likable she may not be. Admirable, on the other hand, oh so very much.And it's not like she's a pure villain or a monster either. She is not immune to the suffering of others, she is loyal to those she considers hers and her sheer willpower and force of personality are certainly something to be praised.She's also beautifully set up and contrasted by those around her. From Rhett Butler's more relaxed scheming to Melanie's (Olivia de Havilland) straight up sainthood.The only real problem I have with the film is the way it shows its age. More specifically the way it portrays slaves. It is told from the point of view of the South, and it tends to portray slaves as a simpler people, who are being gently looked after by their white masters. More often than not the slaves are shown either as people of limited understanding or as straight up mentally handicapped. It usually isn't the focus of the film, but the story is about the Civil War so it's always on the background. And it is uncomfortable, to tell the truth.Aside from that, the film is really good. A masterpiece. Masterfully acted, masterfully scripted, masterfully made. It is hard to recommend a film almost eighty years old and almost four hours in length to anyone. But in this case I believe the recommendation is more than warranted.


                
I didn't really think Gone with the Wind was as great as everyone says it is. Granted, I am a teenager and I do tend to enjoy modern movies a bit more than older ones, but I love movies of all kinds. I did enjoy Gone with the Wind, but it was entirely too long, and it left me bored at times.The acting was OK. I don't think it was anything to get in a big fuss about, but it wasn't so bad. The scenery was pretty cool, especially the mansion. I found the characters to be, for the most part, annoying. Scarlett was a first-class sl*t if you as me. She would marry man after man just to serve her own purposes, often involving revenge or money. She struck me as a leech in this way, and her screeching voice tended to get on my nerves. Brett seemed like a jerk, but at least he was a first-class jerk. I found it very funny when he would try so hard to get Scarlet to admit that she loved him, and when she finally let her feelings out, he'd call her stupid. The black-stereotype servants also were a little annoying, though funny for the most part.I did like the movie, even though I speak bad of it. The storyline was good and it was interesting to watch Scarlett go change from the hopeful romantic that she started as to a very different woman. I just don't think this movie is as great as everyone says it is.


                
After spending 4 hours watching "Gone With The Wind", I can see why it has been so critically acclaimed since its release in 1939. This motion picture combined many themes and ideas, and consisted of complex and dynamic characters who developed and grew as the story line played itself out. In particular, the protagonist Scarlett O'Hara is an incredibly feisty and passionate person who endures countless struggles in order to find happiness and stability once again after the Civil War demolishes her sense of reality. Even though she married 3 times and had more money than she knew what to do with, she always wanted more, more, more. When Rhett left her, the realization of her deep love for and the desire to return to her homeland, Tara, was an excellent way to wrap up the movie and bring the story full circle, as the story begins with dear Scarlett listening to her father tell her about the importance and continuity of land. However, the majority of the film was not as historically committed as it could have been. About halfway through, the focus shifts from the events of the Civil War, to the relationships between the characters. While this may not be a complaint for some viewers, others like myself hoped for a more focused and consistent view on the history of such an important time period throughout the movie. Also, the amount of racism was minimal, which is not true to the sentiments of the Deep South during this era. In summation, though there is some lack of historical accuracy, this film is definitely a must see, even 78 years later.
In my view, this movie is primarily about a catastrophic war, specifically the American Civil War, and it illustrates how this war so seriously impacted not only two extended families but an entire region, the American South. It is particularly significant to me that this movie, about the horrors of a major war, was made in 1939, a time when much of the world had already been thrust into another major war, World War II, and when many Americans must have been considering the consequences of our country's potential involvement in that war upon their own lives, upon their own personal situations. The world had become a very frightening place in 1939, and, although the United States had not yet entered the war, many informed, educated Americans must have been very concerned and even anxious about the very real possibility that the raging conflict overseas might one day arrive on their doorstep, including all of the uncertainty, disruption, and physical danger that would inevitably follow.Some viewers may appreciate the love scenes and the soap opera aspects of this cinematic epic, but what I find far more compelling is the dramatic circumstance of the characters who are suddenly immersed, some willingly and others involuntarily, in the middle of the bloodiest and most traumatic war ever to occur on American soil. I agree with other reviewers who wrote that the movie is too long. I believe that at least one hour could have been cut from it without destroying any meaningful continuity. After the explosive action of the first half, the second half appears somewhat anti-climactic and even boring for me.This movie is dominated by the central character of Scarlett O'Hara, so powerfully played by a stunningly beautiful Vivian Leigh. All of the other characters, especially the males, seem to pale in comparison to her with the exception of two of her slaves, played marvelously by Hattie McDaniel and Butterfly McQueen, who both manage to upstage Scarlett herself, which was not an easy feat. I realize that these were indeed tough times for the State of Georgia, and one had to be strong and determined in order to survive in such difficult circumstances, but did Scarlett have to be ruthless to the extent that she would steal her own sister's beau, a man she did not even love but decided to marry only on account of the economic possibilities of his hardware store with its potentially lucrative lumber business "on the side"? Some may say that she only did this so that Tara could survive. Would that alone justify her callous, almost inhuman, behavior?The scenes of beaten, war ravaged Atlanta are very impressive, especially for their time, and must have been a daunting task for the director, Victor Fleming. Although the music and frequent scenes of blazing sunsets behind dead trees have become clichés in time, I think that they were much more effective before "Gone With the Wind" became such a widely familiar cinematic classic to us. In many regards, "Gone With the Wind" has become a victim of its own huge success in the way that its most famous scenes, music, and characters have become too familiar to us and the object of constant spoofing, satire, and even derision. What a shame.To me, this is a "must see film", not only for Ms. Leigh's remarkable performance but for the historical drama that is so effectively portrayed as the South becomes tragically victimized by the very war that many had initially glorified so unrealistically. The reality of war's horror, conveyed so convincingly in this film, is its most important message. A world in a state of peace and prosperity must never be taken for granted. No one would agree with this more than Scarlett O'Hara herself, a casualty of a major conflict that she never wanted in the first place. Of course, Ms. O'Hara would never allow herself to be victimized by anything or anyone for very long. In any case, "she's not going to worry about that today. She'll worry about that tomorrow."


                
Scarlett O'Hara is an absolute psycho. What a loser. I just can't believe that people liked her. She is a superficial and selfish b**ch.
I guess this means Vivien Leigh played the role magnificently. Most of the cast was pretty good, as was the whole film. The major problem was the ridiculous length of "Gone with the Wind". After the 150 minute mark of a film, every extra minute contributes to its own self destruction.
Overall, 7.5 out of 10. (Would have been higher if it wasn't for the ludicrous 222 minutes).


                
Almost always included in the list of greatest films of all time Gone With the wind's reputation precedes it. Gone with the Wind is, simply put, a tale of two halves. The movie is divided by an intermission into a pair of roughly-equal segments. The first, which is brilliant and consistently captivating, covers the time period of the Civil War, beginning shortly after the election of Abraham Lincoln, and ending during Sherman's march through Atlanta. The post-intermission half, which dishes out the suds, picks up at the end of the Civil War and concludes about eight years later. This portion of Gone with the Wind, while still retaining a degree of appeal and narrative interest, spins its wheels frequently. One of the tests of the lasting impact of any film is determining whether it's still effective decades after its initial release. Gone with the Wind looks so good that it is surprising to consider its actual age. It's hard to believe that many of the people involved with this film have long since died. A masterpiece.


                
Just yesterday, I watched the entire GWTW for the first time (excellent quality DVD)and even though in comfort of my own home, I found this film way too long. I would not, could not, sit for almost four hours in a cinema to watch any movie. As a great number of reviewers have pointed out here, this is a movie of two parts, the second bordered on soap opera and partly for that reason, I am unable to give a 10 star, gushing endorsement to GWTW.The characterisation also bothered me. Of the four principal parts, Leslie Howard's (Ashley Wilkes)was the least credible performance.Here we have someone ready and eager to go off to war but someone unable or unwilling to express his genuine love for his wife Melanie when taunted by the scheming, jealous Scarlett O'Hara. And it seems so odd that Selznick would cast an Englishman as a southern gentleman, particularly when Howard's 'Englishness' was so apparent for his entire performance?! Surely there were better-looking US actors (who sounded like southerners) to play the part of a so-called dashing lead character!Despite the fact that it was apparent that everybody regarded Melanie(Olivia De Havilland) as a saintly figure who never spoke ill of anybody, it was almost beyond credibility that she appeared so blithely unaware of Scarlett's manipulative, brattish intentions and behaviour. And on learning of the possible romantic link between Ashley and Scarlett, Melanie reacts in an even more incredible fashion.It was the portrayal, the brilliant portrayal by Vivien Leigh of the story's heroine, that unnerved me more than anything else. Despite the many reasonable defences of Scarlett's character and behaviour - she shows stoicism in hardship, displays admirable strength in returning the fortunes of Tara etc etc - I found Scarlett O'Hara such a most unlikeable, indeed, almost detestable character, that I longed for the scene in which she would get her comeuppance! She was selfish (selfless when material gain beckoned), simpering, headstrong, jealous, vindictive, childish, scheming, stubborn, cruel and seemingly incapable of genuine affection for anybody save her father - most noticeably not for any of her three husbands nor for the presumed object of her unrequited love, Ashley Wilkes. She even steals her younger sister's fiancé Frank Kennedy whom she marries for financial gain. Scarlett also shows no qualms in engaging in dubious business practices and exploiting convict labour in her lumber business.How typical that shortly after marriage, Rhett insists he'll spend as much as necessary on a new mansion in Atlanta and Scarlett responds with: "Oh Rhett, I want everybody who's been mean to me to be pea-green with envy."On three occasions, Scarlett uses physical force to show her anger and pride when she slaps somebody across the face - if only Ashley or Rhett or even Mammy had the gumption to give this hoyden a similar whack!From my perspective, never has there been a more apt closing line in a movie because regarding the fate of Scarlett O'Hara, I couldn't give a damn.
Georgia, early-1860s. Scarlett O'Hara's life is one of parties and romantic machinations. She lives on her family's plantation Tara and the love of her life, Ashley Wilkes, has just announced his engagement to Melanie Hamilton. However, she soon is married to Charles, Melanie's younger brother, though she doesn't love him. Then the Civil War intervenes, and once the South starts losing, survival becomes the priority. All this time, one man keeps popping back into Scarlett's life, the dashing Rhett Butler.Every bit the classic and epic it is made out to be. Epic in its span of events, epic in its running time, epic in its scale, epic in production. Interesting, engaging story that is part romance, part war drama, part triumph of the will drama, all with a few good themes thrown in.Has given cinema some of its most enduring scenes and lines.Won the Best Picture Oscar in 1940. Won 7 other Oscars too including Best Director for Victor Fleming, Best Actress for Vivien Leigh and Best Supporting Actress for Hattie McDaniel, the first African- American to win an Oscar (also the first to be nominated).


                
I have a theory that the whole American daytime soap aesthetic was inspired by the second half of Gone with the Wind, in terms of the staging, lighting and dialogue. It becomes a story about interpersonal relationships, whereas the first half of the movie relates to the characters more in the context of their time and history. For these reasons, I can see why the film has mass appeal, because it tells its story through two sensibilities. Had George Cukor remained as director, I am sure the whole film would have been more in line with the soap opera approach, but the Victor Fleming touch gave it the epic grandeur and vitality that makes the first half of the movie breathtaking. In my opinion, you have to really invest in the characters in order for the second half of the movie to keep you captivated. As far as GWTW is concerned, the only disadvantage of changing its approach is that by the end of the film, several events happen in such rapid succession of each other that something feels unnatural and forced. This is because the very power of the soap opera approach lies in its ability to draw narrative out in a way that is driven by character and not plot: slowly, meticulously and over a long period of time... and this is why film was never the soap opera's favoured medium, because most mainstream movies are contained narratives and need to be plot driven to meet their criteria. And that is the very reason why women tend to be secondary in modern Hollywood, because most men are traditionally yearning for action and adventure and women reflect on their feelings and motivations: you can make a box office hit that meets the former criteria quite easily, but the latter is something that is so incredibly complex, you had best turn to literature and television soap opera/serial drama for it to be fully realised. Gone with the Wind and Titanic managed to bring the epic and soap opera together, which is why they resonated profoundly with the culture. When James Cameron cast the esteemed soap opera actor Eric Braeden as John Jacob Astor in Titanic, he knew exactly what he was doing. Braeden has been compared to Clark Gable frequently, and like Gable, was referred to as the 'King' of his medium... watch any scene between Victor and Nikki sparring in their mansion in classic episodes of The Young and the Restless, and it will immediately recall Rhett and Scarlett in the second half of Gone with the Wind...
"Do not squander time. This is the stuff life is made of." This inscription is seen early on in the movie and Victor Fleming surely adheres to that. Though the four hour movie length would be a deterrent to some, the movie was almost perfectly paced (except maybe the last hour) with impeccable character development. This is what most modern Hollywood movies lack. The characters have no depth. By the end of the movie, whether you like the actions of the characters or not, you at least care for each one of them. Frankly dear, I don't give a damn? No, actually we all do.The movie is an adaptation of Margaret Mitchell's novel of the same name who never told anyone about her book until she had completed it. is about the effect of civil war on south. Though it deals about the civil war, no real combat is seen. Rather the movie focuses on the life of the spoiled daughter of a Irish plantation owner, Scarlett, played by Vivian Leigh. She is in love with Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard), who marries his cousin Melaine. Melaine is the only ill sketched person in the movie who is unassuming on the intentions of Scarlett and so kind at times it borders on stupidity. As time passes by and the war rages on, Scarlett tries to make the best of the times, while courted by a playboy Rhett Butler (Clarke Gable). He finds her meanness, contempt for society and devil may care attitude very similar to his own. After the war, having previously married twice (once to make Ashley jealous and the next time for monetary reasons) and widowed both times, she marries Rhett Butler. Still she feels her heart still belongs to Ashley. The complex love story gets resolved in the last half an hour, which is to be seen for its impact.The best thing about the movie is Vivian Leigh. She is fabulous as Scarlett, among the most well conceived characters ever made. She got the role from 1400 applicants and we can see why. She is the heart of the movie. While another movie would have kept upright characters like Ashley and Melaine as the protagonists, this movie instead chooses Scarlett and Rhett Butler. Scarlett is not a hero. Most of the times her actions are more akin to villains. As the movie progresses, she slowly transforms from a harmless spoiled girl to a calculated, greedy and vicious woman who only cares about herself and her father's land. The war turns her so cold that even though she still believes she loves Ashley, her words sound shallow. Her heart has stopped feeling love for someone for a long time. Even with her daughter, she seems distant. Would she be happy with Ashley? Probably not. If she even would have married him, he was way too common to make her happy forever. The only person she can be happy with is Rhett Butler. He understands her complexity and her desires. Just like her, he wants to live the life on his own terms. The only trouble is that the concept of "love" has gripped her so much that she does not realize it.The direction of Victor Fleming is highly unconventional for its time. A lot of time has been given to character development which did not go down too well with the critics of its time, but watching it today the impact would not had been the same otherwise. The cinematography is so breathtaking at times, you cannot take your eyes off the screen. It gives the movie a place of mythical proportions. On the more troubling issues, there is no doubt that the movie is overly generous to the cause of south. The Union (Yankee) army is shown as a bunch of rogues disturbing the peace of the land. The arrogance of confederate army makes them go to war with the better equipped union army. Eventually they get beaten and the old southern life has ended. The film glorifies slavery to a large extent. All the blacks are happy being slaves. All of them seem to be simpletons not ready for emancipation. A trouble scene takes place when Scarlett is walking with Mammy in town and she sees two African Americans walking in free man's clothes and she gives them a look of disgust as if it is something abnormal. Later on, in the same scene the free slaves are lured by politicians with monetary benefits. Apart from slavery, there is another troubling scene in the movie that could have been dealt with differently. After being drunk, Rhett forcefully takes Scarlett into her arm saying she belongs to him for the night. Such an instance of marital rape is a shame to be kept in a movie that is otherwise very feminist in nature.Though this movie is not perfect, still in its imperfections, it remains a very remarkable movie to watch for any movie lover. There is hardly any moment of dullness even in its 4-hour length. It is more about the lives of people with faults in an imperfect and unjust world, trying to find any semblance of happiness. Seeing the desolation around them, it is heartening to see that they even try
I felt that "Gone with the Wind" was truly a great film. It seemed to present the times of the American Civil War in a different kind of perspective. It is such a classic for so many reason but the main reason being the epic love between Scarlett and Rhett. Most people seem to love a great story about an epic romance. The characters in this film are unforgettable and very compelling.Though this movie may not be historical accurate (which I will be researching about) the plot is still very intriguing. For its time I thought that the cinematography was excellent and added to the tone of the movie. Overall, I will never forget this Hollywood classic.
Margaret Mitchell's 1936 novel ¨Gone with the Wind¨, tells of the Southern view on Civil War from the life of southern belle Katie Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh). The movie adaptation which stars Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, and Leslie Howard, follows Scarlett's hardships as she fights for love and life during the War and Reconstruction of the South. The 3h 58min film which follows Mitchell's novel almost exactly, is considered an American classic with its film quality, plot line, and historical take on one of the most significant events in American history.However historical the film and book may be,¨Gone with the Wind¨ is intended to entertain more than to teach. With the love triangles and the strong female leads, the novel was clearly aimed to inspire young women during the Great Depression.But, there were some historical inaccuracies, such as the lack of racism and the unrealistic representation of slavery. Overall, Mitchell's southern epic is an American classic which proved itself with eight of the 1940 Academy Awards. The film is strong,captivating and inspiring, truly a masterpiece.
Some movies you always know you will watch and you must watch, simply because it is a must-see and GONE WITH THE WIND is definitely one of them, hailed as "the greatest film of all time", how can I hold it up until now? Personally I can never find a right time to watch it not just because of its nearly 4-hour running time, also subjectively I am not a fan of Clark Gable, as he perpetually reeks of bad breath (thanks to the IMDb trivia section to ruin his silver-screen charisma for me), and feel daunted by the melodramatic nature of its source novel from Margaret Mitchell, but the moment has finally arrived and I have watched it for the very first time, and it is as good as I could ever anticipated, although with an epithet like "the greatest of all time", how can any film hold out on that supreme crown unscathed? The movie is an American civil war saga entirely enters on Scarlett O'Hara (Leigh), a crafty Southern belle whose comfortable life has been ravaged by the war, oscillates between the man of her dream Ashley Wilkes (Howard), who marries Melanie (de Havilland), a girl with all the virtues of that bygone era, and her similar kind, the rich pursuer Rhett Butler (Gable), it takes her three marriages, two dead husbands, one miscarriage, a devastating loss of her young child to finally realise her deepest love for Rhett, only in the end, she is unable to mend her fence with the overdue repentance, she has been a fool to chase her ideal yet unrealistic passion for Ashley, which is merely an illusion for her to grasp in troubled times. So she is the only one to blame for all the misfortunes? Almost eighty years later, my take is that Ashley and Rhett are equally accountable for the love triangle tug-of-war, it is the battle of sexes, Ashley is too weak-minded to disclose the wrong facade of his true feelings towards Scarlett, or, even worse, he gloats in the admiration of a woman who adores him as the specimen of a perfect man, either ways, he cannot be exonerated for acquiescing Scarlett's unrequited ardour. As for Rhett, his frivolous manner firstly establishes a wrong impression that he is a philanderer, charming but never the marry kind, and when he realises his feelings for her, his devotion is markedly undermined by jealousy, which only pushes Scarlett farther away, so why on earth he can act as all the justice is on his side and desert her when she eventually wakes up from her protracted mirage? On the other hand, it is all their imperfections make them a perfect match for each other, for sure their life together will not be perfect, but they cannot stand one without each other, that's the essence of monogamy.One sure thing is that the film's epic production scope and grandiose settings signal the hallmark of Hollywood's cutting-edge creativity and capability at then, its vividly expressive cinematography alone can captivate the utter veneration from even the fiercest dissenter. It is so incredible, how come Victor Fleming can master two cinematic juggernauts (this and THE WIZARD OF OZ, George Cukor is the poor guy uncredited with both pictures) in one calendar year, 1939 is really the high tide of the world cinema, symbols the celluloid industry enters its full-grown era. An iconic performance from Vivien Leigh, her Scarlett is never a damsel-in-distress, she is a spoilt and wilful brat at first, life is too easy for her to get what she wants, but her iron- willed personality has been mould after the baptism of the civil war, nothing can pull her back into poverty, she has a cunning mind of manipulation, mostly towards men who are too upright to run away from her smug calculations, only Rhett is her match to fence back, but she saves her most precious and vulnerable part for Ashley, and involuntarily grows close with Melanie too. As a Briton, Ms. Leigh brilliantly nails the southern accent, wholeheartedly teases out Scarlett's rite-of-passage and culminates a timeless performance allows generations to idolise. The same cannot be said to Clark Garble and Leslie Howard, male characters are uniformly given less range to leave the same impression as Scarlett, or even Olivia de Havilland's Melanie, who undertakes the burden of being an immaculate saint, fully embodies all the good virtues of humanity, but must face the cruelty of destiny, it is a tremendous blessing Ms. de Havilland is still with us today, and from the bottom of my heart, I wish she will safely pass her centenary 1st July next year. One cannot review this film without mentioning Hattie McDaniel's historic Oscar win as the faithful servant Mammy, in retrospect it is exactly what one would expect from under that social current, sans the horror one might trigger from 12 YEARS OF SLAVE (2013). Despite that her view towards the war has never been explored on the screen, anyhow it is a war under the name of abolishing slavery, yet she never leave O'Hara family even in the worst times, maybe her side of story can more accurately point out the sinister nitty-gritty of war, any kind of war, no matter under what name men are fighting their lives for, it is always a go-to manoeuvre to openly sacrifice innocent lives in exchange of benefits for the few ones, and it is a crime at any rate. Sorry for the digression, all in all, the film is a worthy classic, a bit too mushy in its second half for my taste, but one cannot hold too much grudge against it for all the genius involved and the first-rate end-product it hatches, an 8 out of 10 is my verdict.


                
David O. Selznick set out to make the biggest, and best, film that money could buy. The result is one of the biggest, most-successful, most critically acclaimed American films of all time - Gone With the Wind. Based on Margaret Mitchell's tale of long-lost southern gallantry, and a way of life that would never return, Gone With the Wind is a work of fiction, set in a glorified Technicolor rendition of the old south. Now, to say that this is all historically accurate would be like saying that this is a short film. Clocking in at just under four hours long, this story can be a little hard to sit through. You really have to get caught up in the soap opera. Once you do, however, it is not hard to see why this film is as highly regarded as it is. I can't help but feel that it is a little over-rated, but considering when it was made, it is spectacular. Vivien Leigh is extraordinary as the beautiful and manipulative Scarlett O'Hara. The intensity of each emotion she expresses throughout the film is outstanding! Clark Gable is the foil to Ms. Leigh's southern belle, the dashing, devil-may-care Rhett Butler. He is often very cool, allowing room for his bottled-up emotion to erupt. He spars with Scarlett, her intensity versus his calm resolve, but both characters are quite similar in many other ways...Leslie Howard is Ashley Wilkes, the physical embodiment of a southern gentleman. His wife, Melanie Hamilton, is played with a quiet grace all her own by Olivia de Havilland. Hattie McDaniel's Academy Award winning performance as Mammy, the voice of reason amongst all of the drama, is just as astounding as any of the other performances in this epic picture. While not a perfect film, Gone With the Wind is still an extremely important one, and should not be missed by anyone interested in classic American cinema.


                
I thought that the movie was wonderfully written. The ending lines "Frankly dear, I don't give a damn," are so simple yet so powerful as these words are widely known in film history. Loved it, actually told the story of Civil War in an accurate and interesting way.


                
What a film - watched the digitally remastered version recently, after years of avoiding the film out of a misplaced preconception of it as being one of the first chick-flicks, full of saccharin sentimentality and for those who like their handkerchief wet all the way through. It really isn't like that, although have to admit my feminine side was stirred by the rich colours of the sumptuous ball-gowns in the early dancing scenes. Scarlett O'Hara is a total bitch - what a character. You want to see her fall flat on her face from early in the film onwards, but you keep watching and can't help admiring when she somehow survives and even thrives while most of those around her are suffering terribly. Clark Gable is a dude who would grace the modern film, or films of any era. Olivia De Havilland is quietly, radiantly beautiful, and even the usually boring Leslie Howard makes the rather dull role of Ashley Wilkes come to life. The digital remastering makes this 67-year-old film look like it was made in the 90s - the burning of Atlanta is vivid and impressive. The camera-work / cinematography throughout is tremendous. This film definitely deserves its reputation as a major event in the history of cinema.


                
The first time I watched this movie, I walked away not really getting what all the fuss was about. I found Scarlett to be an absolute brat with no redeeming traits. However, after time, additional viewings, and reading more about the making of this film and the pop culture phenomenon that it became, I know see there's a lot going on in this film. This film touches on race relations, the relations between men and women, the relations between women and other women, how our country views the South. I'm sure there are whole classes that focus on this one film. It's one of those films where you find something new every time you watch it. http://amandalovesmovies.com/2012/03/10/gone-with-the-wind


                
Margaret Mitchell wrote the novel upon which this movie is taken from. Despite it being a four hour film. there were many parts of the book which ended up on the cutting room. Victor Fleming is credited with directing the movie and for the most part it has become a masterpiece. The book and the movie tells the story of a headstrong young girl named Scarlett (Vivien Leigh) who's secret love; nay, obsession is with a handsome young man named Ashley (Leslie Howard) who is in love with Melenie Hamilton (Olivia de Havilland) his cousin. Driven passionately towards her single goal, Scarlett will let few obstacles stand in her way until she is married to Ashley. While she pines after her goal, Scarlett allows Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) to chase after her and even the great Civil War becomes but a backdrop to her story. With a number of talented actors and actresses like Thomas Mitchell, Butterfly McQueen and Victor Jory, the cast creates a wonderful adaption of the novel, with the result being a True Classic for any film collection. This movie is easily recommended to all audiences. ****


                
THIS IS ONE of those films that everyone seems to have seen at least once. Afterall, it is very highly rated on everybody's lists of top 100 films. (It does seem to make it on most top 10 ratings also.) The reasons for this are really quite obvious and consequently, little thought, discussion or debate. This is a pity, for putting any work of art should never e exempted from debate, re-examination and, hence, potentially a revision in how we think of it in relationship to us and to Film History.WITH RESPECT TO "GWTW" and its ranking in various categories, there would appear to be some fluctuation in its ranking. Some would be very high, whereas others wouldn't even "finish in the money." Allow us to give a rundown in certain pertinent areas. Later, those of you who are members of our "Dad Dearborn's Amaterur Arnchair Director's Guild", can come up with their favourite rankings in "kookie kategories." CATEGORY # 1. As an EPIC, GWTW is right up there as it can be. The magnitude of the entire film is colossal and each part of the whole production are done up in a grand scale. The sum of all of these equal much more than those taken individually.CATEGORY # 2. As SOAP OPERA, it again rates up there. We vote it the very undisputed all time winner in this slot. There is a Lion's share of extra curricular activity going on; although its depiction is more suppressed and implied, it's explicit, nonetheless.CATEGORY # 3. Tops as an example of Character Driven drama it is superb. Tgis is no small feat when one considers that the backdrop of the story is The American Civil War and that period following it, known in American History as the Reconstruction.CATEGORY # 4. As far as its rating as a HISTORICAL DRAMA, it would fall somewhere in the middle; not because it doesn't portray the horrors of war, but rather because for reasons of omission. In the book, there is extensive mention of the rise of and subsequent underground activities of the Ku Klux Klan. In the screen adaptation, the Klan is never mentioned, there are no hooded horsemen. That sequence where Captain Rhett Butler uses the ruse of returning a gun shot bearing Ashley Wilkes home under the pretense of their being all drunken disorderly and having been at a house of ill repute (also never mentioned by name) was the only incident mentioned. It was referred to as the raid on a shanty town near Atlanta.ONCE SOMEONE ASKED Buster Keaton which was a better picture, GONE WITH THE WIND or Mr. Keaton's own THE GENERAL (Schenck/United Artists, 1927). Buster answered without any discernible pause that it was THE GENERAL, because it was base on an actual historical incident.
Producer David O. Selznick must have known in advance that 'Gone with the Wind (1939)' would become the highest-grossing motion picture ever made. He purchased the rights to Margaret Mitchell's bestselling novel for an unprecedented $50,000, heaped a truckload of money into the project and exhausted the efforts of no less than three directors <U+0096> Victor Fleming, George Cukor, Sam Wood and possibly a few others, including William Cameron Menzies and B. Reeves Eason. Such was Selznick's passion for the project that he is typically credited as the prime architect of the film's success, a definitive exception to the auteur theory <U+0096> unless, of course, one simply considers Selznick to be the auteur. The extravagance of the production is instantly recognised in the film's elaborate costume and set design, in addition to Ernest Haller's sweeping epic cinematography. If it weren't for such lavishness, the picture might easily have vanished into the background as a stuffy, overwrought melodrama; but film-making of this magnitude leaves a considerable imprint on one's memory, and audiences have come to epitomise 'Gone with the Wind' as the embodiment of Hollywood's Golden Age.The most exciting acts of the story, which was adapted by Sidney Howard from Mitchell's novel, take place during the Civil War, when the triumphant Yankees are marching towards Atlanta, casting an ominous shadow over the ill-fated city. The grandiose scope of the photography <U+0096> the seemingly-endless sprawl of wounded soldiers, the desperate last-minute dash past the blazing munitions factory <U+0096> would go unrivalled until the late 1950s, when David Lean discovered the widescreen camera. Clarke Gable was the fans' only choice for the role of the roguish but noble Rhett Butler, but it's Scarlett O'Hara whom I find most interesting, even if I disliked her more and more as the film progressed. The 1930s was very much a decade of change in how women were portrayed in cinema, with actresses such as Mae West ('I'm No Angel (1933)') and Bette Davis ('Dark Victory (1939)') achieving success as smart, independent characters, shifting away from the notion of the "damsel in distress." Scarlett, a role eventually given to unknown Vivien Leigh, was the apex of the independent woman <U+0096> so independent, in fact, that she could never be happy in love with a man.The film has a fascinatingly-ambivalent relationship with its main protagonist, Scarlett O'Hara. She is obviously a very strong female character, and her resourcefulness and enterprise in difficult times is justly-celebrated<U+0085> however, at what price? In order to spite the Yankees for destroying her way of life, Scarlett essentially becomes those whom she holds in such contempt, surrendering any remaining traces of honour or integrity. There's no doubt that she commits damnable atrocities, often at the expense of those who love her, but the film can't quite bring itself to hate her <U+0096> the audience is left suspended in midstream, presented with a wolf in sheep's clothing, but nonetheless expected to celebrate the clothing for its practicality and expediency. Conversely, Melanie Hamilton (the lovely Olivia de Havilland) embodies kindness and selflessness, but she is inevitably doomed to a premature death, perhaps a product of her inability to adapt to this new lifestyle. In the gritty aftermath of the American Civil War, the kind and decent are condemned to an uneasy demise, whereas the crass, opportunistic Scarlett lives to greet another day.The film should have ended with Clarke Gable's immortal parting words, a fade to black as his figure disappears forever into the mist, with our selfish and unprincipled anti-heroine having finally received her comeuppance, three times filled and running over. After stopping at nothing to obtain what she wants, Scarlett ultimately finds that she has been chasing an illusion, and, in the meantime, she has pushed away all that she still holds dear in this world, the one man who potentially offered her a lifetime of happiness. But, alas, Selznick had a lot of money riding on this picture, and it certainly would not have done to disappoint the ladies in the audience. Instead, the film concludes with Scarlett's optimistic epitaph <U+0096> "after all, tomorrow is another day!" <U+0096> implying that she may eventually win Rhett back, or, at least, that she'll never stop trying. Whether I want her to succeed is an entirely different matter. Scarlett is almost the female equivalent of Tim Holt's George Amberson-Minafer, arrogant and thoroughly deserving of a comeuppance, and neither deserved a happy ending, regardless of whether or not the studio provided one.
I didn't see "Gone with the Wind" until about 3 years ago, mainly because its four hour length was rather intimidating. However, I'm glad I did, because aside from its magnificent story and cinematography, ideal cast and fine direction, "GwtW" is one of the best paced films of all time, and the four hours really soar by. Of course, in order to enjoy "GwtW", you have to put aside your politically correct sensibilities. It's sexist in parts, historically biased (the North is the enemy, plain and simple) and terribly, terribly racist (the Georgia slaves seem perfectly content with their situation). Once you overlook these un-PC details, you'll fall in love with the ageless story of Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh), a bratty Southern belle who is shaken out of her complacency when the Civil War strikes. Leigh masterfully brings Scarlett to life, and you forgive the fact that she's much too pretty for the role (Margaret Mitchell bluntly described our heroine as "not beautiful"). She seamlessly portrays Scarlett's imperfect charm and resourcefulness as well as her fiery temper and complete lack of scruples. We object to some of the things Scarlett does in her quest for survival (stealing her sister's fiancée, for instance), and yet, we'd secretly love to be that single-minded, determined, and unconcerned with basic social standards. Equally strong is the supporting cast: Hattie McDaniel won an Oscar (being the first black performer to do so) as fiercely devoted and no-nonsense Mammy, one of the few people who refuses to take any crap from Scarlett. Olivia de Havilland has the difficult task of playing the relentlessly noble and saintly Melanie, but fortunately she plays the character with genuine emotion and dignity, and never allows Melanie to become phony or saccharine. Leslie Howard, on the other hand, is extremely weak as everyone's least favorite character, the spineless and fatuous Ashley Wilkes, who, for some reason, Scarlett foolishly carries a torch for. The standout, however, is Clark Gable as sexy scoundrel Rhett Butler. A decidedly amoral iconoclast, Rhett proves himself to be Scarlett's soul mate, but, alas, she is too stubborn and blind to realize it. Gable plays the part with devil-may-care suaveness and barely contained passion, and was unfairly overlooked at Oscar time. The epic to end all epics, "GwtW" is a must for every film lover. You may love it, you may hate it... but you certainly won't forget it.


                
This movie was so anticipated that as soon as people started reading Margaret Mitchell's book, they clamored for a movie. The story of Selznick putting this together is one of legend. Sadly, the film hampered his later career as whenever Selznick was asked for advice after this movie, he's always answer by saying "when we were doing GWTW.." and then not listen to any ideas other than his own.Clark Gable is no doubt a great actor, & so perfect as Rhett Butler that you'd shudder putting anyone else in the role. The same can be said for everyone pretty much in the movie. It's simply amazing how 3 directors & teams worked at putting this thing together.At the time, folks thought it should have been 2 movies. I'd argue that it could have been. I'd end the first with Rhett kissing Scarlett by the bridge after their escape from Atlanta, on his way to join the Confederate Army. That way the second film would open in stark contrast to part 1, with a wrecked Tara & 12 Oaks. The second part would still be longer than the first, but each would stand on their own.I used to kid people that there is a common cast member between this film & the Wizard of Oz, that Victor Fleming borrowed the "horse of a different color" from the Emerald City to help Rhett & Scarlett escape from Atlanta. Regardless, it is amazing that Fleming got full credit for both movies, yet had lots of help on each one.What really is true is that 1939 is one of the greatest movie years ever for Hollywood under the old studio system. I am not sure if the in pending war had anything to do with this, but Gone With The Wind was at the head of some of the greatest work in film history, in the greatest year of film history.Paulette Goddard, Charlie Chaplins second wife, who was considered the runner up to playing Scarlett, kept busy working on The Cat & The Canary & The Women with George Cukor that year. I believe she could have brought off Scarlett, but considering the other work she was doing then & in 1940 with The Ghost Breakers & The Great Dictator, it might be for the best that she missed this film. Besides, Vivian Leigh's Scarlett is one for the ages.This film is one for the ages, & I am thankful for the restoration of the film on the latest DVD versions. This film will always be important because in reality, it is the first sound/Technicolor blockbuster film of all time.


                
1st watched 4/27/2014 -- 8 out of 10(Dir-Victor Fleming): Wonderful portrayal of a couple of people who refuse to be happy in the anti-heroes of Rhett Butler, played by Clark Gable, and Scarlett O'Hara, played by Vivian Leigh. Yes -- the movie is about the downfall of the old South, how people learn to survive thru desperate times, but mostly it's a saddening portrait of lost souls, in my opinion. The movie begins as 2 plantations in the pre-Civil war south live a life of grandeur but it is soon challenged by an inevitable war that threatens to ruin the fantasy world that they lived in -- and thus is "Gone with the Wind." Scarlett is a character that is used to getting what she wants due to her prestige or her good looks -- but she definitely can't handle things initially with they don't go her own way. She learns to manipulate and do whatever it takes to attempt to have her needs satisfied but constantly is denied her main pursuit which is trying to get her sister's fiancée to love her, and she pursues this up to almost the end of the movie. Rhett Butler is a wanderer who is really a lot like Scarlett but does eventually learn primarily because of having a daughter. This movie, based on the Margaret Mitchell novel, is mostly about character and shows us the examples of good and bad and the results of each's actions. The good souls are portrayed by Maureen O'Hara and Leslie Howard. Maureen as Scarlett's sister rarely does any wrong and Howard's character continually fight's off his temptations, but the other main characters do very little right. With so much sadness in this movie it's amazing it is so well liked. I believe the deeper meaning comes thru and people cling to that as I did while viewing this very uniquely filmed movie which does some amazing things with shadows with the cinematography overall being excellent. Despite the long length of the movie it keeps your interest, but I believe it would be a hard movie to watch more than once...I'm glad I gave it the once, and I understand why the movie was so critically acclaimed.


                
"Gone with the Wind" is a film that needs no introduction. I mean, who isn't familiar with the quote, "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn"? Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara are household names and the film itself is regarded as a timeless classic more than seventy years after its initial release.One part of the film's enduring appeal is its stars. Vivien Leigh, besides looking absolutely stunning, delivers a top-notch performance which won her an Oscar. Another well-deserved Oscar went to Hattie McDaniel in the Supporting Actress category. In winning that award she beat out Olivia de Havilland who turned in an excellent performance herself. Finally, let's not forget Clark Gable who received a Best Actor nomination for his efforts.The film's look is simply breathtaking, being absolutely drenched in sumptuous Technicolor. It's no wonder that the film won Oscars for cinematography & art direction, not to mention an honorary award to production designer William Cameron Menzies. Director Victor Fleming (with uncredited assistance from George Cukor and Sam Wood) deftly used this palette and wound up earning himself an Oscar. The Max Steiner score (which was nominated but lost to "The Wizard of Oz") was voted by the AFI as the second best film score of all time. I wouldn't rate it quite that highly but I have to admit that the main theme is exemplary and the sheer volume of music over the film's running time is impressive.The story is compelling but I can certainly imagine today's audiences finding the nearly four hour length somewhat arduous. Another factor in the enjoyment of the story will be the sensitivity to the racial matters inherent in the source material. Personally, it didn't bother me since, while the film does romanticize the old South, it didn't strike me as suggesting that it was ethically excusable. In any case, while the plot is interesting on its own, it's the characters that really bring the movie to life. Scarlett & Rhett are of course iconic as one of the definitive screen couples but the characters of Ashley Wilkes and his wife Melanie are also fascinating.Ultimately, while the unadulterated romance of "Gone With the Wind" makes it a movie that is likely to appeal more to a female audience, there's no question in my mind that, whether you are male or female, this is truly an essential film. If nothing else, watch it to find out precisely why Clark Gable doesn't give a damn.


                
