Peter Jackson has done it.  He has created an all-encompassing epic saga of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books, and after coming away from the final chapter, how does this rate not only as a film on its own, but as a part of the whole?Perfect.I've never seen a series like this.  A trilogy of movies created with such love and care and utter perfection of craft that you can't help but walk away and wonder how did Peter Jackson make this possible?  I have always loved the original "Star Wars" and "Indiana Jones" series for their epic storytelling, and just for just fitting in as a great moment in cinema. This should be, will be, remembered with as much revered fondness for generations to come.  They do not make films like these anymore.As a stand alone film, it picks up immediately where "Two Towers" ends, so brush up before seeing it.  I've read the books, and the anticipation of seeing some of the more profound moments in this film made me kind of view it with a rushed sense of perspective.  I wanted to make sure everything in this film was done "right".  And when it happened, it was.  I will need to see this again to enjoy everything on a more casual level.The cast comes through once more.  The musical score retains its beauty, elegance and power.  The special effects, notably Gollum again, are nothing less than breathtaking, and simply move the story along.  The battles are monumentally huge and exciting.  There are some liberties taken with the story, especially during the end with the homecoming, and yet, everything that needed to be covered regarding the main characters was handled. After the greatest moment of the series resolves itself, the story provided a breather.  And gives a good-bye to friends seen on screen for the last three years.  It was truly a bittersweet feeling in realizing that there will be no "Rings" movie in 2004.  I will miss this talented group of actors.As with the first two, the film is very long, but goes by without you ever truly realizing it.  This film is so much more than a simple "fantasy" epic. It's a story about strength of character, friendship, loyalty and love. And while every member of the Fellowship has their part to play, I finally understood why some critics have said this series is a story about Sam. It's his unwavering resolve that led the quest to its victory.  Sean Astin is a true credit for adding the inspirational heart to this epic.  As as far as the ending goes, they ended it the way that it had to be ended. Jackson ended this film the way it should have been.I will miss looking forward to a new "Rings" movie, but these movies provide hope that high-quality films can still be made without special effects taking over a story, bathroom humor, or a "Top 40" soundtrack.  George Lucas could learn a lot from these films about how not to alienate the fanbase.Each film has earned a "10" from me for the last two years, which for me to give is a rarity.  This one, however, is as equally deserving as its two predecessors.  The Academy had better not look over this film for "Best Picture" of 2003.  To do so would be greatly disrespectful of the craft and care that anyone involved with these films put into them.
Obviously, I'm aware of the fact that the Lord of the Rings trilogy is actually one giant movie, but since it was released in parts, that's how I'm judging them. The Return Of The King is the final chapter, and since it is the climax and resolution of the epic journey, it has a little more intensity and urgency than the previous installments.At this point everyone has come to know and love all of the characters, and the stakes have become tremendously high. Kingdoms are at their knees, and the only two characters who can save the day are getting weaker and weaker. The tension was very high in this episode and I can honestly say that out of all 3 this was the only one that had me on the edge of my seat. There were many memorable scenes (one of my favourites including the part with the giant spider)that made this the classic that it is sure to stay for decades to come.This is the longest of the series, mostly because of the ending that seems to last a while. This was a good ending, and I can see why Frodo did what he did. He, and us the audience, have gone through an incredible ordeal and I think we needed that 20 minute linger. When the battle is over, and the celebrations have ended, there is a sad emptiness felt. The films spanned over 3 years, there have been the extended cuts of course, but after that, it's all over. Peter Jackson gave us an ending that was both appropriate and admirable.These were some amazing movies and this one in particular is the best, in my opinion. As whole, the Lord Of The Rings is a phenomenon. An absolute phenomenon. Much more than just movies. They have a universal appeal and have touched the hearts and imaginations of millions. I'm one of them.Sorry if I'm being all fanboyish and kissing this movie's ass, but I really admire it. It may not be among my personal favourites but generally this seems to be the movie event of the century. There will never be another Lord of the Rings film, and that's a bit depressing.My rating: 10/10


                
As a movie watcher, I tend to become bored with the constant, overdone, overdrawn, underplayed, overdramatized performance and production quality of most Hollywood films. It's a trait that in recent years has sadly driven me away from most big budget American films. A decent idea will become mangled by the money making machine that is Hollywood, hoping to pump the most raw cash they can out of it before it drops dead in the street.We all saw the catastophre of a failure that arose from the Matrix Franchise. Such immense hype and professed genius only made the failure all the more poignant for those of us that really wanted and expected more from the franchise.That all being said, I must say that The Lord of the Rings is an amazingly powerful visual experience. Not even just a visual experience. Peter Jackson has crafted one of the finest written pieces of our era into THE quintessential epic. He supplements the brilliant storytelling of JRR Tolkien with one of the most awe-inspiring collection of films ever created.The 7 hours of film that leads up to the Return of the King is only precursor though, when you sit and watch this film. It's just plain brilliance. Everything about the film is wonderful. The manner in which Jackson has arranged the scenes, detracting slightly from the original flow of the novel really helps to keep the suspense strong in all three story branches. The Tolkien humor is intact perfectly and the gallantry and just plain coolness of these heroes is plain amazing. (Check out Legolas in the BIG battle) It's all just too much for words.If one were to gripe, and I suppose there will never be a film made that one cannot find a point at which to grip, it is painfully long running time here. I personally believe that this is the only way such a film could be made, true to the source material and completely engrossing, but I found myself more worried about the pain in my posterior than the emotional final minutes after 4 hours (including ads and previews) that I had spent in a cramped seat. As such, this will be all the better (at least for me) when it's release on DVD (can't wait for the extended...get to see the Sauroman scenes that they cut out).As a film though, this is amazing. A true lasting legacy in story telling and now cinema. Bravo Mr. Jackson.


                
I am, I admit, an unlikely convert to the religion of Tolkienism. I  have never read the books, having, I thought, been put off them for  life by the sort of obsessive freaks who read them when I was at  school. (One classmate, then aged about sixteen, told me with great  pride that he had read the whole of 'The Lord of the Rings' at least  fifty times). I also have never been a great admirer of the 'sword and  sorcery' school of fantasy writing or film-making; indeed, some of this  genre (mostly those starring the current governor of California) struck  me as being among the worst films ever made.  I was, however, persuaded to see the first in the trilogy, 'The  Fellowship of the Ring', by its overwhelmingly positive reception from  the critics, and was quickly won over by the scope of Peter Jackson's  vision. I had been expecting some twee tale of elves, gnomes and  fairies; what I experienced was a genuine epic (in the true sense of  that overused word). Ever since December 2001, I have been waiting for  parts two and three of the trilogy to be released. Neither has  disappointed me.  The story of 'The Lord of the Rings' is too complex to be told in a  review such as this. Suffice it to say that it revolves around a magic  ring which will give its possessor immense power. The power-hungry Dark  Lord Sauron (a figure who is never actually seen on screen) desires to  obtain the ring in order to dominate Middle Earth. His enemies, led by  the wizard Gandalf, are seeking to destroy the ring, which can only be  used for evil purposes, not for good. At the beginning of the final  part of the trilogy, Sauron's forces are massing for an attack on the  kingdom of Gondor.  The film relates the story of the conflict which follows, and this  leads to some of the most spectacular battle sequences I have seen,  even more impressive than those in 'The Two Towers'. Inevitably, the  film makes much use of computer-generated effects, but unlike many  films dominated by special effects, plot and character are not  neglected. The acting is uniformly good, and in some cases outstanding.  Special mentions must also go to the camera-work, which made the best  possible use of the magnificent New Zealand scenery, and to Howard  Shore's memorable musical score.  So, looking forward to the Oscar ceremony, I have no doubt that this  should be the best film and that Peter Jackson, who has amply fulfilled  the promise shown in the excellent 'Heavenly Creatures', should be best  director. Best Actor? I would find it difficult to decide between the  competing claims of Sir Ian McKellen, who brings wisdom, kindliness and  the required touch of steel to his portrait of Gandalf, and of Elijah  Wood, who plays the brave and resourceful hobbit Frodo to whom falls  the dangerous task of ensuring the ring's destruction. Best Supporting  Actor? My own nomination would be for Sean Astin, as Frodo's loyal  companion Sam, but several others might have claims, notably Viggo  Mortensen or Bernard Hill.  Is this the best movie ever made, as some of its admirers have claimed?  Possibly not- that is, after all, a very large claim to make. I have no  doubt, however, that the trilogy as a whole is the first great  cinematic masterpiece of the twenty-first century. It has certainly  inspired me to start reading Tolkien's original novels. 10/10.
I admit it, I love all three Lord of the Rings films. People may say Return of the King is the best of the trilogy, some may say it is the worst. I personally think Two Towers is the best for its scope and better exploration of some of the characters, but while it is still great Return of the King is better than Fellowship of the Ring.My only slight disappointment is the ending, it does feel overlong and bloated for me, almost as if there was more than one ending filmed. That said, what does make the ending at least watchable for me is the way it is shot, the marvellous score and the performance of Gollum.Despite this minor discrepancy, Return of the King is extremely good and in my view one of the better Best Picture winners last decade. Peter Jackson's direction is very impressive here, and the scope is massive and just dazzling to watch. All three films of the trilogy are very well made, but Return of the King defines the term epic. The cinematography is mind-blowing, the scenery is superb, the costumes and make-up are well tailored, the effects are superb and don't distract too much and the lighting is authentic.The score is phenomenal. Fellowship of the Ring had some ethereal, rousing, haunting and charming themes, whereas Two Towers was somewhat darker and more complex. Return of the King merges these together and the result is a perfect mixture of charm, darkness, etherality and complexity. The story is compelling with themes of friendship, strength and loyalty, the screenplay is well-written and literate and while the film is very long the three hours or so fly by seamlessly. The characters are engaging, Aragorn is even more interesting here than he is in the previous films while Gollum continues to steal every scene he appears in.The acting is very good. Orlando Bloom(who I can find dashing yet uncharismatic and bland) and John Rhys-Davies are given less to do but do carry their parts very well, and Elijah Wood is likable enough. Sean Astin captures Sam perfectly and provides the heart of the picture, and Viggo Mortenssen is at his charismatic best here. Ian McKellen is perfectly cast, while the design of Gollum is still superb and Andy Serkis is equally phenomenal. I was slightly disappointed by the lack of any Sarauman, but I was more than I was satisfied with the final result.All in all, an outstanding entry to a great trilogy. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Just as Peter Jackson felt that LOTR had to be made as one large, three-part, cinematic piece, I decided to write my IMDb review of all three movies as a single, multi-part essay. Click on my screen-name and hit "Chronological" to view my reviews of the Fellowship and Two Towers. I make no guarantees about the quality and consistence of my review, but I do guarantee that these three films offer very high and very consistent quality from beginning to end. The acting, cinematography, art, and direction simply can not be beat.Which of the three movies is my favorite varies with my mood <U+0096> and the same holds true for Tolkien's books. When I am immersed in the story, ROTK is my favorite. When I simply want to have fun with the whole experience, I love Fellowship. And when I want something intense, evocative and thoughtful, I go for the Two Towers.Frodo, Sam and Golem are on their way to Mount Doom and their bodies, nerves, and relationships have borne the greatest burden on middle earth. The rest of the fellowship is rallying to the defense of Minas Tirith, and preparing for even more deadly battles to come.The heroism and romance are incredibly moving - when was the last time you saw an entire audience leaving a theater after a fantasy movie rubbing their eyes? The sets are breathtaking - even moreso than in the previous two films.The casting and acting are superb.The film delivers at every level and is the jewel in the trilogy's well-earned crown.Return of the King offers a resolution of all of the major story arcs in LOTR. As with the classic Tolkien trilogy, however, you may be able to predict some of what will occur, but never all of it and you'll never guess how you will get there. The same fatalistic and paradoxically unpredictable feeling of Tolkien's grand plots is present throughout ROTK especially. The major theme in ROTK, however, is the varied ways and means of heroism <U+0096> both intentional and unintended, and Tolkien's examination of sacrifice and heroism is as inspiring as it is subtle. Amazingly, it all comes through in the films.Even more than the previous two films, Jackson and his writers took liberties with the story-line. Like the others, however, this serves the film better than simple adaptation from one medium to another. By reordering some of the chronology and adding scenes and plot devices which are consistent with Tolkien's world and characterizations, the film-makers actually do a better job of preserving the concepts and themes of the story than they could have with a pure adaptation. The lengthy epilogue in Tolkien's book is greatly reduced, reordered, and somewhat changed in order to work in the film. Some parts actually appear very early in ROTK. And some aspects of Tolkien's epilogue are disclosed in the Two Towers, though not directly depicted. But all of the really important components of the epilogue are, at least strongly implied if not well illustrated in ROTK.


                
This is the final movie in the Lord of the Rings trilogy, and certainly doesn't disappoint like some other trilogies *coughMatrixcough*. The three films had their principal shooting all done at the same time, which lowers their overall costs and keeps a good sense of continuity for the films.The special effects, first of all, are excellent. While there's a few little things (a reversed shot with smoke flowing back into chimneys and occasional lighting that's a bit off), by and large they're excellent. The most impressive thing about them is the sheer scale. This isn't a small or simple scene; it often includes thousands of digital characters combined with filmed actors and action, sweeping landscapes, and dozens of things happening at once. This is a good reason to see it in theatres; even on DVD, there's little details that you can only catch when it's on a massive screen.The filming is good, although there are a few evidences of digital smoothing and cutting that can nag at the mind and eyes of a picky movie-goer. There are a few interesting shots, but most are fairly plain and straight on, getting the point across without being dazzling. New Zealand's landscapes provide a great backdrop for everything going on, and there really are some beautiful places, especially up in the mountains. I hear land prices are quite good, what with the orcs warring and everything, so you may want to look into real estate purchases now.Sound has been said to make 75% of the emotional impact of any production. This is a loud 75%. All the sound effects are very well pulled off, sound appropriate, and are generally loud. The Nazgul screeching was bordering on painful, but in a good way. Most everything has a distinct sound, and it's rare that anything feels out of place. In some of the battles, the roof of the theatre was shaking. The soundtrack fits the movie well, and Howard Shore has done an excellent job, as with the last two films in the series.Performances all around were good, but Sean Astin as Sam and Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn really dominated the film. They performed their roles perfectly, and came away giving a good picture of the characters. Elijah Wood seemed to be stuck with the same terrified expression on his face through most of the movie, almost Max Payne-style, and it grew old quickly. Ian McKellen, the ever-wise white wizard, had a fair bit of dialogue which he delivered well; my only complaint is he had too much in the way of wistful sayings leading to scene changes. Orlando Bloom, favorite of young teenage girls everywhere, had a few more action sequences (which got cheers from the aforementioned girls) which were quite well pulled off, but his acting wasn't much tested by this film. John Rhys-Davies continued with Gimli's joking performance; he's really too amusing to take seriously, but does a good job at it.For the old Tolkien fans, this movie stays quite close to the book, although they did have to omit some portions, most notably the taking and retaking of the Shire and the time spent in the Halls of Healing in Minas Tirith. Hopefully some of this will show up in the Extended Edition on DVD. Shelob's attack was left until this film, and much of the time spent in Mordor was shortened for the sake of pacing, and it was a good decision.My favorite scene would have to be the battle at Minas Tirith. The incredible scope of the battle, with the special effects, sounds, and many close-ups of pieces of the action, make for an exciting scene. The visual effects especially are stunning; the 'oliphaunts' play a big part in the action, and they're entirely created by computer. There's also some wide shots with tens of thousands of digital characters marching on the field of battle, and even the individual actions have the masses warring as a backdrop. It's worth your movie-going dollar simply to watch this on a large screen. It was also intermingled with some smaller events inside Minas Tirith, so it's not pure battle for the whole of the scene, and it keeps it from being dreary or heavy-handed.Overall, this is a movie well worth watching, and even paying to see in a theatre. I'd recommend against bringing small children, as there are some scary images, and they'd also be a distraction during the final movie in what will probably remain the series of the decade. Not a particularly great date movie, either...this is a real, bring-your-friends big movie. Five out of five decapitated orcs (and trust me, there were a lot more than that).


                
All the threads of Tolkien's magnum opus come together in the most elegant of fashions in the final part of Peter Jackson's adaptation. Humanity makes a last stand at Minas Tirith, the Hobbits travel through Mordor, our heroes try to by time for Frodo to complete his mission and the Evil Sauron gets tired of the whole game and lashes out with all his might and fury."Return of the King" is 4 hours of payoff, a third act in a gigantic epic rather than a mere film of its own. As such it is intensely dramatic and dynamic and you can very much sense that though peter Jackson spared no effort on the previous episodes, this is clearly his favorite. the film floats by at a thunderous pace, taking us through unforgettable moments such as the battle of Minas Tirith itself, a marvel of seamless animation and epic film-making, it demands to be seen, as it has too many jaw-dropping moments to choose from. The quieter character moments keep gaining in potency and the full weight of the stakes and their heartbreaking consequences is never in doubt.The cast of these films have played their parts to perfection and again Jackson deserves overall credit for choosing actors that so perfectly match Tlolkien's creations: Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee are their own usually excellent selves, and the hobbits remain endearing, but of all the uniformly great cast, the true standouts are Viggo Mortensen and David Wenham as the tragic Faramir, whose relationship with his brutish father is the most traumatic of the film. Jackson pushes them even further by having them sing at a few key moments (a practice employed to powerful effect by Tolkien in the books), a daring undertaking that works wonders. And though he may offer one ending too many, he does have the decency to show off each surviving character with the appropriate screen time and respect.Now that the trilogy is complete, it can be viewed as one big film, as it should be. After 8 years, Jackson has done the impossible: he has taken Tolkien's huge legend and made films that stand on their own and have revolutionized film-making, setting the new benchmark for cinematic epics. Changes have been made to Tolkien's source novels, but they make for better, more fluid films, more faithful in spirit to Tolkien's myth than anyone had the right to hope for.A masterpiece, whether as part of a bigger whole or on its own. Well deserving of all the high praise thrown at it, and then some...


                
The Lord of the Rings - The Return of the King is by far the most moving, inspirational and epic of the three parts in Peter Jackson's take on Tolkien's fantasy masterpiece. After proving that this trilogy can carry the weight of a truly enormous body of text with The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers, Jackson has shown that nothing is impossible anymore when being brought to film, and that fantasy can be surreal, but grounded to reality.I saw this film at 8:00 PM, and missed school the following day -- exactly similar to The Two Towers when it was released. After seeing The Return of the King I was speechless. Never before had a film made such an impact on me as this conclusion did, and now with it completed, The Lord of the Rings is truly the best of the best.Jackson has treated this trilogy as one film, following to Tolkien's linear time-line, and not the way the books were written, which makes this a film that flows and never loses track of pacing. The dialogue is emotional, be it the speech between Gandalf and Pippin before the gates of Minas Tirith, or inspirational, such as the rousing deliveries by Theoden and Aragorn. The vast emotion makes this a film for the ages. Following our heroes adventure since film one, we have grown compassion for each and everyone of them. Sam's devotion to Frodo is something that can inspire, and the eu-catastrophe is fully used here once again, because just as it seems that all hope has been lost, it shines through the void and victory is achieved. If one were to fear that the ending would feel like there was no closure, then have none, because The Return of the King has a 20-minute denouement that goes as far as four-years into the future, and the ending on the shores of the Grey Havens brought me to tears.The special effects are nothing short of amazing. The blend of miniatures/bigatures and CGI is believable beyond comprehension, and the addition of New Zealand locales adds something beyond some peoples' wildest dreams. The level of detail on Minas Tirith is something no one has ever seen before, the massive armies sunder speakers as war erupts, and we see the Mumakil and the Fell Beasts in full fruition, as hinted in The Two Towers. What could've seem fatal, as cinematic history has shown before, is the introduction of Shelob the spider. The special effects team has created the most memorable spider in film history. She terrifies and drops jaws at the realism of such a beast.The tension for the siege on Minas Tirith is so highly anticipated, that the filmmakers have completely satisfied every expectation to how epic it could've been. The scope is just extraordinary. The battle of the Pelennor Fields is so huge in the book, yet it has been fully realized in Jackson's film. The final stand at the Black Gate is so emotional involving, it's hard to think that any action could top what was previously seen, but it is done so with vision beyond imagination.Howard Shore's music is also some of the most impressive and beautiful orchestration ever done for film. Besting its predecessors, The Return of the King's score is pure genius. From the new theme for Gondor, to the moving Into the West, Shore's composition sweeps and soars. Now that each of the three films' complete recordings have been released, I strongly urge a fan of the music to buy them, because they really are the best of the best.The acting even surpasses the first two, having the evolution of each character add to the dramatic effect, be it the loss of a life, or the triumph over evil. Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn is like a Godsend. Sean Astin steals nearly every scene he is in as Sam, making us hope he helps Frodo get rid of the Ring of Power. Once again, Andy Serkis provides a stirring and great performance as Smeagol/Gollum. The full weight of the Ring is realized in this film, and Elijah Wood makes us see his struggle like the Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers only hinted upon.Overall, The Lord of the Rings - The Return of the King is remarkable. The battles are amazing, never making the film drag, and always heightening the tension. From the acting to the sound editing, this film delivers in what it promises, and that is the supreme motion picture of our lifetime, and many more years to come.
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is, hands down, among the most spectacular and magnificent films of all time.A short run-down of the plot: After the battle of Helm's Deep and Saruman's imprisonment in his tower Orthanc, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli and Gandalf re-group with Merry and Pippin in Isengard. There they learn that the army of Sauron is planning a full-scale attack on the largest city of men - Minas Tirith in Gondor. Gandalf and Pippin ride to Minas Tirith to warn Denethor, the steward of Gondor, of the threat from Mordor. Defenses are built up as the army of Sauron marches across the Pelennor Fields towards Minas Tirith. A distress call is sent to Rohan, still recovering from Helm's Deep. Rohan manage to muster a large army, and set out for Minas Tirith, but the battle has already begun. In the meantime, we continue with Sam and Frodo on their quest to destroy the One Ring.A major achievement of this epic film is the character development. Gollum becomes more cunning and sneaky than ever, and manages to turn Frodo against Sam, who is desperately trying his best to get his old Frodo back. Merry and Pippin are no longer just a source of comic relief, both of them prove themselves worthy as they are split up for the final battle. We learn about the true bravery and potential of hobbits as Merry helps cut down the Witch King. Eowyn also proves herself in the film, as she defies her uncle and sets out to Pelennor fields with the other Rohirrim, and eventually destroys the Witch King, and makes a very feminist remark while doing so. We learn to loathe Denethor because of his hatred of his last remaining son, Faramir, who really hasn't done anything wrong. The peak of our hatred for Denethor is reached in the scene where he tells Faramir that he would have preferred it if he had died instead of Boromir, his brother. And then, right after that, Denethor sends Faramir into certain suicide, and Faramir immediately accepts the mission he is appointed to, in a final attempt to please his father. And of course, Aragorn learns to accept his fate as the true king of men.In fact, the character development is so powerful that we actually participate in the character's feelings. We FEEL Frodo's exhaustion and agony as he literally drags himself across Mordor. We feel Sam's pain as Frodo is turned against him. And, just briefly, we participate in Gollum's triumph as he finally gets the One Ring. We are actually happy for Gollum and just for a brief moment, Frodo becomes the bad guy as he tries to take the ring back. All in all, Return of the King contains the most moving, emotional and touching scenes in the entire trilogy, and some of the best acting, especially from Sean Astin (Sam), Elijah Wood (Frodo), Ian McKellen (Gandalf), John Noble (Denethor, he is very successful in adding depth to his character), Miranda Otto (Eowyn), and of course, Andy Serkis (Smeagol, and top-notch at it, just like in The Two Towers).The battle of Pelennor fields may be THE most spectacular and epic sequence in film history. Unlike Helm's Deep, Pelennor Fields shows the true cleverness of Sauron's army. Orcs are not the only participants; trolls are heavily used in the battle, as warriors and as beasts of burden. The nazgul are very significant in the battle, and while the Witch King didn't actually lead the battle as he did in the book, the nine ringwraiths and their fell beasts still play a key part and do lots of damage in the battle. We see just how powerful the nazgul really are. And of course, the men from the south and their massive oliphaunts play a significant part. While in Helm's Deep we felt triumphant, in Pelennor fields we only feel the triumph briefly, as the Rohirrim make their charge into the horde of orcs and trolls. The triumph in Pelennor Fields almost immediately dissolves, as the Rohirrim are trampled down by the oliphaunts. The battle is won, but we're not happy, we're grieved for all the destruction, all the losses. It's a totally different feeling than Helm's Deep, and makes this battle all the more superior.Return of the King features the most magnificent visuals in the entire trilogy. Whether they are of Minas Tirith, Pelennor Fields and Osgiliath, Mordor and the slopes of Mt. Doom or the climb to Shelob's cave near Minas Morgul, Peter Jackson really shows us the true impact of these landscapes and images.Many people may complain about the changes in the movie, especially the significant cut of Saruman from the end, but you must realize that if they would have featured the whole part with Saruman the movie would have continued another hour and a half. Don't fret; Peter Jackson said the scenes will all appear in the extended version of the film. The ending is long enough as it is, and the film continues at least another half an hour after the Ring is no more. The hobbits return to the shire, and Sam marries Rosie. Aragorn meets his fate and is crowned king, and is finally reunited with Arwen. And of course, one of the most moving scenes in the movie, in which Frodo gets on the last ship to the Undying lands with Bilbo, Gandalf, and the last of the elves (Galadriel and Elrond to name a few), and must part with his three hobbit friends for good.All in all, The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is one the most fine-tuned, cinematically perfect films ever made, it's absolutely flawless in every aspect. The Lord of the Rings trilogy as a whole is a spectacular achievement in film making history, and all three movies are together, without a doubt, the greatest epic ever made.
Overall, I am disappointed, though not surprised, by the negative criticism of this movie. Indeed, this criticism exceeds the offering of alternative viewpoints and the expression of other cinematic possibilities and sinks into the realm of bitter invective. So many armchair critics are currently competing with avid Tolkien, Jackson, and movie fans alike in order to espouse the "true" value of Peter Jackson's landmark movie trilogy. For it is a landmark event in cinema history based on its sheer size and careful attention, praise and evisceration apart. The issue that greatly irritates me and pushes me to write is that many of the negative reviewers on this website have such limited room in their imagination that they cannot conceive of a world outside their own narrow framework. I find that a most sad reality in light of the legacy of Tolkien, Jackson, and all good story-tellers -- to create, to engender, and to nourish the growth of any and all imaginative ventures.The problem with imagination is that it is an individual event, a unique subjective experience that a single person experiences completely alone. Those who enter into the realm of Art, Fiction, Fantasy, and any degree of Story-telling agree (willingly or no) to take that personal act of creation and primal nature and share it with the community of human beings, each of whom has his or her own imaginative context. It is a bold act of sacrifice, self-confidence, and faith (spiritual, one could argue) to thrust the contents of one's subjective reality into (to borrow from Douglas Adams) the Whole Sort of General Mish Mash. People who do so deserve respect for the mere creative act, the ability to foist forward what they believe is true. From Homer to Bill O'Reilly, this concept of personal creation, what Tolkien called Sub-Creation, is the essence of modern human existence, and we owe it to each other to respect the right to creation history has granted us.Therefore, in defense of both Tolkien (whom some on this website have maligned) and Jackson (whom many have maligned), I forward that both are imaginative creators in their own right, with different and completely acceptable offerings to the world. Those who cannot tolerate either for "mediocre writing" or "atrocious film-making" should offer forth their literary or cinematic offspring instead of cunningly-worded diatribes of their deep dissatisfaction with all that does not conform to their inner reality. Then, we few who believe in and trust the creative ability of all will be able to see how those critical inner realities (so authoritative in exposition) match up with the rest of our perceptions.Tolkien was an enormously talented, intelligent, and imaginative man, one whose stories, though unpolished by experience, still managed to attract a worldwide audience and devoted following with their luster. Jackson's movies took the sheen and inherent value of Tolkien's stories and placed it in a visual medium, a place where fans of LOTR could witness and love the events and people they held so dear. Of course Tolkien's story is imperfect; of course Jackson's movies aren't as full as we wish them to be. Their great successes are that they still manage to capture our imagination, to move us, to take genuine truth and isolate it in a world outside our ken, a place where we see ourselves better against a foreign backdrop. Both have created and done so masterfully, with the intuitive grasp that is termed "genius." Tolkien would have had much at issue with Jackson's movies, where plot incongruities, lapsed character development, and visual splendor overshadow the philological and melancholic overtones of his book. Jackson admits he finds much at issue with Tolkien's book, including a lack of clear character motivation, extended and largely extraneous dialog, and heightened language not suited for Hollywood. But Tolkien, despite his perfectionist griping and loathing for any film version of his book, would respect Jackson for continuing the act of creation, for taking his modern-day mythology and spreading it to as many people as possible. Jackson has taken the beauty, the scope, the complexity, the richness, and the loss that permeate Middle-Earth and shared those leitmotifs with the world. Tolkien's characteristic "niggling" would have prevented any such attempt (even Jackson's), but in the end, his heritage lives on in beautifully conceived and executed films.I do not ask others to stifle their opinions of this movie or any other. Indeed, continue to express the direst and bleakest of your frustrations with the creative power of others, as it may lead you to actually do some creation yourself. Remember though, that the great evils of history, from Satan to Hitler to Sauron, are never capable of creation -- only twisting, mutilating, mocking, deforming, and misapplying. Be open to the vision of others and what they have to offer, especially when that offering comes in the virtuosic shape of Tolkien's writing or Jackon's movies. Look for the True in the Secondary and how it manifests itself everywhere once you recognize it.This movie receives a 10 from me because it not only maintains incredible faithfulness to Tolkien's themes (and yes, events may deviate in completely separate and dissimilar media) but it asks intelligent viewers to look deeper into the circumstances of its own creation and beauty. From the loyalty of Sam and the weight of epic history to the sacrifice of Arwen and the never-completely-won nature of war, Jackson's movies capture the essence and heart of Tolkien's tale, with the benefit of the director's own imaginative fruit as well. The world owes Mr. Jackson its gratitude, as he has created another world and another reality that so many can, do, and will cherish.One final word: There are few who would not rather be wandering in a far green country rather than dwelling in their own Circles of the World.


                
It takes a miracle for me to go the cinema since smoking is banned in cinema chains but Peter Jackson is a miracle worker . How else would he be able to make me forget my filthy and disgusting nicotine addiction ? He made me forget all about cigarettes for three hours with THE TWO TOWERS and I knew that with RETURN OF THE KING he could make me forget all about ciggies for a record breaking three and a half hours . I booked my ticket for Rothesay winter gardens cinema and sat down to be enthralled!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!I do conclude there are some people in the world who can`t see what the fuss is about with the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy . My parents seem slightly puzzled that their cynical critical son loves LOTR . It`s simply explained , these epic movies aren`t a childish fantasy , they`re like David Lean filming a Shakespeare play , but I do take onboard the criticism that the story structure of the movies can be irritating . FELLOWSHIP is very stop-start while the action intercutting in TTT can be annoying but ROTK has probably the best pace and structure of the three . ROTK starts with a sequence showing Smeagol murdering his friend in order to get the ring . This gives some needed backstory to Gollum . It also sets up its stall that it`s not a family film never mind a " childish fantasy " . In fact I predict that many of the children in Rothesay cinema will be having nightmares tonight due to the scenes with that horrible big spider , it made my skin crawl and the woman sitting next to me was gasping out loud as it prepared to cocoon poor Frodo , you should have seen the Q for the toilet after that scene which tells you how convincing the FX are in this movie , nothing appears CGI : Gollum isn`t computer generated he`s a living being and Peter Jackson doesn`t use camera trickery for fight scenes he uses million upon millions of extras . He is David Lean reincarnated . No he is David Lean AND Will Shakespeare reincarnated , look at the way the cast act their parts , it`s like they`re appearing in the greatest play of the bard . Their performances are superlativeThere are some flaws . I did mention the script gives background to Smeagol but the script - Like the other films in the trilogy - is somewhat uneven . John Noble`s character Denethor seems somewhat underwritten and I wasn`t sure what his motivation was . Also as everyone else has mentioned the false endings are very irritating . When Aragorn is crowned king and the screen faded to black the audience reached for their Jackets and bags then we`re shown another scene lasting several minutes which faded to a blaze of music. Everyone reached for their bags and jackets , then another scene which... It would have been better to have seen Aragorn crowned King and then seen Frodo sailing into the distance but I guess after the screenwriters have irritated us with the abrupt endings of the first two movies it`s somewhat traditional to irritate with the end of the trilogy . These faults I can forgive but there is an unforgivable cop out of having an army of the undead charging to save the race of men from the Orc army at the end . It didn`t ruin the movie for me but it just seems so lazy and contrived which stopped me from thinking it was the best movie in the trilogy , it`s not , FELLOWSHIP is . But still this is a masterpiece of cinema which like cigarettes left me breathless and satisfied and hopefully we`ll see it sweep the Oscar ceremony at lastAs for the Oscars themselves I`m puzzled about a couple of things . Howard Shore`s score is beautiful and haunting but it`s far from original with much of the music in ROTK re-used from FELLOWSHIP ( The Gondor theme ) and TTT ( The Celtic music ) while the omissions are even more surprising . No nominations for any of the actors ! I know that all the great performances would cancel each other out but it`s shameful Andy Serkis wasn`t nominated as best supporting actor . Can anyone name a more unlikable baddie than Gollum in recent cinema ? Me neither and no nomination for cinematography ! I`ve no idea how John Lesnie`s camera was able to keep up with the action and he deserved at least a nomination so maybe we`ll see the third instalment robbed on Oscar night like FELLOWSHIP was . Even if it is that doesn`t stop me and millions of other film fans from recognising the genuis of Peter Jackson . I bow to you Sir
"The Lord of the Rings: Return of the King" is the third and final installment of Peter Jackson's adaptations of Tolkien's famous fantasy novels. Once again the makers of the film have taken care with the costumes, sets, scenery, models, CGI effects and Howard Shore's epic score to create a convincing depiction of Middle Earth.Once again the cast delivers expert performances. John Noble joins the cast as Denethor and effectively makes him into a despicable and repugnant character. Three of the performances in the film were particularly memorable for me. Bernard Hill once again brings authority to the role of King Theoden and his inspiring presence on the battlefield left me in awe. Miranda Otto brings strength to the role of Eowyn and makes the character's best moments unforgettable. Ian McKellen once again brought his commanding presence as Gandalf to bear as he tried desperately to hold everything together.This film follows the familiar format of the first two films in taking Tolkien's work and streamlining it to create a well-paced film. The famous battle at Minas Tirith is on an unprecedented scale and the best fantasy battle ever filmed. As with the first two films, I found the added scenes for the extended addition interesting, but they didn't add much above and beyond the already great theatre cut.


                
What a breathtaking end to an epic saga that will go down in cinematic history as the best trilogy that was ever created (if it hasn't already). The culmination of 10 years' work and the final chapter of Peter Jackson fantasy adventure film series, The Return of The King fires on all cylinders, as we follow our favorite middle earth characters in a larger- than-life journey that will lead to the final confrontation between the forces of good and evil. Whereas in FOTR and The Two Towers when we were still learning about our characters and their surroundings, everything about the ring's importance and power is unleashed in this third installment and to great effect.With the exception of maybe only The Godfather Trilogy, the LOTR film series is indisputably the greatest in film history (it was only the second sequel to nab a Best Picture Oscar, the only other being -you guessed it- The Godfather Part II). And what more can actually be said? The breathtaking visuals, the outstanding character development, the epic musical score, gorgeous set designs, the plethora of visually striking creatures - there's never been anything quite like this on screen before. And there never will be again! Never has a film balanced electrifying action and substantial character development so deftly while also staying true to the original source material. It will never cease to amaze me how this was all brought to life. Through this trilogy, Jackson presents us with an unprecedented odyssey of friendship, loyalty, bravery, self-realization and so many other things. In the beginning, we are introduced to a fellowship of 9 individuals who are given the seemingly impossible task of taking the one ring to the blood-curdling world of Mordor with the goal of destroying it and saving middle earth in the process. Over the course of 3 films, our characters learn so much about themselves, about what it means to fight for what you believe in and for something bigger than then yourselves. These themes, and the scale they're presented on, completely transcend the idea of a movie and almost operate on a more biblical and spiritual fashion. And perhaps no film franchise has given us so many memorable characters as LOTR: Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimil, Boromir, Gandalf, Elrond, Galadriel, Arwen, Eowyn and countless more. And that's JUST the good guys. We are also given such memorable villains as Gollum, Sauron and Saruman, in addition to the plethora of evil Orcs, Goblins, Demons, Dragons and other horrifying beings. If you think this sounds like a lot, nothing can prepare you for the sheer scope and vast vision of Jackson and his team. The franchise also has some of the most powerful cinematic moments I can recall from the last 40 years (Gandalf yelling "You Shall Not Pass!", The Battle of Helms Deep, Sam carrying Frodo up Mount Doom). Iconic doesn't do this franchise justice; it's legendary and it's immortal. It's Lord of the F****** Rings!Above all, Jackson stays true to the major themes and philosophies from the original source material while showcasing his extraordinary cinematic talent and vision. ROTK defines what a "fantasy" epic should be and becomes so much more in the process; it's a resonant coming-of-age story and a masterpiece of storytelling and filmmaking. There just aren't enough superlatives for this film. And for this trilogy. And when you do finish it all for the first time, you'll be left sitting there with a feeling of emptiness for having left this magical world but a satisfaction in realizing you just witnessed one of the all-time greatest films and trilogies ever put to celluloid. What a crowning achievement by every single person involved.


                
The Return of the King was possibly the most-anticipated film ever, the previous two installments of The Lord of the Rings having instantly ingrained themselves on the movie going public's consciousness. Personally, I held little fear that the film would fall victim to the dreaded cinematic condition of sequelitis and fail to live up to expectation. But only the actual release of the movie an agonising year after The Two Towers would remove this uncertainty, and fulfill my desire to see on the big screen the end of one of the great stories. As with The Fellowship of the Ring, I need not have concerned myself. As a spectacle, The Return of the King is by far the most impressive of Peter Jackson's landmark trilogy. Unfortunately, like TTT, it has flaws, but fortunately these are not fatal.Jackson's great triumph is that even with all its CGI wonders, his film does not neglect its characters, in particular the relationships between Gandalf and Pippin, Eowyn and Theoden, and of course Frodo and Sam. Each resonates in the memory. Even in the midst of battle Jackson focuses on the people into which he has invested so much time and care. It's a shame Hollywood in general is blind to the possibility of overwhelming spectacle co-existing with the human element of cinema. The intercutting between the battle in front of the Black Gate and the desperate struggles at the Crack of Doom is just stunning, with the expressions on the faces of the each of the Fellowship members underlining what a tour-de-force of storytelling this movie is. The relationship of Frodo and Sam becomes the centrepiece of the movie more and more as it goes on. This is the way it should be, because their parting at the Grey Havens is the last act of the story. Jackson shows that his sensitivity to Tolkien is still there, in spite of the harsh verdicts of many who disapprove of the changes from book to film. Ironically, the clamour of "too many endings" by those who hadn't read the book demonstrates why the earlier changes had to be made.A lot of story had to go into this movie, but this is necessary for the following reasons. In TTT there is a convenient pause in the story between Helm's Deep and the Isengard reunion. After Pippin looks into the Palantir the momentum is unbroken in the FotR movie until the end of the great battle inside and outside Minas Tirith. Thus, a great deal of TTT book narrative was still to be shown because the movie of TTT left out many of the last chapters. There was no place for the Voice of Saruman chapter at the end of TTT, because in cinematic terms it would have been too anticlimactic, but more about that later. Also, Jackson really has no option but to put Frodo's and Sam's fights with Shelob and the battles for Gondor at the same stage of the movie. This makes so much more sense than separating them and having to handle a buildup in tension, then the Shelob fight, then another tension buildup before the great battle for Gondor. The structure of the movie would have been too cumbersome. Anyway, when Tolkien's chronology in the appendices is read, you realise both events happen at nearly the same time.The worst consequence of the packing of so much narrative into this movie is the underwritten character of Denethor. He is totally unsympathetic, which is a mistake, because in the book he is much more interesting. Jackson should have found a way to include Denethor's struggle with Sauron through the Palantir, because this is the real reason for Denethor's madness. In this film the cause is his grief over Boromir's death, which also partly explains his treatment of Faramir, but this sells the character of Denethor short. Not only that, but also the death of Denethor is perhaps Jackson's worst error of judgement. The fiery 100 yard dash and plunge over the edge is just ridiculous.There is nothing "wrong" with the arrival of the Army of the Dead to win the battle, but its just not as stirring as the end of Helm's Deep battle. The high point of RotK's battles is the charge of the Rohirrim and their fight against the Mumakil (ie giant elephants), which tends to make the actual of end of the battle a let down. Wisely, Jackson does not focus on the green tide washing over Sauron's hordes, instead he cuts back to Miranda Otto's wonderfully passionate portrayal of Eowyn killing the Witch-King, then throws in the now-famous single-handed bringing down of a mumakil by who else? Legolas, of course.No discussion of this movie should neglect the Extended Edition DVD. Possibly the greatest flaw in the theatrical version of RotK is the omission of the Voice of Saruman scene, and insertion of a silly, misleading line of Gandalf that Saruman had lost his power. But unfortunately, as with the omission of the sons of Denethor scene at Osgiliath in TTT, the scene breaks the flow of the movie too much, and given the three hour plus running time, this decision was understandable. As with TTT, Jackson is given a get out of jail card by the EE, on which Saruman's demise can be seen for the first time. I am sorry to say that I was not as generally impressed by the RotK EE as I was by the EEs of FotR and TTT. Jackson is too self-indulgent with Gimli's character. In the theatrical version of RotK I didn't mind these gags, but in the Paths of the Dead scene in particular I found that Gimli's antics spoiled the mood of horror and dread that should have been maintained. All of that being said, the EE still deserves the highest recommendation. It adds many important details, such as Eowyn and Faramir falling in love. The LotR movie experience is incomplete without it.
I've just re-watched The Lord of the Rings trilogy for the 1000th time tonight... nearly 15 years since the Fellowship of the Rings was released... I still haven't seen a movie that's better, nor close, to any of these three films. The casting is perfection as well as the incredible acting by everyone in the movie. I can still watch these movies back to back and not get bored. They are a light to this world and wouldn't be the same without them.I miss the good old LOTR's days. The best movies ever created. The Return of the King was the best way to end a thrilling journey through middle earth!


                
Weary beyond words, Hobbit companions Frodo and Sam continue their journey to destroy the One Ring, with the sinister Gollum still their guide. The film opens interestingly with Gollum's origin story, capturing his descent into depravity and madness, finding the ring in much the same manner in which he lost it. The ring has the power to affect it's bearer, and not for good.With the battle of Helm's Deep over and Saruman's power gone, the attention focuses on the capital of Gondor, Minas Tirith. There the race of men must make a last stand before the growing might of an unseen enemy, while those visible are more of a threat than ever. "The Return of the King" in it's way is as much Aragorn's story as it is Frodo's; a reluctant noble struggling to find his destiny who comes to accept and eventually embrace it under the tutelage of the White Wizard Gandalf. The subtle subtext of Aragorn's relationship with Lady Arwen of the Elven realm leads to his triumph with no illusions for Eowyn, establishing a noble grace and dignity for the new King.Upon my second viewing of the entire trilogy, I was surprised at how my attention was continually drawn to the character of Samwise Gamgee, Frodo's faithful companion. This in large part to the excellent portrayal by Sean Astin, showing a range of emotions throughout the film that proffered him as the most well developed character of the story. He's a loyal friend through thick and thin, understanding clearly that by the journey's near end, Frodo's mind may no longer be his own.Gimli is another character to keep a close eye on for the understated humor John Rhys-Davies brings to the story. The personal competition he began with Legolas (Orlando Bloom) in "The Two Towers" finds comic resonance here; as Legolas brings down a rampaging olyphant on the Pelennor Fields, Gimli tempers his congratulations with "That still only counts as one" - marvelous! With the One Ring destroyed, so is Sauron's awesome power, and a quest resolved for the fortunes of mankind. The film's multiple endings encapsulate just as many feelings in the viewer, those of loyalty, honor, love, sacrifice and friendship. As a unit, the Lord of the Rings Trilogy stand as probably the ultimate in cinematic adventure to this point in time. Truly, I can only make one suggestion to make the series even more poignant, that for a film that reveals the discovery of the One Ring by Bilbo Baggins, the basis for the adventure that begins in "The Hobbit".
After a brief prologue showing us how Smagol came to get the ring and how he came to be the pitiful creature we know the film proper starts where The Two Towers left off; Smagol is continuing with his plan to lure Frodo and Sam to their doom in Shelob's lair and Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are reunited with Merry and Pippin at Isengard.When Pippin looks into the palantr, a sort of dark crystal ball, he sees the city of Minas Tirith under attack, unfortunately he himself is seen by Sauron. Galdalf takes him to Minas Tirith when he rides there to warn of the impending attack while the others remain behind to raise an army large enough to assist in that coming battle.I thought that the battle of Helm's Deep was impressive but it seems a mere skirmish compared to the battle of Minas Tirith, here there are thousands of Orcs supported by mercenaries mounted on gigantic elephant like creatures that are large enough to crush a man and his horse under their giant feet. All the time this battle rages Frodo and Sam are journeying deeper and deeper into the land of Mordor to Mount Doom in order to end Sauron's reign once and for all.This is probably the best film of the trilogy, I can see why it raked in the awards, the only weakness was the epilogue once the quest was completed the film could have ended at the crowning of the king rather than going on to their return to the Shire... even though I'm aware that this was in the book. Peter Jackson did a fantastic job bringing such an epic story to the screen, he was of course assisted by a fantastic cast who really brought the characters to life.
This movie is the best of everything, the charaters are the best with each other and their environment.  You have to love the pros, as well as the antags.  This movie as one reviewer once said of this movie, it is the best movie of this generation! The saddest part, it is the last movie.  The only thing I have to say that was a downer, it needed more epic battles! So, my top 5 have now changed: 5=Scarface,4=Matrix,3=Lord of the Rings 3,2=Godfather,1=Citizen Kane.


                
as you see in the title, you can see it was a great film. i have only had the DVD for 2 weeks and i got a 2 disc DVD for 2.99. wow you might think.well back to the film, and this is a film whose without its amazing and stunning fights/wars, would be a OK film but wouldn't be a classic. when the battles begin, you can't stop watching- even if your mum asks you to tidy up. the scenes with the horses and their warriors galloping is breath taking and makes you want to re enact it as i'm a 13 year old boy, this was a film which you want to re enact and talk about. it fills you with thrill which is a very special thing to do. when people saw this, people were like, "wow what an amazing film!" and "it's so good, i want to see it again and again!" i think this film was done by the right people and acted by the right people you couldn't image anyone for the roles. Such as aragon's character, Viggo Mortensen matchs that style and his emotions were amazing. his fighting style and knowledge makes him a great character and Viggo Mortensen should of good a dozen awards. before this film, i never heard of Viggo Mortensen and now after his role, i regard him as a brilliant actor.another character who was amazing was gandalf and without him, this film would feel empty. sir ian meleken (sorry for the spelling mistake), his acting was so believable and amazing. but his secret to this as revealed in a episode of extras, his that he thought of what it would be like to be a wizard and well, that give us the great gandalf we know today! i think this film is the best film i have seen in years and it deserved every award. out of ten, i would give this a MASSIVE TEN! thank you!


                
Wow, what a movie! It's not only the best of "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, it also is one of the best movies of the past couple of years."The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" is a totally spectacular movie. It has some of the most amazing battle scene's in movie history. The word spectacular isn't good enough to describe it, it's breathtaking, epic and emotional involving. Who didn't wanted to pick up a sword and shield and charge with Aragorn towards a large number of Orcs for honor and glory?Even though the special effects are far from the best ever, Peter Jackson is a master in mixing the special effect with real life action. The use of it never feels overdone and the result is spectacular as well as believable.I think lot's of people were worried after "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers" after seeing the battle of Helm's Deep. How was Peter Jackson ever going to top that great battle? Well, with "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" he topped it alright! The battle for Middle Earth is something you've never seen before. Greatest moment was when the riders of Rohan charged, it was really a moment in which you felt the true meaning of fighting and dying with honor. Also great moment during the immensely large battle were the fights against the oliphaunts, just when you thought the battle was over, those large creatures appeared! Really great moment.The characters are possibly at their best in this movie. No characters need introductions anymore and we get to see the deepest of their emotions in this movie, even Gollum's!Still the movie is not really deserving to be third in the top 250 here on IMDb.com. It's also not really deserving all those Oscar's it won. Like all The Lord of the Rings movies, it's great, spectacular and absolutely breathtaking at times but not classic masterpieces in my book.Also the movie is far from flawless. Once again the editing is just poor at times and what was with the ending? Couldn't they just think of one ending? I expected the end credits to start rolling multiple times during the ending but it just went on and on.Despite some of those flaws it still is an excellent movie with some unforgettable battle's sequence's. Truly a wonderful ending for one of the greatest movie trilogies in history.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is no doubt the best movie I've seen. The film captures you instantly up to the words "The End" appearing on the screen. The Return of the King is nothing short of excitement.For all those who doesn't know what The Lord of the Rings is about (I'm thinking everybody does either through the books or the movies), here's a brief summary: Just over 50 year ago, J.R.R. Tolkien published a tale about a long, dangerous quest to destroy 1 ring. This tale is split into 3 novels, "The Fellowship of the Rings", "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King". This tale, is called "The Lord of the Rings". Nearly 50 years after the novels were published, Peter Jackson tells the tale in another way, by bringing it to life onto the big screen.This tale is about 9 people's quest to destroy one magic ring and return peace to Middle-Earth. If this one ring goes back to it's maker, the evil Sauron, the world will be under his control, bringing death and misery everywhere. The only way to destroy this powerful ring is to cast it into the fires of Mount Doom, where it was made. Only one hobbit could resist the temptation to keep the ring and this job was given to a hobbit named Frodo Baggins. To help him along the way, a fellowship of nine people were brought together. In it was a wizard, 2 men, an elf, a dwarf and three other hobbits. Together, they set out for Mordor, where Mount Doom is situated. Getting to Mordor is not as easy as it sounds. On the way they'll have to battle Orcs, Uruk-hais, giant spiders and other results of Tolkien's fascinating imagination.The Return of the King is the last addition to this vast trilogy. Peter Jackson does a great job in interpreting Tolkien's thoughts and feelings into a film. Watching the movies is just like reading the books themselves. If it was only the movies, it wouldn't have made such an impact on the public. The music in all three films practically takes you on your very own journey and the acting from the actors was also very impressive. If anything was missing from these movies, they just wouldn't have been such a success. Peter Jackson has done this to perfection.Overall, this is a must-watch movie. Plenty of action and special effects, not to mention a very heart warming ending to the trilogy. I'll just say one more thing, don't criticise anything until you have saw, heard or done it, especially Lord of the Rings.
How superb 'The Return of the King' is. It is the ultimate fantasy film and a sure bet for all the film awards this year. Director Peter Jackson has achieved the impossible, to make this trilogy and make it so that Tolkien fans will be pleased with it in comparison to the book. The special effects are amazingly good, the actors (Sean Astin who play Samwise Gamgee particularly) are fabulous in their roles and the plot is unflawed, representing the book perfectly. There are parts left out but this was always to be expected. Peter Jackson, on first editing the film had a 6 hour long film that he was happy with. Now, although us Lord of the Rings fans may have been more than happy to sit through that, I don't think others would have been! So inevitably pieces and lines from the book have been taken out. But what we are left with is a film that works perfectly and is a masterpiece. Undoubtedly there will be plenty of extra footage on the extended DVD and so we'll just have to wait for that to see the film in its entirety. It's, arguably and in my own opinion, the best of the three films and one that fans and just movie-goers will love. It's got action, romance and an ending that leaves us satisfied and wanting to see it again and again. Go and see it now!


                
It's difficult to process something like The Lord of the Rings: Return of the King: Its very nature defies comparison.There has never been a cinematic endeavour based on a more daunting...or more beloved...literary work. There have never been motion pictures of the magnitude undertaken by co-writer/director Peter Jackson and his production team. The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy will endure forever as one of the most bold and audacious enterprises in the history of cinema. It is, quite simply, a seminal event. Other projects (for example, a movie filmed in space) are already being considered and may someday be attempted. They may challenge LOTR's logistical complexities (or, at the very least, present a comparable set of obstacles), but it is unlikely the numbers of people involved or the sheer duration of the creative process will ever equal this effort.Jackson & Company have made believers out of millions of readers who doubted the works would ever enjoy respectable translation into a more "mainstream" media. They have changed the way production models are approached for large-scale projects. They have forged what may well be the premiere visual effects house in the business (WETA Digital). They have raised the bar for all filmmakers to follow, and reminded millions of jaded moviegoers of one simple truth: Love, attention, and genuine dedication to (and appreciation of) one's material can overcome inconceivable obstacles, and always...always shows on-screen.And now it's over.With the longest running time of any film in the cycle (early indications suggest next year's extended DVD cut will clock in at over 4 hours long), RotK is an all-out assault on the senses. There are times when it is simply impossible to take it all in: Armies of hundreds of thousands clash beneath towering war beasts as deadly, dragon-like bird-things strafe hapless victims on the ground. Mountainsides erupt with pyroclastic fury as lava flows labour to engulf our heroes. This film is off the hook, gloriously so.In tone and "feel", RotK rests comfortably between Fellowship of the Ring's penchant for character-centric drama, and The Two Towers' colder, more mechanical "war movie" approach. What we end up with, is, in essence, an emotionally charged war movie sprawling in scale yet intimate in heart, its effects are frequently overpowering.


                
Lord of the Rings-The Return of the King is surely the greatest movie ever made. I consider that is has the most fascinating plot ever written.The universe of the movie is unique: a fantastic world which includes almost every mythical creature we heard of. Elves,orcs,trolls,hobbits,all these make up a charming atmosphere.The idea of a Ring that can submit the will of it's bearer is surely unique is recalls all throughout the movie.Also, the love story between Aragorn and the immortal Arwen is the most original one seen in the entire history of movies. The fate of king Debethor reminds us of Greek tragedies and the film contains great moral learnings,most in the words of the wizard Gandalf.The fantasy and the charming, sublime atmosphere make me consider this movie the greatest work or art ever created by mankind.


                
