The conclusion to what has been a seriously overhyped trilogy.  As of the time of writing, this movie was rated #4 in IMDB's top 250.  However, I suspect that much of that rating is due to overexcited fanboys (I hate that word but couldn't think of a substitute), and the film will slip a considerable number of places in subsequent years.Return of the King is probably the second best of the three films, surpassing the lackluster "Two Towers" but nowhere near as good as "The Fellowship".  I enjoyed the first half of the film considerably and was prepared to accept it as a good final installment.Unfortunately, like "The Two Towers", the film moves from the sublime to the ridiculous with the introduction of the battle scene.I'm afraid I am not a fan of CG animation in live films.  While the character of Gollum was well produced, the CG in the battles in lackluster and obvious.  It is like being slapped in the face whenever it appears.Even leaving out the CG however, the biggest insult I find is that the main characters have to do everything.  This was a particular problem in "The Two Towers", where the three heroes held off a whole army of orcs, but it is also prevalent in the battle in this movie.Sure, I've heard of suspension of disbelief, but it can only go so far.Unlike most people, I didn't mind the long ending with Sam and Frodo but the film had already been ruined for me before that.


                
WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD!What a disappointment the 3rd film is. We greatly enjoyed films I and II but this is a massive let-down. There seems to be little or no character development in ROTK, and this exacerbates the latent weaknesses is the first two films. I'm afraid that a lot of this is because of perverse alterations from Tolkien.First, Aragorn. In the book he is both a ranger from the north, but also a man destined to be king. He knows who he is, and he has an expectation of that destiny. Likewise in the book he has 'spiritual' awareness. Aragorn is descended, not merely from men, but from Numenor: so he already has in him some of the blood of the Elves. Now, Jackson gives all foresight to the Elves - making the men merely, men. But the whole point is that the-man-born-to-be-king has the spiritual awareness of the great kings of old. Thus, in book II at the river it is Aragorn, not Legolas (as in Jackson's version), who is aware of a shadow growing in his heart. And, more significantly, it is Aragorn who in the book takes the palantir by his right (Gandalf actually bows to give it to him). Gandalf counsels him not to use it, but Aragorn knows who he is. So he looks in the palantir and shows Sauron the sword. He challenges Sauron, and then wrenches the palantir away from the Eye to use as HE wills. In so doing he sees the black fleet, and so knows the threat. That's why he takes the path of the dead (Elrond never turns up at Dimholt). And when he takes the paths of the dead he REALLY summons the dead. The exchange in the film between Aragorn and the Geoffrey-Rush-Pirates-of-the-Caribbean-look-alike ghost is feeble in the film. In the book Aragorn does not doubt who he is: he calls them, not barters with them. Aragorn's action here is part of a much larger cohesion in Tolkien that is entirely absent in Jackson. Result? We're left with a desperately anti-climactic coronation. Why? Aragorn's character been denuded of a sense of who he is.Second Sauron. It's true that in the book he is mostly referred to as the Eye. But he also has personality. In the film, apart from the opening sequence to film I (which was brilliant) all we have is a plasma lamp sometime searchlight. Since in the book Gandalf has told Frodo that 'Sauron is taking shape again' why didn't Jackson develop Sauron from the figure in film I? In the book, we are told of Sauron's gnawing doubt. We hear of reports about 'spies' entering Mordor. We know that he is consumed by fear of the upstart heir of Elendil. None of this is developed in the film. (And the Ring seems to lose power on entering Mordor, not gain it!)Result? There was no sense of elation at the fall of Barad'dur.Now this is a serious theological error that I suspect Tolkien would have detested. Personify good, and you must also personify evil. Tolkien's epic was all about those forces being personified: and how you discern them. Sauron's not actually the worst form of evil - that belongs to Morgoth (of whom the Balrog is a servant). Whilst Tolkien rightly loathed allegory, he nonetheless never would have countenanced such a weak and ineffectual portrayal of the enemy. Tolkien's point is that evil in many guises takes human form: something that Jackson shouldn't have missed in today's world.The same lack of characterisation in Aragorn and Sauron goes on with many of the others. Jackson made a mistake in cutting Saruman out of III having made so much of him in I and II (more than the book). Arwen is drippy throughout. Eowyn is changed in the film. Jackson plays up the love between her and Aragorn so much that we are left wondering how Eowyn is apparently beatifically happy to see him with Arwen. On the subject of Eowyn it's such a shame Jackson didn't do the slaying of the witch-king better. In the book the battlefield pauses - a cloud goes up and everyone in Minas Tirith is happy. It's one of the truly great moments, lost by Jackson. The reports even leak back to the orcs in the tower above Shelob's lair (as they would of course) so that Sam and Frodo hear that 'No.1. has been done in'.As for the hobbits . I think this may be a question of preference. Personally I think Sean Astin's acting as Sam is execrable, but some like it. For me, the simple gardener becomes a mini-philosopher and I find his soliloquy both at the end of film II in Osgiliath (to which they never go in the book) and on the mountain (twice) truly toe-curlingly dreadful: pap I'm afraid. And, oh dear, we even veered towards Titanic-music-moments at the end of film I and again on the mountain. Bilbo was fine until the end. Yes, we know he ages fast now he's lost the ring, but the Salieri-style prosthetics are poor. Jackson loves the slow-motion work so much that we have to endure some particularly dreadful sequences with the Hobbits (most notably the already infamous bed scene) and at the end (where I really thought Frodo was going to give Sam a full-on smacker!). A similarly tacky piece of directing occurs when the elves appear - the soft focus lens is deployed with 'celtic' singing. Argh -  this is kindergarten film production.I expect the film will garner the Oscars ceremony. But I hope some people in Tinsel town have the courage to acknowledge that whilst some of the visuals are outstanding (though many are not - e.g. the oliphaunt descent by Legolas, the Merrick-style leader of the orcs, and the Army of the dead), the film is not actually very good at all.Peter - I'm afraid you've let us, and J.R.R. Tolkien, down.
Very few trilogies manage to keep an even level of quality throughout. The classic example of course being "The Godfather"-trilogy, who, although the first two 'chapters' were brilliant, floundered in the end. The very same phenomenon exists in the world of literature as well, to name an example; the "Gormenghast"-trilogy. Why is this? It is probably not possible to arrive at a complete answer, but one possible solution is obvious. Firstly, Jackson must have been exhausted from making the two previous movies. Making cinema at the highest level is very hard work, and especially so for a director so closely interwoven with all aspects of the production. I believe he simply lost his concentration. A few of the obvious weak points of the movie should have been rooted out on an early stage. The fact that they weren't indicate a lack of the control Jackson exercised over LOTR I and II, in particular over the script. The story in the most complicated part of LOTR, near the very end, is so appallingly bad that many in the audience felt embarrassed for their interest int the trilogy as a whole. Now, Mr. Jackson isn't solely to blame for it all. Everyone who has read LOTR know that Tolkien also very much messed up the story at the end. Being a no more than mediocre writer he simply lacked the experience to round off the story in a fashion that suited the mammoth amount of verbiage leading up to the final battle. The predominant problem is that neither Jackson, who could have rewritten the end, or Tolkien offer anything new or remotely exciting. Instead they rehash the battle at Helm's deep. And, after many hours of careful storytelling, Jackson's heroes stumbles, out of nowhere, upon the "Deus I'm machina", an animated phosphorous-green army of semi-transparent ghouls. These specters, horribly reminiscent of "the Judge" from Jackson's flop "The Frighteners" save the day. The importance of these undead crusaders is inexplicably exaggerated by Walsh and Jackson. In addition, the digital effect used to create the army reminds one of a commercial for soap, a green blob magically swooping away the dirt. Visually, Jackson tendency to rely too much on digital effects was his downfall. It really isn't necessary to add that the final scenes was rather pathetic, a reminder that Tolkien dodged complex emotions for a very good reason. The supposedly bitter-sweet goodbye at the dock is drenched in golden light, no doubt added digitally, and adds the last touch of defeat to this great disappointment. I rate this movie: 2/10


                
Congratulations Peter Jackson. Plenty of imagination is required to try and pull off a trilogy such as "Lord Of The Rings". Not to mention a country like New Zealand to film it in. It was just such a shame it was so boring.Now I admit I struggled through "The Hobit", and never gave "Lord Of the Rings" a chance in the paperback department. So I applaud your effort of keeping me a little interested throughout the movie. One of the two things that bothered me was the ridiculous length of the movie. I have three words that could have saved this movie from becoming a joke. POST PRODUCTION EDITING. I was laughing in the end at what a farce the movie had become. Perhaps the biggest disappointment was nothing to do with the movie but JRR Tolkien, who came up with surely the worst idea ever written on how a victory could be one. Writers block or just a cheap cheap sell out. You decide.


                
Firstly, let me get it clear that I have never read Tolkien's books nor do I intend to. As such I don't know how the real story was and what was cut out? The following comments refer only to the movie, as a piece of cinema.There is way too much presumption. The story starts off about a ring that is oh very powerful, controls everybody, is evil blah blah. All that is fine. OK, the ring is so very evil and powerful. But would'nt any rational person ask what makes the ring so powerful? The reasons are never provided. What makes it so valuable and important that people are going to wars over it, people are mutating over it and why does the villain want it? What is its secret? It would'nt be unfair to assume that the Return of the King answers all these questions. It absolutely does not.There is simply no story in this movie. It fails to explain what happened or even whats going on. As with the ring, why should one also has to presume that Sauron is so evil that hes worth fighting with all the armies of middle earth? With so much story surrounding Sauron, his appearance is restricted to nothing more than a large fiery eye. Just why is he so evil. Just why is he so feared? What did he do that was so bad? None of that is ever answered in any of the LOTR movies.Devoid of a story, the whole series are nothing more than a tour through middle earth when your, or anyone else's specific presence do not really matter. It looks more like a big documentary rather than a movie. The first two parts may have been slightly entertaining but streaching the same formula for yet another movie delivers an abysmally boring experience. The inhabitants of middle earth may have also been something original when Tolkien wrote them, but it is not so today.


                
I loved the first Lord of the Rings, and The Two Towers was okay (the Director's Cut was better), but this film just dragged and dragged.The seven scenes around the funeral pyre were about six too many for me. (That wasn't a spoiler. You don't know who or why or where.) Actually, it shouldn't be possible to write spoilers of this film. Who doesn't know the story? Actually, even if you don't, the film is stupidly predictable. I left midway through the film to go to the bathroom (and almost didn't come back) and despite spending about 20 minutes procrastinating returning to the theatre, apparently all I missed was PEOPLE GETTING FROM POINT A TO POINT B!!! A truly disappointing finale to the series.
If we want suspected terrorists to talk, just make them watch this overblown, pompous turkey on a continuous loop - hold the battle scenes which were not too bad.  Anybody will break down if forced to watch and listen to this goodie two shoes tripe. Just another wowie zowie special effects monstrosity - gee, did the giant elephants remind you of the fighting machines from Star Wars (The Empire Strikes Back)?  How would you like to clean up after those babies? They even left it open for another "episode". I would have rather spent 3 hours and 21 minutes in the dentist chair. Old J.R.R. has to be spinning in his grave at the treatment his work got from these goofs.May the Fa*ts be with you.


                
This morning I was sitting in Japanese literature class, while Murakami's Novel "A Wild Sheep Chase" was being discussed, and a student so boldly suggested a number of parallels between it and "The Lord of The Rings." To my dismay a majority of the students in the class started to giggle, thinking this comment was almost a joke. What's sad about it, is that his points were valid and made perfect sense. He was comparing the Murakami novel's narrative, characters, and moral messages to LOR, and it was a most convincing comparison. Literally everything from how the characters are similar to how the plot concludes is very similar.Based on the class reaction, I have to ask, when did Lord of the Rings cease to be literature and become another Hollywood movie? 15 years ago, if the same comparison were made, people would value it and even consider it. Before LOR became a movie it was one of the most read books in the 20th century and its readership and importance in a country like Japan was present. So why couldn't this parallel exist? After all Murakami was and is heavily influenced by Western literature.Before this class, I only criticized LOR as a film in itself, and gave it credit for exposing people to a classic story. In fact, I'm pretty sure these movies will introduce millions more to the books. But now I feel differently. The lack of integrity these movies possess will pollute the books and therefore reduce their real cultural importance. When I watch these movies, I see Hollywood on a grand scale. I see little of what is in the novels and instead see an inverse effect from what I expected. Now when I consider the novel I can only picture the dumb-wit characters, so shallow and bland following the plot line like a trail of breadcrumbs. If I could go back and reverse the money and time I wasted watching these films I would. In fact, I wouldn't suggest them to anyone, because they in no way enhance the original work. I'm not critical of film adaptations of novels in many cases. Don't get me wrong. A great filmmaker can take a great novel and show you things about it that you could have never thought of yourself. He or she can interpret a work of literature as the original author originally interpreted reality itself. Italian and Japanese cinema seem to have a good track record of adaptations, but American cinema<U+0085> Its %@#$! Please don't butcher anymore great works.Please.... Leave something for those who actually care about art.


                
This movie blurs into the first two. There is nothing unique about it. The ugly fantasy creatures and the crescendo of  fighting battles are boring beyondbelief. Orlando Bloom, as the cool elf guy, is the highlight of this otherwise monotonous three hour fiasco. I can't believe this horrendously disgusting film would receive academy awards. I am so glad this trilogy is over with. Please let there be no more!


                
The worst of the three parts, and one of the most overrated films in the history. Peter Jackson spends a lot of time with no sense battles in a three hour film that can't finish all the plots of the Trilogy. The film includes very horrible scenes like one with one horse rider who kills an giant elephant only with his sword, and one when the floor falls down in all the ways except where the heroes are standing. A good film for those who like the FX more than the script, and for the video games programmers, and a awful movie for those who loved The Fellowship of the ring, the first film of the PJ's personal vision about The Lord of The Ring


                
Well the fact is that from time to time I have put it at home, even knowing that I did not like the movies, but I feel like watching an adventure movie and I say come on, I'll see the. The problem is that in a while I start to get bored I start to see that I do not like anything like this carried, that does not catch me. It should be a movie with the typical values <U+200B><U+200B>of friendship, honor, courage, but apart from having great fights and adrenaline rush through your veins. I should create a spirit of wanting to enter the adventure to the end, no matter what I do tomorrow, but when you think that you have to endure this nine hours to see what you think, if it were another movie if but not this one.I had a complete material to create a world at his feet, to do what I wanted, had money to do everything and for my taste has not got almost nothing. I do not think he took advantage of all the material he had. I do not think he took advantage of the spaces he had. The possibilities were immense and it remained in a simple film.The photograph is very well, telling that there is no plane touched by computer and with the means that he can not.But the management does not get me to catch. I do not believe that fascination that adventure movies created for me years ago. Let's not talk about plans. With that material, he only knows how to make airplanes or close-ups. How can you make an adventure film in the foreground? He does not know how to compose plans, he only knows how to make general plans or close-ups.Of course the makeup, the hairdresser and the dressing room is spectacular, but there is a lot of money behind.I will not make the criticisms of the other two because they will be like that, I will only say that I was watching the second part and it seemed that I was filming in Aranjuez, not wanting to disparage Aranjuez and the third I do not know how many endings , But too many. When it seems the end has already come, go on and on and on and on and on and up seven times.Anyway, I must be me, I imagine you will all be against me, I'm sorry, forgive me the fans of these films.
This must be the most overrated and overhyped movie of this year.Too long, too boring, too sentimental and just too bad.The battle scenes and Gollem save this movie. The acting, and especially Elijah Wood's (even Keanu Reeves' plastic acting in The Matrix trilogy is better), is so bland and incredibly sub-par this movie indeed sets a new standard for epic films: dread.From the beginning I have told everyone who wanted to know that Frodo is portrayed as a total w***er and cry-baby and that the real hero in this series is Sam. OK, and Aragorn.No, I was glad to have seen it, because the natural sceneries are beautiful, but in my eyes this movie doesn't even deserve a rate higher than that of the other completely overrated movie sequel called T3.Give this one a miss and get the DVD so you can use the FFWD button!


                
Follow in "The Lord of the Rings" creator's (J.R.R. Tolkien's) footsteps. Project a malevolent universe. Invent a world and animate it with creatures in conflict. Make the conflict a battle between good and evil, but don't identify clearly the moral value or purpose of either side. In fact, remove morality's essence altogether by eliminating the power of choice for your characters. Emphasize the corruptibility of men. Glamorize the supernatural. Dwell interminably on the preparations for and the wreaking of violence and destruction, on the fragility of hope and happiness. Name the scene of action: Middle-earth. Sound like an environment you'd care to envision? Would you "live" there? If so, fate alone will decide its survival and your own. You can visit this predetermined "paradise" by watching/enduring/suffering Peter Jackson's elaborately filmed adaptation of Tolkien's epic trilogy, which concludes with "The Return of the King." I hold it is true that what is not worth contemplating in life is not worth contemplating in art. For its dismaying lack of meaningful moral definition, its pervasive pictorial ugliness, the quantity of its scenes of mind-numbing graphic violence, and its minimizing of the value of happiness, "The Lord of the Rings" films--including this one--ought to be shunned and damned.


                
can't believe this movie is even and the list. The movie was way too long and the battle scenes were very drawn out and way to bloody to be PG-13. Also the ending seemed like it would never end. I liked the one before this one, and really looked forward to seeing "The Return of the king. Why couldn't it have been more faithful to the book. The fight scenes took up too much of the movie. I can't believe this movie won best picture, because there were others that deserved the Oscar, but no movie since American Beauty has deserved to win and that was going back to 2000. I was so disappointed and they won't let Peter Jackson direct The Hobbit, although maybe it will be OK because I thought he did a good job with King Kong.


                
Perfect? Give me a break--or at least let me qualify that statement. At best Jackson should state/warn viewers that the movie is "loosely based" on JRR Tolkien's "Lord of the Rings" Trilogy. The second and third films progressively deviate from the story and Tolkien, so much so, that it renders the whole story trite, unpalatable and predictable (Hollywood's modus operandi); and it is this aspect of the film that makes it "perfect"--perfect for American audiences.Jackson did a hatchet-job to Tolkien's work. Even the battle scenes, the one area of the film that I hoped would visually flesh out parts of the books, were buried beneath the offal of cheap entertainment. Bloom sucks. Liv Tyler sucks. The dialogue sucks. The notion of Gondor being a bunch of inept lolly-gaggers (in the face of a seemingly new threat) is laughable--they had contained Saurun for decades. Denathor's character is reduced to its most laughable level. The whole movie is a joke. This is not a great film. It may be mildly entertaining for some, wildly entertaining for others, but for Tolkien aficionados and those who value quality in terms of human creativity, this is awful. I pray Jackson stays away from Tolkien's other works. Please don't encourage filmmakers with all this "best of all time" dribble. This movie is awful. Peter Jackson ought to be ashamed of the mess he made of Tolkien. This is one book where--in regard to adapting it to film--if you are not going to do it right, just leave it alone.Final appraisal: This film and the rave reviews it has received is indicative of the "dumbing down" of Western culture and especially American culture. Prepare the way for the New Dark Ages.


                
Peter Jackson set himself up really well as a director when The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring was released. He had created a fast-paced and exciting yet beautiful and poetic thriller that utilized old cinematic tricks in fantastic new ways and, despite its three-hour running time, left me breathless. I had pretty high hopes for the rest of the trilogy.But alas! Jackson did not deliver. The Two Towers was, in a word, boring: it lacked the great screenplay and the emotional depth that Fellowship conveyed so wonderfully.And then came The Return of the King, which won twelve Oscars as well as critical acclaim.The three and a half hours that I spent in the theatre enduring that schlock are three and a half hours of my life that, very regretfully, I will never, ever have back.Why did this film fail almost completely in my eyes? Well, perhaps it's because Jackson spread himself too thin in the second movie: while the Frodo-Fellowship dual storyline worked fairly well (I won't say particularly well, but it worked) in Tolkein's books, in the cinema it has the unfortunate effect of making the story seem choppy, and the flow of the story is lost.Another unfortunate by-product of the dual storyline is that the divergent elements must come back together. How did Jackson accomplish this in Return of the King? By making the story's dénouement last over 30 excruciatingly long minutes. Jackson chose the tear-jerking happy/sad path for the ending, which wears its heart on its sleeve and reeks, to me, of a sort of Hollywood melodrama raised to the nth degree. While the dialogue in Fellowship had a poetic charm to its semi-Shakespearean prose, here it feels inflated and pretentious. Aragorn's address is reduced to a ridiculous and shallow "Let's all live together in harmony" speech that, to me, is a huge disappointment in context of the film's gigantic scale.Return of the King suffers in its two hours and fifty minutes before the ending from the same shortcomings as The Two Towers<U+0097>a broken storyline and a pretentious screenplay. The tricks that were used so well at first have become worn thin<U+0097>the Ringwraiths, which in Fellowship managed to magnificently convey a real sense of evil and terror, are reduced to dinosaur-riding apparitions that are almost laughable. With the exception of the very well-done tunnel scene (which does produce the desired effect of suspense and shock), the monster scenes make you feel like you're watching some B-flick. One particularly ugly Orc, which I guess we are supposed to believe is some sort of supreme embodiment of Orc-like evilness, is never explained, never given any sort of credibility. In fact, none of the monsters have that grippingly real feel, which takes away from their scariness.The main thing that keeps a film alive for me is characters, especially in a film that tries to convey some deeper meaning like the Rings trilogy does. Most of the characters in Return of the King were about as three-dimensional as a life-size cardboard representation of a popular actor or sports figure. There is a clear demarcation here between good and evil, with little nuance to either side. Even the scenes where Gollum "battles" with himself are two-dimensional, from the "dialogue" right down to the cinematography, which shows that there are two very clear sides and nothing in between. The movie seems to be trying to show here that people can have complexities, but it doesn't work because it doesn't set up any complexities in its moral world. The Ring gives Evil a single embodiment: it is the source of evil Saurons' power, and the source of Gollum's treachery. The idea that all the bad deeds in the movie can be traced back to this one palpable object reduces the entire story to a one-dimensional and shallow didactic fable.And with all the fireworks that the film provides, the glories it tries to convey, the tragedies, this doesn't feel credible. I find myself yearning for something more complex, deeper, more meaningful. Maybe that's why I didn't like this movie: despite its remarkable action sequences, its overblown and inflated dialogue, it didn't have any real heart. I would say that this is okay, except for the fact that the film tried to be so much more than it really was. It set itself up as a gargantuan epic and ended up getting lost in itself. This is surely one of the greatest efforts in film history<U+0097>I admire Jackson just for taking the risk. I can understand why he was chosen for the Oscars<U+0097>the trilogy does manage to sweep you along with its story and the breathtaking scenery and cinematography certainly keep your eyes glued to the screen.Unfortunately, such a huge, epic project needs more than dazzling special effects, more than flowery dialogue, more than huge battle sequences, more than a plethora of characters. It needs a heart behind it to match. As Dr. Seuss would say, Return of the King's heart is "three sizes too small." Despite its epic proportions, the film just doesn't feel "real." It plays on emotions, it dazzles the mind, but it doesn't really touch the heart; and ultimately, this lack of depth left me feeling insatiated after the bombardment of glories and tragedies.In conclusion, this is a film that impresses but does not stay. In terms of scope, it may be the greatest epic ever made; but unfortunately, it doesn't live up to itself. It could have been vastly improved even just by cutting the running time down to three hours; instead, it feels grand but empty<U+0097>in a word, pretentious.And pretentiousness is, in my mind, inexcusable."A" for effort, "D" for product. Thumbs down. Two stars.


                
Like the others in the trilogy, ROTK may be awesome to look at but what on earth is the point of the whole thing? A lot of people with silly names speaking cod-Shakesperean dialogue fighting battles in equally silly-named places - the final part is more like an episode of Stars Wars than anything else. And they all take it so seriously!! What a shame that so much time, effort and cost could not have gone into producing something of genuine artistic merit and substance.


                
This part three of the trilogy was boring. It was geared to overaged adolescents who love vicarious fights...with digital demons. Ho hum. "Enough! I wanted to shout," "We Get IT! They had to fight!! Get this blinkin' film over with! I surrender!!" And just when you thought your bum would see the light of day again, wham, ANOTHER ending! My mother and father once (in pre Vatican III days) attended an Italian Catholic high mass wedding. Being Quakers to boot, they had no idea they should have ordered out for pizza and left a wake up call. Each time the congregation rose, they breathed their own silent "Thank God" and started to file out, but the guests then en masse kneeled, addressed a different station of the cross,and off things went for another hour. "The Return of the King" echoed that oft told experience to me. And I wasn't even in a theater. I could have left at any time, but where to file out to at 1AM? It became an ordeal, my own quest to see the turkey through.Now I ask you, Peter Jackson, WHY all the endings?? Another thing I noticed in the DVD versions of these three movies; the guy who played Aragon did not do commentary, and did not appear to be pleased with the whole deal to me. He and Liv Taylor had zero chemistry, and I got the sensation he was glad to be done with it. Did anyone else catch this?If I had seen one more, just one more, animated monster, I would have...well, I can't think of anything worse than sitting through the whole darn movie, and I did that anyway, so I will end this diatribe on that note.


                
Many people commented that more than three hours passed by when the movie finished.  It's not hard to explain: just note how slow the people speak, always rendered in a Hollywood-heroic form; or otherwise it seems that they are acting under influence.  Other moments, they just gaze at each other, or the landscape, and then the epic-ish (Irish?) music starts.  The movie could be compressed to 90 minutes.  And still, three hours aren't enough for a decent portrait of the personalities: the good guys talk like saints, the evil ones like worms.The plot is the same old one: people run around to fight the evil and save the world, with every episode looking like the end of the world.  The visual effects of the fighting scenes are exceptional, but it is not dissimilar to a combination of Jurassic Park & Last Samurai & The Eruption of Mt St Helen.Probably a good preparation step to the Ring Cycles.


                
How can a well-made adventure like RETURN OF THE KING beso numbingly dull?It's hard to fault the production design and special effects -- everyinch of the widescreen palate is filled with colorful imagery. Inaddition, the cast acquits itself well, even though they're stuck withstilted and annoying faux Middle English dialog. Ultimately, thewhole thing is so stiff and scripted that it comes off as lifeless,even as castles fall to the ground and thousands of creatures die.Maybe its least forgiving fault is the ending. Well, it's not quite anending, because it never ends; it's one coda after another, andsnickers could be heard from my otherwise reverent first dayaudience as the film refused to die. A great cinematic achievement? Peter Jackson's achievement isonly technical, and I'm relieved that there aren't any more volumesin the trilogy.


                
Several points that I agree with:1.  Characters and story are dull, hence... 2.  I lose interest and lose track of who's fighting whom and why 3.  People take this way too seriously 4.  On a technical level, the film is very well done and impressive to look at, but ultimately, it never involves you emotionally unless you are taking it too seriously, hence... 5.  This is one of the most overrated movies of all-time to be up at #4 on this list.


                
Sorry, but how can people rate this movie so high? It's the worst of the 3 in this trilogy and definitely not an Oscar movie in any way. I enjoyed the trilogy to some extent and read the books as a teen but this movie was a huge disappointment. Please be warned if you want to watch this, it's sooooo long you prob need to watch it over multiple days to bear it.


                
I think that "Lord of the rings" series mislead the viewers especially the Christian viewers in indirect way, because these series promote magic ("good magic") as a solution for the world & hints strongly that it's good to benefit from dealing with the souls of the dead people, & because these series consider that "good magic" not "God's care & his miracles" or any "high good power" is the only way to deliver mankind from evil. That "good magic" is done by "Gondolf" who is a wizard, a magician & a sorcerer! Who follow an unknown & invisible & enigmatic power; and also by fictional entities called "elves". I believe that there is no good magic, because every real magic is from the devil, the old serpent, the great dragon (Satan). So how evil can fight evil & win on it?
I can't believe that I canceled an entire outing to watch the full 3.5 hrs of this movie which turned out to be extremely disappointing and downright boring at times. I followed the hype, the rating and thought that this movie must really be one of the best in the world and it certainly is not. It is actually one of the poorer movie efforts I've seen. The story is very weak and the happy ending is expected. The pile of CGI ie the Golem was rendered completely pointless by his portrayal in this film and the series could have actually gone on without it. There is even less of a villain in this movie than there was in the first and second movies. The movie is divided into two parts, namely Frodo's boring and mostly event-less journey and a banal war which the good guys obviously win. Avoid this movie despite all the hype. It has nothing new.


                
My lord, what a mawkish slab of overwrought merde. No medium shots here, just washed out and incoherent long shots of battle and close up after close up of meaningful lip quivering as the music deafens all theater goers with the more dramatic strains of what seems to have been borrowed from Stargate. And what is with the weepers in the audience? This is worse than the previous two films.


                
