First, let me say that I did like "Return of the King." It's a special effects masterpiece that is destined to become a classic, along with the first two installments in the "Lord of the Rings" saga.But, to me, it was far less enjoyable than the first two films, the second of which was the best of the three. "King" was far too long for what it had to say. And the ending (or should I say endings) really disappointed me. I kept waiting for the film to end, but it just kept going on and on. There were at least four times that I thought the film was over, but then the next scene would fade in. It would have been a much better ending if the film had finished with the resolution of the final battle, and then showed the denouement as a montage next to the closing credits. It would have removed about 20 minutes from the overly-lengthy film and would have made the ending less of a "cut-and-paste" style.So I'll give it a solid 7. But to me, it has been seriously over-rated by both fans and critics. I'm surprised that more of the critics, at least, haven't picked up on the weak ending.


                
First of all: I liked this movie, and i could watch it an awful lot of times. But that is mostly due to the great special effects .The point i rated this movie a 7 is because of the stupid story mistakes Peter putted in his movie. Especially the ghost army is a huge, huge mistake. Everybody who readed the book knows the ghost army does not take part in the huge fight, but only conquers the pirate's fleet, so Aragorn and his men can sail to the battle. The orcs think they get some backup when they see the black sails, but then are overrun by Aragorn, not the ghosts.Like the thing above there are more things which i do not like. Like the snowboarding Legolas in the battle for Helm's Deep (not this movie, but still). Legolas is indeed quite handy on his feet, but snowboarding on a shield? These are just the things which made me personally think Peter could have come up with a much better movie of one of the best story's ever written.


                
I loved it! No doubt about it, spectaculair effects, battles etc. But, and there's a big but, the movie doesn't add anything new to the trilogy. In the first part we could marvel at the wonderfull world of Tolkien that Peter Jackson so brilliantly captured on the big screen. In part two, there was action, battles and magnificent special effects.But what does part 3 have? More of the same. It had to be made, to complete the story and Peter Jackson did a great job. But especially the last hour was almost boring. After the twentieth happy-ending-swelling-music-scene, I was almost begging for the end. Still, I loved it, but maybe that was more because of the first two movies, or because of the book.....


                
Man, and you thought Titanic was cheesy?! When I first saw this film on the big screen, the multiple endings bothered me only a little. Now that I saw it for the second time, they simply outraged me. Best adapted screenplay, best director and best picture of the year all went this way. This time: not deserved. The Return of the King ends five times. FIVE TIMES!! I don't give a good goddamn if it was that way in the books too. I never read them. And that gives me a good position to rate this as a film and not a screen adaptation.Every single time Elijah Wood laughs in this movie (in the entire trilogy actually), I almost throw up. Couldn't they make it any more cheesier?! Especially stomach turning is the scene at the end of the RotK, where they all laugh and hug by Frodo's bed. OF COURSE in slow motion to add a little more sappiness. Plus the scene where their journey has ended and they all sit in the pub and skål their pints together.. check out the expression on Wood's face. So cheesy I laughed my a** off.The most worrying thing about all of this is that without the cheesiness and the multiple endings, this would've really been a great movie. I don't love them, but I do like these films. And it was such a tasteless display of drama from the academy to pretty much dismiss the two previous movies and award the last and most tasteless one in spades. It made the whole thing feel like the "Russell Crowe-syndrome", as I like to call it. They didn't award him the statue for The Insider, but instead for Gladiator the next year, because they probably felt so guilty. Maximus after all was clearly a more easier role than Wigand and didn't deserve the award as much.I can see why so many love this film and embrace it, but people, eleven Oscars? No.** / *****


                
The third installment of the Lord of the Rings was a good movie, however, I had many problems with the character development and acting in the movie. Sean Astin and Elijah Wood, (the only two exceptions,) played the roles of Frodo and Samwise admirably.  Even with some of the adaptations from Peter Jackson's interpretation of the books, the story is still intriguing. However, none of the other characters in the remaining part of the fellowship suffered no more than 3 seconds of any kind of acting at a time, as nearly all the dialogue from the book is erased.  And at the ending sequence, when Frodo wakes up, the cheerful scenes drag on forever, when Peter Jackson could have saved it by cutting off half the slow motion and instead, showing the last parts of the book with the burning & enslavement of the shire, and the uprising that followed.  All in all, it was a good movie.  Cinematic, epic, and, above all, bloody.


                
Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" trilogy is a monumental achievement, I won't argue with that. The sheer scope of the project and the fact that Jackson was able to wrangle it into three blockbuster and seamless films is cause for admiration.But it's a monumental project that left me cold, and if you're a movie goer who's made to feel like a pariah by the series' idolatrous fanboys for not thinking it's the greatest thing to ever befall our civilization, give me a shout, because it would give me comfort to know there are others out there.After nine hours of Elijah Wood's one expression of wide-eyed bewilderment; of Viggo Mortenson's uber-sombre line readings; of Orlando Bloom's silly hair; and of relentless gray and brown battle scenes, I'd had enough. I think it says something about your endeavor when the most interesting character in the film is the one who's computer animated.The person who really deserves the most credit for this trilogy is its editor(s), who had to take god knows how many hours of footage and shape it into something resembling a movie.Grade: B


                
The ring is destroyed!  Middle Earth is saved!  Hobbits and Elves rejoice!Peter Jackson's masterful odyssey that began 11 years ago is complete with the release of the third installment of the Lord of the Rings, Return of the King (ROTK).Peter Jackson's love affair with the J.R.R. Tolkien story is complete with the third film installment, Lord of the Rings: Return of the King (ROTK). Audiences have waited through three years of release dates, countless DVD editions and marketing tie-ins to view what is essentially one long 11+ hour movie.  And at the end of it all, I too found myself rejoicing - rejoicing that the third movie finally ended!Lord of the Rings: ROTK is both good and bad with the good being exceptional, but the bad, being prominent enough not to be overlooked. First the good.  Ian McKellan as the wise wizard Gandalf is the best he has been in ROTK.  Gandalf transformed from being a new generation's Obi Wan Kenobi - as all wise and more powerful after death -  to being a vulnerable participant in a future unknown.  A scene shared with Viggo Mortensen's Aragon shows Gandalf to be scared for Frodo (Elijah Wood) and Aragon must reassure him to follow his heart.  This is Ian McKellan at his best and if he was good enough to garnish an Oscar nomination for the first Lord of the Rings, then he should be assured one with ROTK.Also showing more acting range that was expected of him is Sean Astin in the role as Sam, the Hobbit that accompanies Frodo on his journey to Mount Doom. Sean shows courage, heart and conflict and we believe in the conviction that the young actor put into his role.Also on the plus side are the fight scenes in ROTK.  The great battles in the Pelennor Fields, Minas Tirith and the Black Gates are speckled with special effects mastery never before seen on the big screen.  Kudos also to Mr. Jackson for the amount of humor that was absent from the previous two installments.  Seeing Gandalf react to an overeager Pippin (played by Billy Boyd) put the audience into an outburst of laughter - a response not yet heard in the first 9 hours of storytelling.And finally, and most importantly, the story receives note for being the strongest of the three.  With many balls in the air to juggle, Peter Jackson weaves the story through Frodo's trek to Mount Doom with the ever-schizophrenic Gollum, Aragon's journey to regain the throne and Rohan's King Theoden search for an army to wrestle the evil Orcs just to name a few. All stories are equally interesting and Jackson is able to stay true to the novel in bringing the story to the masses.But not all is good with ROTK.  The special effects in the final film are average, that being, not on scale with what was presented in 2001 and 2002. Some effects actually look terrible.  The scene where Legolas (Orlando Bloom) is able to get atop a giant elephant looked cheap and unrealistic, and his subsequent dismount which was suppose to appeal to the skateboarders in the audience looked like the promo for some average Sony Playstation game.  And Aragon's confrontation with the ghosts of a disgraced army looked like it was cut and paste from Jackson's previous film, The Frighteners.Also notable was the amount of blue screen images used in the finale. Aragon in front of the army at the Black Gates or Frodo's gaze into the fires of Mount Doom looked terrible when compared to some of the film's other effect achievements.Then there is the ending.  All of them!  In a DVD world where extended versions are widely accepted as superior to the original cut, I would have enjoyed ROTK more had the last 30 minutes be struck from the record. After sitting through 3 hours, I had run out of popcorn and was restlessly waiting to use the restroom, but Peter Jackson marched each of his characters out for a curtain call of hugging, bowing, kissing and crying that I thought was completely unnecessary (Do we really need to see Sam get married?).However, for all its faults, ROTK is intended as one long film adventure and at that, it is exceptional.  Peter Jackson had an incredible undertaking in front of him, and unlike the Star Wars or Matrix franchises, The Lord of the Rings was able to maintain a constant tone and feel through its multiple components.  For that alone, I take my hat off and salute you.So it is finally time to take a breath.  Or is it? Next year there will be the DVD release of Return of the King followed by the theatrical extended version, then the DVD extended version, then the DVD box set, then the DVD box set with all the extended features.  Maybe if we are lucky, someone will rifle through the old house of J.R.R. Tolkien and find the unpublished works of Sam the Hobbit:Journey to Neverland Ranch.


                
I am less enamored with this one then I was with the previous two films (particularly Two Towers, which is my favorite), though I'm willing to give it the benefit of the doubt and say that had I seen this film on it's own without the previous prequels, I may have given it a higher rating.
No doubt about it, these films are revolutionary and the pinnacle of fantasy film making, but I just found this one a little tiring. You more or less generally know how it's going to turn out anyway (good guys will get their butts kicked a few times, but will prevail after many long, tedious battles later), so I guess I can't blame the film for delivering exactly what I expected in a final chapter, but I guess I found the journey to get there (first two movies) far more interesting than the end result. After a while, all the eye candy of CGI-created battles gets a bit tiring to look at.
So I'll give it a 10 for craftsmanship and artistry, but a 7 for holding my interest.


                
A lot of people looking on this page will thoroughly disagree and disregard my comments but I feel justified in saying that the Lord of the Rings trilogy and this final part in particular are possibly some of the most over-rated films of all time! I hasten to add that I do like the films and rate them as very good 7 or 8 out of 10 but I just do not see them as the 10/10 all time greats that other people see them as. I love fantasy stories and films in general, I just find these films to be far less impressive than most people appear to think they are. The main thing in the trilogy I find absolutely impressive is Gollum (Andy Serkis). The motion capture performance by Serkis is genius and the CGI character was the best up to that time. Also Gollum is a great character, hilarious, sometimes creepy and fascinating. Also you cannot fault Christopher Lee as Saruman, Ian McKellen as Gandalf and there are other good performances too.Most people who loved the books or loves this kind of story understandably lap the films up enthusiastically. An epic, massive budget presentation of one of the most famous and loved fantasy stories is somewhat irresistible to anyone who likes fantasy stories at all. However, I was a little bit underwhelmed on my first viewing of the films and have remained so with each viewing. They are not bad films at all. They have great spectacle, have some epic action, some scenes with effective humour or emotion and some fine actors but there is a lot I find disappointing. LOTR would be extremely difficult to adapt to film for anybody and I don't think these films do it as well as they could. There is a lot of time wasted unnecessarily and important aspects of story and character are left out or underdeveloped.I find Peter Jackson generally a far from 100% successful director. His version of King Kong is poor and shows his faults even a lot more than the LOTR trilogy. All these Jackson made films are a bit overblown and a little pretentiously directed. Extremely long shots of characters gazing into camera, at each other or into the distance occur so often it is incredible. A great director does not need words to tell a story or convey emotion and the face and eyes of an actor can be used to huge effect. But most shots of characters without dialogue in this trilogy fail to make me feel anything other than they are wasting time! Frodo (Elijah Wood) especially just gazes or gawps for what seems like ages without making me connect with his feelings and without moving the character or story on at all.CGI is the real king in these films and as impressive as many scenes are, it never thrills as much as the real scenery or real action in some older epics. The epic spectacle is therefore not enough to carry me away on its own, it requires great storytelling. Some great storytelling does occur in these films but I do not feel Tolkein's story or characters are done full justice due to Jackson wasting time on 'pretty', glossy, showy film making. A real efficiency and supreme skill was needed to get the most from the source material and this is lacking. For instance, Return of the King misses out important aspects of Aragorn, Feramir and Saruman's stories and I find Frodo comes across as rather petulant, annoying and lacking heroism. Samwise comes across a lot better.A great villain completes a great story. Sauron appears a feeble 'villain' throughout the trilogy. A flaming eye is not exactly Darth Vader! Tolkein created a villain difficult to show effectively on screen and Jackson's presentation of Sauron fails to convey threat or menace at all. Saruman is a good villain and is brilliantly acted by Christopher Lee but has totally insufficient screen time, particularly in the final story where he goes straight to DVD!Overall The Return of the King is easily the weakest of the trilogy for my tastes featuring faults I have listed above, rather overblown CGI action and an extraordinarily dragged out ending.Yes these films are very good but for me they are nowhere near the classics they are reputed to be or that they could have been if perfectly directed.


                
Commenting the first part of this novel I said that it was a real message for peace, but I cannot assert the same for this final one . Although technically this film is one of the best in its special effects, it has too many battles which make it sometimes boring, battle after battle with no space to think or to relax. It also amazed me to see that the villain of this story, i.e. Christopher Lee disappeared with no explanation. I was unsuccessfully looking for him in the film, but later learned that even the same Lee is now arguing for the exclusion of his scenes from this film. Why such a exclusion? It is a real mystery. One can guest more or less the rest of the plot, the good boys winning over the evil. In fact the end of the film is like a poem, Frodo has to go to a kind of a sweet death leaving Sam sad. This scene is certainly unexpected and makes you think that death is fatal but can be welcome when good doing has taken place. In any case, my criticism here does not demerit the success of the whole serial of these three films, but the third one should have been the best and it was not.


                
This movie could really use an EE -- BADLY.  Characters are just picked up and discarded (Eomer, in particular), Eowyn's battle with the Witch King will, with luck, be expanded.  It was over before I knew it and the editing was shabby.  Too many oliphaunts and CGI, atrocious battle tactics on the part of the Rohirrim (sure, charge into a head of 10 story beasts even though we have bows and arrows and can shoot from a distance - sounds good!), meaningless inventions (Arwen's life tied to Ring, the Arwen "to leave or not to leave" flip flop, the Lembas Conspiracy, and that stupid Legolas-Oliphaunt trick), a limp confrontation scene with the king of the dead, no resolution to Saruman (the main bad guy of the first two films, if you've forgotten), and the worst hatchet job on an established fictional character (Denethor, Denethor, Denethor).  Horrible, horrible.  Plus a cheesy bed-jumping scene and coronation where the cheddar flowed in abundance.  It was a mess that I hope the EE will mend somewhat, but there's a lot to fix. A LOT.  A disappointing end to a trilogy that began with a masterpiece in FOTR.On the plus side, David Wenham, Billy Boyd and Sean Astin.  They were brilliant and made it worth spending the money to see it once.  Their performances were true and heartfelt, though Faramir sadly dropped out of the picture because PJ unwisely cut the Houses of Healing sequence.It's not worth the hype and I didn't think this once in a lifetime film event would end so sadly.


                
It is hard to make a fair review based on the shortened version of the movie but I will give it a try.First of all I want to praise the team behind the CGI and especially that of Gollum which is nothing short of perfect. The sound FX crew, costume designers, smiths, makeup artists, sculptors etc are all worthy of praise as well.Unfortunately, all is not well in Peter Jackson's Middle Earth. Many important characters are ill adapted, ill casted and perverted.Take Aragorn for instance, who in the book is a tall, proud and weather bitten man with many hard years of life carved into his body and features; a descendant of kings with great claims to make. In the movies he is of average height, narrow of shoulders and weak of limb, judging from how he moves. His face does not carry the slightest trait of a hard life and his manners are soft and his voice is weak.Take Gimli who in the book is a great dwarven warrior with a passion for hollow halls of stone. In the movies he is perverted into a comic relief character who moves nearly as poorly as a "real" dwarf.Take the Ringwraiths who in the book are imposing figures with dark powers that make their enemies shake with fear. In the movies they are a bunch of sissies who get their asses whooped time and again while actively seeking physical confrontations.Take the elves, who ought to be timeless and beautiful beyond words. In the movies they look ordinary and nearly ugly at times.Take the Orcs who ought to be fearful and cruel warriors with their own cultures, languages and conflicts. In the movies, they are killed as easily as bugs and they move as if they were 100 years old and moreover they do not show off any soul or will of their own.I could go on and on forever with a list of such poor adaptations but will end it here. The point is that fantasy is very much about the individuals who inhabit the world and how some are of greater power and stature than others. This is something which Peter Jackson has not managed to bring to the screen visually at all.What he on the other hand has brought to the screen visually is Sauron himself: the greatest power and fear of Tolkien's Middle Earth compressed into first a mail clad warrior and then a burning vagina revolving on top of Barad Dür like a search light. Whether to laugh or cry at this adaptation is up to the viewer. It is pretty much the abc of horror that what you can imagine is a lot more scary than what you can actually see. And this brings us to my next point, the aurals:It can never be stated too many times how important the aurals are for bringing a world to life and drawing the viewer into it. While the sound effects are very well crafted in Peter Jackson's LOTR, the music is not. In fact, the music is so poorly fitting that it spoils the entire experience. It is too ethereal and carries no dynamics or inspiring rythms and where it tries to do so it is more of a turn off than whatever crap the standard radio station is playing. It is altogether pretentious and the only feeling it successfully conveys is melancholy.Another thing that strikes me is how empty the world is. No wild life, no natural beauty but bare mountains, no hamlets or buildings outside of the cities, no roads, hardly any traits of the civilizations of old and no agricultural signs at all except in the Shire. A few cities and the rest is wasteland.The movies can be summarized as technical master pieces but ill adapted, ill casted and musically disastrous.


                
First of, I LOVED the first two movies.  Well-written, beautifully directed with eye-popping special effects and never boring (despite their length). Well...it doesn't hold true for this one.Yes--the direction is good, the special effects still fantastic...but I was bored.  It had an air of "been there--seen that" about it.  I've seen these special effects, I've seen these creatures...there were no surprises.  And the story moves VERY slowly...much slower than the first two.  Frodo, Sam and Gollum's trip to Mount Doom took FOREVER!  Also Viggo Mortensen (after giving a good performance in the second one) really was lousy this time around.  Orlando Bloom and John Rhys-Davies were good but hardly in it.  The best acting was from Ian McKellan (a tower of strength as Gandalf) and Sean Astin as Sam.  Also it was good to see Liv Tyler and Cate Blanchett back again...and I DID enjoy the battles somewhat...but I was continuously looking at my watch.  And the film has at least FIVE endings!Also the tone of this film was darker than the first two and this film is WAY too violent for a PG-13--this is an R rating all the way.I can only give this a 7.  I just really didn't like it.


                
Return of the King, Extended Edition, is a decent improvement on the theatrical release, except for a couple of small mis-steps.The EE improves the flow of the story immensely, succinctly explaining a lot of points that before seemed a little arbitrary. It extends some crucial parts of the movie to greatly improve the sense of time passing, such as Frodo and Sam crossing Mordor. It includes the much-missed conclusion to Saruman and Wormtongue's story - not in the same style as the book, which depended on the unfilmed (and unfilmable) Scouring of the Shire, but in an appropriate way that stays true to the spirit of the book. (In fact this scene is a good example of the very effective way that the writers collapsed multiple book scenes into one movie scene. Kudos.)The extended cut also gives a lot more personality and interest to some characters; notably Denethor, Steward of Gondor, but others as well. The battles feel more grueling due to subtle extensions here and there.It's still not quite perfect; I still think the role of the dead army was too much, detracting from the efforts of the living warriors. This was probably not easily correctable in the EE, since it would have meant filming some quite substantial additional battle scenes, and further the writers had clearly made a decision to go away from the book version here. Still, I would like to see that improved somehow.The Paths of the Dead itself is extended, but most of this is unnecessary and frankly cheap. Looking back now, the theatrical edition is much superior both for suspense and lack of cheese. I would rather have seen the spooky and sad scene with Bregor's (?) skeleton lying at a the sealed door of some unknown chamber. And if I'm getting fussy, a bit more actual darkness would be nice! There are other niggles, but they decrease in importance and probably only reflect my opinions and personal vision of LotR.In terms of story balance, the EE of RotK was what should have been originally released to theatres. Unfortunately, this would have been impossible as it is an hour longer, and many casual viewers already found it much too long.In any case, the final Extended Edition of Return of the King is absolutely stunning. Where I had previously felt the movie strayed a little too far into traditional "Hollywood blockbuster" territory, the EE now feels balanced, complete, and above all moving and true to the spirit of the book. I thank Mr Jackson, New Line Cinema, JRR Tolkien and everyone else who contributed.For myself, this is the best series of films ever made, and I am quite happy to call Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King a masterpiece, as is the book it was based upon. Film and book snobs be damned, this is an amazing movie.


                
Three years of fuss concluded with Peter Jackson and his army of smiling puppets walking away with the American Academy Awards. I really didn't care that much because Mystic River took the acting awards (quite right too) and frankly 'Master & Commander' & Co weren't strong enough. I'm more than sure a Forrest Gump-esque film would have shattered Jackson's dreams if one was release at the same time as LOTR third installment.Saying all that credit where it is due for saving the best till last! But Hitchock & Scorsese have missed out doing better jobs than this! But I did enjoy the Return of the King, just not THAT much. Problem with doing three films at once is if the acting is bad on one film it's going to be bad on all three!!! It was.... Terrible!But the imagery and sheer scale helps this film gain my approval (not that it matters) as one of the most important films in history.Why didn't I like the trilogy? I don't know! Maybe it's because everyone loved them so damn much and I just cannot see it!Sorry to offend!


                
Well, the trilogy has ended, and it's time for some conclusions. First of all, Return of the King is, IMO, not as good as Fellowship of the Ring. On the other hand, it's definitely better than The Two Towers, which I think is by far the weakest of the three films.All in all Return of the King is certainly a good film, but it's too long, the battle scenes somewhat lack intensity and when it's all over you're left with this lingering "was that it?". Don't get me wrong, I like the film, but it does feel as something of an anti-climax. Perhaps it's simply not possible to transfer the enormity and intensity of what's meant to take place to film. The battle scenes are a bit dull, they lack intensity and realism, which is too bad because the battle scenes are in many ways the most important part of the film. To make it all worse (at least as I see it), they try to make up for it with slapstick, kill count and silly comments from Gimli, who is again reduced to comic relief, as well as a tendency to focus on the "really big stuff" (TM); oliphants, various trolls and the big siege weapons, instead of really following the battle. Also, I find the constant switching between Frodo and Sam and the battles annoying because it breaks up the battle scenes, jerking you out of the action just as it's starting to pull you in. RotK simply doesn't do a good enough job of making you "feel" the intensity of battle. Some movies can almost make you smell the blood, RotK doesn't achieve that, in fact there's hardly any blood at all and often just a lot of CGI (I guess the PG13 rating didn't help in that department). CGI has come far, but battle scenes are still vastly better with real people.Anyway, most of the movie is pretty good, but it never quite achieves "lift off" before it touches down on the ground again. As with the Matrix trilogy, the sequels just don't quite live up to the first, although I will say again that I think RotK is a good, although not brilliant, movie, and definitely better than Two Towers. There's no reason not to watch this film and I'm almost certain it won't be as good on DVD as it is on the big screen (mostly because the CGI and FX are so important), so go see it in a cinema while you have the chance. If you say this is the best movie you've ever seen, however (and it's almost a law of nature that some people will whenever a new LotR flick is out), I suggest you see some more movies. (Yes, I find all the LotR fanboys, and -girls, who uncritically love the movies with a zeal unmatched even by the most die-hard religious fundamentalists, extremely annoying)


                
The Lord of the Rings trilogy will certainly go down as a masterpiece overall.  The third installment picks up where the second left off.  There are battle scenes colossal enough to make it a classic.Spoilers: Both for the review and the film.What I didn't like was the lack of suspense.  It seemed certain throughout the whole movie that Frodo would complete his mission.  Not a single headliner dies.  Frodo loses a finger in a scene and then later we see his hand undamaged.  Even worse is the slow motion homoerotic scenes with Frodo and his Hobbit buddies lolloping in bed together with Gandalf and the other humans looking on gleefully.  I almost thought it was some kind of a joke it was so gaudy.
While these flaws dilapidate the movie I can't say they totally ruin it.  If I ever see it again I won't stick around for the last drippy moments.
I liked all of the Lord Of The Rings films, but this one has to have the best battle scenes in it though and the most stunning special effects in it. The acting was pretty good in the film, and Peter Jackson is a good director.As you may might have known the story carries on from The Two Towers. Frodo, Sam and Gollum are trying to get into Mordor and taking the ring into Mount Doom to destroy evil once and for all. While the others fight off the orcs and the other creatures to defend them.The only part of this film I didn't like, was the ending. It just dragged and dragged for ages. I know that's probably how it ends in the book but come on!. Did the ending have to be 25 minutes long?. It could have easily been shortened down to 10 minutes.Overall, I do think that this film is a very good action/adventure film but it could have got a better score if the ending was a lot shorter.I would give this film a rating of 8/10.


                
Ok just to clear something up. Despite the amazing amount of hype and numerous people saying these film were the best ever, I tried when I watched this and 1st film to watch them with an open mind neither being swayed to thinking there great because everyone else said this or the opposite. But come on, people. I have to say they appear just whizzy special effects lead extreme good versus dark (as in surroundings) ugly evil people (basically Star Wars). The storyline is tame and straighforward and the characters uninteresting. Star Wars is better and there massively overrated as well (if they removed those annoying 2 robots all together). Its basically a good film for kids with all this simplicity and straight good v evil, and I fail to see why so many adults like it so much. None of the three films deserve to be in the top100 if your like and competition of thoughtful, intelligent, well acted, important, sharply written films there. Maybe everyone just likes a straight forward situation of immense good vs terrible evil, so they know who there supporting, rather than the immensely complicated debatable thought provoking events of real life.I guess thats why the genre is called fantasy.


                
Perhaps it was because I wasn't in the best of moods prior to watching the film but I was slightly disappointed with the final part of LotR.I don't think that the makers have done anything differently in style or tone to the first two and I'm sure it is their equal. I think I possibly have Rings fatigue, all the weighty speeches, ham-fisted attempts at comic moments, and truly epic battle scenes have become a bit done for me.I want to stress I still liked the film and maybe if I watch it again my opinion will change. Three hours+ passed really quite quickly, which is always a good sign, and I think it would be spurious to criticise it for going on a bit too long at the end as it is based on a book, loads was cut out from the end as it was and it was necessary to show most of those scenes for narrative closure.The world is a better place for having this trilogy in existence but weighing in over 9 hours long proved just a touch long for this particularly viewer.


                
I have never loved the first two Lord of the Rings movies. I considered them nothing more than a fine fantasy story, with its smart and silly characteristics, too long and seriously overrated. The fact that these films were thoroughly enjoyed by loads of people I can comprehend easily: the movie's theme appeals to all and I can not deny that it is nicely all nicely put together. But it is still far too long as it lacks a certain...intelligence. Coming to the third installment, I sit and stare. Making fun of a movie is quite easy, what's hard is to understand it. I am not trying to say that this here film has left a mark upon me, but merely that some people are wrong and that I may be as well.SpoilersIt's got some strong points, it's got some weak points and overall it's just what I expected it to be. After a rather pathetic beginning, the movie gets off from where the previous one let us. War, freedom, good and evil, love, trust, friendship, maturity, justice and peace. That's what will concern you once you're in this joint. Some impressive scenes, with sparkles of humor and shallow morality will add up into a massive fight. It's never about the outcome, it's about the way you do it, so I will accept the more shameful moments regarding the story. I might say I would want to admire it all, but it's just too much of a contrast between dark and bright. That's all in this movie but not in our hearts or in our world. Are the characters really complex? Is anyone really worth remembering? They are all weak faced with the power of the ring and none impress in this regard. I try to think of a weakness for us all and I can't find it. This fantasy world is supposed to have one evil which really concerns us, with minor "misunderstandings" between people. It's a call for unity, because only through this can we be able to outlive a fight. I fear just that I can not relate to it. I see no war for a common goal. And the problem does not lie around us, it lies within us. We can't find a ring and make all problems disappear after a tremendous quest. That's what makes me feel that The Lord of the Rings is just a story. A long, sporadically remarkable story. But I live in an era of naturalism and realism and I can not accept such a piece of art, as it is, just for the sake of being. I simply can't feel this as a great movie, because so many fates are involved and everything is too perfect. Perfection is bitter sweet, not this film. For me, LoTR is just bitter. But at least not as bitter as the Matrix.Fans will remain fans, detractors will remain detractors. Things don't usually change in life and for that you need to make a great effort. Linear and coherent storytelling adds up in a never ending experience. For most, I am somewhat convinced to say, a superb one. In my heart I feel both joy and pain, because it all means something. The fact that people dream of such a fantasy world, means something. This is not my fantasy world though. This is not my world. 7.5/10


                
As a HUGE fan of the books of JRR Tolkien (IMHO some of the best pieces of literature to grace the world), I was immensely satisfied by the LotR trilogy in general as well as with the finale (Return of the King). It was a journey to Middle-Earth that lasted three years and now that's over I have to say I'm a little sad :(However, as much as I enjoyed the trilogy, I will NOT fall into the trap of irresponsibly naming this "the greatest movie ever", as many other have done. Come on people, you truly believe that ROTK is better than Citizen kane, Casablanca or Gone with the Wind? Why is that? Cause it has awesome effects and large battles?There was a time when I truly believed that if some brillant director (like Oliver Stone) filmed LotR and sticked to the book, making only the changes he had to while remaining TRUE to its spirit, the LotR trilogy could be in fact the greatest movies ever cause the background and story between them are simply legendary and classic. As it is however, Peter Jackson didn't avoid falling into the trap of commercialism, introducing cheesy or cheap scenes where he shouldn't. You know what I'm talking about... Legolas shieldboarding Helms Deep like a power ranger... how can a movie with an elven power ranger be the greatest? Batallions of elves showing up on Helms Deep to fight along with the Rohirrim, negating everything Tolkien had thought about the retreat of the elves and the age of men. Faramir and Theoden protrayed as weak and selfish, instead of the noble characters they were. Etc, etc.I did enjoy all the films as much as I could, despite being a little annoyed by the liberties the director and/or scriptwriters took with the books, liberties that were at times excessive.I think I can count the trilogy as one of my ten favourite films (since it's essentially one large film rather than three), but certainly not the GREATEST film ever made. Lets not confuse some things.


                
The story is interesting and has some merit, but its not the greatest story. As ring stories go, the Islandic Sagas (Tolkins source for some of his ideas) or Wagner's Rings of the Nibelung are much more interesting stories. Why personify evil and divorce it from human nature at all? Albrect's ring (in Das Rheingold) is not evil, but the lust for its power drives gods, giants, dwarfs, and men mad and turns giants into dragons. Its a much deeper story philosophically than Tolkins version. Both Tolkin's book and the movie could have been shortened considerably.... with each new ending of Return of the King, the audience audibly groaned.... not another anti-climax.... Get on with it. I made the mistake a buying the extended version on DVD... A movie that is already too long, made even longer.... I suspect there is a good reason that directors aren't normally allowed to make the final cut -- they like to drag things out too much.and those boring scenes about human / elf love... yawn... Why must we suffer through them! The special features on the DVD -- yawn.


                
I think the Lord of the Ring books are really great, and with a story such as that, and the environments and characters of an awesome tale, you've got that part settled. The actual filming is also impressive, many scenes work really well, but in at the end of the movie Peter Jackson kind of over extends himself a bit. There is crying scene after crying scene, which to me is too much. The ending is very important for a film, and so in my opinion it cannot be given more than a 7.Another thing that bothers me a bit is the academy awards. They mean nothing no more. Even though he might not have deserved them all this year he had to get his 11 awards just to prove that the jury has taste, and to equal it to Ben Hur and... Titanic...(You see what I mean). The Matrix Reloaded/Revolutions didn't even get NOMINATED for best special effects. This is probably because they would have had to win...


                
My summary may be pedestrian, but it's the naked truth. This is the movie you make when you are given millions of dollars and almost two years. It's spectacular, but lacks charm. It's a must see if you are into popcorn cinema, but it shares the same aesthetic of the previous two movies, and it gets tiresome. As an adaptation, it's not perfect, but it's as good as it gets if you take into account how difficult is to make such a big movie.This the latest modern mammoth movie, so take it for what it is. It hasn't been the first, and it won't be the last. Sometimes your jaw will drop, but everybody knows that there is not much merit in making the film looks the way it does. The merit lies in having finished the movie at all.It's almost impossible to write a more complex review and not sound like an pretentious asshole. I had a lot of fun, but something was lacking. Apply this review to parts I & II.RATING: 7.1


                
