Feeling weary and battle-worn, I have just staggered out of the cinema after three and a half hours of special effects creatures fighting other special effects creatures. I had taken refreshments but barely touched them - probably because the film I had watched is one of the most mesmerising, evocative, inspiring, and awesome I have witnessed of any big adventure epic. Not to mention superb ensemble acting, moods that shift effortlessly between mediaeval battles of colossal proportions and convincing bloodshed, beauty and wonderment, fantastic natural and artificial landscapes and cityscapes, touches of humour, well-paced dramatic tension, and human bonding that is moving enough to just let you dry your eyes as the unassuming credits flash by.Return of the King is the greatest of the Tolkien trilogy by New Zealand director Peter Jackson. Although I've seen the other two and read the book, I felt it would also stand alone well enough for people who hadn't done either.The storytelling is much more professional that the first one - which maybe laboured to introduce so much information - or the second one - which has little let up from the tension of long battle scenes. In Return of the King, there is an emotional sting at the start, as we watch the transformation of Gollum from warm, fun-loving guy to murderous, mutated wretch. The movie then moves deftly between different segments of the story - the sadness of the lovely soft-focus Liv Tyler as fated Arwen whose travails and woman's love succeeds in having the Sword that was Broken mended, the comradeship of Sam and Frodo (Sean Astin & Elijah Wood) that is tested to the limits, the strong commanding presence of Gandalf (Ian McKellen) who keeps an eye on things whilst turning in an Oscar-worthy performance, the ingenious and very varied battle scenes, and the mythical cities of that rise out of the screen and provide key plot elements.This is a fairy story of human endeavour, the defeating of power cliques and the triumph of the human spirit that could almost be compared to Wagner's Gotterdammerung. It is a fairy story without any sugary sweetness, a fairy story the likes of which hasn't been told so well before, and is even unlikely to be done so well in the future. The haunting scream of the Nasgul stays with you, the physical attractions are not airbrushed, and the battles are about as far from pantomime characters waving wooden swords as you can get. The ingenious monsters keep you on the edge of your seat. The whole narrative maintains the spirit (if not archival, detailed accuracy) of the original and makes you want to read the book (or read the book again!)The worst I can say about it is that it is maybe a tad long - but not that you'd notice . . .


                
Spoilers herein.This raises the bar on production values, as it certainly is competently made, say, compared to the `Star Wars' stuff. It seems oddly paced, lacking a rhythm, and more importantly lacking the patina of magic that colored the first two. In fact, everything seems brighter this time out.Unlike the battle of the second, they have decided to not have any movie jokes, like the surfer/warrior who winks at the camera. But there is still a variety in tone from place to place as if different directors were involved. I suppose that's true.I remarked on the earlier films that they innovated primarily in how they use the vertical dimension. This third film is even more competent and extreme in that regard. They knew it was a discriminator and exploited it. Unfortunately, the towers and cities and mountain gates all have an unnatural sameness to them, they are photographed with huge vertical sweeps. Even the first ending where everyone bows to the hobbits and there is the obligatory `helicopter' shot, it goes shockingly far beyond what one expects. The way it pulls back fast and swoops reminds that we are used to an eye that is constrained by the aerodynamics of light helicopters.Not so here. When this is considered in hindsight, I'm pretty sure that the high production values won't be noticed; that all the effects and conventions here <U+0096> especially the battle scenes <U+0096> will be seen as borrowed, all except for the exhilarating use of height. That's worth watching. Magic of its own.That magic is enough to carry this project for me. It is clearly Jackson's intent to move his camera in great vertical arcs, usually in ways that no physical camera could. That gives us a fantastic eye. Just a few hours later, I saw `The Lion King' again and noticed that although they were never constrained by physics, they always moved the `camera' in ways we have seen in ordinary `real' films. That's because `Lion' wanted to look real while `Return' wanted to seem ultrareal.Ian McKellen has always puzzled me, he's sort of a working man's John Gielgud, an engineer of the spoken word. Here, he stoops to Alec Guiness' role. A sad way to cap a career.Ted's Evaluation: 3 of 3 <U+0096> Worth watching
The third part in Jackson's trilogy based on the novels written by the great J.R.R Tolkien , picking up shortly after the second one left off . This extraordinary film begins with Frodo (Elijah Wood) , Sam (Sean Astin) along with Gollum/Smeagol (Andy Serkis) continuing the travel towards Mount Doom , the only place where the Ring can be destroyed . Frodo and Sam care the Ring in order to keep it from falling into the hands of its evil creator . Meantime , Gondor is invaded by the Orcs of Mordor and Gandalf (Ian McKellen) and Pippin (Billy Boyd) ride to Minas Tirith . There rules Denethor (John Noble) , father of the deceased Boromir (Sean Bean) , and Faramir (David Wenham) . While Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen) must choose between his two lovers , Eowyn (Miranda Otto) and Arwen(Liv Tyler) . Later on , Aragorn , Legolas (Orlando Jones) , and Gimli (John Rhys Davies) travel to the creepy caves inhabited by the Army of the Dead .This sensational epic adventure is plenty of action , impressive battles , spectacular drama and being pretty entertaining . The movie packs a real sense of wonder and stimulating action set pieces illuminating the full-blown feats of the various protagonists and winding up in overlong battles and a stunning finale . It contains incredible array of technical visual effects by Weta Digital and Weta Workship , among others companies . Sensational cinematography by Andrew Lesnie and spectacular as well as sensitive musical score by Howard Shore , winning deservedly Academy Award . Beautifully realized set design with phenomenal production values . The film provides enough amusement during the three and half hour and stays closer to the novel than any of the former adaptations -mostly animated and in low budget- such as the mediocre effort by Ralph Baski . The motion picture will appeal to Tolkien followers as the neophyte who didn't have seen the previous parts and those unfamiliar with the lengthy literary work . Magnificent direction by Peter Jackson bringing stunningly the imaginary world and mythology of Tolkien to life .


                
Before Peter Jackson's adaptation of The Lord of the Rings trilogy, the world of high fantasy has not been particularly well-served by cinema. The genre was not even really taken seriously in literature until the 1960s. During the 80s, there was a fad for fantasy movies, but while most of these looked nice and were good enough fun, none of them really had magnificence (although the 1981 Excalibur movie comes pretty close). It was not until the first decade of the 20th century that we saw fantasy cinema's rather delayed coming-of-age.As with the first two movies in the trilogy the transition from novel to screenplay is exceptional. There's a lot more action and a lot less dialogue in this one, and yet the plot is still clear and the narrative never feels repetitive. The idea of binding the various story lines together in time – such as when the Witch-King arises near Frodo and Sam, but the tower of green light is seen miles away by Pippin – are great for building up the tension. They also really help to establish this vision of Middle Earth as a real place with vast dimensions.And again Jackson proves himself to be an action director with that little extra flair of intelligence. At first glance his work seems very much aimed at those with short attention spans, but there is so much loaded into each and every shot, the camera following an orc as he falls to the ground, or coming to rest upon a woman holding a baby as panic erupts in the city. His horror-tinged imagining of certain scenes is truly unnerving.There is some all-round improved acting in this instalment. Perhaps the years wrapped up in the production were taking the necessary toll on the cast. There are some truly heartfelt moments from Bernard Hill and a wonderfully spirited turn from Miranda Otto. For me, Billy Boyd always stood out as the finest of the hobbit performers, and this is the movie where he comes to the forefront, demonstrating great dignity and emotion. The best performance however, as previously, belongs to Ian McKellen as Gandalf. There's something strangely knowing in his final scene.One of the unfortunate things about The Return of the King is that it suffers worse than the first two movies from a lack of dignity at certain times. The CGI Gollum is too cutesy and it's hard to believe in him as an antagonist, although funnily enough the glimpse we get of partly-transformed Smeagol biting into a fish with Andy Serkis in prosthetics would have been perfect for the whole thing. Some of the most serious bits become silly. I remember laughing out loud in the cinema when Gandalf says "So passes Denethor<U+0085>" when the man is still pathetically running around in flames.But by-and-large, this is an exceptional production, with its most outstanding touches in the way the whole thing has been put together. When the beacons are lit stretching a line across a mountain range, it's done in such a smooth, rhythmic way we are simultaneously impressed by the immense scale, the beauty of the landscape and the sheer brilliance of it as a means of communication. When Pippin's haunting song continues in the background as the men of Gondor ride off to their doom, we feel the depth of what is going on in a way the images alone could not impart. This is the kind of thinking you don't see in those numerous 80s fantasy movies, or in sci-fi's big trilogy, Star Wars. The Lord of the Rings movies put us right within both the excitement and the sadness of the story, for me with greater weight than Tolkien himself achieved. It elevates this above being merely another CGI action flick and grants the fantasy genre a status and stature it has never enjoyed before.


                
I read LOTR for the first time about 25 years ago, at a time when you had to look for the book in the darkest corner of your local bookstore. It was a time when reading SF or Fantasy resulted in funny looks from your pals, and raised eyebrows from your teachers.Now Peter Jackson turned this book into a mass phenomenon, and it is suddenly very trendy to out yourself as a LOTR fan. I have watched the directors cut of the first two parts at least ten times on DVD. Both extended versions are very good, and I do not know which one to prefer. My expectations for the third part were of course very high. After all, Peter Jackson liked it best, so it should be the best part of the trilogy.However, I do not think it is better than the first two parts. It is certainly a very good movie, but there are parts, which I did not like. This review contains spoilers, is more a nit picker's comment, and may also not be very helpful for people without a certain background knowledge of the books of Tolkien.1. Intro: Each of the three parts starts with an intro. In the first we see and here the background story on the war against Sauron with Gil Galad and Elendil. Brilliant. In the second, we see Gandalfs fight with the Balrog to a wonderful soundtrack. Brilliant. And in the third? Smeagols transformation into Gollum, mainly pretty disgusting...and not necessary for the understanding of the plot (we heard all about that already in the second part). Also, I found the acting not convincing. All together a week start, and not in the same league as the first parts.2. Isengard scene: Where was Saruman? What was that scene for? Just for Pippin to find the Palanthir in the muck? I surely hope that we get to see more on the DVD.3. To much of weary, dirty hobbits in the mud. The pacing is pretty slow, Gollum's schizophrenia was well established in part II. Not necessary for the plot and the movie.4. Arwen: My most loathed character of all three movies. Named third in the credits for a few unnecessary scenes. She acts like a young American girl (what she is) and not like a three thousand year old grand-grand-grand-grand-grand-grand-grand-grand-aunt of Aragorn. What a difference in the few scenes we see with Galadriel!5. Aragorn: The title is the Return of the king. However, Aragorn does not get much to play this role. In the book, he challenges Sauron in the Palanthir and announces his return, whilst in the movie, he can barely hold the thing, and gets unconscious looking at it. I look forward to the DVD to hear Jacksons explanation of this unnecessary change. Also the path of the death story line is not convincing. If you read this in the book, it has a different flavour to it. The Death never fought in Minas Tirith, but for the movie it may have been useful, since it allowed to clean Minas Tirith of Orcs within a few seconds (Orcs, who had no business being there in the first place!). The unforgivable omission in Aragorn's character is that they did not show him as a healer. The Hands of the King are the Hands of a Healer. This is one of the most important parts of the third book, because it establishes Aragorn's right to the throne of Gondor, and gives him almost God like powers. To leave that out whilst wasting so much time on other redundant parts is very sad.6. Battle scenes: I must admit that the attack of the Rohirim is one of the best scenes in all three movies. (and Theoden a much better king than Aragorn, it was the other way round in the Two Towers! So Aragorn did not develop whilst Theoden did). But there is too much fighting. Too many lovely details of Orc gimmicks. From a story tellers point of few, the siege of Minas Tirith (saved by the cavalry!) is a larger copy of the siege of Helm's deep (saved by...the cavalry). In the book, the focus is not so much on this battle. It is a small part of the Return of the King (albeit a highlight), but in the movie, the battle seems to never end, the Orcs conquer almost the entire city (they do not even enter in the book), and Gandalf has lost his superior, god like powers of the book (after all, he is a Maiar, a sort of lesser angel), except in his lonely charge to help the returning Faramir.7. Denethor: What a caricature of the figure in the book! The steward is portrayed as a Shakespearean Richard III type villain, who is totally mad. Nobody bothers to explain, that he is fighting with Sauron in his personal Palanthir (just to have the power to look into such a thing repeatedly and NOT betray his people is something in his favour...)8. The fight with the Witch king: Very good movie adaptation, but still one of Tolkien's inconclusive scenes. At Amon Sul in the first movie, Aragorn chases away the witch king and four other wraiths with a burning stick and a lesser sword (although the ONE Ring was within inches of their grasp!). On the Pellenor field, the same Witch King is almost as powerful as Sauron himself, and no man can kill or defeat him. Why and where has he gained so much power?9. In the trailer we see Theoden knighting Merry on the top of Edoras. Did I miss this in the movie?10. Shelop's Lair. All together a very good adaptation, three nit picking comments: Shelop smells strongly in the book, so it is unlikely she could sneak up on Frodo like in the movie. In the movie she stings him in the chest or back (clearly in the middle of his body). But there he should be protected by his Mithril chain mail! Also, Sam could not get the ring out without destroying the cocoon.11. Finally, why on Middle earth did they not use the eagles in the first place for this quest? I am sure Gwaihir, or what his name is, would be understanding enough to fly Frodo from Rivendell to Mordor, if this would save Middle Earth. But this is of course a question, I should have asked Tolkien 25 years ago...Bottom line: I will wait eagerly for the extended DVD. Hopefully (as before with Lorien in part I and Treebeard in part II), this will add the much needed depths to the movie.
In Return of the King - which follows the book (that I have not read, though heard what is in it that is not in the film) as close if not closer than the past two - co-writer/co-producer/director Peter Jackson brings Tolkien's grand tale of the quest to destroy the ring to an end.  The story strands follow along the similar linear paths of the others, and it is done so with an equal worth in entertainment.  Frodo, Sam and Gollum's path to Mordor unfolds as almost something of a love triangle for the ring; Merry and Pippen follow their own tales towards the great battle; Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and all the dwellers of middle earth prepare for the swarm of the terrors of Sauron.  There is much praise that should be given to Jackson and his crew/cast on not just the worth of Return of the King, but to what is now the entire saga of the Lord of the Rings as a whole.  Though the film does carry quite a load to it (at three hours and twenty-one minutes it's the longest of the three in theatrical form, and it definitely does go on at least ten to fifteen minutes longer than it should), and expands and deflates on the details of some characters (i.e. Saruman is nowhere in sight in this version, while Arwen gets more than what is from the original work), there are plenty of rousing scenes and sequences, terrific battles, and a grasp on the visual effects as a whole that don't let up.  In all, ROTK is on the level with Fellowship and Two Towers, making the parts as good as the whole. This is something that only several other filmmakers can make a claim to, that one film does not bring on a let down from the expectations that preceded it.  It's the kind of film I'll want to see again, however it would be very difficult to sit through it in one place.  Grade: A (both as a picture in and of itself, and overall on the three epics combined)


                
An adventure movie to match the great ones of the past, and the one to beat for the future. The culmination of this ambitious trilogy is more than fitting; it surpasses the first two films by quite a distance. Almost nothing disappointed or bothered me. All parts of the story were equally interesting. It was sweeping, it was involving, it was beautiful. One of the few thing I would complain about is the villain. Sauron is boring and more or less unseen. He does not feel very threatening. And his army of orcs has been dull since the first film. They're just not very interesting creatures. Fortunately, The Return of the King really makes up for these monsters with a gallery of better ones. Some of them have been present in the other two films, trolls and those flying dragons that the ring wraiths ride on. They're more present here, however. Even better, though, those gigantic elephants, ten times the size of a normal one. Oh, man, those are cool. Star Wars fans might grumble that they were too much like the AT-AT walkers from Empire, and they are. One scene where Legolas, the elf, triumphs over one of them feels like a sped up version of Luke Skywalker's attack. But the very best thing is a giant spider. Everyone knows that there was originally a giant spider on skull island in King Kong, cut from the film because it really disturbed a test audience. Seeing the spider in Return of the King is like having that famous piece of lost footage restored. When all three films are finally out on their special edition DVDs, I'm going to spend a month combing through them to see whether or not the entire series of films isn't just as good as this one, or perhaps as good as many of my younger friends have sworn they were.


                
The high rating of this movie baffles me. While it had superb special effects and above average acting, it failed miserably in telling the story. I was extremely disappointed. I adored the first film in the trilogy, understanding that you cannot include everything in a movie that is in a book. The second film was also excellent, although it began to try too hard to be important and profound. This last installment was intensely boring at times as it strived to be profound. This could have been a great movie, as it so often depicted scenes according to my imagination. Unfortunately, while describing the world it lost the essence of the story. The movie seemed to lose its way not only with pace, but with its heart. This marvelous story of extraordinary effort by the gifted and those less so to face head on an evil of incredible proportions went astray at too many crucial points. Granted it hit the mark in places, but it in others it almost seemed to take the credit from the valiant and place it solely on supernatural and circumstance.


                
I think that this movie is overrated, it's a great movie, clearly worth seeing, but it's overrated, to ment people hasn't read the book by J. R. R. Tolkin and so they think that the end of the story is like it is the movie, but really there are missing about one hundred page from the book, that in the book are some of the best part I think, when they return to the shier and finds Salomon how has "destroid" the peace in the shier, it's a great part of the book, and it isn't in the movie. In the movie they are just retuning to the peaceful shier they leaf, and Tolkin is in the book trying to say (after my opinion)that there personalty chanced a lot, and also did the world around them, so he tried to say that, you aren't the only thing that chance in your life. So I think that Tolkin is turning in his grave. Not that Peter Jackson didn't make a great movie that will go over in history as one of the best, I just think he leaf out a very important part of the story. I gave it an 8, I think it's fair.


                
Let me explain the action sequences in the first two Lord of the Rings movies. In The Fellowship of the Ring, there wasn't much action, just mostly running. In The Two Towers, it was fighting without much gore included. The third was simply mind-blowing with amazing fight scenes, and pretty much all the violence you could imagine. Don't get me wrong, violence truly isn't everything in a movie. But this had excellent special effects and fight scenes. This is a movie that will thoroughly spend 200 minutes of your time, and it's usually hard to find a movie like that. This movie is rare, adventurous, and enjoyable. Not a kid's movie.


                
Well, I think I said in my review of TTT that I was afraid that Jackson and company wouldn't be able to fit in all that was left. Now, though I have not seen the extended cut (longer than the cut of _Napoleon_, I believe!), it looks like they added much of it back there.As a Tolkien geek of 30+ years I was greatly impressed by these films even though I miss much of the subtlety of the book itself. However, that subtlety is not entirely lost; instead, it is often taken up in the acting. Bernard Hill and Miranda Otto actually make *more* of their characters than the books do. All of the Hobbits are fine, Andy Serkis is better than fine, and Ian Holm, bless him, gives all the young ones lessons in sly scene stealing. Ian McKellen is a bit too subdued at times, but when he hits the mark he's very powerful. Elves are basically impossible to play, but all of the actors in those roles do well even if Orlando Bloom is a bit callow.The revelation throughout all three films, though, is Viggo Mortensen. I hated him immediately upon his entrance in the first film, then quickly started to reassess as the film moved on. I quickly realized that he managed to hit every single one of even the deepest notes of the character, a man who is not only skilled beyond his first appearance but whose nature as a hero and a king is based in millennia of history and inheritance. It is an amazing performance, one of the best I have ever seen, and so strong that even though the end of the film was naturally without him I missed his character, just as I do every time I read the book.So, enjoy the CGI. But watch the acting - that's where you'll get the depth of the tale.


                
Frodo, Sam and Gollum continue their quest for Mordor to destroy the one ring while the Battle for Middle Earth rages on.The final part of Peter Jackson's epic trilogy was at the time, the highest grossing film ever to grace our screens and up until this film, fan hype and speculation was rightfully anticipating how the magician Jackson would conclude the wonderfully courageous adaptation of J.R.R Tolkien's novel.The previous release, The Two Towers, was showcased by an eccentric display by the director, orchestrating a once more beautifully cinematic approach to scenery and balancing it with a blend of tight and exciting war and fantasy concepts. He proved The Fellowship was no fluke and maintaining his flow in the sequel, the New Zealander was able to carry forth this momentum into the final part with the same vigour and energy as his previous two smashes. There are certainly cases here for the best shots of the entire trilogy. When Frodo is walking slowly and there is a huge spider looming makes great tension but, on a personal level, the best part of the entire series comes near to the end when Frodo and Sam are so very close to banishing the ring for good, and with one simple close shot, Jackson captures Frodo's feelings of desire and madness, which makes for a heart stopping and riveting twist.Peter Jackson has certainly taken the magic of the novels and twisted and shot them into fan's favourites. The complexity of the battle sequences, the close eye upon constant political and action ideologies and weaving a tight knot around such a huge crew is a fantastic achievement and is only bettered by the fact he has made the legendary books into films for anyone of any age, for anytime of the year and for any situation. There is humour, romance, action, war, drama and significantly a wonderful sense of escapism with the fantasy genre, astounding stuff to recapture the critically acclaimed mind of J.R.R Tolkien's work.One huge input into the success which still has fans in awe is the CGI Andy Serkis who blew audiences away with that voice and self manipulation. Smeagol opens proceedings here as his friend discovers the one ring at the bottom of the lake. Up to this stage we are fully aware of the ring's pull over Gollum, but there is a delightful shock in store when the real Andy Serkis sets his eyes upon it in his friend's hand. A wonderfully cut montage sees Gollum up the present and his still changing debate over how his master affects him.Like the previous two films, there are multiple stories with the fellowship in the battle for Middle Earth, Frodo and Sam on their quest whilst there are numerous activities in the different parts of the country. The multiple concepts and issues flying around are smartly condensed into manageable moments of brilliance. Jackson has easily made the best of the three here, and rightfully and finally clinched his Oscar.


                
WARNING: I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.To tell the truth, I was actually very sad when I finished this film because it meant the fun of the Lord of the Rings series was over. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King was no doubt about it the best movie in the series and an excellent way to end a wonderful, captivating adventure.The acting from all three was A+, the suspense was A+, the battle sequences A+, and everything else was practically perfect in a sense, and I enjoyed it from beginning to end because of how well done it was. I loved how this movie makes you actually notice how all the characters have roughly changed through out their journey and how most of them's true colors show in this final film. Plus, the whole thing about Frodo writing a book and letting Sam be able to finish the last pages was an awesome script choice. I also loved how Smeagol takes a turn for the worse and battles it out with Frodo for the ring.Everything about The Lord of the Rings series is absolutely wonderful and this movie is incredibly incredible. I watched all three in one day, when I wasn't even expecting to like the first one, and now I consider them superb and well worth all the acclaim they receive. They'll remain in my mind for years to come, and I plan on watching them many more times in my life. I can't believe I'm saying this, but I love the Lord of the Rings!
Precognitive Spoilers. Okay, tattered robes deployed? <U+0096> check; multiple story lines at the ready to entwine and entangle viewers? <U+0096> check; sets constructed on a budget which would've stamped out hunger in Ethiopia? <U+0096> check; everyone smeared in poo? <U+0096> check <U+0096> let's roll!Trust me, Gentle Viewer, if you've not seen the first two installments of this bloated, beguiling masterpiece, or if you've not read the rambling, roiling Lord Of The Rings book (often regarded as a 'trilogy'), do not watch The Return Of The King. It will only necessitate calling the Dial-A-Geek Hotline to elicit logical explanations as to how a supernatural being could manifest itself as an all-seeing Eye and then have the Abbot&Costello mentality to only monitor the spots where this Eye is actually "looking"; and why Gandalf, who rescued Frodo from Mount Doom at movie's end with the aid of deus ex machina giant eagles, could not have done the same three hours ago and *flown* Frodo to Mount Doom in the first place; and why Viggo looks so masculine in Return Of The King and so uber-gay in Hidalgo. Us outsiders to the Dungeons & Dragons phenomenon will never know<U+0085>If taken as a movie unto itself, it is merely noteworthy, though disjointed. But this movie should be regarded as the last three hours of a grand tale so epic and awe-inspiring that it *needed* nine hours to faithfully tell it. (Even so, we get the superfreaks complaining that it was *too short*!). Of the eight endings in the film, there was one in which Aragorn actually found some soap. There was also another ending in which Jackson let slide the fact that we could clearly distinguish (in rear views) the child-actors in place of Hobbits; thrown in somewhere was a happy ending, a sad ending, a token African-American ending and one which involved everyone jumping on Frodo's bed in slow motion like a lingerie ad.I must admit to shedding a lonely tear whenever I think of how massive the delight of J.R.R. Tolkein might have been had he the opportunity to see his masterpiece transformed into such a <U+0096> well, a masterpiece. Peter Jackson is a genius <U+0096> there's no doubt about that. And these Rings films are unparalleled in cinematic history. Words fail. The wealth of creative staff employed by Jackson brought a depth to the visualization of Tolkein's wonders that Tolkein himself would never have had the capacity to envision <U+0096> case in point: those elephantine war-chariots. Take a close look at their armaments and battle-ornamentation and then imagine a lad from 1950's British society seeing this on screen <U+0096> to him, this "reality" would be literally as magical as the tale he was telling.Nonetheless, I find I am constantly torn between piling praise on the herculean movie-making task that Jackson succeeded in fulfilling, and nitpicking plot holes in the storyline, which is no fault of Jackson's, and which, if Jackson is to remain faithful to the book, must necessarily be integral to the film's storyline. For example, if all elves are immortal, shouldn't they all attain a certain age and then stop aging? Ultimately, your father should end up looking exactly like your brother - and fathers and daughters would look like brothers and sisters <U+0096> correct? Yet why does Elrond look like Liv Tyler's drunken, old, cross-dressing uncle? And why should they all go sailing off somewhere into the sunset in order to be immortal? Immortal is immortal, no matter *where* you spend your days cross-dressing.In Two Towers, why is Theoden's Kingdom located so far from their stronghold, Helm's Deep? In order to retreat to this supposedly strategic bastion, one must put the lives of the whole kingdom at stake by taking women and children over unprotected miles of open ground <U+0096> good strategy! Wouldn't it make better sense to simply make your kingdom's residence at Helm's Deep?And those Dead Souls from the Mountain <U+0096> did they really have to take a BOAT to the battle at Pelennor Fields?And I cannot, cannot, CANNOT, stomach predestination in any form; too much prophesying and foretelling and precognition and idiot phrases like, "What does your heart tell you?" If Elrond foresaw Frodo's demise in delivering the Ring to Mount Thunder (Galadriel tells him this via some kind of mind-meld in Two Towers) - well, why go at all? Oh, that's right: because we have the power to CHANGE our destiny <U+0096> well then, all your prophesying and soothsaying is HEARSAY anyway if you're going to adopt that standpoint!Whenever Theoden shouts orders amidst a battle, or when Saruman speaks to 10,000 slavering orcs, I'm reminded of Monty Python's Life Of Brian, where Jesus speaks to the multitudes and those in the back are yelling, "Speak Up!" and "He said, 'Blessed are the cheesemakers!'".Inconsistency: In Two Towers, those elephantine beasts are called "oliphaunts" by Sam, yet these same beasts are called "mumakil" in Return Of The King. Tolkien did not describe either beast in detail in the book. The biggest question of all, surrounding this whole shebang, is, of course, if a supernatural entity has the wherewithal to forge a talisman of illimitable power <U+0096> The One Ring, that which all the poking and puking is over <U+0096> upon "losing" it (which would seem almost impossible in the first place, for a being who can "sense" The Ring's presence) <U+0096> well, why not simply forge another? End of story.Poor Frodo and Viggo and Don Gandalfino, when all they had to do was tell the Big Dark Guy to make another ring and leave us be; instead spending three years putting on the sour pusses and being covered in poo. Anyone got the Dial-A-Geek hotline number?(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)


                
The final episode of Peter Jackson's telling of the JRR Tolkien classic comes to screen.Return of the King is the big wrap-up to this landmark project. The filmmakers have done an excellent job bringing this "unfilmable" project to screen. As always, they deserve kudos for such a beautifully crafter work. From the set designs to the costumes to the scenery, the CGI, special effects, sound, all of these elements are Oscar-worthy and far surpass anything ever shown on screen.The performances, too, are stellar. Ian McKellan, Viggo Mortensen, Miranda Otto, Elijah Wood, Sean Astin, and Andy Serkis are all excellent. Even the supporting cast gives it their all. It is a shame Christopher Lee didn't make the final cut, but alas, it wasn't meant to be.Even with all these kudos, this film still has problems.The sequence with the Palantir in Edoras is very silly, I have heard others call it the "Glowing Bowling Ball of Doom". Rather sloppy for the quality the filmmakers have shown to date. And the ghost army is way too ... phosphorous and Disney-like.But beyond various technical flaws, the real problem is both the rush to the ending, and the drawn-out portion after the ending. For the former, we have the tense lead-up to the great Battle of the Pellenor Fields, which by itself is unlike anything ever put on film before. We have Frodo and Sam facing great dangers all by themselves. Then, suddenly, Frodo and Sam are back on track, the battle is over, and we rush right along to the climax of the film. That whole portion is simply rushed right along.So then we have the Big Finale ... and fifteen more minutes of movie (at least). Depending on how you count, there are five or six endings of the film. Here, unlike anywhere else, the writers have actually been too faithful to JRR Tolkien. His books also end (or not) in this fashion, and that is acceptable in a book, but not in a movie. The multiple endings simply drag us along to collapse. PJ should have kept some of that footage for a future DVD release.Even with these flaws, I have a hard time grading this movie poorly. I am, after all, a huge fan of LOTR and PJ. So I am cutting him some slack, and give the film 9 out of 10.


                
I think the vast majority of people who have seen and love the LOTR trilogy fell in love with it from the get go with the 1st film TFOTR. I, however, wasn't so sure when I first saw the Fellowship. I enjoyed it, yes, but elements of that film left me somewhat disappointed and in particular my preconceived feeling of what its general tone would/should be like wasn't satisfied. Now, some years on, as the proud owner of the special extended edition dvds I can announce that the series has grown on me somewhat and I find all three movies an immensely satisfying experience to sit through. I could criticize the Return of the King in a nit-picking manner, it is far from perfect, but as we all know, nothing is perfect. What appeals to me most in this film is its beautiful nature, which will shine through for many years to come. And isn't the nature of things that which truly matters. Themetically strong, and new to the series, emotionally powerful, ROTK is a worthy conclusion to the trilogy. Never have I witnessed the theme of death dealt with in such a positive manner, which works for me, although it's true I'm not on my way to A&E as I write this. Congratulations to Mr Jackson and all involved in the making of this trilogy and the bringing to life of Middle Earth. Their efforts have produced something special.Lastly, although ROTK would narrowly miss out on my top 5, probably pushed out by Luke's Cool Hand (see what I did there?), I'm delighted to see it ranked #2 here on IMDb.


                
December 19th, 2001   The day that the first installment of the wildly popular Lord Of The Rings Trilogy was delivered to us from New Zealand born director Peter Jackson, The Lord Of The Rings: The Fellowship Of The Ring. It was also on that day that a jumpstart to a whole new generation of rabid fan boys was unleashed, and a whole new meaning to the word epic was born.
One year soon passed, marking the arrival of the second part of the epic trilogy, The Lord Of The Rings: The Two Towers.  While not as good as FoTR, TTT was a very good installment that introduced us to a whole new world of CGI characters - Gollum.  Finally, after another agonizing yearlong wait; The Lord Of The Rings: The Return Of The King arrived, setting the standard on how to properly release (and end) a trilogy.Unless you've been living under a rock for the past 3 years, the whole plot of The Lord Of The Rings trilogy is about a Hobbit named Frodo Baggins who is sent on an agonizing and rough journey to destroy `the one ring' that holds the power to all Middle Earth.  After creating a fellowship of the ring, Frodo and the newly found fellowship continue the journey to Mount Doom - the one place where the ring can be destroyed. The fellowship soon gets split up, leaving Sam and Frodo all alone.  Both Sam and Frodo then have a run in with Gollum, the former possessor of the ring.  After a brief fight, Gollum then reluctantly agrees to help Frodo on his quest. However, during the painstaking journey, Gollum soon becomes entranced by the ring's power once again, secretly turning his back on Frodo.  All right, so that was FoTR and TTT.  RoTK is where we finally see Frodo destroy the ring (If you did not know this, then I have pity on your poor soul.  It's how they get there that matters) and finish his book (Also titled The Lord Of The Rings)Regarding the Oscars, I'd say RoTK is a shoe-in for Best Picture.  Out of the all the other possible nominees, this one is most deserving, as both its technical merit and entertainment value deliver like no other Best Picture nominee I've seen.  So now that Best Picture is taken care of, what's left? The stunning direction by Peter Jackson? Of course!  The beautiful and poetic score by Howard Shore? Without a doubt.  The dazzling New Zealand cinematography? Flawless.  Or how about the special effects used to create Gollum and the rest of the movie? Oh heck, every technical aspect of this movie is perfect.  I believe Elvis Mitchell from the New York Times summed it up when he said, ' King is the product of impressive craft and energy.'Remember Helms Deep from The Two Towers? Ha! The battle on Pellenor Fields ups the ante and absolutely CRUSHES Helm's Deep.  It is quite possibly the best fight scene I have ever witnessed.  Not once did I get bored or want it to end.  In short, it's breathtaking.  There will most likely be countless studios trying to duplicate and make a better fight scene than this one, but quite frankly, I don't think it will ever be beaten.See this in theatres, folks.  Not even a big screen TV and surround sound system can match this theatrical experience.Technical details aside, allow me to mention the acting.  How I loved the acting here (Well, all but one performance which will be mentioned later) There is not a doubt in my mind that someone here will win an acting award - particularly Sean Astin as Sam, Elijah Wood as Frodo and Ian McKellen as Gandalf.  I have not yet had the chance to read the highly acclaimed books, but I'm sure the performances are worthy and ones that would make JRR Tolkien happy if he were alive today.I also just want to take time and mention a performance that I'm sure is going to get overlooked.  Billy Boyd as Pippin.  I quite liked the guy here. He added something special to the third installment, with his appearances being high up on my list of favorite moments.  His song playing in the background to when the Orcs arrived on land was beautiful.
When it comes to complaints, I have only one, but it is enough to bring down the overall score.  That one minor complaint involves the very stupid and pointless role of Arwen.  Why Peter Jackson decided to keep her in this movie is beyond me.  She added nothing at all.  Also, it didn't really bother me, but I know it will for some - and that's the butt numbing runtime of 201 minutes, nearly the length of FoTR's Extended Edition.
In conclusion, I am still undecided as to with LoTR is better. A re-watch on FoTR might be in order, but for now I think I'll give the slight edge to RoTK.  Regardless of who gets top spot, it's really hard to believe that the journey of Frodo Baggins is over.  A spectacular finale to a wonderful trilogy that is sure to be remembered for years to come.  Take that Matrix Revolutions.


                
Watching this beautiful creation was one of the most glorious things i have ever witnessed in my life. There is virtually nothing wrong with this masterpiece, literally everything has been pushed to its most absolute limit, the actors, the music, the script, the direction, costume design, cinematography, editing, everything is perfect, everything is beautiful, definitely one of the best films ever made, a colossus amongst films. The number of times i stood amassed with a tear in my eye while watching this beauty is astonishing, i'm sure everyone knows about the Lord of the rings by now, i'm only doing this review for s#!tt$ and giggles. Truly this is one of the most epic films ever in cinematic history.


                
The end of Middle-Earth draws near as the armies of orcs march against Minas Tirith, the great city of Gondor and the last bastion of Men, while at the same time Frodo and Sam have reached the borders of Mordor with their guide Gollum. Darkness spreads and all hope seems to wane, for even if the diminishing strength of Men were to prevail against crushing odds, their fate rests on the shoulders of a hobbit, the smallest of beings.The Return of the King is an epic conclusion to The Lord of the Rings trilogy. All the individual plot lines come crashing together as we witness the last great battle between the forces of good and evil. This is grand fantasy at its finest. Every time you're allowed to draw breath and every time you hold your breath in fear and terror, there's something new and even more majestic waiting to reveal itself. The Battle of the Pelennor Fields in front of Minas Tirith is probably the finest individual battle scene I've ever seen put on film. An opinion shared by many. And the thing is, it has aged remarkably well. Here and there you can spot the use of CGI, but not often. I've seen big budget movies this year, full twelve years later, which look noticeably worse than this film in that regard.I also really like how the scale shows not just in battle scenes but in every other aspect as well. The dialogues are full of emotions, great speeches, deep feelings, talks about fate, the elusiveness of hope, the strength of belief. Sure, it's escapism, but at its finest. This movie is the prime example of why we still tell stories to ourselves.And yeah, I'm the first to admit that this is the most flawed film in the trilogy. They have turned Gimli into a complete joke character at this point. There are perhaps one or two endings too many. The ghost army subplot comes a bit out of nowhere. The emotions do boil over a touch too much. But in the end, I still love this film and this world. It is an archetype, an ideal against which all alike stories are measured.The Return of the King is my least favourite film in The Lord of the Rings trilogy. It's still easily one of my favourite movies, one of the finest epic movies ever made and more than worthy of all its praise.


                
Lord of the ring movie is one of the best movies! it's great. wonderful to watch! great fighting scenes. great action. acting is good. fun.. great story. awesome movie must watch movie one of the best series ever made!the great thing in the movie is that we don't get bored while watching it! its a really long movie .. still i love to watch it! Because as said lots of fun and really lots of adventure in the movie to see! Great magic and great fighting scene make movie great! The elf who is two minded is great to watch! its a really good must watch the movie! movie makes us laugh , fill adventure , great action and in the last great performance by all actor! great animation too. it a really good movie to watch! different creature is designed well.
The core of the final film in Peter Jackson's mammoth 'Lord of the Rings' series is Frodo's journey to destroy the Ring, assisted by Sam and opposed by the ever-desperate Gollum.  At the end of 'The Two Towers', Gollum had sworn to kill the hobbits and take the ring for himself - at the start of this film they (or at least, Frodo) still see him as a friend.  So there's scope for conflict there which is exploited admirably.The other main storyline concerns the quest of Aragorn to reclaim his crown - will the king overcome all enemies and claim his birthright?  'The Return of the King' is darker and more bloody than the preceding films as the full force of Sauron and the enemies of man, elf, dwarf, and hobbit regroup and find their strength.We see a decaying Gondor lost somewhere in time, with Denethor (powerfully played by John Noble) wandering in distain of his surviving son, Faramir, and mourning the loss of his great child Boromir.  We see the young hobbits Merry and Pippin both grow up and serve with distinction in battle, while Gandalf, now the all-powerful white wizard, rallies the armies to victory.Four scenes stand out for me - Aragorn and Legolas commanding the hidden armies to join their king one last time; Frodo's battle with the spider; the final confrontation between Frodo, Gollum and the Ring (although I was disappointed at the decision to make the last key fight an invisible one); and the final grateful bow of Aragorn to his little friends.Is 'Return of the King' exciting?  Yes, there are many meaty battles and situations here.  Is it involving and touching?  Yes - with Elijah Wood and Sean Astin giving their all as Frodo and Sam, and even Pippin making good. Not to mention the resolution of the story of Arwen and Aragorn.  Is it the best film of the three?  I'm not sure.  For me, the huge scale of the first film, the beauty of Rivendell, the innocence of Middle Earth, the heart-stopping appearance of the Balrog, possibly had the edge.  Is this version of 'The Lord of the Rings' really worth the hype?  As a nine-hours plus film, undoubtedly.


                
I'm not going to tell you about the story. I'm not going to tell you about the special f/x either. I'm just telling you, that Peter Jackson did it. He did an almos perfect trilogy, that can easily be compared with the great ones, like "Indiana Jones", "Star Wars" or "The Godfather" (although the third one kinda sucked, but well...).The Return of the King is not only the best part of the trilogy, no, it also proves, how much a trilogy can become a legend or die painfully, with the last part. The Matrix Revolutions was not a bad movie, but it still was a disapointment. The Return of the Kings is quite the opposite. It makes the whole trilogy "shine", because everything is well balanced. All the characters have their part. The action is amazing. The ending, and thats very important, is long! Not too long, but long enough to satisfy you. It's not like: The ring is destroyed. Great. Thanks. Good Bye! No, it's perfectly balanced, without getting to annoying and boring. The only bad thing about the final chapter is, that now it's over. If you liked the first two movies, you will love this one. This is definitely movie history!
Well done P.J. And now make that damn Hobbit movie!9/10 (not the ten, because that's what the extended will get)


                
I really like all of the serries and I watched them several times. Movies like Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter brings you to their world


                
I'd been following Lord of the Rings since the 2001 film and had a lot of hopes for the third film. And they were fulfilled here. It's easily the longest and there were plenty of action sequences, but it was all worth it. This was also the only one of the trilogy I had seen in theaters. What a hit! Everyone was cheering at the appropriate times and it was such a ride. For both the audience and the main characters. The ending was both happy and sad and it was a grand conclusion that could outdo Return of the Jedi. Who knows, maybe it did. Peter Jackson, this is your best work. It's the 2000s answer to the original Star Wars trilogy. And the loose ends are all tied up. Do yourself a favor and watch it.


                
You must have heard the name of the famous movies "The Lord Of The Rings'' Even if you have not been interested in movies so far.Three very successful movies and award winning-films including The Fellowship of the Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King are based on a novel which was written by Tolkien. The story takes place in a land called Middle-Earth and there are many magical characters in this land such as the wizard Gandolf, Hobbits, Orcs, Elves and so on. The leading role is a Hobbit called Frodo who has to save the world from great evil. I have been seen the movies more than fifth times. The Lord of the Rings is a phenomenon and it is an all-time classic, in my opinion. Although each of these three are fantastic, the third one called The Return Of The king is the climax and ending of the epic journey and it has a little more intensity and urgency than the previous installments. As the point, it is not strange that the third one had a big box office success. In all of them, we have excellent special effects. I think it is not easy to show thousands of digital characters, sweeping landscapes, and dozens of things happening at once with that time technology.so it seems that filming the lord of the rings was a turning point for following fiction movies and series like Game of Thrones. Peter Jackson, the director of these these movies, has chosen wisely the land of filming. New Zealand's landscapes provide a great backdrop for everything going on, and there really are some beautiful places, especially up in the mountains. Performances all around were good, but Sean Astin as Sam and Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn really dominated the film. They performed their roles perfectly, and came away giving a good picture of the characters.
The Lord of the Rings unlike any kind of similar movies has happy ending. This is predictable by all religions about end of the world. I remember a Persian poem that I used to read when I was child which described devil literally as one-eye creature. What I am wanting to say is, there is undeniable link between one-eye tower and Djjal, The Dajjal is known as the one eyed Anti-Christ in Islam. He will appear during the end of times and cause havoc, he is literally the opposite of Jesus Christ, instead of bringing purity, he will spread negativity and be killed by Mahdi, promised man in Quran to rescue world in the end of the world. The appearance that Aragón has in the movies, is the same appearance that we have for Mahdi in Islam or Jesus Christ in Christianity. To cut the long story short, my words are short to describe all deep philosophical meanings in The Lord of The Rings.
Overall, these are movies well- worth watching. You may not like some scary scenes in these movies but, please don't judge a book by its cover.


                
