I have to say I loved Downton Abbey, and thought it was one of the better programmes airing this year along with Luther, Sherlock and the stunning Channel 4 drama Mo. Downton Abbey was beautifully produced, well cast and interesting, when it was first advertised it looked as though ITV had a hit and from the first episode I think Downton Abbey lived up to that expectation.I for one loved how elegant Downton Abbey was. The photography was beautiful and skillful, while the scenery was breathtaking and the costumes were exquisite. The scoring was also very good, often very hypnotic and beautiful. The direction was controlled, the episodes were well paced and for me the characters were believable my favourites being Violet and Robert.The writing in general was another strength. It was witty in a subtle way, is often funny and could be heart warming and poignant too, the best coming from Violet and Mrs Hughes I felt. The only bit of dialogue that rang false, and this is such a minor criticism, is Robert's "Downton is my third parent and my fourth child" which came across as somewhat cheesy. And the stories were well written and as believable as the characters, not to mention pretty original.And of course the acting was excellent. Maggie Smith was perfect as Violet. She plays this sort of character well, and she had such good timing and dialogue. Plus I love her in costume. Hugh Bonneville was dashing, and I cannot get over how beautiful Michelle Dockery was here. Jessica Brown-Findlay was also fine as another of my favourite characters Lady Sybil, and Phyllis Logan was always good value though I would love to see more of her if and when the series returns.In conclusion, Downton Abbey was a wonderful series thanks to the great cast and production values especially and I cannot wait to see more. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I'll agree that the British know how to do period drama better than anyone (certainly better than us Americans) and this is no exception. You'll be captivated immediately and hours will go by before you realize you've spent an entire afternoon in front of your television set. The relationships built between all characters of this show are what tie it up in a nice, fluffy (although not always pretty) bow. Brilliantly written and set in lush, vibrant surroundings with detailed costuming, this drama series should set the bar for others. No busy dialog or wasted scenes, just good, solid craftsmanship in every episode of this poignant family story. You'll do well to invest in seasons 1 and 2. Looking forward to the arrival of season 3!


                
I was hooked after the first five minutes and come heaven, hell or high water, I was going to see Downton Abbey twice, the second time to pick up the points which I knew would be too fast, and possibly convoluted, to follow the first time round. I have watched Masterpiece since the inaugural with Alistair Cooke, and I can't remember anything as engaging and entertaining as this. As a cousin of an English family with deep affection for the monarchy and respect for the aristocracy, my perspective is an odd mix of Democratic ideals, old-time Republican values and curiosity about and appreciation of the social structure which prevailed so long in England. Downton Abbey appears to present a very balanced depiction of the social, political, economic and historical forces which drove the lives and fortunes of the classes and produced strange and almost incomprehensible behavior to comply with an unwritten, all-pervasive code. I am completely fascinated by the events and reactions and what would appear to be almost puppet-like behavior on occasion. I pray for a sequel.


                
I remember the '70s and another Series which was cut more or less in the same parameters as this one, and that was "Usptairs, Downstairs".This too was a masterpiece of a social study, of the times at the turn between the 19th and early 20th Century.The only difference was that it was set in a City based household, while "Downton Abbey" is set in the very elegant English countryside.Both series display the best of British Theatre and Cinema, in terms of production teams, actors, technicians and general staff.It is absolutely to be considered high quality movie-making, even though meant for the home screen.Everyone, but everyone, in this series, knows his business and does portray his own character with honesty and truth.There is no dull moment, due to a skillful editing of scenes that are almost put together like in an elegant dance sequence.It is a very intelligent show that explores every facet of Society as it was structured (so far, in season 1 and 2), before, during and right after World War I, and as people behaved and felt back on the Homefront, being so detached, yet totally involved with the destinies of those men sent abroad to fight.It is no melodrama in the classic sense of the word. It is an honest depiction of what people "downstairs and upstairs" went through during those years. The conventions, the rigid rules, the traditions, all changing just in a ten year period and being uprooted and twisted by the new winds of war.There is something for everybody here. You want a thrilling story? Check! You've got it. You want love and romance? Check! You've got it. You want a social drama? Check! You've got it. You want a war drama? Check! You've got it too.It's a very human story of all characters on board of this static ship that is "Downton Abbey". As firm as the Rock of Gibraltar one might say. And yet, not so static after all... Lots is happening here, and this, day by day.Just think of the nightmare to have a sudden dinner invitation. The kitchen is in uproar, serving hands are missing, the masters are nervous, and everything seems to be doomed from the beginning, but then, somehow, everything comes together beautifully, like by magic... Magic? Let's say blood and a lot of sweat...I started this saying that it was addictive, and indeed it is. AFter an episode is over you immediately want to jump back in and watch the next to see how it goes on.I only have Seasons 1 and 2 on DVD and I am already asking for the 3rd Season to appear, just to know what happens next.I simply can't wait... I hope it pops up soon.


                
OK so I'll admit, Downton isn't a academic study of social change, nor is it entirely original ( let's be honest) - but it doesn't pretend to be! Does that make it any less of a excellent drama? No! Does That decrease the clever, witty and delicious writing? No! Does it cloud the ( at many moments) wonderful acting? No! Admittedly it isn't hard core drama - but it was lovely, it made me feel warm, it let me get all cross and annoyed (in a nice way), it got me exited - and soothed.Honestly what more can you ask for??Maggie Smith is excellent as the snooty Dowageress, Brendan Cole does Mr Bates very well - and Joanne Froggat (who I only manage to catch on tele occasionally sadly) who was equally lovely.It was all just lovely!


                
Julian Fellowes' intelligent (and sophisticated) take on pre-World War I society of aristocrats and worker-bees is smart-writing on the changes we will see over the next 25 years, encompassing two major wars and a great depression. The writing and the casting make this many steps above "soap opera" as the themes of social mobility and aristocratic incompetence are sharply etched.All of it pleased me, from the smallest character to the dozen or so leads, lead off by the always-brilliant Maggie Smith. This is to be enjoyed for both its eye-candy (Downton Abbey) and its themes of rich- and-poor dilemmas. Gorgeously shot with accurate art-direction. Wonderful all the way around.


                
Having had my fill of 'detective/mystery/thrillers', I have longed for a 'proper drama'. Here we have a wonderful piece, drawing comparisons with such milestones as 'Upstairs, Downstairs', 'The Onedin Line' and the BBC's 1990's production of 'Pride & Prejudice'. An excellent cast, marvellous sets, costumes, writing and storyline make this a truly marvellous (and rare) television event.Yes we know the history, yes we've seen a lot of it before and yes we know the 2nd series (and I sincerely hope there is one) will focus on the First World War but that, in part, is what makes it all the more exciting. The threat of the war looms like a menacing shadow, you just know it's there but fear for and sympathise with the characters, wondering how their safe, secure and seemingly everlasting world will cope with the coming onslaught.All the actors are excellent but special mention must be made of Maggie Smith who is gifted some marvellous lines, delivered as ever, with perfect timing and characterisation.Downton Abbey is something to look forward to every week and savour as a brilliant piece of television.
DOWNTON ABBEY is one of the things the British do best. This seven part series has it all - crisp dialogue, stunning settings/scenery/costumes, an all-encompassing view of class distinction not only between the upper class or gentry versus the middle class (who often have as much money but come into via labor versus inheritance) but also among the servant class, and a cast of many of the finest British actors before the public. Julian Fellowes is in fine form here as the writer, taking on a story about 1912 England and the microcosm of Downton Abbey, a mansion and grounds run by the elegant Robert Crawley, Earl of Grantham (Hugh Bonneville), his mother Violet, the Dowager Countess of Grantham (Dame Maggie Smith at her best), and Cora Crawley Countess of Grantham (Elizabeth McGovern0 - the moneyed American whom Robert married in order to retain the Abbey and their daughters, Ladies Mary (Michelle Dockery), Edith (Laura Carmichael) and Sybil (Jessica Brown Findlay). Much of the story revolves around the problem of inheritance (entailment) as the heirs apparent to the Abbey are victims of the Titanic disaster that opens the story. The Abbey must be passed on to a monied heir and the hunt is on. As with other Masterpiece Theater pieces this story examines the 'upstairs/downstairs' bifurcation of the Abbey and the cast of characters 'below' is as fine as the gentrified owners: Mr Carson (Jim Carter) is the head voice, followed by Mrs. Hughes (Phyllis Logan), the cook Mrs. Patmore (Lesley Nicol), the footman Thomas (Rob James-Collier) who just happens to have had an affair with the visiting Duke who could have been the new heir, and the new valet John Bates (Brendan Coyle) - a man the staff doesn't tolerate because of his use of a cane due to a war injury, etc etc etc. They are all fascinating people with their own set of prejudices not unlike those of their masters. The story progresses along the lines of finding a new heir for the Abbey, a problem that involves everyone in the household, and it is this strange playing out of English class distinction that makes the series so engrossing. Another classic form the Masterpiece Theater. Grady Harp
I admit to not being part of the original Downton hype. In fact, upon hearing about the program and deliberately avoiding to watch it, I felt it was yet another drama spawned from the loins of ITV, dumbing down history into nostalgic entertainment for the narrow minded. All I can now say is, I was incredibly wrong.After spending two weeks solid of viewing back to back episodes, I became lost in this world of the aristocracy of Britain in the early 20th century and the butterfly effects that their lives had on those around them. From the word go, we are instantly gripped by the story of the Crawleys and their workforce, the main focus being the inability to find an heir to the Downton estate. The drama perfectly depicts the injustice of a sexist government in a changing world as the estate is forced to be handed over to a distant male relative, the only heir to Downton. This then introduces a breath of fresh air to the otherwise stiffness of the Crawley household, bringing the rather modest Matthew Crawley and his doting mother, Isobel to the grand dining table. Throughout the first series we come to know the characters individually and the relationships that form and deteriorate between them. This idyllic world seems as if it could never end until the horrific wrath of WW1 engulfs Britain and we are then launched into new pathways and fast paced changes that keep us gripped both emotionally and physically. The attention to detail, particularly within the artistic direction certainly doesn't go unnoticed with the most beautiful costumes, picturesque settings and much use of original locations and historic accuracies.What strikes me about the show is how Fellowes has managed to create characters with such depth and chemistry yet maintain that trueness of the English stiff upper lip. With every episode we delve deeper and deeper into the lives and personalities of characters both upstairs and downstairs of the house. The fact that the story lines are spread between a wide selection of characters equally also gives the show that edge. From the brooding 'will they, won't they' romance of Lady Mary and Matthew Crawley to the wicked schemes of O'Brien and Thomas downstairs, not to mention the razor sharp one liners of Violet delivered by the fantastic Maggie Smith, you'll find there's never a dull moment in Downton....
After watching the entire first season I am filled with expectation as to the start of the next. I am not one easily given to fits of anticipation, but this series left me wanting more.Some may find Downton Abbey to contain well worn themes, to not be overly concerned with the happenings of the day (because it is a period piece some may desire it to get mired down in the politics of the time it is situated in). I find that some of the most riveting stories are well worn thematically because good story telling relies on well worn themes. Some of the themes that carry this story are those of sibling rivalry, obligation to family, and ambition tempered by loyalty. Some of the subplots (like servants plotting against each other) work, even when they have been done repeatedly, because we have experienced these things in our own lives. This is where Downton Abbey is most successful, developing plots that most of us have experienced to nurture a connection with the storyline.As far as Downton Abbey appearing shallow because it lacks a deep exploration of socialism, feminism and class warfare, I believe it is to his credit that Fellowes doesn't belabor or preach to us on the issues of the day, rather he looks at how people live their lives despite the goings on in the world. In my own experience that is what most people do, live their lives in the shadow of historical events because they do not control them, but instead are caught up with events in how they impact their lives. Jane Austin was likewise criticized for her lack of exploration of larger issues of her day, and yet she left us with personal stories that transcend what was happening in the moment.
I have a varied taste when it comes to TV, everything from Bones and Castle to The Kardashians to Melissa and Joey to Once Upon a Time and anything Stargate. But Downton Abbey wins hands down my favourite! I've long loved all the Jane Austen/period dramas (North and South is a particular fav) for a long time now and I'm so happy to see "period" dramas making such a splash in main stream media! My fav characters would have to be a tie between Lady Mary (Michelle Dockery is just gorgeous and having heard the difference between her normal voice and her "Mary" voice is amazing!) and the Dowager Countess (Dame Maggie Smith... nuff said!) Julian Fellows is such a great story teller having just the right balance between the upstairs and the downstairs and all the sets/costuming is fantastic to look at. I hold a special place in my heart for the music though


                
I've been almost completely off TV for a very long time now... Reality shows and even most series and sitcoms have grown tiresome for the most part. But Downton Abbey is the antithesis of mindless, artless reality TV. Almost every character in DA is developed so perfectly that I can love them, dislike them, be annoyed with them and sympathize with them (Well maybe not Thomas but...). The relationships and clashes between the servants themselves, the servants and the family, and even the British and American cultural clashes are cleverly developed—multi- dimensional, humorous, gut-wrenching and intimate, often all at the same time. Watching Downton Abbey as an American living in UK is beyond delightful. Maggie Smith and Shirley Maclean are brilliant—but factually no one upstages anyone in this series. The braiding together of personal lives, issues of class and culture and even the discomfort that came with post WWI Europe are done beautifully with such precision—perfect usage of words, facial expressions and cinematography—that there is scarcely a moment to breathe as I watch this art unfold. I love it (I suppose that's redundant) and am hooked on TV again, after decades of pretty much ignoring it.


                
This series reminds me in so many ways of the epics created by the Merchant-Irvory partnership. The attention to detail is absolutely over the top. I think movies and series like Remains of the Day and Upstairs Downstairs are great primers for this series. If I had one criticism of the series, it would that the people start out being a bit too clean. Sanitation standards were not in place during the period when Downton Abbey begins. Notwithstanding, I so enjoy the little one liners that introduce plot lines that grow ever complex with each passing episode. I think to fully enjoy this series you need to have a bit of an understanding of the workings of these great houses in England. Also an understanding of the peerage and non-peerage titles will add to your enjoyment of this show. No spoilers for me, I am an addict...


                
Im not particularly a fan of British dramas but that all changed the moment I saw Downton Abbey. The scenery and the locations of the set are beautiful and the characters all have wonderful personalities that tie the series together. Plus Dame Maggie Smith plays her role as the Countess of Dowager flawlessly.My favorite part of the series would be the Downton Staff. The interactions between the staff were very witty and interesting. Things like the Bates-Anna relationship and the Bates-Anna vs Thomas-O'Brian fights kept me on the edge of my seat. Mrs Patmore would always make me laugh and every time she reminds me of Mrs Weasly from Harry Potter.I cant wait for series 2 to hit the shelves for im instantly hooked to this classic.
I've watched Downton Abbey since since it first aired in 2010. I am a huge Maggie Smith fan and I've seen pretty much every movie/program she's ever been in. DA is one of those programs that does not stick to just a single plot. Its rich characters have their own story to tell which makes this program very interesting without having to try too hard. It does not pretend to tell history but it pulls you in that by the end of the hour, you'd have felt like you should've been in the 1920's. By the end of Season 3, I wondered how they'd continue on with Season 4 without the Mary and Matthew romance. Amazingly enough, Season 4 continued where they left off with the same captivating drama it's been known for since day 1. Definitely a must-see!


                
This is at least a 90% hit with reviewers everywhere, with the usual back draft pulling down the rest for their own reasons, some of them quite bizarre. My question is perhaps moot here, but why does IMDb have its head in the sand on this one? Get it -- it is now a much anticipated annual series showing. Where is the Season 3 or 2013 listing for this? They have the original season, some odd following years with nothing in them, then a very partial breakdown of scattered episodes. Like it or not, this is one of the biggest smash hits in a long time, PBS television or not. Get over it IMDb and set up distinctive seasons for this, as they are quite distinct.


                
For the rest of my life I will remember this show as an experience I shared with my mother. My mother and I watch this together and separately and talk about the story and the characters. In fact my whole family of aunts would gather around at the holidays and watch an episode together of Downton Abbey. We watched while we digested the holiday meal sometimes laughing and crying in the same episode. That's a cherished memory for me as I love my family and that show is first and foremost about the love of family.I cannot imagine what you could possibly create to compare to Downton Abbey. Thank you to every one of the actors and actresses! What a wonderful job! Bravo!! Thank you so much!


                
The first thing to be said about this series is that it is British from the very first scene to the very last by the vast range of actors and actresses as for age and the extreme quality of these actors, most of them having parallel careers in theaters, television and the cinema. They are thus able to act with a vast variety of stances and tones and at the same time with a great expressivity on their faces or with their body language. Within that great versatility and mental or dramatic agility there is not one single age that is privileged and the older generation is just as good and as present as the youngest one and the age range, apart from the few children, goes from the late teens and early twenties to the seventies. This is exceptional and no American series will ever be able to do that. A TV actor might turn up in the cinema but then he will never go back to TV, and both will hardly be able to work on a stage. The case of "Harry Potter," or Daniel Radcliffe if you prefer, is typically British who can play on the stage or act in a film. That mobility is not American, and American television sure misses something there, just as much as it misses the use of older actors and actresses, as well as very young ones, leveling the cast within a twenty to thirty years age bracket.The second element that makes this series beautifully and exceptionally British is the fact it is situated before, during and after the First World War in England and everything is there to tell you, you are in England. The Mansion in which the action takes place, the official Downton Abbey, which is of course not the real name, the village next to it, the array of vehicles and cars, the steam engine and the train, even the London of that time, all is reconstructed the way it was or used to be. Only England can have that Tudor architecture. It is in no way similar to anything anywhere else in the world and if there is something looking like it in the USA, it is nothing but a copy, hence a fake, or maybe, like the old London Bridge, a rejected ruin that was bought over here and brought and rebuilt over there, in a piece of desert even. The third element is the society it depicts. There is the upstairs of the aristocrats, lords, ladies, duchesses, earls and so on that is so English in its vanity, social exclusiveness, social segregation, social racism even. And there is the downstairs of the servants, the copy cat hierarchy of the service from the butler at the top to the housekeeper at the top too, then to the valets and the footmen on one side, and to the maids and kitchen hands on the other side, and with some hierarchy within each echelon of this social descending ladder. To be in the service was a great honor and privilege and one could spend one's whole life in it and climbing the rungs of that ladder one at a time over the decades. But this series is exceptional because it goes far beyond that simple capture of social stratification.The main lady, the wife of the Earl has an American mother, and brother (not very much present in the series), and this American line is always the source of some humor more than anything else, though of course it is also the source of a lot of money and opportunities.The chauffeur of the estate is Irish, a republican socialist what's more, and he falls in love with one of the three daughters and she would have eloped if her father had not accepted to change his mind. This daughter will die in childbirth and the Irish socialist ex-chauffeur who is thus the father of a little girl who is a blood relative of the family is accepted in this circle but as the one who is going to take over the management of the estate, hence a full time job, and yet he does not feel at home really. But he finds a real position because of what he is doing: saving the English aristocracy from being bankrupt and run over by the capitalists, by becoming capitalists themselves, with the help of a new generation of non-aristocrats who break all kinds of rules just because they can since they are not aristocrats.The heir of the estate is a non aristocrat (he inherits the estate but not the title) but his fate is tragic though he provides the family with a very much desired male heir. His wife, the oldest daughter, is a very strange character though she might be able to change and evolve with the world, especially after the war because England has to change fast if they want to avoid some social upheaval.The general picture here is fascinating.In the same way what is happening downstairs is fascinating with love and hatred, with spying and plotting, of all sorts, even a rape here and there to pepper and salt the scene, a few violent crimes too, well disguised if possible. Not to speak of a possible divorce that is not brought to its fulfillment because the woman dies in the mean time. Bleak and dark, and yet some women in that set of servants are outstandingly honest and humane. This world is a world of its own and that too is interesting. All together this series is a lot more fascinating than I have said because of these numerous and varied levels of social norms and taboos that are broken or challenged by a set of extremely good actors and actresses that make the show a real gem of television production. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
I absolutely love this series! There are so many different stories going on within the overall picture that keep things interesting yet don't confuse you in trying to keep track of everything. The producers and actors have done a wonderful job in creating and maintaining suspense and tension and the show quickly becomes engrossing! I have watched this series at least 5 times through already and still can't help getting lost in the plot. I seriously get the butterflies wondering what's going to happen even after having seen the scenes many times before. The only downside is having to wait a ridiculous amount of time until the next season returns...January 2013! I'm in agony!


                
Should TV live in the XXI century? IMO, definitely, if we come to witness such perfectly executed art like Downton Abbey! I lack the words to thank the creators for allowing us mortals to get a glimpse at the realities that people were facing basically less than a 100 years ago. It makes you appreciate the stuff we got nowadays, for a given.I am at the episode 3, so you could say my review is incomplete. May it be so, it is a MUST to see for every person, IMO. Those are the cinematic stories of our grandfathers... Makes one think, and think hard about what one is doing with his life; have we a reason to blame others in our time? The characters are too complex to depict, IMO, they all got their reasons to act like they do. For instance you could feel a negative for some character, but then they bring free speech argument... and you are lost. No one is "bad", just that goals differ.I don't know how accurate, exactly, the context is, but non the less it made me appreciate the progress of our civilization, and pay my respect to the real men and women of science who made the the present possible.This is more than a drama, unless the creators fall to the urge to make extra money from this, which I hope they don't, it should be a perfect short series, in my opinion next to C. Sagan's Cosmos, in the sense of letting people understand the human nature, which does not change, not in 2K years, let alone a couple of years the Downton Abby is depicting.10/10


                
I don't know where to start. From the locations in witch it is filmed, to the way they are dressed, the comedy that comes from Maggie Smith's every single line? You can't say more or less then a "Masterpiece" From the very beginning you kind of get into the juicy stuff, the series lets you in their lovely home and the tense atmosphere from downstairs to the luxury life of those upstairs. It has such a lovely way of mixing the two that you just can't stop watching. And when it comes to the "Dowager Countess of Grantham" you can't expect less then perfect lines, filled with the subtlety of a person who has lived her life in a certain way. And, after the first season where it ends in a very sad way, season two comes and speeds things up, passing through many years, in witch we see how people change, how the war changes those who were bad and those who were good, leaving us desiring for more and more.
So far only 2 seasons have made it to PBS TV in the US( check your local listings) of this wonderful English upper-class turn of the century drama that no one does better than the Brits. It's always been fascinating to watch royalty thats why we in the US,all love the Royal family even today.Back in the early 1900's there were a whole lot of aristocrats copping with a changing world complicated by the war to end all wars and a changing of the class system amongst the turmoils of the day including the "Irish problem"motorcars,telephones and politics of the preliterate to name but a few.This series follows one such family with their own issues of fidelity,money and personnel honor as well as a large service staff with much the same issues.Although both groups are separated by standing,they share the same devotion to the "house"they serve,Downton Abby.We experience death,betrayal,infidelity and loyalty and honor as only a upper-class can extend and a working class can understand. Lord Crawley hires a ex military commoner who served with him in Africa even though he might not be able to handle the work that a demanding staff entails. A daughter who is enchanted by a chauffeur. Another daughter who may marry for money but loves another ( it's complicated) Another daughter who foils her sibling at every opportunity. And thats not even the staff !!!The cast for the most part is not well known here in the US but you will recognize a few and they all excel. Ah but the setting is truly splendid with nothing like it here in the US,Downton Abbey. Yet all the time the shadow of the war covers 3 men from the abbey by direct service and everyone else as the abbey becomes a convalescent stop for returning wounded officers. There is NOTHING not to love about this series.Do yourself a favor and check it out. PBS can show you some past episodes online.There is probably other sites on the internet as well.It plays Sunday nights on my local PBS TV area station.Bring on a season three !!
I really enjoyed Downtown Abbey. The intro music at the beginning is fantastic. I think if more were to be made the makers should try to slow the era down a bit. There could be so many more story lines done in the same months/or within a couple of years span instead of racing ahead with the years. Sooner rather than later it will move so fast we will be in the current year and that would spoil it all. I'd like to see more of the costumes and the drama that was so tragic in it's day but not so in our modern times. What I'm trying to say in a nutshell is go at a slower pace and let us absorb it more. Brilliant series! The individual stories of all the characters could stretch it out a well.


                
I absolutely adore this TV series. I was initially slightly sceptical but thankfully my friends encouraged me to watch it, a few minutes into the first episode and i was hooked. I've watched all the series and can't wait for the next series to come out in September. The Christmas special was extraordinary, it finished beautifully with Matthew and Mary finally together after so many years. It had everything it needed; romance, drama, tragedy and the usual comedy among the staff. The span of events in that household from the Titanic incident to after the 1WW induces us to believe that there will be a whole lot more of drama leading to the 2WW. I personally can't wait to see what else they have in store for us. Fully recommended.
In the first season we got well written and driven characters, the story was fascinating and exciting, but relaxing as well. It kept me interested, I loved it, the love-dramas, the "good" vs "bad" situations was pictured awesomely too and I was really happy for some of our heroes when it seemed like they got what they deserved. I followed it immediately with the second season, which was so bad compared with the previous one, I just couldn't watch it anymore. It turned into a soap-opera, some characters became schemes and unreasonable, but above all it just became boring. I am so sorry for it, the first season was really one of the best TV show seasons I've ever seen, it was full of emotions and interesting story lines. I will try again with it later, because the actors are still did everything they could in the second season as well. (I must mention Maggie Smith with her one-lines, which probably the funniest part of every episode)


                
