If you thought Gosford Park needed to be a shallow, episodic TV series, you might enjoy this. Even Maggie Smith (and her character) has been borrowed wholesale to ease your transfer. And what luck, the theme music is a thinly veiled knock-off of the title music from The Piano. But Gosford Park wrestled with matters of substance, and showcased some striking film technique.This show is teeming with "decent" characters (translation: progressive) none of whom could have existed historically, and none of whom can inject the show with any surprises. The show shoots the bolt in the first two episodes where Lord Grantham defends and acts as co-equals with two different servants. Hooray for time-traveling with anachronistic values. The show never rises above soap opera by larding itself down with drippy conflicts, and boatloads of shallow female matters. The elevated estrogen level torpedoes any real intrigue.The drama in this is just so much sniveling.
I was looking forward to this but I was disappointed. This series is overrated. Am I the only one who thinks this isn't all that? Firstly the good points - the setting and atmosphere are well done. The grand old historic home location is quite attractive.The WWI era setting should provide for interesting story lines but it all seems very clichéd. Very little happens in one season - the plot could have been covered in a third the time. The characters are one dimensional with simplistic good guys and bad guys. The nephew and heir Crawley and his mother are too goody two shoes and self righteous. The actress playing Lady Mary, Michelle Dockery isn't pretty and has a cold unappealing look with a blank expression. She isn't watchable. Not right for a leading role. The idealistic political daughter is annoying. Elisabeth McGovern as the Countess is a bit painful to watch with her crumpled looking expressions. Maggie Smith as the dowager Countess has good delivery as usual but she shouldn't have won an Emmy for that. It's hard to feel for any of the characters because they are so cardboard cutout.The "help" are way too clever and conniving it's unreal especially the evil butler. The story is weak and soap like. Only the last episode of season 1 had some forward momentum.I'll probably still watch it to see what happens but don't be fooled - it's well produced fluff masquerading as an adaptation of great literature.
NOTE: this review contains spoilers!I saw this series all in one night. Perhaps that was a mistake because it made me see how unsubstantial the whole story is.In a nutshell, Downton Abbey is about a British aristocratic family trying to keep their manor and land in the family by various means.Some of the characters are interesting, particularly the grandmother of the family and her rivalry with Isobel Crawley. Other characters never really get a chance to shine, which is a shame.The real problem is with the story, basically its all about how this family deals with their problems by covering them up, or by pretending they don't exist.For instance: (spoiler alert here!) They know one of their servants is dishonest, a borderline psychotic, and is stealing from them. However, they continually put off firing the guy because they don't want to be seen as ungenerous by putting a man out of work. Ultimately he joins the military and his dishonest deeds are never brought to light.It took me almost until the end of the series to realize that the characters are pretty stagnant as well.So, if you want to see a highly repetitive British drama about bratty rich people trying to save face, watch this one. (I personally would have loved to see them fall on it.)
It was our family favorite, until we saw Season 4, episode 3. We looked forward to watching this show every day on Amazon Prime streaming, with the kids. And there, BAM they screw up Anna so bad that now it's just not worth watching the show. Talk about being family friendly - not anymore. It is not even worth watching as an adult. To me, this is as bad or worse than killing a puppy! The show was already going down, as far as the story line. They killed off too many people and when things were calming down, they go for sexual violence!!!! What were the writers thinking ? We are not watching this show anymore. I guess the show was too successful and the producers had to mess up.
The TV show has very disturbing,misleading,historically incorrect and above all lying accusations of one Nation! In show they accused Serbs to be responsible for assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.WHILE its totally untrue! The Bosnian's were the real culprits! Such disgusting accusations and twisting of history is totally inhuman and misleading viewers into yet another Hate of one Nation!If i am to be asked ,who ever wrote that line and putted into the show ,should to be court prosecuted and punished according to law of hate crime!As for TV show it self ,its nothing more then showing how low human beings actually are,and yet hiding it behind some wannabe Romeo and Juliet story!
Gay and lesbian viewers be warned: this is the most virulently homophobic TV show in years. Hetero servant couples and the Ruling Class Breeders are besieged by the evil machinations of the Queer Villain and the Barren/Frigid Woman, whose alliance and behavior make no sense at all, except that they're perverse (the natural enemies of the Family) and thus must be evil, right? Do not be bought off with the campy crumbs offered to you by Maggie Smith as the Dowager. Superbly made, if you want to enjoy reactionary family-values propaganda from that old Tory, Julian Fellowes. Thanks for nothing, Masterpiece Classic.


                
I have been a collector of historical Christmas memorabilia for many years including old photos. The Christmas tree, lights, ornaments and gift wrap are not correct for the period. Tall trees for the wealthy would be 7-8 feet at most, and placed on platforms for effect. Taller trees did not appear until the Thirties and first in the US. Lights would be white but larger bulbs and spaced unevenly on the tree. Glass ornaments would not be as intricately painted and embossed as those shown. Gift wrap patterns would be very simple, usually two tone and no foils as was shown in Lady Cora's dressing area.I am surprised that as much attention has been paid to historical correctness of the costumes and set, not more attention was paid to Christmas. I hope future episodes will correct these errors, or it can be left as is allowing for the times to catch up with what is shown.


                
