I am not as over the top about this series as the rest of the world seems to be. There is no doubt that it is a very competent work with high production values and an enormous budget. But I never felt any "love" for any of the characters, and I never felt that desire that you can feel when a work of fiction is really, really good, to be part of it and live in that world there with them.I think both the best and the worst thing with this series was its realism. For instance, the class differences are not so exaggerated as in many works of fictions that deal with castles, lords, nobility etc.. Which is a good thing if it is a correct period piece you want - but you never feel that magic and admiration that you feel for, for instance, Mr Rochester brooding in his Thornfield Hall... There is no romance here, and no mystery.Also, some story lines took up too much time, for instance the elderly ladies' intriguing about the charitable hospital positions, and the Mr Marston-his son-his farm-Daisy intrigue. I found both of these stories very tedious. Also, I think it was a mistake to make a long-drawn out detective story about the Mr Bates-and-his-wife's death-thing. It felt out of place and as a cheap attempt to introduce something spectacular that would rise the audience' interest when it was waning.For me this series was more education than anything else. For as such it is very good, because it captures the period perfectly: the social changes, the women from the higher classes starting to work a little outside home, the young people moving to towns to find work in factories, shops, restaurants etc. instead of working as hired farmhands or servants at private estates. I have had some relatives, now long gone, who were born in the beginning of the 20th century. This was their world when they were children and young people, and I feel that this series has made me understand their way of reasoning better! I also much appreciate the great attention to detail in clothes, hair-styles, furniture, ornaments, cars, music, dancing, and other things. You really feel yourself transported to this time period!
I don't blame producers for making the movie. They are after all to entertain people and make money doing it according to old formula. And the movie certainly achieved tremendous popularity, even in USA - traditionally ignorant of foreign productions, even from English speaking countries. So it is not that much about the movie but rather the strange fact that it became such a hit. I had a few conversations with fans of the series and they all pointed to beauty of interiors, elegance of costumes,splendid manners, life of ease and comfort, and superiority of aristocratic classes... What those people ignore is the fact that behind all of this charm there was poverty forcing people to work in service due to lack of other options, awful conditions of work: low pay, no free time,extremely hard work, poor accommodation, child labour etc... It only means one thing: history goes in circles. If you are in love with the movie, just do yourself a favour and read some memoirs, for example - Margaret Powell's "Below stairs" - just for the balance of view and maybe you will see the whole picture of that splendour enjoyed only by a few but supported mainly by misery of masses of others. Beauty can't never be justified by almost slave work of poor. And I thought that it was established long time ago but apparently not and there is still some nostalgia for class society and underpaid servants.


                
I've just finished watching the first series, pretty much back to back, and it's got some nice acting, and beautiful costumes and locations. But the rather slight script is flawed in a way that Gosford Park (also written by Fellowes) wasn't. Gosford was considerably sharpened by Altman's iconoclastic viewpoint, but in Downton, Fellowes seems to have been given a freer hand as an unashamed apologist for the upper classes. All the gentry are super people with hearts of gold, especially Robert - paying for operations for the staff, giving them days off to visit their sick mothers, keeping on a disabled servant etc. The only villainous characters are working class. Even the servants may be rough diamonds but are good at heart and endlessly forgive each other for transgressions (Mrs Bird and the kitchen maid, Carson with Bates etc), and the so-called 'socialist' never tells us what his political views actually ARE, and absolves the Earl of all responsibility for continuing to enjoy his privileges. This is a very simplistic at a time when most people became servants solely through poverty - people were not politically unaware. It is common today to look back on the Edwardian era as some sort of golden age but the majority of the population endured malnutrition; child mortality was rife; there was rampant industrial unrest; and life expectancy for workers was around 40. This series could have tackled so many issues (as Upstairs Downstairs did to much better effect) but it has copped out in favour of a domestic romance. Let us hope that they bring in some additional writers for the second series, and for a better overview of the period, read 'The Perfect Summer' by Juliet Nicholson, about the summer of 1912.


                
....."Downton Abbey" sails across our screens on Sunday nights,flying the flag for nicely photographed,well - acted and expensively - produced if rather anodyne drama that can't possibly offend anybody. I rather hope its success doesn't signal a return to the 1970s fashion for comforting series set in the last days of Empire where pater has apoplexy every time he reads the newspaper and the aristos and staff represent a microcosm of English society. Written by Mr Julian Fellowes who knows whererof he speaks,"Downton Abbey" is like a very large and fluffy chocolate cake,adorable in small slices but awfully indigestible as a whole.The usual upper - class knobs despair or revel in their upper - class knobiness according to their temperaments in direct proportion to their below - stairs equivalents.Hardly a "Hold the Front Page" moment,then. Set in 1912 so the last direct male heir to the Abbey can conveniently drown on "Titanic",the story concerns the future of the house and its occupants apparently at the mercy of an iniquitous law that maintains that title property cannot descend a female line. When the guv'nor goes what will happen to them all? Most of them seem so consumed with self - interest that I found it hard to care. The servants seem almost totally deeply unpleasant and are either bright and breezy or dark and brooding,the exception being the wonderful Miss Phylis Logan as the Housekeeper who also gives far and away the best performance. Despite all this I did enjoy "Downton Abbey" even though it may have been the enjoyment of the familiar and unchallenging where you could drop off for five minutes and never notice it. It's just a bit disappointing that in 2010 a TV production company,given a big budget,could not have been just a tad more daring. "You rang m'Lord" said all this so much better and with poignancy and humour,two qualities that I haven't found in "Downton Abbey".
Being a TV show, Downton Abbey fulfills it's entertaining purpose. It offers warm environment full of loving characters you would expect in a British English textbook: an aristocratic family living in a castle surrounded by faithful servants. Even when the difficulties arise they will be resolved until the end of the episode, with serious cases stretching until the end of the season. Even the eccentric and negative characters grow kinder with time. Overall Downton Abbey is relaxing if you ignore its portrayal of actual historical background.Season 1 kicks-off right before the WWI. As the show progresses we not only follow the destinies of the characters but also witness some large scale social and political changes. By Season 3 it develops into full-blown telenovela set in Great Britain. The reason could be that the third season explores coping with loss and grief, nevertheless Downton Abbey remains watchable.In the long run i kept asking myself about the odds that a family like Crawleys actually existed. They are so goodhearted and caring about their servants that the revolutions of the twentieth century appear as unnecessary whim of lower social strata. With failure of communism epitomized in the dissolution of Soviet Union and socialism being emulated in capitalism, especially its European form, there are viewers who might grow nostalgic about "the good old days".


                
i am not a very big fan of non scientific, non action shows but downton abbey is a very beautiful exception of it. when i saw the mansion back in the poster that was the moment i started to download the show. i am so into Celtic castles and the show is absolutely just about one of them! so now, i can not be very objective about this show but i am not expected to anyway. the show is great. acting is brilliant. the costumes, the language, historical background, everything is accurate, believe me i checked (before that the show Rome was the only one felt historically real that way). not a tiny piece of good character they waste. it's about royalty and also everything not royal, it's about tradition and change (with this aspect it is kind of reminding the movie fiddler on the roof), it's about crisis and welfare, it's about the first world war for Christ sake where else do you see it!? all and all, if you are a little tired of American shows with no sense of reality, this show will feel like a mirage in desert. if nothing, they speak British English with British accent. and what they're saying is worth listening.


                
I lost interest in this show halfway through the fourth season but returned for sentimental reasons in the final season. The most pleasing thing is to see how far Lady Edith (Laura Carmichael) has come. She had matured and become a central character -- a newspaper editor, no less, and a mother. Carmichael portrays the posh upper class 1920s modern woman beautifully. As her mother Lady Grantham, Elisabeth McGovern is quite wooden and her lines are confined to tut-tutting what other characters are doing. She's had the least character development of anyone, with the possible exception of the Dowager Countess Violet (Maggie Smith) who simply sits and moans. Violet and the other senior aristocrats seem to have spent years bickering about moves to close the hospital, and gawd it's boring. The bitchy butler Barrow has stuck around and he HAS had some character development, with interesting glimpses of humanity emerging from beneath his surly demeanor. Daisy, the cheery scullery maid, and Mrs Patmore, the salty cook, remain essentially the same. The final episode was fun -- including the scene where Edith's new mother-in-law went perilously close to rejecting her. The writers were quite manic in tying up every single loose end. With the possible exception of the still budding love between servants Daisy and Andy, and poor Branson stayed single, and Moseley and that maid Braxton never quite got beyond friendship. I can't say I was shattered when Downton ended, but it's been a fun ride, and all told it's a decent, if unexciting, period drama that has entertained millions.
Characters like Mary, Cora, and Thomas incessantly drag the show downward. Season 5 might as well just follow Mary the whole time, since her exploits and drama ruin every episode. Hate to punish the show for the poor writing revolving around a few characters, but you remove a few characters or focus on different ones (more emphasis on Robert, Tom, the cooking staff, and Edith) and this show could easily be 10 stars.


                
Julian Fellowes' Downton Abbey is brilliant, moving, and captivating. He weaves smart and funny dialogue through the teens and 1920's, telling a story of a noble English family during times of war and peace. Shame tho that he failed to give Mary, the heroine of this series, an authentic happy ending. Instead he chose a melancholy and somewhat unsatisfactory close for Mary. If not for this I would have rated Downton Abby a "9". Julian spent great length articulating and developing the love between Mary and her first husband Matthew, resulting in the viewer's conclusion of a great love between the two. This Julian did not do with Mary and her second husband Henry. The connection between Mary and Henry was shallow, lacking genuine love and respect. As Downton Abbey came to an end I was left feeling that Mary resigned herself to marrying Henry less for compassion and more for getting on with her life. Sure, she did find love for Henry but not in the sense of true love that brings about ease in one's life as she had with Matthew. Of all the characters in Downton Abbey, Mary's is the only one I felt did not conclude with the happiest of futures; thus, leaving me feeling melancholy and unsatisfied knowing that she will never feel the joy she had with Matthew and should have looked elsewhere for love.
Could the society of post-Edwardian England have been so lacking in libido? Among the upper class anyway, sex was something that had to be imported from exotic foreign lands in the person of the Turkish visitor Mr. K. Pamuk.The women always are shown buttoned to the neck, even in bed, the men so reserved, so indifferent to the allure of the opposite sex one wonders how anyone got born at all. Indeed, the only physical affection, almost, that is shown at Downton Abbey is between two men! Is author Julian Fellowes **that** ignorant of the Way of a Man with a Maid? This is of course a character-driven series. The story is pure soap, with absurd plot contrivances one after another. Some of the titled aristocrats behave most ignobly. One or two of the servants show noble, if not saintly qualities. One jarring note is Elizabeth Montgomery. Her portrayal of the American-born Lady of the Manor is decidedly middle class, more June Cleaver (from the fifties sitcom "Leave it to Beaver") than Jenny Jerome.Many reviewers have raved about Maggie Smith's performance but I found her one-note portrayal of the Dowager Duchess, living firmly in the past and speaking like a character out of Thackeray, caricaturish and tedious.
"That treacle tart just hit the spot," says Carson, and we all heave a great sigh of relief knowing that Downton Abbey is back on our screens – like treacle tart and crumpets, the UK's guilty Sunday night pleasure.Carson's inverted snobbery and admirable attention to detail knew no bounds this week as he forcefully informed us that, "No footman should be over six foot one." I think we should all remember that the next time we hire a footman. It still seems incredible, doesn't it, that in some circles, even in this day and age, people like Carson dress people like Lord Grantham every morning, and then undress them and put them to bed every evening.So, the calendar has crawled forward to 1920 and Bates the alleged murderer is still behind bars, while somehow managing to maintain that smug, knowing smile he perfected in Lark Rise. Even the prospect of being roughly interfered with by a mean, hairy-arsed new cell mate does little to dislodge his quiet self-confidence and gently glowing aura.The Dowager Countess (Maggie Smith) continues to steal the show with her usual withering one-liners. Be honest, most of the time we're all just sitting there waiting for her to come on. But now the Countess has another sprightly old battle axe to joust with – Cora's rich American mother Martha, played by a heavily botoxed Shirley MacLaine.Having no doubt paid so much to import Shirley into the country, I think we were all hoping to see a little more of her. Instead, the old hoofer was rather reduced to playing second banana to Ms. Smith. I'm sure her Hollywood agent will even now be on the phone, loudly campaigning for her to be given more lines.Meanwhile, Matthew and Mary are finally going to get it together. That's a relief. They're already rehearsing the wedding. Mary, however, still seems unaccountably tense and irritable and I suspect it won't take much to get her to pull the plug on the whole damned thing.Lord Grantham, still glowing from his success as head of the Olympic Deliverance Committee, seems to have rather stupidly lost all the family's money by investing in something called Canadian Railways, while Matthew appears to be inheriting an almost identically vast sum of money from somewhere else. For some reason. Matthew makes a habit of doing that, doesn't he? They do say money goes to money.Black sheep Sybil's back in town with her staunch, mouthy Republican husband, who continues to rant on about Irish politics and flatly refuses to wear a dinner jacket – the worst crime you can possibly commit at Downton Abbey.There is no doubt that Downton Abbey has now wormed its way into the collective consciousness of Britain, and may our dull little lives continue to be brightened by it every Autumn. Now, if you will excuse me, there is a man waiting to help me put my trousers on.


                
Not intending to be flippant, but this elegantly filmed yet shamelessly copycat series is something of a pleasant yawner when compared to its obvious predecessors. My spell checker keeps prodding me that it should be "downtown" instead of Downton -- an ironic comment, perhaps. I should say that I did enjoy watching it, and will continue to do so. But really...how much can one take of duplication?Here's one for the film buff: Maggie Smith as an almost word-for-word reincarnation of Dame May Witty (should be spelled with an "h" but the edit machine will not take it). Got it? If so, you qualify for expert! Hint: The reference is not to Upstairs Downstairs but a much earlier film. Think gardening.I wonder where the Titanic will be sighted next. As we approach the centenary year, there will surely be other dramatic renderings. It was after all the end of one era and the beginning of another far less discriminating, less clearly reminiscent of social division as a mode of theatrical expression. Matters of race and gender are now in the forefront, as traces of political correctness intruding upon this screenplay attest.Update 29 Dec 2011: No one has as yet identified the source of Maggie Smith's character as I mentioned above. Most disappointing! It is of course Dame May W-H-ITTY in the film Mrs. Miniver. Almost identical dialogue and plot. Shame on the author for not giving proper credit!


                
There are Downton devotees and there are people who think it's a second-rate soap opera praising the oppressive class system of days of old. I'm in the middle ground: I like the show, but I cannot for the life of me comprehend the 8.8 rating it has on this website.I can certainly see the appeal: the production values are marvelous, from the costumes to the old-fashioned cars. The show's story is mostly the stuff of melodrama: scandals, sex, war, and family issues all on the grand scale. The character's, while not always likable, are an interesting bunch of people. I will admit though, sometimes the writing is weak and soap opera-ish (ex. Edith's wedding). Some of the characters are flat too.I don't think this show will be considered a classic in the long run, but it is solid entertainment.
An interesting look at the dubious lives of the British "aristocracy". The mostly television and character actors give good to excellent performances in bringing the wearisome life of the wealthy English and the poor lot that is their servants into perspective. Perhaps it goes a bit generous with the magnanimous attitude the Lords and Ladies show to the "help", but after all, it is TV. The sets are magnificent with the smallest details well attended. The clothing appears near flawless for the period.The writers deserve extra credit in sustaining the Lords and Ladies who do little except eat meals, change clothes multiple times a day, gossip, drink kettles of tea, attempt suitable marriages, and toss verbal barbs to each other? The below stairs servants though are the highlight. They give the best performances and bring shine to the show.
Created by Julian Fellowes (Gosford Park, The Young Victoria, The Tourist), I had heard a lot of hype about this new British television period drama, very similar in concept to Upstairs, Downstairs, and I was very happy to watch it. Basically the series revolves around the lives of the residents and staff at Downton Abbey, the Yorkshire country house of the Earl and Countess of Grantham, and the story is set in the early years of the 20th Century. The aristocratic Crawley family are the head Robert Crawley (Doctor Who's Golden globe nominated Hugh Bonneville) and his American wife Cora (Clash of the Titans' Emmy and Golden Globe nominated Elizabeth McGovern), eldest daughter Lady Mary (Black Mirror: 15 Million Merits' Michelle Dockery), middle daughter Lady Edith (Laura Carmichael), the youngest daughter Lady Sybil (Jessica Brown), Dowager Countess and the Earl's mother The Right Honourable Violet Crawley (Emmy winning, and Golden Globe nominated Dame Maggie Smith), Countess of Grantham, third cousin, once removed and heir presumptive to the title and estate Matthew (Dan Stevens) and Matthew's mother Isobel (Shaun of the Dead's Penelope Wilton). The servants of Downton are butler Charles Carson (Shakespeare in Love's Jim Carter), housekeeper Elsie Hughes (Phyllis Logan), Lord Grantham's valet John Bates (BAFTA nominated Brendan Coyle), Lady Grantham's maid Sarah O'Brien (Siobhan Finneran), footman and later Lord Grantham's valet Thomas Barrow (Rob James-Collier), footman William Mason (Thomas Howes), head housemaid Anna Smith/Bates (Joanne Froggatt), housemaid Gwen Dawson (Rose Leslie), housemaid Ethel Parks (Amy Nuttall), cook Beryl Patmore (Lesley Nicol) and kitchen maid Daisy Robinson/Mason (Sophie McShera). Through the series, with King George V ruling the country, and events like the sinking of the Titanic and the First World War, and innovations like electricity and the telephone, we see the various situations the characters are put into, such as relationships, changes to the house, financial difficulties, characters arriving and leaving and much more. Also starring Allen Leech as Tom Branson, David Robb as Dr. Clarkson, Kevin Doyle as Joseph Molesley, Zoe Boyle as Lavinia Swire, Iain Glen as Sir Richard Carlisle, Robert Bathurst as Sir Anthony Strallan, Samantha Bond as Lady Rosamund Painswick, Pirates of the Caribbean's Kevin McNally as Mr. Bryant and many more. All of the recurring actors are fantastic in their parts and in their own ways all make you warm to them, the costumes are fantastic and capture the period well, and the music in the series by John Luynn is great as well, if you like well acted, well scripted and well put together costume dramas, then you will definitely like this acclaimed series. It won the BAFTAs for Best Director for Brian Percival and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Drama Series, Best Editing, Best Photography and Lighting and Best Production Design, and it won the Emmys for Outstanding Cinematography for a Miniseries or Movie, Outstanding Costumes for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special, Outstanding Directing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Dramatic Special, Outstanding Miniseries or Made for Television Movie and Outstanding Writing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Dramatic Special for Julian Fellowes, and it was nominated for Outstanding Art Direction for a Miniseries or Movie, Outstanding Casting for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special, Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Miniseries or a Movie and Outstanding Sound Editing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television. Very good!
I still don't know what the hoopla is all about with this series. It's a costume drama set in 1912 in fictional Downton Abbey where there are plenty of servants and an aristocratic family. The cast is first rate led by Dame Maggie Smith among others. She is a scene stealer. The costumes, art direction, and sets are first rate. I have seen other British dramas with costumes and sets. This drama doesn't seem much different and I'm surprised by its success. I believe class differences between servants and the family to which they serve is considerable. The servants can be cutthroat and vicious. Just look at poor Bates in the first episode. There is plenty of drama going on in the servants quarters while their employers worry about their futures of their three daughters where marriage is the only answer.


                
I love watching Downton Abbey but there is one major redundant flaw to the show. No, I wont go into a million details as every show has its problems. However, this one has become a run-on joke.Does every single dramatic scene need to have a segue with someone eavesdropping or suddenly arriving? They share nothing with each other, it's only after someone appear in the background and overhears does the plot move forward. Please, for once, let one of the protagonists share instead of it being a leak. Heck, let them get a secret out that isn't overheard.I sit back and laugh, and so will you. (who's that in the background?!,oooooohh).


                
