I would not argue that there could be better films made before and after Cabiria. Perhaps. But there never will be another "Nights of Cabiria" - the last Fellini's film with the linear structure, his third and the most successful collaboration with his actress wife, Giulietta Masina, his immortal love letter to her. Of all his characters, Fellini once said, Cabiria was the only one he was still worried about. Of all the characters, I've seen in the films, Cabiria is the one I often think about - what ever happened to her? Did she survive? Was she able to find love? I've never seen the face so alive, changing its expression every moment. If the face is the soul's mirror, Cabiria's (Masina's) face reflects her every single emotion and how effortlessly she goes from bitter cynicism to wistful yearning, from despair to hope, from tears to smile. While there's life there's hope. As long as Cabiria smiles in the end of this tragicomic masterpiece, there is hope for all of us.


                
Federico Fellini, the genius of the Italian cinema left his imprint in all the films he directed for all of us to enjoy forever. "Le Notti di Cabiria" stands as one of his best because of the character of that invincible woman at the center of the story: Cabiria! Having recently seen the excellent copy that was shown at NY's Film Forum, this is a film that like good wine gets better with age.Fellini was the man whose idea was translated for the screen with his usual collaborators, Tulio Pinelli and Ennio Flaiano. Pier Paolo Passolini contributed to some of the dialog. Essentialy, this is a timeless tale of a woman that despite adversity, bad times, and all that is wrong around her, keeps her chin up and never begrudges a thing. In fact, Cabiria, despite of her profession, is a woman with a highly moral character.The film takes us back to another, more innocent era. We are shown a prostitute with a heart of gold who is always cheated by most of the men who comes in contact with her. Cabiria is never resentful, or bitter at the hand life throws her way.One of the best realized sequences of the film involves Cabiria being picked up by a handsome and popular actor, Alberto Lazzari. Alberto is about the only one in the movie that treats Cabiria with any semblance of warmth. Unfortunately, nothing happens between them because Alberto's lover, the gorgeous Jessy, arrives at Alberto's apartment to claim what's hers, leaving Cabiria shut up in a bathroom. If only her friends could see her then! Nobody would believe it!There is not a moment out of place in the film. Of course, Fellini had the incomparable Giulietta Masina playing the leading role. Ms. Masina is just too wonderful for words. She makes us believe she is Cabiria, and that's that, which in itself it's something other actresses try harder, without the same results. Ms. Masina's face reveals all that is going on within Cabiria. Together with all her other creations in other Fellini's films, this is perhaps her own triumph as an actress.Franca Marzi, who plays Cabiria's best friend, is also excellent. Amadeo Nazzari is perfect portraying the matinée idol, Alberto Lazzari. This was one of his best appearances in a distinguished career in the Italian cinema. The rest of the cast is wonderful.Fellini's masterpiece is a film that satisfies any time one sees it thanks to his vision and the presence of Giulietta Masina.


                
A prostitute whose life is a veritable study in the resilience of the human spirit is the subject of `Nights of Cabiria,' directed by Federico Fellini. Giulietta Masina stars as Cabiria, a gentle soul at heart who manages to maintain a positive outlook even in the face of adversity.  Experiences that would leave those of lesser mettle jaded she is seemingly able to ward off and emerge from intact, with a guarded optimism that nevertheless leaves her open to whatever ills life may have in store for her next.  But it is just that optimism and her sense of joy in the simple things that makes her so endearing.  She is proud, for example, of the fact that she owns her own house, hovel though it may be.  Though not one to be easily duped, she is vulnerable to sincere persistence, which has in the past rendered her victim to those who would take advantage of her, which is succinctly established in the opening scene of the film. 	Fellini's film is a study of how good may succumb to evil, and yet still triumph in the end (though open to subjective interpretation).  It's something of an examination of endurance; how many times can one be knocked down before finally being unable to stand back up again.  At the same time, however, it's an example of how purity can prevail against even the utmost cruelty.  There is a humanity manifested in Cabiria that somehow gives absolution, not only to her lifestyle, but to those who would willingly do her harm.  And it is in that very same absolution that we find a message of hope and redemption. 	As Cabiria, the diminutive Masina gives a performance that is nothing less than superlative, filled with nuance and expression.  She has a face and a manner that convey an unbelievable depth of emotion, and Fellini captures every bit of it with his camera to perfection.  It sometimes seems that she is a sprite merely masquerading as a woman; she has a light, almost ethereal presence, though at the same time she exhibits an earthy quality that gives her character such complexity, which removes any semblance of stereotype one may assign to her character as a `lady of the evening.'  It is a heartfelt, memorable portrayal that quite simply should have earned her an Oscar for Best Actress.  Turning in a noteworthy performance, also, is Francois Perier, as Oscar D'Onofrio, the stranger who comes into Cabiria's life with an offer that ultimately seems too good to be true. 	The supporting cast includes Amedeo Nazzari (Alberto Lazzari), Aldo Silvani (The Hypnotist), Franca Marzi (Wanda), Dorian Gray (Jessy), Mario Passante (Cripple in the `Miracle' sequence), Pina Gualandri (Matilda), Leo Cattozzo (Man with the sack) and Polidor (The Monk).  `Nights of Cabiria' is a film of extraordinary depth that is beautiful as well in it's humanity; Fellini has created images, both visually and emotionally, that are stunning and indelibly realized.  Highlighted by the performance of Giulietta Masina, this is a film that begs to be embraced, one that will stay with you long after the last shadow has passed from the screen into darkness.  In Cabiria, Fellini somehow touches something eternal, for there is a lasting sense of innate goodness about her that simply cannot be forgotten.  For seekers after wisdom and truth, this is definitely a film that must not be missed. I rate this one 10/10.


                
I am not much in favor of "best" lists--I wouldn't make it in Cusack's "High Fidelity" world--but I can usually offer a range of titles of films that I consider the most powerful experiences I have had in front of a screen--Bicycle Thief, Ran, Ordet, Seventh Seal, Citizen Kane, L'Avventura, Rear Window, Blade Runner, quite a few others.  But if I had to pick just one title, it would be Nights of Cabiria. I saw it when it first came out in this country--I was a junior in high school and fortunate enough to live near a theater that showed foreign films.  It ran for several weeks and I kept going back to see it over and over, giving myself permission by dragging friends to see it.  No one was ever disappointed, though only a couple of friends developed a comparable enthusiasm with mine. I have continued to seeit every chance I get, though I have not had the opportunity to see the latest reissue--I probably will have to see it onvideo or dvd, since the city I now live in rarely shows any foreign films.  Giulietta Massina gives not just the greatestperformance of her career, but surely one of the greatestperformances ever recorded on film, and the sequence of Cabiria's experiences, at first seemingly random and insignificant, adds up to one of the most profound statements Fellini ever made about human life.


                
As a film-lover, there are movies that I've outgrown, movies that disappointingly lose their connection to me as I age and mature. Fellini's "Le Notti di Cabiria" is one of those movies that seems to grow with me. It grows richer with each yearly viewing. I never tire of it; I am moved in different ways each time I see it. Fellini and his amazing muse, Giulietta Masina, created one of those rare movie masterpieces in 1957 that comments on its time, yet remains fresh and contemporary as well. But I lament that this gem is so little known today. I trust its recent restoration will help remedy the movie-going public's oversight. The film's rich concluding scene alone (and Masina's glance into our eyes) remains one of the most magical moments ever projected on a screen.


                
This is one of the most perfect films ever committed to celluloid. It involved me more than at least 99% of other films I've seen, and the main character, Cabiria, is a character to cherish and love forever (of course, we who have seen La Strada are already partly familiar with the character). I've hardly ever cared more about a character, and even after only five minutes into the film, I wanted so desperately to protect her. Giulietta Masina is so masterful in her performance, and Federico Fellini, her husband, is as masterful in his direction. I did not believe that they could match their success with La Strada, but, in fact, they succeeded in surpassing it. Bravo. 10/10. One of the best films ever made, plain and simple.


                
My friends went to see The Queen last night - I was too tired and decided to go back home. I put in the DVD and got into bed figuring I would watch an half hour or so and fall asleep. At the end of nearly 2 hours, I was sitting up straight, wide awake, awestruck at the genius in the direction and acting. This is cinema at its finest. I have seen La Strada before and I now rank Fellini's earlier work as among my all time favorites (along with Ozu.) Masina's tearful smile at the camera at the end is pure magic - so much dignity and hope captured in a single second. Her performance throughout the movie was a revelation - she got innocent hope and graceful charm to shine through her foul-mouthed vulgar acting character. I simultaneously cared and despaired for her - this movie pulled me in like no recent Hollywood movie has for a long long time.


                
Giulietta Massina as the the prostitute is who was born to lose(but still never give up) is MASTERFUL.She creates a wonderful innocent character.Federico Fellini (her husband)is telling a very simple still complicated story and I was VERY impressed with his fantastic direction. I must say that you suffer with Cabiria, For example when she meets the movie star.A masterpiece from the start to the end and I would call it one of the best films ever made.No doubt about 5/5


                
I think there's just two reasons to make make this film the most beautiful thing I've ever seen on screen. I have yet to see a more beautiful movie. I'll explain below.The first is the play of emotions. At first Cabiria is upset after falling in the water. Then she smiles and laughs. Then she's upset. This transformation of emotions makes you throughout the movie want to see her smile. And when she laughs you're in heaven. With her. This is one reason: transformation of emotions, and your wish for Cabiria to get to laugh.The second thing that moved me with all my emotions was her reaction to sufferance. In her life she suffered before the movie (bad parents, prostitution, social status, poverty), throughout the movie (although her way of living rarely show you her sufferance in the movie, you feel she's very happy), and probably after the movie ends (again, bad future most likely). At the final part of the movie the pain is excruciating. She loses everything that connects her to the life (all her money & house), love (lover), social status (marriage) and some hope (in life and Virgin Mary). This is all in one scene. Actually, all she has left are her friends and possibly a suitcase. And then it happens: she's happy. In the very final part her reaction is: she yells, while crying, to the rubbing lover to kill her. She repeats this. And the final scene is a victory on life. Sure, her life was, is (oh, boy, what must her feelings be right now) and will be filled with pain. But he takes this reality, a certain fact, nothing's more concrete than this, and twists it: she's happy. In a face of tears, after a horrifying painful experience, she looks at the unsuspecting people around her that are joyful, happy, friendly, and takes their feeling: she smiles, almost laughing. There is no reality. The sufferance is beaten. Life has no hard touch on her. This is much more than hope. She is not wishing for a better future. She's living it now. Life is transformed with her final joy.I have yet to see a better movie. It's the one movie for which: I registered on IMDb, I voted, I read all the comments, I wrote this comment. No second place. My current top movies: this movie and below this everything else. There's not another movie I would recommend to anyone older than 15.
I love Federico Fellini, but I dread his early works like La Strada because they are so sad. Poor Giulietta Masina, one of the greatest film actresses of all time, she always gets the short end of the stick and because the movie magic is so intense, our heart breaks right along with her.Fellini is the Great Director Italian style. I don't mean he isn't the greatest director, better than Hitchcock, Welles, a modern like Scorcese. I'm looking at his work, have seen most of them, and I can't make up my mind. He might be the greatest that ever lived. His films in black and white, the Neo-Realism of Italian film after the war, the incredible original vision, the writing, and directing, it's as though Michelangelo came back as a director.Masina is a prostitute, but her loves turn out to be pocketbook grabbers. Her physical well being is not high on her boyfriend's priority list. She's such a little women, frail, and in Nights she plays a tough, brawling, whimsical, and hopeless romantic. Her acting style is over the top, almost carnival character as she had played it in La Strada, but as Cabiria, she's older, but not necessarily wiser. The final revelation with French actor François Périer is so heart rendering because after an hour and a half of Cabiria's, laughter, trials, and disappointments, we identify with her completely. And then, in one last scene, the carnival returns with hope.There is so much more to say about this film. You could write a book.


                
Nights of Cabiria is another neo-realistic Italian cinema that took us down-right to the world of misfortune,despairing,unloved world of a prostitute.The story of a woman Cabiria who dreamed up of finding true love in her life.The story follows Cabiria in her quest for love where she wanders the streets of Rome during night awaiting a wonder to happen when one day she will find the love of her life,but ironically in her quest she always get betrayed,disrespected and used-up by the different men she encounters in her journey.In this tragicomic tale,Giulietta Masina portrayed the role of innocent and naive women which is one of the greatest performance i have seen from any actress in my life.You will gravitate towards her wide,round glittering eyes and her innocent smile.You will grieve for her griefs, felt sympathy for her and when she smile,the innocence and purity of her smile compel you to smile and rejoice for her, when she pray to Madonna in a shrine i felt like praying with her.Her character was so energetic,full of passion ans positive attitude towards life,no matter how much she is in pain and grief she always found a way to laugh.Nights of cabiria is certainly one of the most perfect and equally powerful movie ever made.There is not a single flaw in the direction of Federico Fellini.The movie was more than perfect in every department from plot development,cinematography,performance to editing you cannot point-out a single sign of blemishness in the movie.This movie was entertaining throughout, perfectly paced that allow the audience to get deeply involve with the story and also prevent from boredom.The scenes were shot with precise details, perfection and beauty,whether the scene of the prayer in the shrine or the tension and sadness build at the climax ,every scene was exquisitely brilliant.This movie have one of the most tragic ending i have ever seen.The movie ended like it started,when she get betrayed again by another man she fell in love, in-spite of being sad and severely honest to audience about the harsh reality of world all the time, movie still inspire us at the end same time to never to loose hope. Nights of Cabiria is not a chick flick,this movie has an insight ,the character study of a misfortune women.Just like a mirror,this movie shows us the reality of life,true depiction of the cruel and unaffectionate world we live in but still inspires us.Sometimes,I wonder how can i relate myself so much with a movie that is not even near around to my culture,language,era and the country.Nights of Cabiria is one of those movies.this movie was made in 1957(the year even when my parents were not born) and from the country of Italy,i hardly know anything about it's culture and language.But still love the movies from Italy,the country where one of the most beautiful movies of the world are made.It is because of that these movies have boundless emotions that flows beyond the border of any country,passes all the hurdles of language and time and equally capable to penetrate the emotions of audience,irrespective of it's language and country.The movies like Nights of Cabiria are like Diamond which have no influence of time,only they get more and more beautiful as the time passes.The world will never forget the cinematic gems like this.
...alongside La Dolce Vita, 8 1/2 and Amarcord. Fellini's films are not for everybody perhaps, but I admire them how well made made and directed they are, some of them like Amarcord and the peacock in the snow have breathtakingly beautiful images that stay long in the mind, for his choices in composers and actors, for his deliberately paced and sometimes ambitious stories(8 1/2 is especially true of this) and also that the characters are not always what they seem at first glance. Nights of Cabiria I have seen before criticised as grating, sentimental and self-indulgent(the latter being a criticism of Fellini's films in general and him also actually), and while I am understanding, I personally don't agree.I find Nights of Cabiria to be one of his accessible films, and along with La Strada also his most moving. Again it is incredibly well made, with beautiful scenery and cinematography. The images are again very memorable, and done with much emotional resonance, the best of which being the ending which is both tragic and uplifting. Fellini's direction is superb, the personal nostalgia that is apparent in all his films is here and you do identify with the story and the titular character. The music has much beauty and nostalgic charm, while the story perfectly tells of the sheer happiness and then tearful sorrow of unfortunate Cabiria's life. Cabiria, the titular character, is one you can identify with immediately, feeling pity and also her conflicting emotions as she tries to remain positive even in the face of adversity. Giulietta Masina gives a bravura performance, her face and eyes are beautifully expressive and she is just heart-breaking. Francois Perier also shines as the stranger who makes the offer that is almost too good to be true.Overall, a truly beautiful film and one of Fellini's best, certainly one of my favourites as well. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
In a way "Nights of Cabiria" is the companion piece to "La Strada", both directed by Federico Fellini, both starring his wife and muse Giulietta Masina and both dealing with a woman and her struggle with life. And yet the movies conclude quite differently. Cabiria is one of those characters that really get under your skin in the progression of the film - it's a woman who seems difficult to understand at the beginning when she's saved from drowning, yet doesn't even have a word of thanks for her saviours and heads off ranting. What follows is grand character development. Episode by episode we get deeper in Cabiria's heart and mind, her hopes and dreams, see her praying for a miracle, but again and again she fails, is used, ridiculed, ignored. Cabiria is not just a naive girl stumbling into her doom, she rather seeks salvation in simplicity and belief when everything else shatters to pieces. She's actually quite a complex character - emotional, earthy and proud in her own way, yet vulnerable and always on the brink. And we are swept away with her when eventually that turn in her fate is actually happening, the change for which we've all been rooting by then.It all leads up to one of the most striking final scenes in cinema history - Fellini's camera work and Masina's performance invoke pure movie magic: Never before is a greeting from a total stranger as heart-warming as here, never again will a well-timed nod into the camera be so electrifying as Cabiria's. Maybe you already know what I mean. In any case I conclude with: Buona sera!


                
Like Maria Falconetti in "The Passion of Joan of Arc", Meryl Streep in "Sophie's Choice" or Gena Rowlands in "A Woman Under the Influence", Guiletta Masina in "Nights of Cabiria" displayed, with a poignant authenticity, the courage to overcome the adversity underlining her vulnerable condition.Coincidentally, like Gena Rowlands with John Cassavettes, Masina was directed by her husband, Federico Fellini. And I believe this is the key of intimacy that liberates the actress in front of the camera and allows her to express every single emotion with intensity, and no fear of being over-the-top, the man behind the camera takes care of everything. And "Intense" to describe Guiletta Masina's performance is an understatement, so is the very word "performance". Masina lives Cabiria, with an endearing generosity and universal appeal. Rarely have I felt so much empathy toward a character who happens to be a loud-mouth thirty something prostitute.Cabiria is introduced as a joyful woman living a passionate romance with Giorgio, she kisses him, embraces him, then he suddenly steals her purse and pushes her into the river, where she nearly drowns before being saved by a group of young men. The opening scene is intriguing by its setting, an industrial area far away from the city, and the broad daylight, and its cheerful tone followed by a tragic twist, then an optimistic resolution. Basically, after a first viewing, you simply realize how the first minutes, in their tragicomic aspect; represent the movie in microcosm. But the emotional trap not to fall in is to consider Cabiria as a pathetic woman on which bad luck keep going on, Fellini's film is the chronicles of a series of misfortunes punctuated with optimistic statements about human nature, and it's up to the viewer, to Cabiria, to see the half-filled or half-empty glass.Cabiria's surprisingly ungrateful reaction after she's rescued is another indication of her unique temperament. She trusts any bad intentioned smooth-talking Don Juan over any genuinely caring person. In the following scene, her best friend Wanda seems very concerned and friendly before being harshly dismissed. Cabiria has the sweetness and the temper of a child, and her tragedy is that she never displays the right reactions at the right time, making the general mood of the film fascinatingly unpredictable. Cabiria never misses an occasion to dance, with her unique charisma; she steals the show and creates an eccentric cheerful mood even inside the prostitute's circle. Her positive attitude is a personal way to rise herself above her condition. As she likes to remind everyone: she owns her house. She has an almost childish way to brag about the fact that she's not like any prostitute. Indeed, we never see her in activity, she embodies the condition of being a prostitute, disdained, insulted, taken advantage of, and her eternal suspicious attitude toward any sign of kindness is an unfortunate professional bias. Both tragic and comic, Cabiria reminded me of two classic movies notorious for having inspired Fellini.Cabiria's appearance is almost comical, she's short but doesn't embarrass herself with high heels, instead she has these white socks worn with very unlikely sandals, and eyebrows a la Mickey Mouse. During the Mambo part, every eyes stare at her. She dances and moves a bit like Chaplin in "Modern Times", Cabiria is a sort of female clown with the right mix of pathos and burlesque, the Tramp with the umbrella as cane-like accessory. And when she gets in the beautiful house of the rich movie star, and he starts developing a fondness on her, we expect a disillusion to come, like the Tramp with the Rich Man in "City lights". Mickey Mouse or Charlie Chaplin, Cabiria is the female incarnation of the universally appealing figure of "little fellow who does his best" in a quite hostile world. The music of Nino Rota embodies the playful mood of Cabiria's misadventures until the sense of urgency in her quest of a new life started to remind of another masterpiece: De Sica's "Bicycle Thieves". Like the new bicycle changed Ricci's life, a new love would transform Cabiria, and the desperation growing deeper and stronger as indicated in that scene where she joins the pilgrims and asks the Virgin Mary to change her life, was a powerful reminiscence of Ricci visiting the Wise Woman.This is the dilemma that inhabits "Nights of Cabiria", romantic or realistic. When after having been so mistreated during a magic show Cabiria was approached by the kind accountant Oscar, played by François Périer, I wanted her to keep her guard up. And as he seemed genuinely in love, convincing her after several meetings, to marry him, and leave everything for him, my heart pounded as I was expecting the worst to happen. And then came the climactic scene in the cliff when Cabiria understood Oscar's dark motives, just like Giorgio's, and she started sobbing, my heart literally melted. Cabiria is the quintessential romantic person, in the denial of the world's reality, and the pain in her heart, was her realization that the vision she always tries to reject was true. But she pulled herself together, started walking when a group of happy young people dancing and playing music formed a cheerful parade around her. This was the "City Lights"-like ending the movie needed: the ultimate triumph of the faith in human spirit. Cabiria is like reborn in this scene, her eyebrows are natural, her smile genuine, her wounds healed, as she feels in security again, hence her quick glance at Fellini, behind the camera, or was she simply thanking us, viewers, for loving her?Kabir' means 'big' or 'powerful' in Arabic, and I wouldn't be surprised, if the name was a derivation from that Semitic epithet. Cabiria is a character defined by a personality that transcends the limits of her tiny little body. Size-wise, she's everything but Cabiria, street-wise, she has one hell of a big mouth and as a human being, her heart is simply gigantic <U+0085>
this movie has surpassed all emotions beyond doubt . a movie that is ahead of now . a movie that gives you the harshes of life . a movie that gives you moment of hopes .a brilliant direction. each and every scence speaks itself. the great actor giulletta masini . will there be any woman in this world who can act like she did. i bet a billion dollar on it!! due the less no of votes as not much people have seen it . its position in IMDb is not worth its status. it must come within top 10. then i will be a satisfied man.:)but people with heart problems or softly sentimental should be kept away. one need not take it too deep .. after all this is a movie.


                
Federico Fellini directed his wife, Giuletta Masina, in some of her and his most memorable screen work. Nights of Cabiria may be high up there, perhaps the most exciting. The film carries an episodic storyline that follows our heroine Cabiria as she has to use a hard act of cynicism and street-wise attitude to cover up a girlyish interior. Run-ins with a celebritie and other louse-abouts, a visit to a church, and a life-changing bit on a magician's stage, and most of these sequences are filmed superbly. Not only is there Fellini's usual under-current of laughs, but a perfect sense of imagination behind the on-location sets and real-life actors.I've seen this and La Strada now (Masina's other notable work), and I feel a little more inclined to go with this one as the better. Some critics have written that Fellini's films, in the evolution of his career, show a gaining momentum up till 8 1/2. Although I'd have to see both each a second go-around, Nights of Cabiria had me enthralled and amazed for the whole two hours. There's something so appealing about a character like Cabiria that's pulled off without a hitch, even into the seemingly 'easy' third act. Add another fantastic Nina Rota score, fascinating supporting cast, and a genuine ideology behind the environment of Cabiria's world, and it's a winner. This is the kind of film that COULD have appealed more so to women than men, but as it stands, the film holds up as a great romantic character study for anyone. A+


                
Ms. Masina (Mrs. Fellini), is simply one of the most superlative actresses in history. Yes, we all know the infidelities and troubles Mr. and Mrs. Fellini had in their life-long marriage. Like every other marriage we know.What is astonishing are the artistic treasures they left us."Nights of Cabiria" is one among many of the finest films ever made."Sweet Charity," the musical rip-off of this masterpiece, cheapens the entire enterprise. Good intentions notwithstanding.We don't need Bob Fosse, and certainly not Shirley MacClaine replacing Giulietta Masina, nor second-rate Cy Coleman's score, to "musicalize" what was already a brilliant musical (thanks to Nino Rota and Bonagura).Fellini's film "sings" on its own, thank you."Sweet Charity" is a perfect example of Hollywood and Broadway making a travesty of art."Sweet Charity" -- film and stage performances -- are hollow, shallow exercises compared to the original film. Yeah, Shirley and Chita Rivera and Paula Kelly dance up a storm. Nothing to do with the story or the characters. Everything to do with making a "musical." What fun! Unfortunately, Broadway and Hollywood cut out the heart. Dancing zombies.Fellini's film is the gem. Polished to within an inch of its life, though pretending to be a diamond in the rough. Like all Fellini's works.Giulietta Masina IS the tiny hooker you want to love. No Hollywood "star" "playing" a hooker: she simply is. Like all (few) great actresses.Fellini knows what he has, in a wife, in an actress. He's genius enough to turn the camera on her and let her genius shine.Don't think she's a genius? Try "La Strada." "Juliet of the Spirits." "Ginger and Fred." Or her non-Fellini-directed turn in "Madwoman of Chaillot" with Katherine Hepburn.Giulietta Masina is as gifted a cinema actress as there ever was.Federico Fellini is as gifted a cinema director as there ever was.Marriages between geniuses are rare.Fellini is without peer.Give the actress, and her director husband, their due.Cinema has never seen their likes before or since.Fellini and Masina. Incomparable.And let's raise a toast to Nino Rota -- their equal, musically.


                
"Nights of Cabiria" is one of Fellini's masterpieces. I love this film. 
Giulietta Masina gives a superb and touching performance here, under the direction of one the greatest filmmakers, her husband Federico Fellini. The film is full of compassion and tenderness for the characters. Her beautiful warm smile, after having lost everything at the end is very moving, I wanted to reach through the screen and embrace her.
This film and La Strada are my favourite two Fellini films.


                
Is there a more cohesive film covering the range of the human experience in the catalogue of cinema? Doubtful. This masterpiece showcases one of the greatest performances ever captured on celluloid. Fellini's lilliputian muse Masina is indomitable in her role as the toughest little prostitute ever. She is equal parts gruff and sweet, a dichotomy extremely hard to successfully pull off. The haunting imagery of this film - the desolate landscape of her existence - juxtaposed with the opulence of the world she falls into (and is unceremoniously cast out of), represents an Eden all to familiar with anyone from a humble background. The surprisingly poignant and uplifting finish will leave a teary smile on your face. Bella!


                
Cabiria is a prostitute in her 30s. Short and not as pretty as her colleagues either. She lost her parents when she was little so she was never educated or cultured and you can see all this in her character.The first scene shows her being pushed into a river by her boyfriend (pimp too I guess) who just wants to steal her handbag. She gets rescued by some kids and some local people but when she wakes up she absolutely doesn't care about them and is very rude and bad to them. She has had such a hard life, a life where people just use her, a life of no love or respect that most of her mind is just callous.But as we spend time with her, we slowly see that, just like anybody, she too just wants to be loved. But its subtle. She has been burned so many many times that trust is 'extremely' difficult for her.By the end of the movie, we will fall in love with her. You just want to hug her close, kiss her and tell her that she is truly loved for who she and that she will not be harmed. That is how good the acting by Giulietta Masina is (the story too). She has the most expressive eyes that I have seen on screen. If she was in Hollywood, she may have been one of the greatest actresses of all times! This movie is also not for everyone. Its a sort of slice-of-life of just one person, so it doesn't have a conclusive ending. Its not a, she lived happily ever after or she died or she achieved that, kind of movie. And you really need to be older, seen pain, understood the meaning of loneliness, what society is, what people want, etc., to see the heart and reason behind everything.Movie is on the levels of Tokyo Story, so do see it.


                
I've not been able to sit through many of Fellini's films, but this one is a treat.The stars were aligned for this tale to be told through a winning formula.And that does include the stars of this film, especially Masina.Some here have complained of a lack of structure in the story.I think they have over-analyzed this film.You can be a film buff, and think you know everything and have to study all the aspects of filmmaking to enjoy a film? No! Take the journey without thinking too hard, let the people and the story show you the way to a satisfying movie experience.There is structure and form here, and it doesn't get in the way.Salute!


                
The real love story in this classic is between the director Fellini and his life-long wife, Giulietta Masina. The person who falls in love with Cabiria is you sitting in the audience. In the audience, we share a number of intimate moments with Cabiria like when she is alone in the movie star's bathroom, and when she is praying to the Madonna for a better life, and when she is preparing hopefully for her marriage. No character in the film ever gets to know her as intimately as we do.In the film's denouement, she is sort of walking off into the future with us as her adoring audience. We share with her the little smile when she sees reason for hope among the young people playing music.
Like some others mentioned before: this film is like a good wine. It comes with age. Now I can't disagree with that, because in a certain way it does, but I most definitely can't agree with it. I would describe it differently, although the comparison with wine will still be relevant. The thing that makes this film great, in my opinion, is its 'aftertaste' . While I was watching the film, I was stunned by the acting of Masina, yet not in another way then with 'La Strada'. When the film ended I was very impressed, yet not as much as when I saw 'Otto e Mezzo'. The thing is, I'm finally realising how much I loved this film, while I'm writing this. Maybe the acting wasn't superior to 'La Strada's' acting. I actually liked the rest of the cast better in 'La Strada' (which included Quinn and Basehart besides Masina). Nor was the film as challenging and sophisticated as 'Otto e Mezzo'. But 'La Strada' didn't have a story like 'Le Notti di Cabiria' and a divine character like Cabiria. And 'Otto e Mezzo' didn't have Masina in it. That's what makes 'Le Notti di Cabiria' as memorable as it is. And because of that, this film can be called Fellini's true masterpiece and, by saying that, one of the best films ever made.


                
I've only recently become a foreign cinema fan in the last 5 years. Was exposed to Italian horror films many years before that but in recent years have watched more of the classics, non-genre type stuff. Saw La Dulce Vita last April and loved it. last week, this was watched. Boy, this is good. Very oddly constructed scenes at time and the B&W really sets the tone for this odd tale of prostition. Lots of symbolism about religion and class in 1940's Italy.Fellini is a true master. The lead actress seems like a real person, not an actress, and so many of the extras as well(they probably were not actors),...it really gives you this odd feel. Never too many cuts of C-U shots either, which i like.
The world of Federico Fellini was ,is and will be holding us captives as long as Cinema as Art exists. "The Nights Of Cabiria" is no exception.Though chronologically it belongs to the 50ies of the 20th century ,it is a strong message to us all, to our children, to those who will come after:hope against hope;never give up;the darkest moments in life will pass, blind and irrational (as it seems)belief in human goodness always prevails, whereas blind religious fervor always fails ( we should not forget that Fellini had always been critical of the Catholic Church). Julietta Masina is a superb actress who had actually sacrificed her might-have-been outstanding career(in fact, what she had accomplished is remarkable,but she could have done much much more as an actress) for the sake of her husband, and that makes her even greater as a human being.Of course, her "smile through tears" is unforgettable. Nino Rota's music does not just add to ,but co-creates the atmosphere of the film , the rarest case, when two genii(Rota and Fellini)found each other as wonderful partners-in-art, never trying to overshadow each other. I teach a course in European Cinema at a university in Taiwan, and I always show my Chinese students "The Nights of Cabiria".Their reaction and feedback are amazing:they FEEL the characters of different time and culture with an amazing intensity.It just proves once again that true ART has no boundaries.


                
