I almost turned this film off. I'm so glad I stayed with it. It's one of the best films I've seen. Cabiria, the street prostitute, is not sympathetic. She's rough, vulgar, not very attractive, a showoff, loud, proud, inelegant. I just didn't feel anything for her character at the beginning. But Fellini must have been reading my mind. He purposefully played it that way to draw the viewer in.The streets of Rome are unforgiving and harsh for a prostitute. There are those who sleep in caves and in the archways. Cabiria braggingly says, "I've got my own house...here's one girl who's never slept under the arches. Well, maybe once. Twice maybe." By the end of the film I was completely hooked by her charm, desire, and hope. For hope is what keeps Cabiria going. A great film.


                
Nights of Cabiria is one of those timeless old films that will always remain poignant and relevant.  It carries that old innocent cinematic charm of an era that can never be duplicated.Masina, is so talented in this film and this character is SO unforgettable. WHAT TALENT!!  This woman doesn't even have to say anything!!  You just have to look into those huge pupils and watch the variety of expressions on her face that convey so many emotions without a single word.  I would but it in comparisons to Masina as a circus clown, who can just do everything with her face.The film is a good play on life and redemption in general (done very well might I add), and for that it rates high for me personally.  It is also very funny and charming.  I can not comment on how it compares to Sweet Charity (which is based on this film) cause I have not seen it.The film slows in certain sections but is never boring.  GREAT FILM!!Rating 8 out of 10


                
Spoilers herein.I suppose there are many who believe this to be a character study, or perhaps social criticism. I don't think so -- I believe this to be Fellini's first film concerned with the nature of what film is: part prostitution, part promised miracle; part mesmerised fantasy; part romantic pretense.And that's how this film is constructed, four set pieces dealing with these four ideas:-- The film actor as reluctant prostitute-- The masses flocking to the madonna based on the magic of the ritual performance-- The audience being hypnotized by watching someone be hypnotized-- The play that is behind love, and all it is, is a play for money (which connects to the small sequence in the beginning)This is definitely worth watching, and it has historical significance as well. But I think it s pretty weak Fellini so far as the visual elements and the narrative adventure. So many of the dramatic metaphors are peculiarly Italian -- somehow they don't translate to the universal as well as say the Japanese of Kurosawa.
It would be far too simplistic to feel that the film merely presents an optimist's commitment to live and enjoy life in an imperfect world. "Nights of Cabiria" has always intrigued me among the many Fellini films that I have seen<U+0097>-it is great cinema that asks more questions than it provides answers.Question one<U+0097>who is the altruist who provides alms in the night to the wretched of the earth? The only reason for the addition of this character seems to be that Fellini wants a contrasting figure who works in the night<U+0097>one who gives sustenance to others in a commendable way<U+0097>a way Cabiria would have preferred to live her life if she had an option. It was amusing for me to find out that this entire sequence was deleted in earlier released versions of the film. My guess is that this sequence was an addition of screenplay writer Pasolini, as it would fit into his style of Christian Marxism, more than the neorealism of Fellini. Interestingly, this is one of the three males in the film (others being the actor who invites Cabiria home, and Brother Giovanni) who seem to have a pure heart and good intentions<U+0097>all the others seem to have a predominant evil streak.Question two<U+0097>-Brother Giovanni leaves a profound effect on Cabiria. Confessing to him (she thinks he is a full fledged priest) and having Mass celebrated by him was Cabiria's wish but the cold response she receives from Giovanni's colleague, who is apparently a full-fledged priest, seems to be Fellini's/Pasolini's comment on the Church<U+0097>otherwise why have the scene? Question three-<U+0097>Cabiria's eyebrows change their shape as she contemplates a married life. This is not in line with Fellini's Cabiria, who would think about the effect eyebrows will make as she switches gears in her personal life. Or is Fellini suggesting that as Cabiria steps on the threshold of marriage, the personality of Cabiria changes to a more calculating woman, in contract to the earlier simple, waif like personality.Apart from questions such as these, it is unquestionably one of Fellini's finest films. I preferred "La Strada," another Fellini film with his wife Guilietta Massina in the lead role, and his later less talked about "Orchestra Rehearsal," made some 20 years later, in which social commentary takes center stage and storyline the backstage.I am surprised that most Fellini viewers are taken up with performances and the story each Fellini film offers. The more poignant world of Fellini revolves around the commentary on the divide between the rich and the poor, the honest and the dishonest, the religious and the agnostic. The allure of Fellini to me remains his social commentary<U+0097>-he underlines this with Cabiria, in the final shot looking at you the viewer, bringing up the nexus between the character and the viewer. In fact, this final shot ought to wake up the sensibilities of the laid-back cinema viewer.


                
I really enjoyed this picture. Similarly to La Strada, I inaccurately tried to assume the ending, and was lucky enough to be proven wrong. I have learned to never assume anything before a Fellini movie, because you will surely be surprised by your inaccuracy.


                
What an impressive ending. I have hardly ever seen something so sad and hopeful at the same time. Being betrayed one more time in love and losing all her possessions does not seem to be enough for Cabiria to preclude her from quickly rediscovering a smile and her trust in humankind and in the chance of a better future. Maybe it is even the grace of God, which is revealed to us here as a reward for Cabiria having done a pilgrimage?In a way, I also shared Cabiria's naivety, since I did not see beforehand, where the film was heading. All the preceding scenes seemed to connect only awkwardly but then all at a sudden everything was fitting perfectly. In fact, it seems that no other possible ending would have been of any value.Still, I keep on asking myself, if Cabiria really had to be a prostitute in this movie. Not that I am an expert in this field, but according to me, she does not really behave like one. She does not care about getting into business with any wooer and if it happens, she seems to be almost surprised and shows a rather defensive behaviour. In fact, she is looking for love and doing so on the streets almost inevitably leads into disaster. Did Mr. Fellini want to point out that hope could even flourish in a situation as desperate like being a not overly pretty prostitute or was it just the selling factor of the word prostitute that made Mr. Fellini take this decision? In my opinion, the story also would have worked out, if Cabiria had just been a shop assistant, as she once pretends to be in the movie. This not totally convincing aspect of the movie has by no means anything to do with the performance of Giuletta Massina, the actress representing Cabiria. Her quite unique physiognomy and her clownish way of moving and acting are so distinctive that movies starring her already tend to be remembered for this reason only. Equally convincing is the true-to-life character of Cabiria's friend Wanda, which is another gem of the movie. Quite remarkable is also the setting of the lonesome almost caravan-like house on the outskirts of Rome, which Cabiria owns and eventually sells to follow her new lover. Not to be forgotten also the extravagancy of the African dancers in the night club scene, in which Cabiria only gets roped into because of her accidental meeting with Alberto Lazzari, the famous actor. Let's not underestimate small details for the quality of a movie.
This is the kind of picture that leaves one with a 'half empty/half full' sort of feeling, that is, it can be depressing and inspiring at the same time. The title character, portrayed by the waif-like Giulietta Masina, wife of director Fellini, has it all and loses it all in the space of an afternoon, and one would think she would have thrown herself off the cliff when the scoundrel Oscar (Francois Perier) left her penniless and with no place else to turn. But then, as she joins the makeshift procession out of the woods, a wistful smile returns to her face, perhaps knowing that she's finally been freed from a life of hopelessness and frustration. It almost doesn't make sense given the way she's left penniless, but there's a tremendous sense of liberation that I felt for Cabiria when she emerged from her experience that day. All throughout the film she managed to persevere and come out of her troubling situations with a certain amount of poise and good cheer. Perhaps her prayers to the Madonna were answered, when she asked for the grace to change her life. Life's good fortune and miracles don't always follow along a straight line path, and as the picture comes to a close, one has a sense that for Cabiria, everything was going to be okay.
Whilst it is debatable whether Nights of Cabiria stands as strongly when viewed with a modern eye, it was well deserving of the Oscar it was awarded at the time, and it's certainly still a moving and interesting film. The almost ostracising Italian and mid 1900s culture pervading this world makes viewing mildly difficult to chew, and along with those those affronting and slightly discomfiting tentative shots, long, demanding looks at the camera and Signorina Cabiria's frankly<U+0085> comic owl-like eyebrows it certainly doesn't feel like a modern film. The change and character of Cabiria is quite beautiful really (reflected also in the riddance and softening of those eyebrows, thank God) and this humanness carries to the modern viewer. It's slow all throughout, and the first hour or so is realistic, consistent with real life - some interesting snapshots, but mostly pointless and in the scheme of things, insignificant, happenings. It's not perfect, by any means, even grating or simply boring at times, but I was left with such a pretty feel that I couldn't move on without making a comment. The acting, old-fashioned shots, those terrible eyebrows, and how everyone yells at each other, these foreign interactions, were odd for me, part of the<U+0085> not imperfection actually, but just experience I suppose. The character once again glows through, Cabiria is an unpolished gem, a human gem. I think it's worth a watch.


                
In this masterpiece by a great director, Fellini tells of the prostitute Cabiria who spends the entire movie searching for love without ever actually having sex.  I know what you're thinking: "Ra-ra; that sounds boring. Wrong.At the heart of this film is a feminist who is coming into her own.  The audience feels her heartbreak as she goes from man to man looking for "the one."  As a guy, I must say that I started to hate men.  I guess that's sort of the point.  Cabiria's character is essentially an innocent, and it is hard to watch people take advantage of innocents (and innocence).  Well Fellini makes you sit through it, and the effect is awesome.When it finally seems as if Cabiria has found the right man, the viewer cannot help but to be wary after all of the s**t she had to go through with the others.  Is the viewer right?  What do you think?The final shot gives me chills (the good kind).  It stands as a testament to the independence of womankind and their strength to persevere when they are left with nothing.Awesome.


                
Nights of Cabiria saw Giulietta Masina get the award for best actress in the European version of our academy awards.Like Bette Davis in 1937 and 1938 who was nominated for in Human Bondage and lost an award everyone thought was hers only to win on her next nomination for Dangerous.Masina should have won for La Strada in 54 but won on her next nominated performance in 1957 for Nights Of Cabiria the awards people obviously not wanting to be seen as having missed the boat twice in three years.That being said Giulietta put in a performance worthy of award status.Cabiria a streetwalker has her own home, a small bank account,and is fiercely independent.She has the same hopes and dreams of everyday middle-class people.She and her friend Wanda seem to want a normal life but have somewhat resigned themselves to making the best out of the life!She takes pride that her and Wanda whenever possible try and get picked up at the higher class locales,that she has only slept under a bridge once or maybe twice,and the fact that she staunchly refuses to accept a pimps protection.she would like to have real love in her life but is practical about her expectations,partly due to negative experiences of such.The cinematography makes you feel like you are in Italy as Fellini takes his camera to the streets of Rome and her provinces.There is no pre-fab Hollywood sets here.Cabiria like Gelsomina will remain in your mind and heart long after this film has been watched.


                
As it was my first experience with Fellini, I finally got to get to know him. Everything is in its place from the opening scene. I dived into this movie without knowing anything about it, and the storyline slowly introduces everyone of the characters and all the possible interactions quite clearly.
The loud, hopeful, naive Cabiria, amazingly portraied by Giulia, well-deserved golden globe winner. How natural she acts is beyond my understanding. How Cabiria has lost the god's grace and how she tries to retrieve it by means of love. Hope, despair, and resilience all together. I'm trying to write a spolier-free review, for I believe it's better to just dive in like I did.
A great movie to watch. A good story to see. And well done to Mr. Fellini.


                
Federico Fellini's Masterpiece Le notti di Cabiria is about a young woman's odyssey,who is by the way a prostitute,throughout Rome.During this odd adventures she comes face to face with her dreams but she never accomplishes them.She in a nostalgic climate looks back when she was younger and more innocent.She is a human being who admires people who give love and are selflessness.In the end she gets charmed from one people like those and in her kindness she believe's him but him tragic conclusions.The trust that she shows to people throughout the film is the reason she gets deluded,but those characteristics make her,even she doesn't realize it one of those people she admires.The ending although it seems sad in total,the last taste that the audience takes is the view of a fighter,a human that looks everyone in the eyes and doesn't fear to show feelings to anyone.The movie might seem boring to some people but when they'll reach to the ending they will be remunerated.The ending climax and the landscape of one of the most dramatic scenes in cinema is outstanding.The viewer draws away from the happy turn the movie has gotten and is thrown for another time to cruelty of the world,but for another time people have to turn their backs to heartbreak and death and fight again.The viewer suffers with the character in a silent scene where both the actress and the director prove their talents.Summing up the movie is totally worth watching.Having a clear mind while watching it will help to get all the meanings many of which have escaped this review.Highlight of the film:The Ending.


                
From director Federico Fellini (Amarcord), this is another film, in the Italian language, that I found inside the pages of the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, it is one I liked the sound of as well. Basically Maria 'Cabiria' Ceccarelli (BAFTA nominated Giulietta Masina) is the wide-eyed street walking prostitute with not many friends but a seemingly good outlook on life, and despite living on the poor end of Rome she does have a small house, a bank account and her dreams to keep her going. The story follows Cabiria through a few nights (and days) spending time with various men who have the same thing in common, they all treat her rotten and disappear very quickly. These mistreating men include a man who steals 40,000 lire and almost drowns her with her inability to swim, a movie star who pays little attention to her, and a man of god giving to the poor but again not drawing to her in any way. All Cabiria can do is spend a little time with her friend Wanda (Franca Marzi), and religious services to pray to the holy one in order to have her dream of a better life come true, including finding a man who truly loves her. After helping an illusionist/hypnotist act on stage she meets accountant Oscar D'Onofrio (François Périer) who seems genuinely kind and as they get to know each other liking the idea of a future together, at first she is cautious and suspicious, but she does fall in love with him. They marry within only a few weeks, and during their honeymoon they spend time walking through the woods and towards a cliff overlooking the lake, and Oscar becomes very suspicious indeed. Cabiria realises he intends to push her off the cliff and steal her money, so she just gives up her purse and lets him get away, but walking down the long road back home she can only smile through her tears in a parade of people, she must be hopeful that things will be alright. Also starring Amedeo Nazzari as Alberto Lazzari, Aldo Silvani as The Wizard, Dorian Gray as Jessy, Ennio Girolami as Amleto, Mario Passante as Uncle of Amleto and Pina Gualandri as Matilda the prostitute. In the leading role Masina, also Fellini's wife at the time, is wonderful with her quirky facial expressions, venerability and child like attitude, she is pretty much the key to why this film is so watchable, the character having all these misusing men are the most interesting scenes, it is a thought provoking and enjoyable masterpiece, a great drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source. Very good!
A waifish prostitute (Giulietta Masina) wanders the streets of Rome looking for true love but finds only heartbreak.I do not feel confident critiquing this film, as it is the first Federico Fellini film I have seen. Sure, one should be able to judge a film on its own merits, but I feel like it would be more fair to put this one in context of his overall career, seeing as this was 55 years ago...Bosley Crowther gave the film a mixed review, saying "this one is aimed more surely toward the development of a theme than a plot. Its interest is not so much the conflicts that occur in the life of the heroine as the deep, underlying implications of human pathos that the pattern of her life shows... But there are two weaknesses in Cabiria. It has a sordid atmosphere and there is something elusive and insufficient about the character of the heroine. Her get-up is weird and illogical for the milieu in which she lives and her farcical mannerisms clash with the ugly realism of the theme." I include this here merely to show how time has aged this film well -- no critic today would come down so harsh on Fellini.What I actually found most interesting was the producer being Dino De Laurentiis. Now, that in itself is not strange, because he has produced a great many things (and other Fellini films). But again, looking back 50 years, Dino is known for his involvement in horror and science fiction. It is interesting to see he had such a distinguished beginning. Most people in film start in horror and then go legit, not the other way around.


                
Ever since I was bored to tears by both 8 1/2 and La Dolce Vita; Federico Fellini hasn't been at the top of my favourite directors list. However, he went up a little in my estimation after I saw La Strada, and Night of Cabiria ensures that my opinion of him has risen further still. The film is a very bleak portrayal of the life of a young woman in Italy, who becomes the victim of several men; but isn't completely blameless herself. The film starts with a sequence that sees this woman, named Cabiria, dumped into a river shortly before her purse is stolen by her supposed 'love'. Any sympathy we have for her is quickly lost after she is rescued by some helpful villagers, and proceeds to mock their rescue by being very rude indeed. The central character is very hard to like, as she's seriously lacking in good points; but this seems to be the point of the movie. Cabiria doesn't treat others very well, and as such; she doesn't get a good deal very often herself. The character is never really allowed to develop - she always has the same motives, but her situation changes around her - and Fellini gives us a cinematic interpretation of the old proverb 'a leopard never changes its spots'.The film takes place largely in the downtrodden areas of Rome. Fellini does an excellent job of enforcing the character's situation on his audience, and the black and white cinematography helps to ensure that the movie always looks suitably bleak. This film represents a reunion between director Federico Fellini and his La Strada star Giulietta Masina. Masina delivers an energetic performance, which ensures that the film is never boring; but it also means that her character often appears over the top, and the film loses credibility because of that. To be honest, I don't think this actress suits the film too well. She fit her role in La Strada like a glove, and it may be for that reason that she is hard to accept in such a different persona. Anyway, the style of the film is great; Fellini ensures that the film feels very Italian, and this combined with the energy from the lead makes the film more enjoyable than quite a few similar art films. The ending is great, and fits everything leading up to it brilliantly. This is the only way the film could have ended properly; making the climax both fitting and satisfying. Overall, Nights of Cabiria is an excellent classic film and one that I recommend to fans of art cinema.


                
This is my first comment on a movie so be nice, thanks. It is hard to describe exactly what I felt during this movie but I was really moved. Directed beautifully by Fellini casting his beautiful wife as the star. She has the most amazing smile and wonderful facial expressions. I loved Oscar, he seemed to be just like me, except for the ending. He acted out his love with passion and even deceived me, a little tearjerker. My favorite part was when Cabiria encountered the magician/hypnotist. He gave such thought to his words and had such poise and was a great entertainer, reminding me kind of like Edward Norton in the illusionist. Oscar then took me away with his beautiful words. The first couple lines are his best. I love how at the end she is torn and sad walking down the street with all the kids playing music and dancing ironically next to her. She uses that to cheer herself up which brings that great loving smile of hers to show us that she is still living and the worst is hopefully over, this gives us hope! I love how everyone keeps calling her a nut yet she still tries showing everybody that she isn't what they think, even though it's not what other people think of you that matters but what you think of yourself. Showing other people just helps bring it out and who wouldn't want to show other people how you have changed for the better. Everyone is in search for happiness but happiness lies within. Many people don't know that but it's how you think of things that brings happiness. A mind is a great thing. I would definitely watch this movies more times to come and hope to get it on DVD. This is an art masterpiece. I've heard much about Fellini, and this was my first movie of him I've seen. He greatly influenced David Lynch, my favorite director and one of the best artsy movie directors, as well as Stanley Kubrick. I look forward to seeing 8 1/2 which could be more comparable with Lynchian works. PS The only reason that I give it an 8 and not 10 is because I want to leave room for improvement which there always is.


                
Cabiria is an experienced, but not jaded prostitute in search of a 'real' man. She has some savings, hence quite a few REAL men are ready to fake love for her money. Not much of a story, but Masina is a hugely enjoyable actress to watch. 8/10.


                
