Only a handful of directors know atmosphere the way Akira Kurosawa does, only a handful. Yojinbo opens with a tracking shot of a ronin samurai walking down a dusty road. The camera wisely stays behind the samurai, played by Toshiro Mifune, so we cannot see his face or expressions. This samurai is desperate. Mifune has no master and no money. Kurosawa doesn't let you see his desperation, instead focusing on the back of his head and his profile to set up one of the most memorable characters in cinema history. The film has been copied many times, its practically the most influential film of the modern action genre. Yojinbo isn't action packed however, Kurosawa takes his time setting up characters and plot. The fact that this masterless samurai has deep compassion for strangers is different than most modern action movies alone. Toshiro Mifune is magical in the lead role. His presence is felt all throughout the film even when he isn't on camera. All film buffs should watch this film, it is a perfect example of a director and actor with confidence in their craft.


                
Akira Kurosawa's Yojimbo is a not too long, not too short action film that uses its action with just the right touches of voracity and excitement, and in the backdrop is also a sense of humor to the process. If I had to recommend a Kurosawa film to someone who's never seen one before (and might be impatient to sit through the three and a half hour Seven Samurai, or might not get the non-linear structure of Rashomon), I'd put this one in their hands to try out.Kurosawa regular Toshiro Mifune is terrific as Sanjuro Kuwabatake, a drifter of a samurai who stumbles upon a town with an assorted cast of characters, with a split between two gangs. One of the gangsters, Unosuke (Nakadai), is the only one in town; it seems, with a gun. At first Sanjuro plays each side, but when he gets beaten roughly by whom he was "protecting", he realizes the fun's over, and it's time to fight back.Much has been made about how Sergio Leone took Kurosawa's story and characters (most in particular being a rogue from out of town) and made them into his breakthrough Fistful of Dollars- Kurosawa even sued Leone over the story rights. But to those who wonder whether Yojimbo is 'better' than Fistful or vice versa need to remember one of two things- Kurosawa took the story from Dashiell Hammett's gangster novel Red Harvest, so neither filmmaker is making something really original; and that since each film is made in a different continent, and with the slightest different sensibilities about its characters. For one thing in Yojimbo guns are scarcer than in Fistful, and there's a treatment Kurosawa has with his actors that sets it apart from the small town western scope of Leone's weapons and actors. So each film (noticeably) carries its own kind of visual style while working in a similar plot structure. In other words, it's kind of like comparing apples and oranges picked in the same farm (if that makes at all sense).Overall, Yojimbo on its own is a lean, cool Japanese crime/action film, helmed by a master, and featuring a number of highlights to look forward to on multiple viewings. Some of those include: the scene inside Seibei's brothel (with the women dancing and singing), Masaru Sato's wonderful musical orchestrations, Mifune's curiously low-key and rough performance (which did and didn't serve as inspiration to Clint), and a climax that is up there with one of Kurosawa's finest battles. A+
Yojimbo, based on noir writer Dashiel Hammett's Red Harvest is a magnificently entertaining film. Toshiro Mifune stars as the nobody who calls himself Sanjuro (thirty but closer to forty). He enters a town destroyed by warring factions and plays a double-game to pit one faction against the other thus destroying the criminal element.Yojimbo (aka The Bodyguard) is one of the coolest and most stylish films ever made. Starring Toshiro Mifune, Kurosawa's favorite actor, as the scruffy looking Samurai, Yojimbo has all of Kurosawa's qualities and none of the flaws. The music score is an essential element of the plot and strikingly good, but admittedly bettered by the Ennio Morricone version in the Spaghetti Western remake Fistful of Dollars. The visuals are great, from the samurai swordplay, to the desolate streets, the town crier announcing its 3 a.m. to the brutal torture scene.One of the unique things about Yojimbo is the central character. He is an anti-hero. We see him initially as a killer and a man greedy for money. But then, he saves a family by re-uniting mother and child and giving them all the money he was advanced. Mifune has never been cooler than in this film and Eastwood could only aspire to equal such a performance.Of the two remakes, I liked Fistful of Dollars for starting the Spaghetti Western genre, although Yojimbo is a far more superior and stylish film. The gangster version, Last Man Standing, was not very good and Bruce Willis made for a poor substitute to Yojimbo. This film looks fresh and undated even today - watch it!


                
Classic samurai action pic; often imitated but never equalled.  Mifune creates a memorable character (who appeared in a sequel) in the Ronin who decides the course of his life on the toss of a stick, and ends up risking his life to save a village full of peasants he finds revolting.  It's possible to see "Yojimbo's" actions as either heroic or as the game of a bored warrior in need of amusement -- as often in Kurosawa's films, the fact that the characters' motives remain open to interpretation adds depth to the film.Wonderful images, and skillful direction that keeps the pace of the storytelling tight and tells most of the story through images -- this is the kind of film that is so good it can be watched a silent film without losing too much of its impact or meaning.I think that if Kurosawa had spent more of his time in litigation and less making movies, he might have made a living for the rest of his life off all the movies that have ripped off this movie.  Certainly Eastwood's "Man with No Name" character owes a lot to Mifune's contribution; not only in Leone's films (the first of which borrows its entire plot from Kurosawa; a court settlement ensued which made sure Kurosawa made most of the profits from "Fistful of Dollars" in Asia his own) but also in Eastwood's best film as a director -- "High Plains Drifter", which borrows scenes such as Eastwood's rebuke of the villagers from "Yojimbo".  The really funny thing about all this, and what not too many American critics or audiences have noted, is that "Yojimbo" is itself a western.  All the ingredients for a western are here, and the film's plot and style obviously owe a debt to Zinnemann's "High Noon".  "Yojimbo" even borrows the device of time, setting up a confrontation at 3:00 a.m. as shouted by the town crier.  I like "Yojimbo" better than "High Noon", so I don't want to go too far into this line of thought....


                
After a string of classic masterpieces, Kurosawa confronted his influences head-on. Throwing John Ford's Western aesthetics into a blender and painting them pitch black. The results are Yojimbo and its legacy.Yojimbo ("the bodyguard") is the tale of a flea-ridden wandering swordsman, Sanjuro (Toshiro Mifune, in his finest performance). He arrives at a gang-war ravaged town and starts hiring himself out to both sides, playing them off against another, in order to wipe all the scum out. Sound familiar?Even though Yojimbo the film is a thrilling ride and very funny dark comedy, it is hard to imagine what a bombshell this was for audiences at the time of its release. It is as far removed as can be from the then squeaky-clean aesthetic of samurai films: you can almost smell the sweat and the grime of the sordid town and characters. The action is fast and furious, enhanced by Kurosawa's deft use of telephoto lenses and Masaru Sato's avant-garde score. With all that, Yojimbo was a massive kick in the pants of a fossilized genre.It exploded beyond the confines of its own country and genre, forever influencing the very Westerns that had inspired it, particularly a new wave out of Spain and Italy at the time. One Sergio Leone copy/pasted the whole plot into his own revisionist Western and gave us the Dollars trilogy. The slightest of Spaghetti Western enthusiasts owes Kurosawa a debt of gratitude.As with all truly great work, its greatness exists even devoid of context, and for all the historical precedents it set, all Kurosawa wanted to make was an entertaining film. That he bloody well succeeded is the least you can say about Yojimbo.


                
I just figured out why Toshirô Mifune is so mesmerizing to watch.  It's just the way he expresses himself.  This guy's amazing!I've been exploring the halls of Kurosawa and it's getting hard to leave. Yojimbo is a FUN film to watch.  Toshiro as the samurai steals almost every scene he is in and I think the epitome of his character  is when he's in Gonji's place lying on the floor.  He doesn't brag, but when he goes into action, that's it!  As soon as he enters the chaotic town, he doesn't seem fazed at all and actually enjoys it.  His  demeanor is really amusing and it's great watching his plan unfold;   how he manipulates both groups to get his way (it's really funny).  Great thing too is he's not really a hero and he's not entirely a villain.  He doesn't hesitate to kill, but does so methodically.  You also have "characters" including Gonji, the thugs from both sides, and Unosuke with an ace up his sleeve (or robe?) which makes things really interesting.Yojimbo's mix of dark humor, action, and a great performance from Mifune make for a Kurosawa classic.


                
Akira Kurosawa is widely (and rightly) thought of as one of the most important filmmakers in the history of motion pictures. "Yojimbo", one of the masterpieces that have earned him this more than deserved reputation, is not only one of the best, but also one of the most influential movies ever made. Only three years after its release another great director, Sergio Leone, who named Yojimbo one of his favorite movies, used it as the model for another masterpiece, "A Fistful Of Dollars" and rose the Italian Western to an international level.In 1860, a time when the sword is still the most common weapon in the Japanese province, but gradually gets replaced by the revolver, a lonely Ronin, a Samurai without a master to serve,(Toshiro Mifune) who dashes around the county, comes to a little town terrorized by two bosses and their criminal gangs and decides to end the people's suffering and free the town. He is hired by one of the gangs as a bodyguard, only to switch sides and pit the two, already hostile, gangs against each other.Toshiro Mifune, one of the greatest character actors of all time, is impressive in his role of the Samurai, generally the acting is great in this movie, the supporting cast contains such actors as the great and unforgettable Takashi Shimura. The cinematography is great and the movie's brilliant score, composed by Fumio Hayasaka, is one of its kind. The writing and directing by the inimitable Akira Kurosawa is more than brilliant. One of the greatest movies by one of the greatest directors of all-time, and an absolute must-see for everyone interested in cinema!


                
Kurosawa's influence in film is most easily recognized in the western. The Seven Samurai was remade in America as The Magnificent Seven, and our next film, Yojimbo was remade almost scene by scene as A Fistful of Dollars.The story takes place in 18th century Japan, a time when Samurai wandered the lands. A lone samurai, Sanjuro Kuwabatake (Toshiro Mifune) drifts into a small town. Soon he discovers that the town is divided into two groups who are constantly fighting with one another. Sanjuro sees this as an easy opportunity to make money by lending his services to both sides, but soon he becomes too much involved and is tossed into prison. After escaping, he sees that the two sides are locked in a fierce battle and decides to end their feud once and for all.Yojimbo was an instant hit across Japan as well as internationally. Kurosawa also directed the sequel, "Sanjuro" a year later


                
tigereyes: you said that this would be the movie you would have students learn from in schools.. i just finished watching it at school, good idea as well.i have to say this is one of the best movies ive ever seen. the camera work and the atmosphere are great(also hard for me to miss because my film teacher stopped it every twenty minutes to show us them). the storyline is great (and was used again in a fist full of dollars, then rewritten by kurosawa, yes he did, for last man standing). all the actors are great and some of the lines and other things in this movie are classic (Dan Marcus said this one.. "Cooper... two coffins *stops, looks back* maybe three") also i love Ushi-Toras brother, Ino, i think his name was "Hey I know you! you're really strong!" and at the sake shop with Seibeis wife when they're fighting over the samurai.well anyway... im starting to ramble now. but any one who hasn't seen this movie see it as soon as possible!


                
Well, I'm a great Toshiro Mifune fan and for that, this is one of the movies you have to watch. This Kurosawa story was remade by Sergio Leone as a Fistful of Dollars and Walter Hill's Last Man Standing. It was one of the first action flicks ever made; and for the first time presented the nameless action hero, who comes to town to set it free. He is always cool, always confident and a master of his skills, loves drinks and takes outs his enemies in a second. The acting of Mifune is superb and his figure inspired Clint Eastwood to stick a cigarette in his jaw just for the coolness factor in the old western movies (Mifune chewed on straw). I don't think Western action cinema and the representation of the main "hero" would have developed in the fashion they did, if Mifune never would have worked together with Kurosawa. Their influence is definitely large.


                
In the middle '20's, Dashiell Hammett (best known as author of "The Maltese Falcon") wrote two unrelated novels, "The Glass Key", about Ned Beaumont an alcoholic gambler who uses duplicity to save his mob boss from taking a murder rap for a corrupt politician (all the while fending off a rival mobster), and 'Red Harvest", in which a nameless private eye (also alcoholic, a status shared by many Hammett heroes) is hired to clean up a small town kept in fear by two warring boot-leg mobs.I believe "Red Harvest" did make it to film in the '30's, but I haven't been able to track that down and never saw it. "The Glass Key" was first made into a (not too successful) film in 1935, and then re-made in 1942. The remake concerns us here. Directed by Stuart Heisler in a style that compounds the typical crime film briskness of the '30's with the shaded undertones of the then developing 'noir' genre, it is actually quite a good film, and in a number of ways daring for its period. True to the novel, literally everyone in the film is corrupt in some way, and especially fascinating is the appearance of William Bendix in a minor role of an overtly homosexual sadist of a thug. Alan Ladd plays Ned Beaumont as a true anti-hero, cold, calculating, true to no ethic but his own - a type Hollywood at that time was having problems presenting, since the strong ethics of the character undercut all the assumptions of sociopathy of such types popular at the time. The film finally betrays itself with a "kiss-and-make-up" final scene that completely undercuts the ethical problematic of the novel (in which Beaumont finally betrays his boss by running off with the boss' fiancée). But until then, the movie moves towards its dark "who-dun-it" revelation rapidly and filled with tension.There is a scene dead center in "The Glass Key" where Beaumont is captured by the rival mob boss and tortured by the sadistic thug (which is from the novel), and filled with Freudian undertones due to the homosexuality of the torturing thug (Bendix) (also implicit in the novel). I think it was Japanese cinema expert Donald Ritchie from whom I remember an anecdote that it was this scene that fascinated Akira Kurosawa to such an extent that he felt compelled to make a film based on a Hammett novel. Interestingly, he did not do a remake of "The Glass Key", however. Instead, he transposed "Red Harvest" to the Japan of the civil wars of the 1860's, rewriting the nameless private eye as an equally nameless wandering samurai (played with exquisite panache by Toshiro Mifuni), while at the same time parodying the typical *chambara* (swordfight film) popular in Japan. I refer of course to "Yojombo" (1962). Nonetheless, the the torture sequence is lifted from "The Glass Key" and interjected as a pivotal scene in "Yojimbo". A couple of subtractions and additions need be noted here: Kurosawa strips the Freudian subtext out of the torture sequence completely, so that the torture becomes a study in the what Hannah Arendt referred to as the "banality" of evil" - the torturers are just doing a job. This fits neatly with the critique of capitalism implicit in the film, and which is equally implicit in the Hammett original, so the loss of Freudian content goes by unnoticed.On the other hand, Kurosawa and Mifune add an earthiness to the nameless hero lacking in Hammett's tension filled original: Mifune's samurai is always scratching, eating, cringing or sneering. Perhaps this is to make up for the subtraction of the element of alcoholism that was the chief weakness of Hammett's anti-hero. But it also has the effect of rounding out the character so that he becomes human to us in a way Hammett's anti-hero is not.


                
What Kurosawa did in a short space of years is nothing short of revolutionary. American cinema (post WWII to Vietnam)was largely confined to self-affirming stereotypes -- especially in Westerns dominated by the Ford/Wayne cartoon good guy paradigm.He turned all of that upside down (aided and abetted by Leone). His samurai existed more as a tragic Greek figure -- afflicted by a fatal flaw -- rather than the guy who simply wears the 'white hat'. This is combined with Mifune's remarkable skill at creating the character and making the character (not the actor) live in the cinematic space.The key to this movie is the unprecedented visual composition. Images assemble into the frame, stacked two and three layers deep with no vanishing point. All of the elements are in the same focus, resembling a Japanese watercolor painting. Then Kurosawa cuts to a right angle shot (to the imaginary 'left' of the framing shot), twisting our perception around of just how deep the placement is. He also composes scenes that openly reference that this is 'being watched' - note the characters peering through windows at a second layer (usually mimed action) in the background, again all in the same focus. The effects here are striking, to say the least.Try to imagine Clint's man with no name characters, or 'Star Wars'(hacked off arm, a la Obi-Wan), or the 'Kill Bill' volumes (the one against many swordfights and beating inflicted on the bride) -- these are some off the top of the head examples, and there are countless more -- without the influence of this movie. It's impossible. By the mid-60's, Clint's amoral, stoic gunfighter had displaced his forerunners, changing the equation forever.Essential viewing.


                
If you like Mifune as a samurai, this is the one not to miss. Unlike Seven Samurai, where he's not really a samurai, in this one he is a fully-qualified, if masterless samurai. This is more of a "pure samurai action" movie than Seven*. The story is simpler and moves along faster, and Mifune doesn't have to share the spotlight with others so much. It's his movie, and is he ever "bad"!There's a scene in the movie that puzzles me, I had to watch it several times, and still don't get it: It's where some government officials visit the village our hero's "saving", and soon find themselves passed out on some spiked sake... the man who's serving them goes up to each of the two passed-out officials, and replaces their little bottles from behind, and then gives their sleeve a snap as if to straighten out the fabric, and gives a little snappy salute or something I can't figure it out, maybe you can.
If you like samurai movies, you just gotta see this one, no getting out of it. Dig the theme music for Mifune's character played on a baritone sax.. he's baaaaaad!


                
Akira Kurasawa is one of my favourite directors as of now. And Yojimbo does nothing to make me change that, if anything like Seven Samurai, Ran, Ikiru, Hidden Fortress, Rashomon and Throne of Blood it is another of his masterpieces. Like Hidden Fortress was a major influence on Star Wars, Yojimbo did the same for Fistful of Dollars. I've seen them compared a lot, but all I will say that for me both are milestones of their respective genres and both are movies to watch if not done so already. Back to Yojimbo, as always for a Kurasawa film, it is superbly made and made absolutely beautifully with epic scenery and great, stylish use of camera techniques. The music adds much to the story, and is remarkably atmospheric, the script is a fine mix of comedy, intrigue and sudden and quite unrelenting violence and the story is compelling and always entertaining, managing to both celebrate and subvert(but in a subtle way) the samurai genre. Toshiro Mifune I have yet to see a bad performance from, and again he is a superb lead, who could be seen as an anti-hero as he sells his skills yet dupes both sides of the feudal community into slaughter. Overall, another fantastic film from perhaps the King of Japanese cinema. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I watched this film mainly because I had read it inspired one of my favorite Westerns, A Fistful of Dollars. I can say it was a pleasant experience, as Yojimbo is a remarkable movie, brilliantly directed by Akira Kurosawa.Instead of the Man With No Name, played by Clint Eastwood in the Dollar trilogy, we get Kurosawa-regular Toshiro Mifune as a nameless ronin (masterless warrior) who ends up in a village torn apart by the war between two rivaling gangs (the setting is medieval Japan, as in other movies by "the Emperor") . Tired of all the suffering he witnesses, our protagonist decides to take down both criminal groups. How? By having them destroy each other, one by one.Kurosawa brings another fundamental contribution to a genre and world he knows well with this compelling tale about greed, justice and loyalty. Even if you already know the ending, the film will keep you captivated until Mifune has delivered his last philosophical one-liner. He is very intriguing as the unidentified man who slowly but firmly restores order and peace (Eastwood would later do so too, but not with the same elegance, neither physical nor verbal).Yojimbo truly is a masterwork of Asian cinema, a powerful achievement which spawned dozens of copycats and influenced an entire career, having the same effect on Sergio Leone as Hitchcock had on Brian De Palma. Definitely worth a look if you want to see who did these things first and best.I do wonder what the Man With No Name's catchphrases would have sounded like in Japanese, though...


                
They don't make people like Akira Kurosawa in America. Nor do they make actors like Toshiro Mifune. Watch this movie and then watch "The Seven Samurai" ("Shichinin No Samurai"). They're both in black and white, and not as fast paced as today's 2fast 2forgettable garbage, but they're both far more entertaining, immersive and intense. Every moment has its purpose, every action a reaction. This is the lost art of film. Also, go watch all of Kurosawa's other movies, particularly "Rashomon", "The Hidden Fortress", and "Ran". Take a look at his movie listing and observe all the movies that were made with his scripts in other countries. Make sure you vote for "The Seven Samurai" after you watch it, those -lame by comparison- Lord of the Rings movies have been pushing it back from it's rightful place in the top 250 movies.


                
Toshirô Mifune plays Sanjuro Kuwabatake, a samurai in 1860 with no master to serve any longer finds himself wandering the countryside. One day, he happens upon a town that he's told is divided by Seibei and Ushitora, two gangsters. Becoming Yojimbo (a bodyguard), he decides to play one against the other until the gun toting son of one of the gangsters arrives in town...The best far Eastern Western, this highly influential film is superbly directed by Kurosawa and excellently acted by Mifune. It's exciting, a joy to behold, and a visual feast throughout. And while, not the best Kurosawa film, that's more a testament to how truly great the director was than any form of indictment against this wonderful film.My Grade: A Criterion DVD Extras: Merely the theatrical trailer


                
This is my all-time favorite Akira Kurosawa film and along with its equally impressive followup film, SANJURO, pack a ton of excitement and fun into them. Perennial Kurosawa player, Toshiro Mifune, is the "Ronin"--a wandering samurai who is looking for work. He comes to a town and is surprised by the condition of the people. There are two rival warring gangs in the town and the people are literally held captive by the mass of depraved men hired by the two leaders. These bored samurai make life all but impossible for decent people.While Mifune is a samurai with extraordinary powers, he is a lone man and must use both his skills and his brain to free the people of this town. So, he manipulates BOTH sides into thinking he's working for them and gets the bad guys to wipe each other out! This is all done through a very skillfully crafted and funny script.If you enjoy this film, as I'm sure you will, try watching Sergio Leone's version of Yokimbo--FISTFUL OF DOLLARS featuring Clint Eastwood. And, if you like this, a not-quite sequel entitled FOR A FEW DOLLARS MORE is an even better Kurosawa-inspired film.
To watch this, wait for an evening when there'll be no interruptions, silence the phone, turn the lights down, then sit and watch the movie from beginning to end with a hot drink in your hand. You'll later rediscover it cold, having forgotten to drink it.The movie is ace. The story of a wandering Japanese samurai who happens upon a small town plagued by two warring clans. He makes it his personal job to craftily manipulate the two sides, getting them to destroy each other so that the town can be at peace again. Actually, his motive is unclear, as he seems to be doing this as a way of amusing himself as much as anything.There's a lot of production back story. The lead actor, Tishiro Mufune, was profoundly affected by the part he played, and continued to play similar roles for the rest of his career. It was also a turning point for the already accomplished director, Akira Kurosawa. There's a cute little scene where the only remaining dignified samurai in the town sneaks off over a fence rather than hang around for the action, giving Mufune a cheeky grin before strolling off into the distance. This actor was one of Kurosawa's old stalwarts - the director was signaling that the old school needed to make way for the new.Thankfully black-and-white, otherwise there would be a lot of red paint about. There is occasional chopping off of limbs and sword fights, but its down so theatrically that I don't see the movies as bloodthirsty in any way - no more than Star Wars or countless shoot-em-and-they-fall- down westerns.The only criticism I could have is to ask whether it is solely a guy's flick? My wife finds zero interest in it. There are female characters, and some key moments are when the macho tone is suddenly broken by realization that there are families trying to live lives in the shattered community. These pieces are short though, and the movie soon returns to its main themes.I could drawl on, but just wish to say that this is a good as it can get. Kurosawa's 'Seven Samurai' is equally excellent, but at well over three hours long can try the patience of the average movie enthusiast.
I recently watched Kurosawa's Yojimbo and now I'm looking at how to watch the rest of his films.Yojimbo really changed the way I look at action movies. The whole theme of "don't look away" was good for the action, in my opinion. I feel as if the jerking, oblique and changing camera usage found in most modern action films, takes away from the action, not improving on it. There would be a single-camera throughout a whole fight scene which added to the realness of the action. I also have to say, for the fighting, the western-samurai combination was well used.The cinematography was great; Kurosawa really uses the camera to his advantage. As discussed, cinematography for the fight scenes was great a 'less-is-more' situation for me. I loved the camera angle - for when the two houses slowly approach each other, unwilling to fight - as the Samurai watches like a god from above. The camera was often far away from the subject, which gave me a feeling as if I was more in the film than any other film I've seen before.The Western feel throughout the samurai film was portrayed through its art direction. The art director did an extremely good job with the city and roads, the single-street town with the occasional tumble-weed gave off the old standoff feel. Other western elements would be with the two sides fighting against each other, and the lone-ranger only looking out for himself, and oddly the good of the people.The film has a good story line. Although, the film has a fairly predictable main story with side points that cause some confusion yet a good amount of mystery and a closer look into the main character's morals. The main character is similar to any good action movie character, quiet, strong, and with a sense of justice for the common people.Kurosawa's one of my new favorite directors; directing, Yojimbo, Seven Samurai, Ikiru, Kagemusha, and Ran. I can't wait to watch them all. I greatly recommend Yojimbo for anyone who is looking for a good action movie and doesn't have too many graphics or gives you a headache from oblique camera shots during fight scenes. Yojimbo was a great film that isn't outdated from its black and white exterior, but greatly appreciated over time for its amazing directing and a great one-of a kind, film.


                
When I first sat down to watch "Yojimbo", I was under the impression that I would end up seeing just another run-of-the-mill unoriginal samurai movie... oh, how naive I was. I sat down with low, low, low low low (I mean, REALLY low) expectations. I left with a smile on my face, realizing I had never been more wrong in my life. "Yojimbo" tells the story of Sanjuro Kuwabatake... wait, no it doesn't. "Yojimbo" shows the conflict between two rival gangs ... no, that's not quite right, either. "Yojimbo" is about good vs. evil... no no no.See, no matter how I try to describe "Yojimbo", the one-line cannot begin to summarize the film. Here, let me try this: "Yojimbo" begins with Sanjuro the Samurai, travelling all by his lonesome, looking to a short wooden stick for a sense of direction. Following the stick's advice, he falls almost directly into a village-wide feud between two rival 'families'. Both families want their counterpart dead; consequently, both families want their hands on the newly arrived Sanjuro. For each of them, he symbolizes definite victory. Sanjuro sees this as an opportunity; not an opportunity to kill, but to make a lot of money. The two families begin to auction for him, and he, of course, plays hard to get. In one of the film's funniest scenes, we watch as the two families meet in the center of town; instead of charging at one another, though, they creep towards the rival army, jabbing, threatening, both far too cowardly to actually attack. Sanjuro sees this too.. he knows at that point that he has them in the palm of his hand.Ah. Even now, after those two paragraphs, I haven't even reached the point of double-triple-quadruple crosses, violence, mercy, action and inaction, captivity, torture, sex, pride -- and lack thereof -- or even retribution. I kid you not, this film has all of them, and more. It is, in it's own beautiful way, a comedy, just as Mifune is, in his own unprecedented way, a comic actor. His performance, full of mischief, mock modesty, and method, is unmatched, even in the most prevailing days of characters like Jack Sparrow.I heard one man call this film a "classic samurai action pic", but that is, in the worse way, a terrible generalization. A synonym for 'classic' is 'archetypal', and this film certainly has no archetypes. To say 'samurai action pic' is to give the idea that it is based around heart-pounding sword fights, which it certain is not; that label ignores the film's politics, dark humor, and anti-heroism. I have never seen a movie, and probably never will, quite like "Yojimbo", and that includes the Clint Eastwood remake. If you don't like subtitles, or black-and-white cinematography, or physical gags, or scenes that take their time, this is certainly not the film for you. But for me, it was a wonderful 110 minutes well-spent. I feel as if I am rambling now, and perhaps I am. But that's what this movie can do to you, especially if you're not expecting much, and end up with a cinematic gem.


                
Wandering in a desolated pre-Meiji Japan, a samurai entrusts a piece of wood thrown in the air to guide him once it hits the ground.He finds himself in a town where two clans fight over political and economical control: there's Seibei, a ruler dependent on the silk commerce and his domineering wife's judgment, and the greedier Ushitora, in the sake brewing business, who wants his share on the silk. "The Godfather" had five families, in "Yojimbo" we get only two, it's more economical but still calls for the same Machiavellian skills Michael Corleone demonstrated, he who learned "to think as the people around. and on that basis, anything is possible".The rivalry is exposed like a chess game where the Samurai moves the pieces. It means there's more time for thought than action and action must be quick and efficient. Inertia is a power never to be underestimated, being strong from a misleading passiveness. Look at Mifune in his first scenes, moving his shoulders, scratching his cheek. I read Kurosawa told Mifune to play his Samurai like an errand dog, maybe that explains the next startling shot of the dog trotting over the main street with a hand in his mouth, maybe it's only a matter of time before the Samurai starts the biting.And when the thinking stops, a few shots of sake helping, he says "I'll get paid for killing, and this town is full of people who deserve to die." There's profit for him and peace for innocent villagers, it's a fair trade meaning every move has to be carefully prepared. So when he's taunted by three Ushitora's thugs, he knows he's being observed after having been the observer for a long expositional sequence, he's got to prove he means business. He kills two and chops one's arm, then order two coffins to the undertaker before retracting himself and asking for two, a scene reprised in Sergio Leone's remake "A Firstful of Dollars".This is "Yojimbo" character-establishing moment, from that point, each Family will want to hire him as bodyguard (the title's meaning). Unbeknownst to them, he'll work for both sides and for neither and he's far a better poker-player than sword-wielder, which is saying a lot. And these poker/chess games exemplify something remarkable in Kurosawa's filmmaking, his films are rooted in the present, whether in dilatation or acceleration. Think of "Rashomon" where the same scene is repeated over and over to accentuate the changes of body languages and emotions in each version, in "Ikiru", the present is the only thing a man can hook his life to and so does it in "Yojinbo".Even the name given by the Samurai: Kuwabatake Sanjuro is a throwaway alias inspired by the mulberry fields he was just seeing. Like Eastwood, Mifune has no name because a name has a past and he's a man of the present. And Kurosawa's directing is the embodiment of Sanjoru's skills, it's a total control of every moment, a slow ballet between inertia and movement, observation and action. Look at how messy and awkward the fights are until Sanjuro intervenes, and the fight is over as soon as it begun.The violent moments make for less than a minute in the whole film and the reason why they go so quick is because Kurosawa wants us to focus on something else. When Sanjuro's betrayal is exposed, an immediate ellipse shows him at an inch of life, no need to see the beating, the story must go on, but when he's beaten again by Kannuki the giant, the fight serves a purpose. To focus in "Yojimbo" is to try to give every detail a purpose.And this is why many scenes show characters in viewing position: the most emblematic one is Sanjuro amusingly watching from above the two clans getting ready to fight before it's cancelled by the arrival of a government official, a "bugyo" (a small role for Takashi Shimura). Later, a long close-up on Sanjuro's disfigured face reveals in the next shot the key to an escape he had just spotted. And that's the key literally with the film, the more you focus, the more you find. Sanjuro understands Ushitora is planning a murder to make the bugyo leave the town, he knows this is an innocent death he won't prevent. Hiding behind a stoic façade some self-loathing feelings, he moves forward by bargaining the price of his collaboration and asking for more sake. That's a subtle detail in Mifune's body language I couldn't see the first time.There are so many areas to praise I wouldn't know where to begin, it's extraordinary how a movie that feels so effortless became so influential, showing for the first time bad guys against other bad guys, and Mifune giving quite an underrated performance as an antihero who redeems himself a little when he loses a few battles, meeting his match in Ushi-Tori's brother, Usonoke, the young and handsome Tatsuya Nakadai who proudly harbors a gun, the only element that added more unpredictability. At the end, there's one moment where Sanjuro doesn't keep his guard up as if he was ready to die like a Samurai or or because you can't cheat death so many times without giving it a free shot.
Maybe that's why the present is so present, it's haunted by the fear of death; maybe the common denominator of Kurosawa's movies, the Damocles sword that force characters to move forward. That might also explain why the soundtrack is so incongruously modern, unlike the pompous gravity of epic scores, Kurosawa dares the synthetic sound and even something a little pop, allowing the film to free itself from genre conventions, foreshadowing the indispensability of music in the Western genre, thanks to a maestro named Morricone.Kurosawa trusted his instinct with a Samurai flair, he didn't just make movies, he defied conventions and became a perpetual re-inventor, or the true Sensei of modern cinema.


                
First of the Yojimbo/Sanjuro set, Many of the shots which would be used in a Fistful of Dollars the start of Dollars trilogy. The Samurai walking in the town with the dog with severed hand in his mouth puts tone of the whole film in that one scene. This film has many more and overall you should watch this influential action masterpiece.
In the world, there are people who should not comment on anything. Especially those who call things 'boring', or 'a bore', or 'long and drawn out, couldn't stay awake... put it off after ten minutes (this is the @#$@# most stupid comment of them all'...) these people should avoid all commentary, because such comments do not make for a valid statement, are very far from any critical process, and should be thrown out to the street and stepped on, like the own egos who created them. Who could ever find such opinions useful? But of course, this world is far from ideal, far from intelligent, full of idiocy, 'there is no hope for fools' as Mifune once acted. It is true, people are fools. We all are most of the times, but most are always. Thus, we get fools commenting, usually at their most foolish point, writing their own minute visions of 'art' haphazardly, (it's a wonder how they can be so reckless with such simplistic concepts roaming their heads) repeating words like 'junk', and 'waste of my time'... exactly, life is a waste of their time. That's for sure. 'So... you don't mind if I kill you now?' (As Mifune once acted). This movie is a wonderful, universal film. Not at all perfect... (which encumbers a whole nother set of nauseating remarks such as 'perfect film... flawless...unbeatable plot...'). But who wants perfect!? Universal is key and most important here, forget all those people who mistook Kurosawa in Japan... Japan is like all societies, full of idiots, full of close-minded people looking for an ideal, trying to be their own geniuses. Don't need none of that. Done need 'isolationism', 'nationalism', 'my word is right' 'the dogma' 'follow the tradition to the bone or you are a traitor'... And by saying all this, I am basically trying to show what this movie is about. The weakness of all opinion, the fall of all sides without perspective. Only the genius, he who is capable of abstraction, who can analyze behind all notions of bad and good, will withstand time, will survive. None of the rest matters. All of the rest destroys itself, annihilates itself, and could is better off dead... the sooner the better, in fact. Whoever thinks that Kurosawa wrote about the honor of the samurai as a historical institution, is missing the fact that many of his films play on the samurai who to survive must deviate from all known feeling of honor, especially in a film like this, whose premise and character, Sanjuro, represents the 'decadence' of the samurai tradition... A most important aspect - perhaps the only underlying aspect - of the film, stated even before the first dialog appears. This is not a movie about good and evil, about honor and shame... universality goes far beyond this. He who sees the big picture has the gift of immortality, of being universal. This is a movie that, in a very humble, concise and attractive way, exemplifies such artistic ideals, giving an unrealistic power to a man who is more than man. The most beautiful and harrowing aspect of Sanjuro for the townspeople, is that he is his own bodyguard. He is endowed with this poetic perfection, which nobody else has... he almost doesn't exist for them (he is absent during all revenges), because this is unfathomable to everyone in the town. He is God. He is just, brings justice, above all notions of justice. This movie defeats all people who find it boring, and all who could possibly revere it to death, me included. It exists alone. It is it's own nomad. It walks behind us all. Behind anything we could muster up saying about it to describe it. I'm also a fool for writing this comment. The only thing not foolish is watching the film, arriving at that town the way Kurosawa intended us to, without any previous knowledge or prejudice, where there is no good or evil, just people doing what they usually do, think they and only they are right, where things aren't anything that they seem, but at the same time, are only what they appear to be... ruins. To be able to do this, to see it in this way as a viewer, is already a feat. Don't get bored just yet, don't cry out it's genius. Try to be a viewer, make that effort. It's an ideal, I know... it may be forever impossible. But I guess it could also make for a better person in you.
