Set in Japan , 1860 , at a little town that is a den of wrongs . Sanjuro, a wandering samurai enters a rural town in nineteenth century Japan and he finds himself the location run by two parties commanded by Ushitora and Seibe and their hired thugs . The samurái sells his activities to both parts with devasting resulting for all ; as he then sets out to rid the town of all these ominous people .The noisy town is full of injustices , inequity , violence and killings , due to the hordes of gamblers and murderers that inhabit it. After learning from the innkeeper that the town is divided between two mobsters , he plays one side off against the other . As 2 clans vying for political power bid on the services of a silent masterless Samurai , a quiet Ronin . His efforts are complicated by the arrival of the wily Unosuke who often uses a bloody gun . There is a massacre , but the samurai runs away with the help of the innkeeper ; but while recuperating at a nearby temple, he learns of an abduction carried out by Unosuke, and goes back to the town to take on enemies .
This is a magnificent picture by Akira Kurosawa starred by his ordinary actor Toshiro Mifune , being his international breakthrough one . Yokimbo , the picture blends drama , violent fights , emotion , slaughters with high body-count and results to be pretty entertaining as well as thought provoking . It is incredibly detailed vision in its own right , as the impact of the action and combats on this trail-blazing adventure film opened the floodgates for the huge numbers of samurai films and subsequent Spaghetti Westerns that made fortunes for their producers in the sixties and early seventies . Dramatically staged sword-plays occur on and off throughout the plot . The known film Leone¨For a fistful of dollars¨is mainly cribbed from this Japanese samurái action classic ; however , some reviewers tell this Yojinbo bears little resemblance to Sergio Leone film . Very good acting by Toshiro Mifune as a Samurái who attempts to play the two warlords off against each other . This one made an international star out of Toshiro Mifune . At the beginning , Sanjuro seems to be a good Samurai , as being beaten after he reunites an abducted woman with her husband and son, then massacres his father's opponents. As well as Tatsuya Nakadai , still acting , as Unosuke, the son of one of the gangsters, who owns a revolver.This fiercely-charging , uncompromising pictures was compellingly directed by Akira Kurosawa and being exhibited with subtitles or dubbed .After working in a wide range of genres, Kurosawa made this awesome film . The previous years saw the low-key , touching Living (1952) , the epic The seven samurais (1954), the barbaric , fascinating Shakespeare adaptation Throne of blood (1957) , a Macbeth's version , a masterful rendition that transports the story to Medieval Japan , and a fun pair of samurai movies Yojimbo (1961) and Sanjuro (1962) , and Rashomon , often credited as the reason the Academy created the "Best Foreign Film" category. When this film was released internationally to rave reviews, many speculated that Akira Kurosawa was influenced by Citizen Kane (1941) in the element of flashbacks that ultimately provide conflicting accounts of events. However, Kurosawa didn't even see Orson Welles's film until several years after . Rashomon won the top prize at the Venice Film Festival, and first revealed the richness of Japanese cinema to the West.Yet , there was a quieter side to Kurosawa's nature , expressed most succinctly on Living , The Lower Depths and especially the medical drama Red Beard . After a lean period in the late 1960s and early 1970s, though, Kurosawa attempted suicide . Other important movies were : The idiot based on Feodor Dostowieski , Drunken Angel , Scandal , A quiet duel , Tiger's tale , High and low . He survived, and made a small, personal, low-budget picture with Dodes'ka-den (1970), a larger-scale Russian co-production Dersu Uzala (1975) an epic tale of adventure in turn-of-the-century Siberia and , with the help of admirers Francis Ford Coppola and George Lucas, the samurai tale Kagemusha (1980), which Kurosawa described as a dry run for Ran (1985), an epic adaptation of Shakespeare's "King Lear" . He continued to work into his eighties with the more personal Akira Kurosawa's Dreams (1990), and Madadayo (1993) and Rhapsody in August . Kurosawa's films have always been more popular in the West than in his native Japan, where reviewers have viewed his adaptations of Western genres and authors with suspicion , but he's revered by American and European film-makers, one of his least well-known films but most agreeable pictures is The Bad Sleep Well , a transposition of an Ed McBain detective novel , being remade many his pictures such as The seven samurais (1954), as The magnificent seven (1960),The Hidden Fortress (1958), as Star Wars (1977)as Yojimbo (1961) as For a fistful of dollars by Sergio Leone (1964), in fact Kurosawa's style was the biggest single influence on the Spaghetti Western sub-genre ; as his Samurai 'Western's were copied not only in America but also in Italy .


                
(some spoilers) 'Yojimbo' marks the fourth Kurosawa film that I've seen, and so far, I'd have to say it's the weakest compared to the previous viewings ('The Hidden Fortress, 'Seven Samura' and 'Throne ofBlood')! Though, saying that, it's still pretty good, and worth checking out, but it is harder to get into and isn't that compelling until the second half. Also, I thought, besides Mifune's character in the Bodyguard, there wasn't really an array of interesting characters in this movie. In fact, the main and most interesting villain, a pistol-loving Unosoke (Tatsuya Nakadai) does appear until the second half and he isn't really given that much depth.The story of 'Yojimbo' revolves around a wandering Samurai (Toshiro Mifune) who enters a town run by two gangs. Basically, he plays them against each other and pits his services to the highest bidder, and he sneakily undermines whoever his current employer is. Mifune is excellent, and his screen presence is undeniable. The stark black and white cinematography adds to this sometimes very tense face off as well as the build up to it, and its eventual ultimate dramatic conclusion. You can definitely see this film being remade into a Western, and although I haven't seen the remake in 'A Fistful of Dollars', 'Yojimbo' does have a kind of Western feel to it- especially with the showdown at the end, as well as the main villain is carrying his beloved pistol. The climax of this film, and the events leading towards it, really won me over with this movie, but the pacing in the beginning can be a tad slow. It'll be interesting to see what Leone did with the remake. Another great thing about 'Yojimbo' is the soundtrack, and some of the humour. Now, I need to see 'Sanjuro'! 'Yojimbo' is essential Kurosawa,and I still need to see more of this talented filmmaker's movies. While, I don't think it's the best of the ones I've seen, it's definitely worth a look if you're into Japanese cinema. Though, if you haven't seen 'Seven Samurai', I recommend that before 'Yojimbo'. However, if you starting out like me with Kurosawa and have seen 'Seven Samurai', then 'Yojimbo' is an essential flick to see from his resume!***½ out of *****!
In nineteenth century Japan, a wandering ronin comes across a village ravaged by two rival gangs. Attracted by the violent and lawless circumstances, the samurai hires himself out as bodyguard to both sides, curious as to what will develop ...This is one of Kurosawa's best and most accessible films, a great mix of adventure yarn, action mythology, gangster intrigue and cynical comedy. I just love this story; the idea of the tough guy deliberately playing piggy-in-the-middle in an explosive situation - it's the basis for lots of movies I like (The Glass Key, Miller's Crossing, etc) - mostly because it pits an intelligent, amoral protagonist against none-too-bright hoodlums, a device which has endless dramatic/comic potential. Yojimbo is cleverer and deadlier than anybody, but sometimes his smarts get him in over his head, or reveal the altruistic side to his nature which he seeks to conceal. He's a terrific antihero, prefiguring much of the work of stars like Clint Eastwood or Arnold Schwarzenegger, and his mysterious origins and motives are endlessly fascinating to ponder. Mifune is outstanding in the lead, all sly glances and knowing grins, his body language often saying more than the (minimal) dialogue, whilst Nakadai is electrifying as the gunfighter Unosuke, constantly suspicious and on alert, his cat-like eyes ever-searching for tricks or traps. Equally fabulous is Kurosawa's cinematic treatment, a widescreen eastern/western, full of blowing dust, elegant composition, great off-guard moments (the dog at the start, the arm-slicing scene George Lucas recreated in Star Wars, the fencing teacher's cheery wave goodbye, the goon who unwittingly helps Yojimbo escape in the coffin, many others), a great cacophonous score by Masaru Sato which is somehow grim and funny at the same time, and pitch perfect editing throughout. If possible, try to see the high quality British Film Institute DVD release in the original aspect ratio. I'm never entirely sure just why I like this movie so much; it's clearly very well made and highly influential, but it's the plot which keeps drawing me back. In the end, all films need a good story and this one is a cracker. Brilliantly written by Kurosawa and Ryuzo Kikushima, and stunningly well directed. Followed by a loose and enjoyable sequel, Sanjuro, in 1962, and remade (with equally impressive results) by Sergio Leone in 1964 as Per Un Pugno Di Dollari / A Fistful Of Dollars.
The term 'yojimbo' means a bouncer or a bodyguard. Sanjuro Kuwabatake (Toshiro Mifune) arrives at a small Japanese village with two warring factions looking for a means to thoroughly defeat the opposition once and for all. Seeing an opportunity to turn his samurai talent into cash, Sanjuro seeks out the leaders of both factions in an attempt to up the stakes with each one. In that regard, Sanjuro has no particular loyalty, and can be swayed by the highest bidder. Or can he? I had to laugh the first time the clans of Seibei and Ushitora first opposed each other in the street. Both sides proved equally cowardly in their failure to engage the enemy, it bordered on the comical. I was impressed though by the size of Kannuki the Giant, the guy was massive. He reminded me a bit of Japanese wrestler Shohei Baba, better known in this country as Baba the Giant, active around the time this film came out in the early Sixties.There was a bit of a disconnect in the story for me when the opposing clans felt they had to break from their fighting when the inspector from Edo came to the village. My question was 'why'? What kind of penalty was the inspector going to impose if clan members wound up killing each other? There's really no satisfactory answer to that, that I can think of, and there was none offered in the story. It just seemed irrational to me.I think what I might have to do here is revisit this film once again later on as I did with Kurosawa's "Seven Samurai", which I didn't find that compelling the first time around but gained a greater appreciation for it with a second look. I did like Toshiro Mifune in this one though, consistently going back and forth between the warring leaders to constantly confound them by contradicting his prior intentions. Had the opposition leaders had any smarts at all, they would have gotten together to take him out first.
Before "Yojimbo," Kurosawa's movies were usually character-driven morality tales ("Throne of Blood" and "Rashomon") or ruminations on class and historical change ("Stray Dog" and "Seven Samurai"). "Yojimbo" therefore represents a retreat from substance in favor of relatively meaningless, stylized violence. This shift in what movies aimed to do as the 1950s gave way to the 1960s was mirrored in Hollywood and Italy, where Kurosawa movies exerted a strong influence on a new generation of filmmakers. "Yojimbo" is undoubtedly well-made, but Toshiro Mifune's talents as a bombastic character actor are to some extent wasted when he is cast as the stable center of a movie.


                
A crafty Kurosawa film featuring a samurai, jobless in mid-1800s Japan, who finds a town split between two competing warlords and decides to play each side off against each other in order to rid the town of violence.  Wonderful acting, fine cinematography, beautiful costumes, and some nice humor as well.  It moves at a wonderfully deliberate pace, which does not bore but instead makes you hungry for more intrigue and suspense.  This film was the inspiration for `A Fistful of Dollars' and many others to follow (`Last Man Standing'), but it has never been done quite as well.  Not Kurosawa's best film but fairly close to it.  Followed by a sequel, `Sanjuro,' in 1962. Nominated for Academy Award for Best Costume Design <U+0096> Black and White


                
Obviously, anyone who knows anything about Japanese cinema has to know about Akira Kurosawa. And if they know about only a few of his movies, then "Yojimbo" has to be in there. The plot almost seems like something out of a western ("A Fistful of Dollars" was in fact based on this movie), but is played to good effect. Sanjuro Kuwabatake (Toshiro Mifune) is a samurai who comes to a town where some gangs have a stranglehold on everything. So, he decides to play them off against each other.Okay, so maybe "Yojimbo" isn't anything special in the grand scheme of things, but it's just neat how they did everything in this movie. So watch it; you're sure to like it.


                
Yojimbo is another Akira Kurosawa movie that inspired many westerners, including Sergio Leone, the plot is good, even more at the time it was released, Akira's direction is great, he cuts right in, and great plans, But I admit that I found this movie a tedious one, maybe it is the expectation, I expected a movie well Ran level, but it is not, there are few action scenes, and there are several moments that seem to have a scene of action, and in the End is nothing, the soundtrack is very good, the photograph is also very good, even the film being black and white, impeccable costumes, and good performances, especially the protagonist, who is a great character, one of Akira's best Kurosawa, it's a short movie compared to Ran and The Seven Samurais, but anyway I found the rhythm slow, I was more excited watching Ran. Note 7.4


                
You've just sat down to watch a film by Akira Kurosawa. Make sure you're not squeamish by the sight of decapitated limbs and swords smashing into samurais. Kurosawa is the original master of the violent Japanese samurai flick. I wouldn't be surprised if Quentin Tarantino gets down on his knees and prays to him by his bedside at night. This genre of film that he created is based upon the period of "Jidaigeki", which has its origins in Kabuki theater. It's the music of the swords. It's the story of brave samurais fighting in honor of their families and towns. It might sound foreign to you, but it's really not. "Jidaigeki" genre movies supplied many concepts and ideas that inspired what we all know as the Spaghetti Western. Well, you should know, it was a little too inspired, but that's a story to get into another day. Kurosawa's films have an amazing shelf life to cinephiles across the globe, and none more important than "Rashoman". But I have just watched, what I feel to be the best example of Kurosawa's influence on the western genre, and what I feel to be an especially compelling and entertaining piece of work, "Yujimbo". "Yojimbo" has a story, not that complicated, and told so many times, you'd think you've sat down to watch some clichéd schlock. As I've stated before, it's about the lone hero, or in this case, the lone samurai, who somewhere along his travels comes upon a village that has been split between two rival gangs. In the town are the struggling families and business owners that are victimized day in and day out by the constant robberies and assaults from the gangs, as well the insufferable and corrupt police officer that gleefully capitulates to the two rival gangs. They ravage throughout the town, and out of sympathy for the townspeople, or perhaps just for the hell of it, the lone samurai decides to pit the two against each other in order for them to fight to death. It is out of his virtue to save the town from the hands of crime, and he's well aware of it very early on in the film, as he notices a dog carrying a severed human hand around the town. This is the Wild West, or shall we say, the wild east. In this little town, the lone samurai helps cause chaos and showdowns abound as the rival gangs fight for territory. It's almost comedic how much manipulation he has over them. I loved how it didn't always work out. For instance, the lone samurai is seen overhearing a conversation of the hotel owners planning to kill him in order to not pay for his stay. It seems like he's been causing a lot of trouble, much to the chagrin of the town's people. I really enjoyed the balance between action, story and humor. Unlike "Rashoman" that captivates with a rigid, dramatic story with a lot of unsightly, gruesome characters trying to eat each other alive, this is a fun little western. It's a classic in the genre as it gets. The lone samurai even bears a strange resemblance his American counterpart, Clint Eastwood, complete with his squinty eyes and scowl. The man in question is Toshiro Mifune, and he has a spectacular track record with Akira Kurosawa. Every time he collaborates with him, you're going to get an unbelievable performance. In "Rashoman" he was the insane, giggling bandit, and here, he's the silent, master of the sword, who could cut your arm off with a single blow. He's the original badass movie star. Even when he goes down, he goes down hard. When the lone samurai gets captured towards the end of the film, he is seen slowly and painfully making his mistake. This probably was my favorite scene, for it demonstrates Mifune's range as an actor, and his willingness to discomfort himself for the benefit of the story. The picture also has a really unique soundtrack. I overheard someone in the audience chuckling about it, for it sounded a little similar to "Big Band". The music fits the attitude of the picture splendidly. It's a big, loud soundtrack to a big story. The cinematography was also very ambitious for it's time, and Kurosawa's main cinematographer, Kazuo Miyagawa, noticeably builds upon his great talent of the image since Rashoman. The battle sequences are sweeping and detailed with all the blood and guts intact. The spectacular scene in which the lone samurai is escaping is staged and shot beautifully. Miyagawa holds an exceptional gift of bringing the Edo Japanese era vibrantly to life. "Yojimbo" is a violent epic, and one of Kurosawa's most startlingly good achievements. It's entertaining, thrilling and a credit to the history of Japanese cinema.


                
"Yojimbo" is an action movie which is combined really well with drama. In this movie we have a town which is divided in two parts by two criminal gangs, and a samurai who comes in this town in order to free the citizen of it. So he decides to play them against each other to succeed his goal and free them all.I liked this movie because for one more time the plot and the direction from Akira Kurosawa was outstanding and I believe that this movie is one of his masterpieces. Also the cast was selected with the best criteria and this is obvious in the whole duration of the film because of their interpretation. Especially the interpretation of Toshirô Mifune who played as Sanjuro Kuwabatake the Samurai was simply outstanding for one more time. Another good interpretation that has to be mentioned is Tatsuya Nakadai's who played as Unosuke - Gunfighter.Finally I believe that "Yojimbo" is one of the best samurai movies in which Akira Kurosawa did his best as he does in all of his movies. In addition to this I have to say that "Yojimbo" reminded another movie which was also made by Akira Kurosawa the "Seven Samurai" which I also found very good.


                
