Akira Kurosawa's tribute to the western is a marvelous piece of cinema. Toshirô Mifune stars as a ronin (samurai without a master) that goes to a small town, which is divided by two gangs of criminals. While there, he decides to play one off against the other in order to defeat both gangs. Yojimbo lacks the depth of some of Kurosawa's other films, such as Rashomon or Seven Samurai, but it is, on the whole, more entertaining and much more accessible than those two mentioned films, and most of the rest of Kurosawa's oeuvre. That's not to say that Yojimbo lacks substance however; there's more than enough here to please fans of Kurosawa's other works. Just like the majority of Kurosawa's films, Yojimbo is spectacularly well filmed. The black and white cinematography looks absolutely incredible, and the some of the scenes, in particular that involve rain, are extremely atmospheric and lend the movie a great gloomy style. Toshirô Mifune's performance in this film is, in my opinion, his best. Mifune has been in some great films and given some great performances, many of them under the direction of Kurosawa; but the one here eclipses them all in my opinion. In this film, Mifune is most definitely the 'star'. In many other Kurosawa films, Seven Samurai especially, Mifune hasn't been alone, and although he isn't alone here either; he has to carry the film a lot more than he has had to with other films, and he does a great job of it. The answer to the question of whether or not he is believable in his role isn't even debatable; he is. So believable in fact that it's hard to believe that he's an actor playing a samurai, and not an actual samurai. Like a western, Yojimbo features several weird characters that add to the feel of the movie. The actors playing these smaller roles aren't as pronounced, or indeed as great as Toshirô Mifune; but they all still excel in their small roles, making the support cast a very nice ensemble indeed.Yojimbo's influence can be felt across cinema. I dread to think how great cinema might not have been if the Japanese master; Akira Kurosawa had never picked up a camera. His body of work has influenced so many styles and genres that the mind literally boggles. If he never had made a film...well, it doesn't even bear thinking about. It is well known that for one, Yojimbo was remade into Sergio Leone's 'A Fistful of Dollars', which in turn kick started Leone's career. That's just one great director we may have been without had it not been for Kurosawa. That's not all Yojimbo has had an impact on; the Spaghetti western sub-genre is littered with influence from this film, and even recent favourites such as Kill Bill have obviously taken influence from this masterpiece. Of course, cinema would be no worse off if Kill Bill was never made; but it's still credit to Yojimbo. Overall, every film fan should see Yojimbo. It's too important a film to miss, and not only that but it's guaranteed to give you 105 minutes of enjoyment. Highest recommendations from me.


                
Yojimbo, which was <U+0091>remade' three years later and only slightly different as Per un pugno di dollari (which I will refer to as A Fistful of Dollars from here on), is a really impressive piece of film-making. Made back in 1961, it is obvious the Japanese not only had quality actors, but also at least one good director. The story itself had not much surprises for me, since I've seen A Fistful of Dollars about five times and since that film is almost an exact copy of Akira Kurosawa's Yojimbo. Still I enjoyed watching Yojimbo, because it combined good acting, an amazingly modern score for its time and good directing. 
Toshirô Mifune (most famous perhaps for his leading role in the mini series Shogun) plays the main character in Yojimbo, who is just as cool and has just as many one-liners as Eastwood in the <U+0091>remake'. The only difference between Eastwood and Mifune would be that the latter one does not smoke. Even some of the gestures that Eastwood's character had in A fistful of Dollars are similar to the ones Mifune had in this film. It is almost surreal how much these films have in common. The films are equally well made and equally good as far as I am concerned, except maybe that there was no qualitative equivalent to Gian Maria Volonté in this film. The only real difference I could find between the two films, was that Yojimbo is a bit more <U+0091>brutal' than A Fistful of Dollars (watch what the dog has between his teeth in both films). All in all, this is a pretty good film and certainly one that has earned his place in cinema history. I for one will go and try to consume more of Kurosawa's films and maybe you should go and see if you can dig up Yojimbo or another one of his films as well. 7,5 out of 10


                
A lonely mercenary arrives in town, finding it torn between two feuding families. Seeing a chance to earn a few coins he decides to sell his services as a killer to the highest bidder. In the process he ends up escalating the feud, turning the families against each other even worse than they already were. Sound familiar? That might be because this Akira Kurosawa film was remade in the West a few years later. Starring Clint Eastwood, the film was named A Fistful of Dollars. Perhaps you've heard of it.Keeping that in mind, the film is a fascinating watch. So many of the idiosyncrasies of spaghetti westerns can be explained by the fact that ultimately they're based on Japanese samurai films. The lonely, wandering hero. The gruff antihero that still ends up saving the day. The corruptibility of officials.It's also to be kept in mind that this is an Akira Kurosawa film. And quite honestly one of the best ones I've seen from him. The setting of the town is not all that big. A single street with a few important buildings, really. Yet it is used beautifully and the viewer becomes intimately familiar with it throughout the course of the film. Full props to Toshiro Mifune as well, playing the lead character, the cold and lethal ronin, who still hides a beating heart beneath his tattered clothes. One of his defining roles for a reason.Is the film without flaws? Not entirely. The musical cues are sometimes less than subtle, which is actually pretty common with Kurosawa, and the fight scenes, inventive though as they are, lack certain polish. A sword might miss by several hand-widths, yet the opponent still screams and falls. Small touches like that.Still, the story and the characters are so great here that I'm fully comfortable calling this better than A Fistful of Dollars. Not by much, but it does beat that classic. And that's saying something.


                
Pasan y pasan los años, y da la impresión de que los escenarios de la vida siguieran girando inamovibles sobre una misma rueda. Aprendemos, pero no ejercemos, y menos aún reflexionamos con sentido autocrítico, sobre lo que a diario nos demuestra la existencia. Avanza la tecnología, se transforma la ciencia, tenemos más y más vislumbres de la inmensidad y del poder del universo, pero sobre convivencia, sobre amor, solidaridad y respeto, todavía sabemos muy poco. Y si de esto es escaso lo que sabemos, todo lo demás difícilmente ayudará al encuentro de la esquiva felicidad.Cuando uno ve a "YOJIMBO", una película rodada en 1961 y ambientada en el siglo XIX, siente de inmediato que se está recreando la vida de los más marginados barrios de hoy (en micro) y la de los países peor gobernados (en macro). Akira Kurosawa, con su habitual vigorosidad narrativa y con ese singular blanco y negro que refleja las historias del pasado, y que él utiliza también por su reconocido respeto a los que considera indefinidos colores del Japón, nos cuenta una historia que es muy frecuente entre nosotros: Dos bandos inescrupulosos y arribistas, se enfrentan entre sí por el dominio de un pueblo. A uno lo apoya el fabricante de sedas y al otro el de la cervecería. El jefe de policía sirve a sus intereses, el fabricante de ataúdes está ávido de cadáveres para poder evacuar su materia prima, y entre ellos, el pueblo se oculta temeroso cada día, en medio de la escasez y temiendo constantemente por sus vidas que para nadie importan.Pero, como nunca estamos definitivamente solos, un hombre, un yojimbo (guardaespaldas), poderoso guerrero samurái que siente que debe jugar su papel en aquel infausto frente de batalla, entra en escena para ver si consigue disipar las sombras. Y entonces, en un reflejo fidedigno de una vergonzosa y eterna realidad, sucederán tantas cosas como las que suelen suceder entre los hombres más absurdos e invidentes. Mientras estos acuden a sus trampas, su brutalidad y su obsesivo asedio, del lado del pueblo hay lugar para la amistad, para la fe en el otro, y para el ejercicio de la solidaridad, la astucia y la perseverancia.Kurosawa nos hace inclinar la cabeza. Su filme, medio cómico y medio trágico; un tanto western y otro tanto jidai jeki; de aspecto rememorador, pero inevitablemente actual, tiene ese olor a cine elocuente, avalado por un arte denso y pulcro que merece nuestro aplauso y nuestro mejor reconocimiento. Y Toshiro Mifune se confirma como un actor de poderoso histrionismo, cuyo éxito internacional, y su constante presencia en los filmes del gran maestro japonés, no fue para nada cosa de influencias, y sí, la merecida cosecha de una labor profesional y comprometida como la que más. "YOJIMBO" sigue abriendo la brecha de un cine oriental que se merecería muchos, pero muchos más, espacios.


                
Kurosawa. What hasn't been said about the man already? Arguebly the greatest director of the 20th century, Yojimbo further solidifies his iconic position. Much like Scorsese and de Niro years later, Kurosawa teams up again with Toshiro Mifune to give us Sanjuro, a cynical ronin who has no qualms about using other people for his own selfish goals.The movie begins with Sanjuro wandering the countryside without purpose. By chance, he walks into a town being torn apart because of two warring criminal clans trying to wipe each other out. Demonstrating his skill at swordmansship, both attempt to hire Sanjuro in their war. But, Sanjuro has his own plans...Mifune's performance is a complete 180 in relation to his role in Seven Samurai. No longer the bumbling buffoon, Mifune displays a cunning and cold-hearted nature which goes a long ways to getting what he wants. The anti-hero portrayal will influence movie characters like Eastwood's The Man with No Name, Han Solo and Snake Plissken for years to come. Hearing the main musical theme and watching the opening shot where the camera follows him from behind makes one realize he is not a man to be trifled with.Yojimbo is a great start to get familiar with Kurosawa. A great story, characters and acting fuse together like few other films.


                
Pass and years go by, and gives the impression that life scenarios follow-removable rotating one wheel. We learn, but do not exercise, much less self-critical to reflect on what shows daily existence. Technology advances, it becomes science, we have more and more glimpses of the vastness and power of the universe, but about living, about love, solidarity and respect, we still know very little. And if this is little we know, everything else will help very little to our long-awaited happiness. When you see "Yojimbo," a movie filmed in 1961 and set in the nineteenth century, immediately feel that you are recreating life in the most marginalized neighborhoods of today (in microseconds) and the worst- governed countries (in macro). Akira Kurosawa, with his usual vigor and with that singular narrative black and white, reflecting the stories of the past, and he also uses for his known respect to which Japan considers permanent colors, tells a story that is very common among us: Two sides unscrupulous careerists, face one another for domination of a people. One is supported by the manufacturer of silk and the other the brewery. The police chief serves their interests, the coffin maker is hungry for bodies to evacuate its raw material, and among the people hiding fearing each day in the midst of scarcity and constantly fearing for their lives than to anyone matter.But as ever we are definitely alone, a man, a yojimbo (bodyguard), a powerful samurai warrior who feels he must play their part in that fateful battle front, enters the scene to see if he can avoid the shadows. And then, in an accurate reflection of a shameful and eternal reality, many things happen like that usually happen in men more absurd and blind. While these go to his traps, his brutality and obsessive siege, the people's side is no place for friendship, for faith in the other, and the exercise of solidarity, cunning and perseverance. Kurosawa makes us nod. Her film, half comic and half tragic, a western and as much as jeki jidai; remembered aspect, but inevitably present, has the smell of eloquent film, backed by a dense, neat art that deserves our applause and our greatest appreciation.And Toshiro Mifune is confirmed as a powerful actor histrionics, whose international success, and his constant presence in the films of the great Japanese master, was by no means a matter of influence, and yes, the deserved harvest of a committed and professional work as more. "Yojimbo" is opening the gap of Eastern cinema that deserves many, many more spaces.


                
It is a delight to return to this, particularly after watching so many spaghetti westerns, that surely would never have even existed as a genre but for this Kurosawa gem. A little overlong perhaps and a bit confusing at times but it brings a smile to the face to watch the grinning, growling and gungho, jobless samurai marching back and forth muddy street selling himself to the highest bidder and promising the undertaker plenty of business. An amazing array of animated individuals populate this simple yet absorbing tale inspired by American westerns and destined to initiate their greatest cinematic compliment that would be begun a couple of years later by Sergio Leone.


                
Yojimbo is one of those weird films you don't know what genre you should put them in. It's a drama, I suppose, but I feel tempted to define it as as dark comedy crammed with dark humour. I know it might be a bit out of the ordinary to open a review by expressing one's doubts but after watching the film, and even as I was watching it, I struggled to identify the genre the movie belonged to.That, as important as it may seem to me, it's not and obstacle to keep me from enjoying the film. It tells the simple story of a ronin, a kind of drifting samurai that wanders from town to town in medieval Japan, often selling his sword to the highest bid. To start off, the fact that the action revolves around such popular a character in Japanise culture is both risky and appealing. The former because it implies the films will have to deal with a warrior whose portrait is so embedded in Jajapanese culture that even the the slightest attempt to derail that image that cultures project onto society, one that unconsciously we individually tempt to assume. The latter, because by making a film that shatters the samurai's path to wisdom, by the time you have watched it you'll have learnt one thing or two non only about warriors but about human condition.And the film works very well as a research project on the human condition. Violence, terror, loneliness are sharp and precisely dealt with in this Kurosawa's film. Not only that, Yojimbo juggles all these ingredients masterfully and quite often you fin yourself not knowing if you should laugh, cry or both at the same time. What the story is about isn't quite important, really. Let's just say that this cunning samurai tricks two rival gangs into fighting each other. In short, a must have for every cinema fan out there.


                
Yojimbo (The Bodyguard)Sanjuro is a ronin, a samurai without a master, walking around trying to find peace. He arrives to a town divided by two gangs, one produces Silk, the other produces Sake. The Town is divided between them, both are they fighting for the being the one gang in charge, the fight has lasted long and has killed almost all business in town, except the one making coffins for all the corpses the war produces. Sanjuro wants to help, offers to help both of them depending on who will pay him the highest fee. But his real intention is to play the gangs against each other to free the town from them.My long awaited first Kurosawa experience, and i do admit, there is no doubt he is a rare genius. This story is just so well told, perfectly balanced the movie never fails to be interesting, all the way through it kept me interested, wanting to see the progress. Pure perfection. It's one of those movies where i thought afterwards how perfectly paced it was, every second is there for a reason, there isn't a second to much, or a second to little, fantastic. Also the movie, despite being very old, is actually still today very watchable, although it hasn't aged as well as some other old movies i have seen. I can still see where many modern movies have gotten the inspiration from, the amount of scenario you can recognize here is absolutely admirable, and there has also been much talk about the storyline directly have inspired a great director like Sergio Leone, to make his western triumph "A Fistful of Dollars".Kurosawa is the genius in this movie, in a movie that is so well construction you can tell this movie was made by a creative genius, but also a man who constantly seeked for perfection, every thing in the movie seem to be thought so well through, every little sequence. One great piece in the movie directing wise is the stunning use of the a confusing touch to the movie, the windy, cold, dirty roads of the town, it's just so well portrayed.I haven't seen many old Japanese movies, but the acting here is brilliant, i love the passion that exists in the Japanese language. Toshiro Mifune is quite fantastic in the leading role, but i think all of the cast gives a very good performance, and there isn't a flaw to put on any of them. Especially the wife to Seibei i thought was fantastic in portraying the cold, evil and brutal women, that she played.To up it up. This movie is almost a perfect construction. Furthermore the movie has inspired decades of movies, truly admirable. I was very surprised to see how well such an old movie manages to keep my interest up nearly all the way through, it's really a well balanced movie that never manages to get boring at all. But even though i have a lot of praise for the movie, it didn't get all the way through me, i wasn't stunned afterwards, i didn't want to become a samurai and a Japanese, that is what makes me not giving it a top grade. But i still found it a very good movie that portrayed many sides of the human mind, greed, anger, fear, evil, but most important we also got to see how Sanjuro, the fearsome Samurai, also had a heart of gold with his intention of helping the innocent in people in the village.8/10


                
Well, I've seen most of Kurosawa's major works now, and though I really like Yojimbo, I don't rank it among his best. In fact, I really enjoyed his movies that, yes, were NOT about samurai! Hakuchi (The Idiot) and Tengoku To Jigoku (High And Low) I thought were both better than this one, but I'm not putting down Yojimbo at all. It was a very nice watch in terms of both plot and style, and of course spectacular direction by Kurosawa and acting by Mifune. I also enjoyed the way this movie really seemed like a Western, as this movie was both influenced by past Westerns and influenced future Westerns. Very nice flow to the film. All in all, well worth you time. My rating: 7.5/10.


                
The last of Kurosawa's samurai films I had on my list to watch, as I actually saw the sequel to this (SANJURO) beforehand. Not that it matters, as the two films feature the same character but have totally unconnected stories. I actually liked SANJURO the better of the two, mainly because it was funnier and more tightly scripted. However, there's no denying that YOJIMBO is a great movie in itself, a film both highly influenced by westerns and which would highly influence westerns to come (Sergio Leone famously 'borrowed' the story for his iconic classic A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS).The story is taken from the pages of pulp fiction and involves a rogue samurai (Toshiro Mifune, on top form) who comes into a rural town and finds a war going on between opposing gangs. Determined to clean up the mess, he plays both sides against one another, with the stakes gradually raising as the action ensues. Along the way there are some great set-pieces as you'd expect from Kurosawa; I particularly liked Sanjuro's attack on the building where the wife is being held hostage.Kurosawa is, as ever, a master of form and the widescreen cinematography looks fantastic. He also elicits great performances from a strong cast, with actors bringing to life the nuances of the scripting. Tatsuya Nakadai really stands out as the slick bad guy but the actors playing the other bizarre and memorable, almost comic-book characters are fine too. All in all, YOJIMBO is an acknowledged classic and for good reason - it's great fun!


                
Akira Kurosawa teams up again with Toshiro Mifune to give us a wily and cynical Ronin who enters a one horse town in conflict and sees an opportunity to make money as well as ending the conflict.The film's plot has been remade many times, most famously as a A Fistful of Dollars starring Clint Eastwood and directed by Sergio Leone.Mifune is a cunning Samurai, expert with the sword and ruthless. He is an anti hero but does show a warm nature however willing to play off the rival factions who bring misery to the small town.Mifune is the original The man with no name, a character that would become famous and forever associated with Eastwood.The film starts with a cracking pace and immediately gets to the plot with little flab before hitting the conventions dramatic plot devices that we are familiar with but this film inspired it.Mifune is terrific as the world weary ronin willing to swap sides when one of the rivals has the upper hand. He shows a devilish touch of touch of humour and although the film slackens later on, you have to see it because of its influence on cinema.


                
There are no 100% originality of men's creation. I mean that every single work of us is just an imitation of other people, so does the movie. The same thing that movie bring is the idea, and this little idea grow fast. Let's think about science-fiction idea, when we enter the world of cinema, we know that "Metropolis" is one of the first science- fiction motion pictures. Or, like "Psycho", the very first American- great-horror-film. The idea of horror, however, imitated by other movie creator, that they can make people frightened with their movie. And even the idea of the movie is basically from the experience of the creator, which is influenced by other people. With that assumption, I think that "Yojimbo" brings brand-new-soul of the movie. As note, this is my first Kurosawa's, so maybe there was another more pure idea than "Yojimbo". This new idea is the idea to impart, take sides to the truth, the "real- truth", and the deep meaning of peace. I mean the feeling when you are in safe and wealth. The thought that we must not escape the reality and keep fighting until the truth win against falsity. Yes, that idea is in many stories, but the idea to translate such a complex story to a background such as this movie is really brilliant.With one literal story, Kurosawa delivered a big deal of reality of the world explicitly also implicitly. What I always thought is two criminal family refer to two great nations of the world those days. You know, it is actually like Cold-War, when two force have great-amount of power but lack of courage to attack. I mean each side want the other side lose without being blame by another people. It can be seen clearly when two criminal families first meet and try to strike each other, but the result is nobody have guts to attack. However, every side try to rent bodyguard ("yojimbo") to defeat the other side. When the first maneuver begins, the protagonist just laugh, like some people laugh about the stupidity of Cold-War.But the idea not end just like that. With the wisdom and intelligence, The Samurai try to end the tyranny of two gangs. He knows that he is alone, I mean with some help of the restaurant owner and coffin maker, but he can seek the weak point of each side. He knows both side need money and will do anything for it, he can take advantage by this weakness. He broke out the winery and storage. Even, in the deep chaos, The Samurai still can feel compassion about other people. This is a kind of surprising idea. In the name of people's peace he sacrifices all his energy. Maybe, that person is what the world looking for. I mean the man who can end the long Cold-War, but that's just idealistic. As conclusion of the inner part of the movie is it brings new experience of crime even before the epic crime movie pops. You know is like "Batman Begins", but that movie was released 44 years after "Yojimbo". So this is an authentic one. With smart and simple twist that makes the audiences enjoy.I don't have much comment for the "packaging". What I always remembered is the suspense of the music. The battle is realistic and not "hyper- realistic". It is, in my opinion, very well directed and also critical. With the Japanese background, that you will not find in another culture, this movie is nothing but outstanding. From the purity of peace-idea and the very end of production design, "Yojimbo" is really thoughtful, entertaining, but also deep. Fantastic one!
Review #4.Yojimbo, bodyguard in Japanese, is another beauty from Akira Kurosawa. When I watched Seven Samurai, I was very much taken aback by Kurosawa's talent as a director and as a writer. From then on, I always wanted to watch more of his creations. Yojimbo is a samurai based film. A samurai comes to an unpleasant, miserable village, where there is a war going on between two groups of gamblers. Both of them want him as their bodyguard. But something very different is going on in his mind. What is it? Well, you'll have to see the film. The performances are top notch. The direction is superb. Some scenes are so good that you eventually remember Seven Samurai. The writing is very tight. Music goes on with the pace and demand of the film.The final verdict : Kurosawa's one of the finest films. Must not be missed.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Yojimbo translates to bodyguard, but do not make the mistake of comparing it to the 1992 sappy mess The Bodyguard (Kevin Costner, Whitney Houston). This is one of the finest Japanese films ever made, directed by arguably the greatest Japanese director (Akira Kurosawa), and starring one of the top Japanese actors (Toshiro Mifune). It also served as the inspiration for Sergio Leone's classic 1964 western, A Fistful of Dollars (with Clint Eastwood).Based in 1860, we meet the unemployed ronin/samurai (Mifune) wandering the countryside allowing a tossed tree branch to determine the direction of his path. It leads him to a town where the ominous first visual is a dog carrying a human hand in his mouth. We realize this isn't going to be the most welcoming of towns.The town is controlled by rival factions: the Silk merchant versus the Sake brewer. They represent crime lords Seibel and Ushitora, respectively. Our clever ronin decides to play both sides against the middle and ends up hired as a bodyguard by BOTH gangs. As you can imagine, this leads to real problems for all involved.The psychology of (corrupt) power and fear is in play here, as is some dark humor (the coffin maker). The biggest clash comes with Unosuke who proudly carries the town's only pistol. He certainly enjoys the respect and power that comes with that handgun. The samurai are trained to be loyal at any cost, and it's quite interesting to see our protagonist adapt the self-preservation in his new world.Masaru Sato delivers a very unique score - one quite unusual for the samurai genre. Toshiro Mifune has one of the great faces in cinematic history, and Kurosawa is in prime form. This is definitely one to see if you enjoy the best films from all countries.


                
I am new to Akira Kurasova's movies. I have heard so much great things from his movies, mainly from Seven Samurai. I will watch that later on especially after the amazement that I experienced by watching 'Yojimbo'.Yojimbo is one of the most original and earliest action movies directed by one of the greatest directors of all time, the Japanese Akira Kurasova. The film centers around a samurai without a master that wanders into a village that is separated and ruled by crime gangs: Inokichi, Ushitori and an aging Seibei. This mysterious Samurai walks into this town and decides to make a profit out of this by cleaning out the crime in this town, all the time, receiving money.Yojimbo is easily one of the most influential movies ever made with Sergio Leone, 3 years later, making a Spaghetti Western of the same movie called 'A Fistful of Dollars' The movie is just so likable and simply so entertaining to watch despite having to read subtitles the whole time. The movie has amazing music, perhaps some of the most epic I've ever heard, entertainingly and well written dialogue which has to be amazing since I was reading subtitles, by the look of it, great acting, an amazing story and such great characters.The action scenes in the movie didn't bother me. I was entertained. They don't look the most convincing but an amazing soundtrack, as present during these action scenes, easily makes me forget about the minor issue.Overall, 'Yojimbo' is a masterpiece in terms of movie history and should be watched by far more people. It is one of the earliest and most amazing action movies and even to this day, is still surprisingly watchable.


                
A crafty ronin (samurai with no master) comes to a town divided by two criminal gangs and decides to play them against each other to free the town.The film's look and themes were in part inspired by the western film genre, in particular the films of John Ford. Kurosawa was also inspired by two Dashiell Hammett noir novels from 1929 and 1931. In 1964, "Yojimbo" was remade as "A Fistful of Dollars", a spaghetti western directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood... I love that American westerns inspired Japanese samurai films, which in turn inspired Italian westerns. Who would expect westerns to take such a detour? This film has awesome music, plenty of action, and even some humor (such as when the men are running around trying to catch the leaky sake). This is quite possibly Kurosawa's finest film. Unfortunately, too few people will see it (at least in America) because foreign films require too much patience.


                
Kurosawa, like Kubrick, is one of those directors whose movies look better today than when they were released. This film, for instance, clearly shows its influences, as previously mentioned, Tarantino films have a great deal of influence from this single piece alone. And this film is as good as anything Tarantino done, including Pulp Fiction.I was also impressed by a greater degree by this film than Seven Samurai, which is another excellent film. However, this one benefits from being made 7 years later, Kurosawa probably had a bigger budget and the quality of the cinematography has greatly improved (at least from the versions that I have watched).Highly recommended to anybody who likes a good film.


                
"Yojimbo" is the kind of movie you see on the Top 250, and think how the heck something with a title like that and something that the majority of the world's population has not heard of could make the list.  It is only after watching it that you can understand the reasons.First of all, "Yojimbo" has great acting.  I know none of the actors' names, but I felt that every character was in character and believable.  Second, the story is great.  How the suspense builds and and how the action occurs just adds to the enjoyment of watching the film.  The ending is also great, and the bits of comedy added make it all the more delightful.  The best part of the movie, however, was the characterization.  Sanjuro's character is an amazingly deep hero who develops throughout the movie, and the other characters, although not focused on, seem to do the same.Really, I can't find too much negative here.  The fact that the movie was made in another nation over forty years ago keep it from having its deepest impact on me.  But overall, this film is EXCELLENT.Final Grade: A.


                
another quick review: Is Mifune better than De Niro, Pacino, Brando and the rest? Here he outshines all of Clint's performances in the movies this one influenced, with his one liners, and physical presence. Admittedly, the rest of the cast are not called on to do much, but both sides show themselves as desperate, and naïve. The violence, and set pieces are subtle yet memorable, but it is Mifune's performance which carries the film. some memorable scenes, aside from the fights, are the dog with someone's hand running through town, and Mifune's exit-his wok complete. 8 out of ten


                
The movie is indeed a gem as it has great strengths. The story is so strong that it develops nicely over the fast paced flow. I really enjoy how the story develops and unravels with its twists and turns. The characters are also well developed as they unravel in time, revealing multiple layers of themselves and possibly changing audiences' view toward them. The directing is a great job since the movie successfully maximizes utilization on just a few sets to tell a great story like this. The bits of action sequences are also well directed, despite the lack of technology for that time. The acting is also quite nice, particularly Toshiro Mifune. His character is nicely portrayed that the layers of the character's true intention gets peeled well.


                
Akira Kurosawa's 1961 film YOJIMBO is a Japanese period drama where wily strategy is worth just as much as prowess with a sword. In the late Edo era (some decades before its end in 1868) a community is plagued by two opposing gangs who have built up a criminal empire of prostitution and gambling. Even the local officials are on the take. Into this town steps a nameless samurai (Toshiro Mifune). Once they get a taste of his swordsmanship, both sides want to hire him, but he decides to play them off against each other and free the innocent citizens from this evil.In past films Kurosawa had taken advantage of Mifune's ability to produce exaggerated facial expressions of laughter and fear. Here, however, the nameless samurai is completely unflappable, while it is the criminal bosses and corrupt officials who play the clowns. Ikio Sawamura is a town constable constantly toadying to the gangsters, for example, while Isuzu Yamada gives a memorably sassy performance as the madame of a brothel. In what would become a convention of the Japanese period drama, the numerous henchmen in the gangs were apparently chosen from the most grotesque men that Kurosawa could find (each furthermore has distinctively ratty attire), and one thug is played by an actor suffering from gigantism.That darkly comedic drama between the characters coexists with brutal violence. Yet, while audiences may have been shocked in 1961 by the samurai dispatching his opponents with realistic slashing sound effects and a hacked off limb, there are only a handful of fights here, and they are all over in a flash. (Indeed, one of the most striking aspects of Mifune's acting is his speed in executing the sword moves.) While Kurosawa delights in gangsters getting their comeuppance, he doesn't revel in gore.Much has been said about how this Japanese film would inspire Westerns made in America and Europe (Sergio Leone's A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS was a straight-up remake). However, the film is also interesting for how it draws so much on influences from the West. Kurosawa's inspiration was an American crime caper by Dashiell Hammett, the samurai's walk down the main street is drawn from the Westerns of John Ford et al., the soundtrack mixes Japanese music with Western instruments such as harpsichord, and Tatsuya Nakadai's pretty-boy looks are clearly modeled on Hollywood.All in all, I was very impressed by this film. Everything here – from the script and aspect to little things like the wind and dust and the little decorations on the set – seems the result of great effort and talent, all coming together to impress the viewer. And like Kurosawa's RASHOMON, it stays fresh even as its elements have been repeatedly reused by other film and television productions for half a century now.Note that Kurosawa would go on to use Mifune's character again the next year in the film SANJURO, and the two films are often considered together.


                
(73%) Watching this it's pretty clear to anyone that A fist full of dollars owes almost its entire existence to this Japanese classic. Almost from the very beginning, right down to the performances, direction, and script, this has the feel of a classic Leone western as the guy clearly helped himself to bits and pieces. And he must have figured that he'd largely get away with it because so few western people at the time would have ever actually had the chance to even know about this far-east hit. For anyone interested in classic Asian films, or just classic films in general, this is a must- watch that's well worth tracking down. There's a fair share of action, fun, and sheer entertainment value to be had from this quality, and still watchable first rate winner.


                
Sanjuro Kuwabatake (Toshirô Mifune) is a wandering ronin who arrives in a town ruined by two warring gangs of thugs. When the old warlord died, he left it all to his weakling son. The next in command objects and forms his own gang. Sanjuro makes money by pitting the two sides against each other. Then Unosuke returns to town with a revolver. Sanjuro rescues beautiful Nui for her pathetic husband and son.Many have drawn inspiration from this Akira Kurosawa movie. More importantly, they have drawn inspiration from this character. He is the iconic anti-hero and an inspiration for the man with no name. The movie starts with a son who runs away to be a hired thug. He rather live it up and die young than to live a long bland farmer's life. Then when Sanjuro first gets to town, he sees a dog walk off with a severed hand setting the tone for the movie. So much of this movie is memorable. When the gangs face off, they hilariously can't quite get the fight started. This character isn't the classic white hat good guy. He's in it for the money. Even the victims are pathetic to him, but he still has enough morality to rescue the innocent.


                
What I mean by that is that out of the Kurosawa films I have seen this would be the ideal movie to show people who want to know what Kurosawa is like and is skeptical for some reason about the 3½ hour runtime of Seven Samurai (his masterpiece).The plot, like Seven Samurai has been turned into a Western that I have been told is worth watching (I'd rather be seeing the Japanese originals but I'd watch them...soon). A no-name masterless samurai wonders 15th Century Japan (I don't know Japanese history so don't bash me if I got the century wrong) and comes across a town run by 2 crime gangs, he attempts to bring down both of them so that the townsfolk can live in peace.Toshiro Mifune is a really good actor. I have only seen 2 Kurosawa films (for a fact I feel Kurosawa and Bergman are the only 2 directors that actually live up to their reputation) and seeing him as Kuchyio in one role then The Samurai in this made me think "Wow".I will definitely watch the sequel and the Americaan counterpart (but I won't watch A Fistful Of Dollars until I watch The Magnificent Seven - from what I have been told as much more worthwhile) just expect the Kurosawa style of Seven Samurai, only for 100 minutes.


                
