The line that the poster below mentions may explain why Bruce Willis does not see other ghosts, etc.  (SPOILER) But it DOES NOT explain how he "lived" for a year without wondering why nobody could SEE HIM!  He lived for a year without ANYONE ever speaking to him?  Without EVER trying to say anything to his wife besides "are you gonna get that?"  I don't buy it.  The twist ending is implausible, no matter how you slice it.Furthermore, the romantic sub-plot is once again underdeveloped and secondary, just a filler for the erroneous twist ending.  We could've seen a little more development of the lack of their marriage (showing how he was inhumanly busy for a year, etc.)The script was recycled from "The Shining", a much better film as far as acting, cinematography, music, development of the characters, and most other aspects go.  Save your money and rent that classic instead of this fluff.
WARNING - IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW THE ENDING OF THIS FILM READ NO FURTHER!
The Sixth Sense was hyped as a supernatural thriller with an unexpected twist. Well once you know the boy can see and speak to the dead - which you know from the trailers - the ending is predictable from the first five minutes. And there are enough clues for anyone. But the idea that the Bruce Willis character could go for a year and realise that he was dead (whoops! did I spoil the ending for anyone?) is just plain ludicrous. Didn't he notice that everyone - not just his wife was ignoring him? Besides these stupidities the film was slow and dull, and about as scary as an episode of The Munsters.
I really am amazed to see how a cheap trick in a movie has such a great effect on people.I only watched this movie because in a review of The Orphanage I have read a vague hint of resemblance with this film and The Others. That was enough for me to figure out what the "great twist" was about - in the first few minutes.-SPOILER BELOW-As soon as Osment said "I see dead people", I thought Willis could have as well replied like "Like me?"Yes, the "twist" was that cheap and predictable. And the rest was just inconsistent storytelling. Both The Orphanage and The Others are great movies, your money is better spent on those.
This is the most overrated movie of 1999.  I am continuously shocked at all of the praise it continues to receive.  It was a dismal portrait of meaningless lives, topped off with the cheapest gimmick Hollywood continues to overuse.  There was nothing original about it and I just don't understand all the fuss!


                
God was this movie bad. I was so bored through out the first hour, I decided to read the ingredients of the packedge of chips my friend sneaked into the theater. I got up midway through, just to keep myself awake. Haley Joe whatever his last name is, is a dead choice winner for worst child actor of the last ten years. His cheesy, weak line delivery was unbearable, as the directors felt that through a quite kid in the mix, and everyone will overlook everything else. Where Stir of Echos gave your characters to root for, against, and others who you actually got concerned about, the Sixth sense gave us empty throw away people whom we really could care less if they died, lived, or anything else. Bruce Willis, who has smartly rebounded since with Sin City and Hostage, seemed that he was hell bent on making a movie bad enough to make everyone forget about the Ishtar of the 90's Armageddon. The film was badly done, from storyline (a mention of the plot holes would generally take up an entire page on the IMDb site), to a false twist ending. You want to know how the story ends. I'll save you the trouble. Go to a music store, and look at the title of the last track on the film's soundtrack. They give away the ending right THERE!!!! M.Night himself rebounded with Signs, but this will forever remain his worth effort, even if he makes Child's Play 7. To paraphrase Comic Book Guy from the Simpsons: Worst movie ever. negative 20 out of 10.
I have yet to see Unbreakable, but judging from The Sixth Sense, I'm guessing it's going to be another mixing of good movies from the past in an attempt to make a good modern movie. My recommendation for anyone who has the urge to see The Sixth Sense, or anyone who will read this and say "That Burke guy's wacked, he doesn't know what he's talking about": Watch these two movies- Jacob's Ladder, with Tim Robbins, and The Shining, with Jack Nicholson.  Combine the two excellent movies, and mix it up a tiny little bit, and you get a sub-par movie.  The Sixth Sense.


                
I can't believe this movie got an 8 out of 10 score. This whole movie was completely unbelievable. I know you need to have an imagination, but too much is required for this one. Why do I say this? The whole movie Bruce Willis is apparently dead, and is a ghost. You don't find this out until the end of the movie which is when Bruce Willis found out. He is able to have conversations with his wife while he is a ghost for an entire year and not figure out that he is dead? How can such conversations occur? They can't! There is no way possible that he could have gone an entire year and have these conversations with his wife. Conversations like Bruce Willis would ask a question and his wife would conveniently be thinking about the same topic and speak out loud and give an answer while not aware that Bruce Willis was there talking to her. How come Bruce Willis who is supposed to be dead doesn't have any wounds on him like the other dead people do? Why isn't the kid afraid of Bruce Willis like he is afraid of the other dead people? I think the only reason why so many people give this crap such a high rating is because they are just fascinated with the subject of ghosts. What a retarded movie. Too much imagaination required for me.
Text book bestseller tricks, executed for maximum effect.  80+ years or illiciting emotion put on display.  Then, at every turn the viewer feels hollow and realizes there was really no "there" there. I can see the marketing group storyboard each scene!Where is the truth?  where is the soul?  try a Kurosawa film for that...this is just phony.and if you want a scary thriller that is honest, try the 1963 version of "The Haunting"


                
I cannot believe the acclaim this movie has gotten, nor that so many people were surprised by its ending. Wow, Bruce Willis was dead the whole time, who would have thunk it.Shyamanalangianamam locked himself in a corner with the plot. Here he had a dead guy walking around who could only be seen by one little boy, but it had to look like he was talking with other people. So, we get Willis being ignored by his wife at a restaurant. Any other husband would have started to get suspicious when his wife also didn't acknowledge his existence when he got home that night or woke up the next morning...Then there's the scene where it appears that Willis was talking with the kid's mom. Only he can't...because he's dead.Every scene in this movie in which Willis appears to be interacting with another human is a cheat. I mean, come on, how stupid do you have to be to realize that the only person who acknowledges your existence is a kid who sees dead people!! It's bad enough that we're supposed to be shocked by the realization that Willis has been dead this whole time. But it's simply ludicrous for Willis himself to be shocked. Although, I do believe that Bruce Willis could be shocked in real life. After all, he's far too stupid and narcissistic to admit that any reality other than his own--Bush is a better President than Clinton, the Iraq war is going well, etc,--actually exists.If you think this movie is deserving of being listed as one of the 250 best movies of all time, do yourself a favor and take another look. Only this time pay attention to how the director cheats his audience.
I'd heard a lot about this movie, so was looking forward to seeing it, especially the supposedly 'amazing' twist. Shortly into it, however I worked out the twist which was so obvious I couldn't believe that was it. The rest of the film lumbered on extremely slowly. The music was completely over the top, it was inappropriate to a lot of the scenes. There seemed to be sub plots which did not fit in with the rest of the movie. All in all, quite a painful viewing experience. I seriously do not understand what all the fuss about this movie was, maybe I missed something but I doubt it.


                
Spoiler minefield...Between Hitchcock and Rod Serling, our culture has lost something.  I admit it, when I was young I tried watching every 'Twilight Zone' episode and learned something that some modern Hollywood writers still haven't caught on to.I hate obvious twists like this movie because it is totally unimaginative. The premise is simple: a 2 hour film about a boy who sees dead people.  Make us sit through said film and experience Osment's unbearable acting and silly shock scenes.Then in the end, poke us in the eye and say "Ha ha, it was all a farce. Bruce Willis was really dead all along."  As if a thousand episodes of what Rod Serling wrote 50 years ago hasn't prepared us for that.If the film provides its twists earlier enough to have fun with them ('Fight Club') or leaves itself open for new twists ('The Wall', 'Usual Suspects') I can have some fun with it.  Instead, Shyamalan wants to be Spielberg and have everything open-and-shut but the material demands otherwise.So, Willis is dead and that's the end of it.  Case closed, he ceases to exist.  That this is in the IMDb Top 100 is beyond belief.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud
This film is a one-trick pony that's far more nag than it is thoroughbred and would be more effective as a half-hour episode of The Outer Limits. Any potential suspense is nullified in the opening 15 minutes, when it is explained that the apparitions seen by Haley Joel Osment's character are appealing to him for assistance, rather than having any sinister intentions. Therefore, no matter in what manner the spectres appear, the audience has already been made aware that no harm is intended to the major character and that to classify the film as a horror is wide of the mark, as no threat or danger is present in any scene. This leads the audience to then cogitate on the big "twist" which is central to the plot (and I would even go so far as to say that it is the only plot in the whole turgid affair). I'm afraid to say that I worked this out within the first half an hour, leading to an excruciating remainder of the film, where it is consistently rammed down your throat that the kid sees dead people, the kid helps dead people and that Brucey's character is seen by the kid. Even my friend (who I went to the cinema with) who didn't work out the ending said that it was unadulterated trite, so I should thank him for my summary line, as I couldn't have expressed this film in a single phrase any better than this. Anyone who finds this film even remotely scary, complex, or views it as a classic psychological horror clearly needs to watch a Hitchcock film and try to raise their intellectual standards above a primary school (6th grade) level. On the plus side, I thought the cinematography was excellent, so kudos to you Tak Fujimoto. Oh, and if you can't work out the "surprise ending" after reading this review, you're exactly the sort of person that will find this film thoroughly entertaining!
I sat through over an hour and a half of this garbage and never understood what the point of this movie was--I couldn't wait for it to end, just so that I could leave with the knowledge that I had used my reduced price ticket, which was to expire 09-30-99.The story/plot was lousy.  The script/dialogue was lousy.  And, most disappointingly of all, the acting was lousy!  The kid, though cute, was unnatural in every respect; the dialogue that the writers had this kid saying was not the dialogue of a kid.  And Bruce Willis had some kind of strange smirk on his face throughout the movie, certainly not the look of a devoted mental health care provider.I don't know what the point of this movie was, at all!  The story/plot, if there even was one, totally escaped me.  There was nothing suspenseful or thrilling about this movie; in fact, I felt like going to sleep throughout the movie.  I was actually relieved when the movie was finally over so that I could leave with the knowledge that I could honestly report, with all due honesty, that I had seen this movie and that it had "SUCKED!"There isn't even anything to "spoil" about this movie--it is a total "zero." If IMDb allowed for a "0" rating, this movie would get it.  I just hope that reporting that there is nothing to "spoil" is not considered by IMDb as a "spoiler."  I hate people who reveal the plots of movies to me, but I swear to God, I don't know what the plot of this movie is.Since becoming a IMDb member a few weeks ago, I have voted on many movies. Before opening a file on a movie that I have seen, I decide what my vote is for a movie that I have seen.  99.9% of the time, my vote is "right on" with my fellow IMDb members.  This movie is one of the few, and rare, exceptions in which my vote differs drastically with my fellow IMDb members.  As of this writing (10-02-99), the average vote of my fellow IMDb members for this movie is a weighted average of 8.8.  I cannot understand this score, at all.If you agree, or disagree, with my opinion of this movie, please feel free to tell me what you think--I could be wrong.  If you can convince me, I may re-watch this film on video.  As for now, I will discourage anybody who is thinking of paying $8 or more to see this crap, first run, from wasting his or her money.
It relies almost entirely on one very clever ploy.  Unfortunately, a certain percentage of us viewers "figure out" the ploy very early in the movie and after that, BORING!  Be thankful if you are in the large majority of viewers who were taken in by the ploy, for you this must have been a terrific film. But for the others of us, not.


                
Everybody's favourite "intelligent" horror/mystery-thriller, with everybody's favourite twist ending. You already know the story, so I'll fast-forward directly to the bashing.Shyamalan fancies himself a great artist, not content with "only" telling a story. Fair enough. The last positive thing I will say in this review is that he has a keen eye for cinematography, if nothing else. Unfortunately, pretty pictures and "art shots" are not enough to make a good director, or film, and cinematography is indeed the movie's actual preoccupation. Manoj deliberately tries to carve out visual trademarks by over-staging every scene, and this takes up a large part of the near two hours. The colour red is seen here and there, carrying "symbolic significance". A good director would spend his time inspiring his actors to pass for human beings, but then again, Mr. Night might not be a good director. Few characters in his pictures actually behave like real people.And acting here is non-existent. A vacuum. In Shyamalan's other movies, at least people appear to be reading from scripts. Now, Bruce Willis is one of the few remaining action stars with trace amounts of Y-chromosomes, and has charisma enough to carry a movie, but his talents for "subtle" drama like this are somewhat yonder. Frankly, I can't think of a less suitable actor for this kind of role (child psychologist). Sure enough, within the first five minutes we are treated to a prolonged shot of an award plaque, with Willis' wife actually spelling out for us the superlatives it contains. This is so that we'll know that Willis' character is "brilliant". Manoj misunderstood the concept of "show, don't tell", a fundamental narrative tool, which means that Willis shows us his brilliance through his actions, not by bluntly telling us "he's brilliant!". Low class there, but it gets even worse.The kid does nothing but whisper through the entire movie. This is his brilliant, Oscar-nominated acting? Other than that, people sit around a lot, broods a lot, whispers some more. The kid sees dead people everywhere, which gives rise to a bunch of "scary moments" (with loud music playing every time a closet door suddenly opens, or whatever), but without actually advancing the story. They're just there for cheesy "Boo! I bet you didn't see THAT coming!" effects that were old news in the '70s already. The entire middle half of the movie is superfluous and could be cut out, since it seems to have little to do with the framing device, which is Willis' character. Really, time has never moved slower than when watching this movie.As for weak horror, the kid actually states early on that the ghosts are looking for "help" rather than haunting or causing mischief. OK, so there is not even a threat of harm? Then what is the point of having scene after scene with "made you jump!"-scares, when our beloved heroes are not even in danger at any one point? I'll tell you the point, the point is to water down the "horror" genre to be suitable for children, which ideally will broaden the revenue base. Producers didn't take long to understand this, and now this kind of diaper horror is the norm.Plot holes abound. The biggest is that Willis' dead character doesn't notice, until the very end of the movie, that nobody except the boy (who is some kind of medium) interacts with him. Willis meets with the kid in a professional context, but who made the appointment with Willis, if he was already dead? The kid himself? I don't THINK so. Later, Willis has been let into the house of the boy's mother, and the mother is actually sitting there next to him. They never interact. Yet we are to believe that Willis was let into the house and seated, and neither greeted nor was seen by the kid's mother, who was SITTING RIGHT NEXT TO HIM AT THE START OF THE SCENE. Yet another scene has dead Willis eating dinner with his wife. Apparently, they didn't speak to each other, and Willis didn't notice this? Manoj tricks the audience here, by having the wife talk to herself in such a manner that it APPEARS that she is talking to Willis.There are enough absurdities here to build a ladder to the moon, which M. Night and his fanboys have tried to justify with the cop-out notion that "Willis only sees what he wants to see". Neat, isn't it? Sure spares Shyamalan the effort of wrapping up the mess he created. Suffice it to say that the perhaps most telling sign of a director's incompetence is that he has to cheat his audience in order to keep the story together. Even Spielberg, the devil's handpicked lieutenant on earth, doesn't resort to this low form of audience manipulation.Personally, I find that movies that rely on gimmick twists, as opposed to honest atmosphere and ACTING, do not hold up to repeated viewings. Even if your IQ is likely to turn up on a craps roll, and you DIDN'T see the twist coming, how can you watch this hogwash over again KNOWING what will be the big surprise? The disturbing part is that millions of drugged lemmings actually DID go to see this movie a second time, to pick up all the clues that made them miss the finale the first time around. The nightman got rich, and invested his efforts in another triumphant masterpiece, "Unbreakable".Here's my screenplay: Bruce Willis gets shot. Dies. The end. Osment and Manoj remain unknown.Shyamalan is a disease. I've seen a number of his movies just to reassure myself, and the man is a complete criminal. I am on a crusade, and I will not rest until he is indicted for his offences against art, taste and logic.Lowest possible rating.
Tedious, you could be forgiven for thinking that Willis had an idiot board behind the camera and was reading from it - he is so wooden.This subject has been done before and much better in films like `Canival of Souls,' and of course in the Twilight zone where they would have done the whole thing better and in half an hour.There is little attention to detail in this film. In one scene the child comes through the front door just home from school. Yet, it is dark outside the front door. The child in the film has a 6th sense but totally fails to use it on Willis. I don`t want to list other goofs because I don`t want to give away the plot but once you have seen it you will see them.In England Blockbuster video rental are giving cheap ice cream if you rent this title <U+0096> you can see why.


                
I can not see why people find this movie creepy or even remotely interesting. After 20-30 minutes it's so obvious how this movie will end. I won't ''spoil'' it for those of you who haven't seen it yet, but it's hard to understand almost nobody feels it coming from miles ahead. It's so darn _obvious_!Well, not to brag, but I have probably seen too much movies. Like with The Blairwitch Project, which is supposed to be scary... Give me a break, please.Watch "Una Pura Formalita" (A Pure Formality) with Roman Polanski and Gerard Depardieu and see what The 6th Sense could have been.1/10--Ivo


                
I found this Bruce Willis suspense quite a letdown as it offers no action and is host to a diabolical music score. Of course, you will say that it is not an action movie <U+0096> even so, there are no memorable scenes even in the suspense category and the movies dark and moody atmosphere gave me a very negative feeling. All feedback I have heard for this film is <U+0091>Wow, fantastic' but it has yet to make the tiniest impact on myself, be it on the big or small screen. To conclude, The Sixth Sense typifies Bruce Willis' current situation in acting <U+0096> desperate, boring and unimpressive.


                
I just DON'T get it. What on Earth is so "spectacular" about this??? It was more of a sedative than anything else! It ended too fast and it felt like there was so much to it missing/unexplained. The PG-13 rating also hurt it alot (obviously it got rated as such because it revolved around, well, a kid!) because it put a stranglehold on what they could/were willing to do with the film. It was obviously scenes were missing from a more detail, R-rated cut. THIS IS THE DIRECTION HORROR MOVIES ARE HEADED IN??? Oh man, first Scream, the I Know What You Did Last Summer, now this??? The genre will NEVER recpature it's glory from the late-70's and early-80's, due in part that nobody is willing to make them in that wonderful, amazing fashion were no holds were barred, no rules were set. Siiiiigh.....


                
Even though this movie had plenty of expensive glitter, an excess of on-screen whispering, coupled with an excess of flashbacks, rendered the plot next to impossible to figure out. But then again, maybe that was the producer's point, to get us to return again and again until we have it all sorted out. Therefore, I also give it 1 point.


                
This is the one and only film I will ever rate as 1 star.And i've seen some shockers, (mega shark vs Giant Octopus doesn't make the bottom 100!) I just don't understand why people love this film.It's not scary, there are two 'jumps' in the entire film, both of which are "$£%$£.the plot? kid sees dead people, obvious dead bloke questions why... thinks a little more.... before telling boy to TALK to the dead peaple... so the boy talks to dead people, and the film ends... oh, and you find out the main bloke is dead... which is meant to be a surprise, although you see him die in the opening scene, and when the kid talks of seeing dead people... who walk about not knowing their dead... the camera ZOOMS into bruce willis' face.People liking this film makes me question humanity.
"Why-o Earth- did almost everyone think this was a great movie?" ( warning! spoiler)Come on; with the exception of a few good aspects ( the astonishing end and Osment's performance as Cole ), this was actually a bad movie. Not very bad, but bad!
First of all, despite the wonderful plot, which is absolutely convenient to make a very spectacular movie, Shyamalan does not seem to have been able to make use of his "own" screenplay very cleverly. Consequently, the movie which could have been much more breathtaking became unreasonably boring; indeed boring almost all the time!! While watching the movie, I became so bored that I wondered whether that was the real "The Sixth Sense" people were praising all the time! Moreover, I do not approve of Shyamalan's Oscar nomination for the best director; anyone else would have been a nominee due to that wonderful screenplay!
As for the acting, I liked Osment's  worth-seeing performance, which is one of the few good aspects of this movie.Also, Colliette was outstanding as Cole's mother. But that's all OK with the cast; I especially disliked Bruce Willice's performance as Malcolm Crowe. Actually, he must have played more enthusiastically since he was the leading character. Besides, his face did NOT go with the character of Malcolm Crowe. I am sure that anyone else would have played much better than him. For instance, Robin Williams would have been a perfect choice for this role!
Finally,the music was VERY poor; so poor that I had not seen any movie the music of which was poorer than this one! So ask yourself; would you have liked the movie if the end had not been so astonishing? A movie should be charming from the beginning to the end; not in the end, only!!! 4/10
This movie is awful. The "surprise ending" is given away in the first scene of the film. By the end, I was screaming "Where's the twist? Everyone told me there was a surprise twist at the end! Where is it? The movie was oddly shot, too talky and the action was lacking. HJO did give a good performance and Bruce Willis was OK, but when you promise fans a movie based upon a twist at the end, you have to deliver. This movie falls completely off of that mark. People, If you didn't see this ending coming, you weren't paying attention to the first five minutes of the film. This movie was a complete waste of my time.


                
The Sixth Sense the film must be talking about is the sense to sniff out a terrible movie, I have that sense.  It's hard to believe how big this crap fest has gotten.  How many people it has fooled baffles me.  I can't believe anyone bought that ending and that there were a bunch of you fruits that actually cried.  But I don't blame you, you were hypnotized.  Someday you may snap out of it.


                
