The surprise ending to "The Sixth Sense" has gotten so much attention that it threatens to overshadow the film. I occasionally hear people say things like the following: "The 'twist' was so obvious that I figured it out in the first five minutes!" Some of those people may even be telling the truth. There's no way to know. But there's a lot of condescension in such remarks, an implication that anyone who didn't figure it out must be a really dumb sucker. At least in my case I have an excuse. When I first saw this film back in early 2000, I knew nothing about it other than that it was about the relationship between a psychiatrist played by Bruce Willis and a child with some sort of psychic power. I didn't even know what that psychic power was, and an early scene led me to think it was telepathy. In short, I had no idea even what the movie's subject was until about the middle of the film, so I was completely adrift as to solving the movie's mystery.Still, to anyone who did figure the secret out quickly, I have this to say: you may be smarter than I am, but that does not make this a bad movie. Hitchcock went to great lengths to keep the ending to "Psycho" from leaking out. Many people who watch that film today figure the twist out (probably because it has been imitated in countless thrillers since then), but the film is still a classic that holds up well today. Surprise endings are, ultimately, just clever contrivances, extra layerings on the cake. They do not constitute the difference between a good movie and a bad movie. A movie must work on its own terms before springing a surprise.Nevertheless, there can be no denying that the twist in "The Sixth Sense" is particularly clever. It's no virtue if a twist is impossible to predict. It is just as important that the twist be logical as that it be surprising. Plenty of thrillers feature twists that are arbitrary, where the plot fails to provide enough hints. Even a clever thriller like "Fight Club" requires a bit of a stretch to accept the ending. What makes "The Sixth Sense" impressive is that it never cheats by suggesting that earlier scenes were imaginary. Everything we see is real, and only our assumptions fool us. If, however, you weren't fooled, all the better: just because you figure out the magician's trick does not make it a bad trick.Consider what appears to be happening in the film. Willis plays a psychiatrist who has received accolades for helping children with problems. We see a romantic evening with him and his wife at home. Then he gets into an ugly, violent confrontation with a former patient. Willis believes he has failed, and he wants to make amends by helping a new child (Haley Joel Osment) who appears to be having the same problems (and perhaps the same abilities) that his former patient once displayed. But just as he thinks he's making progress with Osment, his marriage seems to be falling apart. His wife isn't talking to him, and is beginning to see another man.However these events may be reinterpreted by what is revealed later, the movie is effective because it works on this basic level. In a key scene, Willis asks Osment what he wants most, and Osment answers, "I don't want to be scared anymore." It is not always clear that Osment is really facing a mortal threat. But because the movie establishes that he is undergoing a scary experience, by the time the movie reveals what it is that is frightening him, we have our emotions invested in the character, and the terror is very real to us. This is a step that most horror films neglect, the recognition that the most powerful fear may be the fear of fear itself.When I was a teenager, I assumed that all good horror films had to have an R rating. Even as an adult, I was surprised that a movie as frightening as "The Sixth Sense" received only a PG-13. In hindsight, however, most of my favorite horror films, whatever their rating, have relatively little violence. Like all good horror films, "The Sixth Sense" allows the suspense to build and does not rely on either excessive violence or cheap scares. The ending adds an additional level of intrigue, but it is not necessary to one's enjoyment during the first viewing. Still, if you have not seen the film by now and remain woefully ignorant of the surprise lurking in its plot, I urge you, before someone ruins it for you, go and watch the movie!


                
The Sixth Sense is one of those films that rarely happens these days.  In other words, I knew so little about it before sitting in the cinema that it wasn't ruined before it started.I don't want to ramble on about it so I'll just say... absolute perfection. An incredible story that had me and my friends gripped from start to finish. The twist in the tale was totally unexpected as well.After it finished we sat through the whole of the credits and talked about how fabulous it was.  If only more films were like this.  I can't remember the last time we did that!Congratulations to all involved in this masterpiece.


                
The Sixth Sense is a brilliant film, plain and simple. It is unique in that it relies on imagination and psychology to scare you and make you think twice about the world around you. The director did a fabulous job constructing the imagery of the film, and I genuinely did not know about the ending until it was revealed. Quite a shock! The Sixth Sense goes in my book as the single greatest psychological horror film I have ever seen. Anyone who bashes it are simply not giving it a chance or don't fully realize the complex dialog and imagery around them. Brilliant


                
This is perhaps my film of the decade so far. The reasons are too numerous to go into in such a short critique. Surely there have not been too many films that can take you through the range of emotions that the Sixth Sense does. The prime emotion; fear, is a difficult emotion to generate in a modern audience that has seen it all before, but this film succeeds where others fail, praying on your imagination and generating suspense from subtle devices rather than blatant horror.It is such a relief that the performances of Willis and the excellent Osment live up to an excellently directed quality storyline. I will be disappointed if the youngster doesn't receive at least an academy nomination.I seldom go to the cinema twice to watch a film, in fact I cannot remember when I have done it before. Tonight I am taking an old friend to see this film as it will be a tragedy if he doesn't see it on the big screen. He has heard so much about it that he is reluctant to go, as I am when something is over-hyped. Just for a change though, here is a film that lives up to its billing and has you thinking about it for weeks to come. As for the twist at the end? Well it totally disorientated me, my mind spinning back throughout the whole film. A fantastic punchline to my film of the year.


                
Cole (Haley Joel Osment) is a young boy troubled by an affliction, he can see the dead all around him, for much of the time and he is labelled a freak by everyone except his mother. Haley Joel Osment puts in such a fine performance in this role, it is hard to believe he is a child.Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is a highly acclaimed child psychologist, who's relationship with his wife is in trouble and his ability in his profession is diminished as a result. A different role for Willis, but he proves he doesn't have to be all action all of the time, with his remarkable performance.Crowe becomes Cole's therapist, and is faced with personal demons from a previous patient of his, a very similar patient to Cole, and Crowe has to figure out how to help him, however horrific the truth is.M. Night Shyamalan both wrote and directed this movie, and he helps provide an Ora that is extremely tense and spine chilling throughout.All in all the movie was very good in every way and would have scored 7 or 8 as a supernatural thriller, but then came the ending, well it's more of a revelation. It is simply wonderful, and you will want to see the film again, to find out exactly how they hid it from you, and the fact is they hid it well and didn't cheat in the slightest.10/10
M. Night Shyamalan has created something that will not, can not be outdone. This film is so simple, yet so complex. It is so out there, yet one gets a strange feeling from the film because it seems so real. The acting is amazing. Bruce Willis has never been better. Toni Collette is at the top of her game. Haley Joel Osment was robbed at the Academy Awards, because he gave in this film the single best child performance and one of the greatest performances of all time (adult or child) in this movie. The only child performances that rival his in this movie are Osment's other performances. And let's not forget Olivia Williams who had perhaps the hardest time since she had to play the part that can be viewed on two very different levels. *hint hint* Perfect.
The Sixth Sense is M. Night Shyamalan first big budget and best film. It's a film that heavily relies on the creating and maintaining of a certain atmosphere. It has a psychological tension that's only broken in a few scenes( Magic trick scene ao.). A little comical relief( although there are only 2 such scenes) is very welcome to not make the story too heavy (so everyone can enjoy it). Films tend to get boring if the story is too linear.The Sixth Sense has a surprise ending ( many films will use this in the following years) but it's not all about the ending ( in contrary to certain other films that I will not name to avoid spoiling). The story on itself is very interesting but the ending is the cherry on the pie. Many who saw it the first time were in disbelief: is this right...? After re-watching it several times...yes it is. The plot is almost watertight. I suppose if you want to you can always find tiny little mistakes but I haven't found any big ones. The Sixth Sense is unbelievably well cast: Bruce Willis delivers his 2nd best performance( 12 Monkeys is his best), debutant Haley Joel Osment is excellent( his performance in A.I is also excellent, other movies of his were mostly disappointing performances), Toni Colette delivers the first in a long series of Oscar-worthy performances (also see The Night Listener, The Hours, Little Miss Sunshine ao. ) and the performance of Donnie Wahlberg musn't be forgotten even though he only gets 3 minutes of screen time. Olivia Williams may be the only lesser performance in the lead cast but she still does an OK job. We can see several Shyamalan's trademarks for the first time: He uses very natural colors( brown, white, gray, beige, green) in the interiors and clothing. Another trademark for his work is the fragmentary use of a rich red color to break with the dull colors in the background. He doesn't overuse the red so it preserves its power. We can also see Shyamalan's excellent use of colors in The Village ( even more then in the sixth sense): red stands for evil,misfortune and fear while yellow stands for weakness. The Village is M. Night's third best film in my opinion (Unbreakable is the one that closest approaches TSS brilliance). It's also unbelievably well-acted, the story is strong, the settings are beautiful...definitely worth watching ( if hope you have seen it but if you haven't...you know what to do). It's a bit under-appreciated on IMDb but don't let that fool you.I'm no direction expert but I found it to be brilliant. The brilliance lies in the details; the excellent use of mirrors and shadows, the lighting, eccentric camera viewpoints,...it's a delight for a filmenthousiast( like yours truly) to watch. You can feel Shyamalan is both writer and director; he knows exactly what to do with the material and which camera shot would be best for which scene.What makes The Sixth Sense into a brilliant film( what distinguishes it from other great films)? It's hard to explain but it's a magical film to watch. Certainly one of my personal favorite films. 10/10 for this flawless piece of brilliance !!
This is a must see film, I'm a great fan of thriller/horror films and this is by far the best. the acting is superb the storyline is superb the horror is awesome!!! this film has the best twist ever anyone who says they knew that the film would end like that is a liar!!!the acting of Haley Joel Osment is incredible he was also brilliant in AI. this is not one of those films that drags on or that is forgettable like a lot of other thriller/horror films (the grudge, dark water)your remember this one forever!!!!Main good points: great acting, great storyline, great twist-------------- main bad points: none


                
A perfect balance. Sad, but not self-pitying. Triumphant, but not cheesy. Frightening, but never grotesque. Shocking, but not gimmicky. Touching without being cheap. Visually it is stunning. There are some truly amazing shots, the attention to color is appreciated. Haley Joel Osment as Cole is extraordinary. What a promising career ahead of him. Bruce Willis, as a workaholic child psychologist, ought to be extremely proud of this, as it may be some of his best work. Tender, brooding, regretful, determined. Perfect. Toni Collette, is really phenomenal. I think she gets overlooked, but with any less talented actress, the film would have certainly suffered.I watched this film again recently, absolutely certain I would have lost some of the awe I had for it since last watching it on the big screen seven years ago. I was pleasantly surprised. It was just as moving, eerie, and beautiful. An obvious top five film of all time for me. Quite the freshman effort from Mr. Shayamalan.


                
This is the best horror movie i have ever seen.It's terryfying and interesting from beginning to the very end.Yes, the ending is so great that you could say "the director couldn't make something better.Michael Night Shamalyan is the next Alfred Hitchcock.And for the first time in his career Bruce Willis showed us that he is very good actor.


                
The Sixth Sense is one of those movies that once you've seen it the first time, you're never going to be able to watch it the same way again, due to the gasp-worthy twist near the end. So, in that sense, it's sort of a one-time deal. I still remember how I actually did gasp, and feel this jolt of shock go through me, when watching it at the cinema and realising the truth of the situation. And while I can never recapture that feeling when watching this film again, I do still get a lot out of it while re-watching.I love Bruce Willis's role in this film, in that it's so unlike any of his other stuff that I've seen (i.e. not action). And although now whenever I hear Haley Joel Osment's name I think of Supernatural (heh), I still think he was incredible in this movie. He put the Harry Potter kids to shame, and it's hard to believe he could be so amazing at the age he was.Amazing film.


                
Belated Day 26 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.This film is recognized as having the best twist ending ever put to film. While agree it is great there are far better twist endings that I have seen.The film follows a young boy played by Haley Joel Osment as he begins to start seeing strange visions of ghosts. His parents hire a psychiatrist played by Bruce Willis in order to find out just what has happened to the boy.This film is one of 3 good films by M Night Shyamalan the others being Unbreakable and for me The Happening. The film has a creepy vibe and good special effects. The twist will leave you haunted.Rated PG-13 For Intese Thematic Material And Violent Images.1hr 47min/107min.1 use of the F-word.****/****
Absolutely superb! This movie was excellently done. I am floored at how Shayamalan was able to keep my attention on Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) and his ordeal while the entire time the man who's trying to help him is a ghost. Not since The Usual Suspects have I seen such a twist at the end of a movie. This movie definitely had me pondering over it in its totality long after it was over. Along with the spectacular ending the movie was just spooky enough to keep me alert looking for what would happen next. It takes brilliance to make a movie scary without the use of rampant killing and bloodshed. The movie was just wonderfully done and the best way for Shayamalan and Osment to break onto the scene.
Child psychiatrist Malcolm Crowe takes on the case of a deeply troubled boy named Cole Sear. At first Cole is reluctant to be helped, but as Malcolm gets closer to the boy, Malcolm learns the root of Cole's fears, he claims he sees ghosts.The Sixth Sense was a monster hit back in 1999, a deftly crafted ghost story with a kicker that was talked about by all and sundry, the box office bulged and the critics did rave. Nowadays you will find hundreds of people proclaiming that the film is boringly formulaic, that they worked out the films premise easily in the first quarter of the film, or that the film is a mere cliché, funny how I don't remember it like that back in 1999! The box office bulged because many went to see the film more than once, they went {myself included} back to see just how director M. Night Shyamalan {Academy Award Nominated Best Director} managed to bluff us and pull the rug from under our feet. I remember vividly both times I saw it in the cinema, the crucial turning point of the piece bringing a collective audible gasp from the viewers sunken in their respective seats, that's the sort of impact that carries a films reputation far and wide, and that's the reason why I will never rate the film lower than 10/10.Repeat viewings of The Sixth Sense obviously dim its star appeal because we know the tricks of the directors trade, but the film still ranks to me as one of the best of its type for so many other reasons rarely mentioned. The writing from Shyamalan {Academy Award Nominated Best Screenplay} is surprisingly complex, the piece masquerading as a horror picture is emotionally charged, linking children with the paranormal thru loss and a need for understanding, the need for closure of unresolved differences, but chiefly and crucial to the films heart is the message of connection before it's too late.The performances are incredible, Bruce Willis as Malcolm Crowe is perfectly understated, all the pointers for the denouement are there for us to see, but such is the actors performance, and we now know he is cutely having to play his cards close to his chest, are hidden from us until the revisit of the picture reveals it all. Hayley Joel Osment {Academy Award Nominated Best Supporting Actor} is wonderful, for a child performance in a film of this type to not be over sentimental, is quite an achievement. Sympathetic Cole may be, but Osment never lets it become less than the accepted level of child vulnerability. Rounding out the great trio of leads is Toni Collette {Academy Award Nominated Best Supporting Actress} as Cole's mother, Lynn, fabulous in portraying the love and confusion in Cole's troubled world, this story arc between the two is expertly realised. The direction from Shyamalan is very restrained, forgoing out and out shock value for periods of disquiet, he uses sounds to make the audience sense the unease unfolding in this creepy tale, while his camera work, full of draw ins and pull outs-and subtle side shifts, is adroitly in tone with the narrative. The score from James Newton Howard flits beautifully between the uneasy periods and the sustained moments of query, while Tak Fujimoto's cinematography puts a gorgeous funereal texture over this part of Philadelphia.If you haven't seen it then don't believe the naysayers, because The Sixth Sense deserved every penny/cent it made, its a wonderful, creepy, and yes, at times, a beautiful picture. A film that still ranks as one of the best ghost stories ever crafted. 10/10


                
With the coming of "The Sixth Sense" M. Night Shyamalan (how to pronounce it, I have no idea!) introduced a new kind of horror. The kind of horror that is more psychological than it is scary, although "The Sixth Sense" still has some good scares! The movie inspired many other movies like for example "The Others" with Nicole Kidman but also M. Night Shyamalan kept making movies in this new kind of horror style, movies like "Signs" and his most recent one "The Village".It's hard to say what it is that makes this movie such a masterpiece. It might be because of the superb mix of drama, thriller and horror elements. A thing why all these elements flow so well isn't only thanks to the directing but also due to the acting. Bruce Willis shows that he is a good actor and can also play a character without guns. Toni Collette is also good and warming as troubled mother but real discovery of the movie is of course Haley Joel Osment. He is more than just a child actor, he is a real actor! He really deserved his Oscar nomination for this movie and I wouldn't had mind him seeing winning it. Oh well, his hopefully his time will come, after all he is only just 16 now. The movie got nominated for 5 more Oscars including best picture and best director. The movie eventually went home empty handed, a shame because the movie deserved at least an Oscar nod.Already trademark M. Night Shyamalan element in a movie is the surprise ending. "The Sixth Sense" does have a good surprise ending, it's a kind of ending that makes you want to see the movie again after you finished watching it for the first time. Although not my favorite movie surprise ending of all time, it sure comes close to it!See this movie for the tension the drama and the surprise ending.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Is there such a thing as a "perfect movie"? If that concept does indeed exist, than "The Sixth Sense" comes about as close as possibly to taking that prize. It contains everything one could ask for in a film.For a basic plot summary, "The Sixth Sense" tells the story of young Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment), who is prone to visions of dead ghosts and as such is not fitting in very well at school or at home. With the help of a very unique child psychologist named Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), however, Cole is finally able to face his fears and begin to move on with his life.Since it is easier to come at this review from this angle, about the only people who WON'T enjoy this movie are those who only like the mindless actions of explosions, car chases, and flexing muscles. Not to disparage those films or their audiences, but if that is the only kind of fare that gets you revved up in the theater, then this one might not be for you.For everyone else, though, "Sixth Sense" is almost a clinic in how to make a movie that will keep the audience engaging in nearly every way possible. It is the kind of film that one cannot say too much about or risk major spoilers, but suffice it to say that it is filled with mystery, layer upon layer of plots, terrific acting, suspense, and a jaw-dropping finale that will have you rebooting the whole experience again very soon! Though perhaps not by a humongous margin (as "Signs" is excellent in its own right), "Sixth Sense" is the hallmark film from director M. Night Shyamalan, as it is the perfect showcase for the type of movies he enjoyed making.Overall, this film is easily in my Top Ten Films of All-Time mental list, and perhaps even encroaching on the Top Five. It is an absolute masterpiece in every sense of the word. If for some reason you haven't seen it, it may just fundamentally change the way you view cinema forever.


                
"The Sixth Sense" is a wonderful, classic movie where many complex themes and interesting issues are explored and while the plot and storyline remains intriguing, engaging and mesmerizing until the end. This is undoubtedly M Night Shymalan's best work and it is certainly a masterpiece The unfolding plot development has to be one of the highlights of this movie. M Night Shymalan does a great job of preserving the depth and level of suspense, mystery intrigue and tension involved in the plot throughout the movie but also succeeds in giving this movie many heartwarming and beautiful moments. The script is flawless and the character development is second to none.All the actors and actresses perform their role to perfection. Hayley Joel Osment is a wonderful actor and gives his portrayal of Cole Sears a maturity in terms of depth and emotion that many actors years older than him would struggle to match. I am not usually a fan of Bruce Willis but his performance in this role is flawless and wonderfully done. Toni Collette gives perhaps her best performance to date in her role as a deeply loving single mother and the rest of the main and supporting cast portray their roles beautifully as well A great movie with many intriguing twists and turns that I highly recommend
"The Sixth Sense" (1999) is generally regarded as a ghost story and that is what it seems to be during the first viewing. There is also an obvious subtext about the nature of our fears as well as themes concerning courage and communication; elements often incorporated into the genre. Most viewers will be conscious of this stuff during the first viewing but will mostly be focused on sorting out the story and processing the intriguing conclusion. But with subsequent viewing(s) the fear factor diminishes and you become aware that this is not a ghost story so much as it is a film about grief; particularly the grief than comes from regret. With this realization comes the awareness that the real power of the film comes from a viewer's subconscious connection with this underlying theme. The object of the film is far more than just giving the audience a scare although it does a first-class job of doing just that. It can also alter your perception of the process of both living and dying. The spirits that seek out young Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) do so because there is something they regret doing or not doing during their lives; something that will ease the grief of their passing (for both them and their loved ones). You have Krya's little sister asking Cole if Krya will come back and Cole answering "not anymore", after he has helped Krya. And then you have the grieving Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) and his grieving wife Anna (Olivia Williams): "Once upon a time there was this person named Malcolm. He worked with children. He loved it. He loved it more than anything else. And then one night, he found out that he made a mistake with one of them. He couldn't help that one. And he can't stop thinking about it, he can't forget. Ever since then, things have been different. He's not the same person that he used to be. And his wife doesn't like the person that he's become. They barely speak anymore, they're like strangers. And then one day Malcolm meets this wonderful little boy, a really cool little boy. Reminds him a lot of the other one. And Malcolm decides to try and help this new boy. 'Cause he feels that if he can help this new boy, it would be like helping that other one too."The climatic scene in the car between Cole and his mother (Toni Collette) ranks up with cinema's all-time best.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.


                
After watching this movie at least five times a year since its release, it is still, ultimately my favorite thriller movie of all time. Bruce Willis and Haley Joel Osment play the most believable characters in this film. We follow the story of a young boy, an "outsider", open up his story, fear and trust to a distressed child psychologist. You will be amazed as you follow the boy deeper and deeper to unveiling his secret.The acting is amazing, and the plot is thick which will literally make you sit on the edge of your seat.But at all costs, do NOT watch it on television. To be able to fully enjoy the plot, watch it on DVD. You won't have to worry about cut scenes or commercials interrupting the full feeling intended by the director.


                
Donnie Wahlberg and Haley Joel are playing the same character. The film moves from 1997 (scenes with the wife) to 1986 or 1987(scenes with young Vincent/Cole). Look at the clothes, hear the music, the references to Pedia Ease and the musical Cats!!! In the bathroom, Vincent tells the Dr. he has waited 10 years since he was treated by the Dr.! The gray hair is too obvious. But, the Vincent and Cole characters have the same "sense" as well as both say people see them as freaks. Also, both characters plead with Dr. Malcolm not to fail them. Just before Dr. is shot, he tells Vincent he wants a chance to help him, then he is given the opportunity after his death. Ultimately, he does help Cole/Vincent. Cole helps Dr. Malcolm say what needs to be said to his wife as well. With each script, M. has become less dense. I do not know if that is bad or good. But, I am a great fan of M.'s work. Sixth Sense is his richest screenplay and film.
i'm not going to give much of the plot of this one away,just in case you're one of the three people on the planet who hasn't seen this movie.suffice to say that it is one of the greatest psychological suspense thrillers in modern time.this is one eerie movie,strongly anchored by the performance of Haley Joel Osment.,who plays the character to which the title refers.Bruce Willis and Toni Collette also put in strong performances.and watch for a brilliant performance from an unrecognizable Donnie Wahlberg(yes that Donnie Wahlberg from "New Kids on the Block" fame).who knew he could act?you will almost certainly have to watch this movie more than once,and you will discover something new each time.if you have'nt seen it,and somehow have managed to avoid knowing anything about it,i highly recommend it.to end,i will just say that this movie is a modern Masterpiece.10+++/10


                
Child psychiatrist Malcolm Crowe is confronted one night by his former patient Vincent Gray who he failed to help. After Vincent shoots Crowe in the stomach and kills himself, Crowe can't stop thinking about it. A few months later he is hired to help a troubled boy named Cole Sear, who has many of the same problems Vincent had. Crowe sees a chance to redeem himself, but doubts his ability to reach the boy, particularly when Cole claims to see ghosts who don't know they're dead.Right off, I'll say this is one of the best films ever. It currently ranks #3 for M. Night's films. I love this movie because it's a really good ghost story and has a thought-provoking plot.Yeah, this film was famous so I already knew the ending before it even happened but that didn't distract me from watching the movie. Throughout the movie is a masterpiece.The acting by Bruce Willis, Haley Joel Osment, and Toni Collette were all fantastic and some like Olivia Williams and Donnie Wahlberg were all great, too.If you want an intelligent ghost movie with some scares and twists and turns, this is the movie for you. It's not just a plain old stupid scary movie. It has a story and great acting.


                
Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is a Philadelphia psychiatrist meeting with Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment), a boy who can - OK, I'll say it this one last time - see dead people. While too many horror flicks have relied on gore, this one relies on the subconscious, and other things that we don't realize. And of course, there's the ending. I literally did not see that coming, although there were a number of clues throughout the movie. All that I can say is, you are going to have your mind blown. M. Night Shyamalan truly created an impressive piece of cinema history here, and of his later movies, only "Unbreakable" came close to equalling this one's quality.On another note, I think that it was appropriate that "The Sixth Sense" came out in 1999, when I was 15. It was named by Entertainment Weekly as one of the many movies that year that revolutionized the movie industry (along with "Election", "The Blair Witch Project", "American Beauty" and "Being John Malkovich"). Similarly, in 1967, when my parents were 15, movies such as "In the Heat of the Night", "Bonnie and Clyde" and "The Graduate" - all revolutionizing the movie industry - were released. Some things just work out perfectly.


                
I'm a serious mystery buff, I grew up reading Agatha Christie and Nancy Drew while others my age were studying "TEEN BEAT". I can truly say this is the only movie in years that "GOT" me. I figured out the "Others" moments into the movie, but I didn't figure this one out until the doctor figured it out. It stunned me. Seeing it the second time was better because then you see there is no interaction between Bruce Willis' character and any other characters around him. Take another look at the wake of the girl poisoned by her mother, and the scene where Cole's mother is sitting across from Bruce, again there is no interaction, they don't see him. This is truly a CLASSIC for your DVD collection.Other recommended movies "Angel Heart" and "The Usual Suspects" these are two other great movies with a twist at the end.
Those things only work, and only matter, because they serve a story in "The Sixth Sense" that is genuinely emotionally affecting. You care about what happens to Cole Sear, so hauntingly played by Haley Joel Osment, and you want to see Dr. Malcolm Crowe(Bruce Willis, in arguably his best performance) help him. You believe every second of Toni Collette's brilliant performance as Cole's mother, a woman pushed to her limits of worry and grief. In short, "The Sixth Sense" is that rare Hollywood thriller that isn't about the plot so much as it's about the characters, and that's why it works.


                
