Megamiscasting! Hollywood bankers do it again--go for the then box office draw in spite of his/her ability (in this case none). Bruce Willis is on top of a list of people who bluffed themselves by some sheer quirk of luck into the cinema back in the glory days of bad films (80s/90s). If this film had been made in Britain or Europe with actors who can act, it would have been wonderful. Brucie is a 'deez' 'dem' 'doze' guy. He's always in an action film no matter what he does. He can barely read the script. The young boy in the story and his mother are great, but Willis' presence knocks them down every time. He turns what could be a nice scary thriller into comic book stuff. He's especially awful during his scenes where he has to show some emotion. One can only think of the line about early Hepburn, "Let's go see Katharine Hepburn act the gamut from A to B." Willis is more like 'A to A minus'. He's terrible when he talks. Imagine Stallone playing a psychiatrist and you get the picture.
THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSLet me say at the outset that I watched this movie in 2014 and not in the year it was released. By all means, this movie is past its shelf life and is best avoidable; especially so if you are a regular Hollywood movie watcher. Twenty minutes into the film and I could see the twist at the end of the movie. They show the psychologist being shot at almost point blank range and then the same psychologist is shown moving with a child that can see dead people. To add to this, we see the psychologist being ignored by all, except this child! Does it take anything more for one to guess the twist? But one needs to appreciate that the movie was made in 1999 and definitely this twist would have been a real shocker in those days. Technical aspects of the movie have been very well attended to by the makers and they definitely need to be applauded for this.
I"m surprised with the other comments here. In fairness this isn't necessarily the type of movie I would usually love. But I didn't even like this. Half way through I thought it was going a little slow, and was hoping it would go somewhere. It didn't. The twist at the end is nothing more than a cheap gimmick, it doesn't take much to throw that in the script, whether you saw it coming or not. The acting is ok, but at the end of the day there's not much depth or substance to this. People don't see dead people, if they did, I could easily imagine just about any other film taking the subject further. I believe to a point it even detracts or mocks a real situation where young children develop mental illnesses.


                
... then you probably gave this a 10. There's nothing particularly bad about this film and its watchable enough, but it lacks the "what the hell's going on?" factor you'll find in other contemporary films such as "Stir of Echoes," though that too has a crappy ending. The kid is good though, but this film doesn't stand up to even the most basic analysis.


                
The sixth sense wasn't really a bad movie, per se, but the problem with it lies in the fact that any entertainment value it may hold is in one aspect of it which you find out when watching the film for the first time - if it hasn't been spoiled for you.  I somehow had it spoiled for me long before I saw the movie, but found it completely unentertaining because aside from the suspense and the "ohh" moment, there's nothing valuable at all about The Sixth Sense.  I imagine someone would be equally bored if they were seeing it for a second time.  So see the movie if you like, but I hope the "punchline" hasn't been ruined for you and you aren't too good at figuring out the ends of movies.


                
A movie without interest in any part of the plot but the final... and when you hear a couple of fellas who says "You got to see it, you'll never guess how's going to end!", there's no way you CAN'T guess it. No great psychological introspection of the charachters, the individual and relational struggles played by Willis are not so original... and most of all, Bruce Willis is "shaped" for movies with lots of explosions and brutal deaths! As you can imagine, this is not exactly one of my favourite movies...


                
For anyone who loves films of the caliber of Polanski's "Rosemary's Baby", you will be disappointed. It seems like a popular movie judging by the volume of high votes on this site but, it has little to offer as far as psychological "depth". This is a film by a young director who does not seem to have the maturity or intense vision other great directors. It is a competent film and watchable but I wouldn't have the slightest inclination to watch it again and, after this, I am not even tempted to view his latest efforts.See it if you like the average Hollywood blockbuster, but avoid it at all cost if you enjoy great film-making.4 out of 10


                
After all the praises that says that this movie is god's gift to mankind I can only say one thing- it's boring. The problem is that a fifty minutes "twilight zone"-story has been stretched to almost two dull hours. The actors was good but they played characters who most of the time had nothing to do except being boring and the guy with the camera did not seem to know what kind of movie he was lensing so he tried everything. It had potential but it did not make it.


                
CONTAINS SPOILER Let me start by saying the Sixth Sense is a good movie. A GOOD movie, not a great one. I'm not sure how this one got so big, I mean, yes it's got that nice twist, but it's also somewhat predictable and (SPOILER AHEAD!) comepletely ludicrous if you think about it. Think about it! seriously. This movie reminds me of Arlington Road and Reindeer Games in that the movie doesn't make sense if you sit down and rationally think about it. I mean, Bruce Willis has been dead for a year, an entire year. Don't you think he'd notice, particualrly that NO ONE talks to him, NO ONE except Osment! At one point, he says he "barely talks" to his wife anymore. Well, "barely" is different than "none" which would be the reality. Maybe I'm being too critical, but to me, a GREAT movie, like voters here have determined this is by putting it in the top 50 of ALL TIME, should really hold up to repeat viewings. I really have a feeling time is going to trivialize this one and reveal what it really is: a smart, but slow, effective thriller.One final note: while the Sixth Sense got way too much hype, UNBREAKABLE didn't get nearly enough. UNBREAKABLE is a far better film, although it has its flaws as well. Instead of being a solid genre piece like THE SIXTH SENSE though, it really is amazingly original.
I realize this film had many good reviews. That's why I bought it. But it somehow managed to get by me without hooking me in. Its lack of impact had little to do with the acting, which is pretty good all around. Toni Collette is especially noteworthy. And Willis gives what is for him a subdued performance except, I have to say, that when he tries to grin with happiness or gets misty eyed with love, something within me begins to churn. The kid, Osment, is okay. Thank God he's not a cutie-pie.The direction is deliberate but effective, supported by a semi-somnolent score that throws in a sting from time to time, as when the first ghost appears briefly, to wake the audience up.The plot, alas, is a mish mash of overly familiar themes. Is it RIGHT to try to cure a kid who seems to know more than we do? (Cf., "Equus.") Even if the kid is frightened by the "dead people" he sees, who sometimes scream at him and scratch him? (Cf., "The Shining.") How come the kid speaks Latin? (Cf., "The Exorcist.") Or is this the momentary hallucination of someone who is dying? (Cf., "Incident at Owl Creek Bridge," or "Point Blank.") Who are these ghosts anyway? Why do they taunt the kid? Why does he see only tortured ones, people who have been hanged, poisoned, killed in car accidents, shot in the belly, or who slashed their wrists? Do they see each other? Do they eat and excrete? They seem to have the power to move objects in their environment. They can steal bumblebee pendants or scratch the kid. They can, to give a more specific example, shove a box containing an incriminating tape out from under a bed and ask Osment to show the tape to their bereaved father. Well then why can't they themselves give Dad the box? Or leave it where he's bound to find it? If someone has done them dirt why must they use Osment as the middleman? Why not just kick ass? Oh, and a final question. By the end of the film we know why Osment finally spills the beans to Willis, but why on earth hasn't he told his mother about it a long time ago? "I'm ready to communicate with you," he tells her solemnly when they're trapped in a traffic jam. Well, why now?There is one way, though, in which the plot is cleverly constructed. In fact, the surprise revelation seems to have been thought of first and the entire movie structured around this anagnorisis. Yes, the story is as full of holes as a slice of Emmenthaler cheese but the whole point is the onion soup beneath. That climactic twist is a big relief in another way. Now we know why nobody wants to talk to Bruce Willis except Osment. And it's not his aftershave lotion.It's a pretty gloomy picture actually, awfully low key, though the photography of Philadelphia is engaging. Willis and his wife, Olivia Williams, are shown admiring an award he has just won, as the film opens. They're drinking wine and joking about Dr. Seuss, but even then there's no exhilaration on the screen.However, people seem to have given this film a cornucopia of plaudits so the weakness may be mine rather than the story's. There is no statistically significant difference between women and men in the user ratings -- he said confidently after merely eyeballing the results. I would have predicted a greater appeal for women. Maybe you'll get more out of it than I did.
The Sixth Sense is the movie that put certain M. Night Shyamalan to the map. I heard that this is an amazing movie and maybe my expectations were a bit high cause I didn't enjoy it.It's about a boy who sees terrible visions and a child psychologist who is trying to help him. I didn't like the story. I know Shyamalan tends to have twists in his movies, but the twist in this one didn't impress me. Maybe I spoiled the viewing experience for myself since I knew to look for the twist. Maybe I should have seen this movie when it came out to enjoy it more. Much of this comes down to my personal preference. And to be honest I don't like Shyamalan's directional style. The long takes were not that good. I didn't like his framing either.The movie was okay on the acting front. I liked Haley Joel Osment's performance. Bruce Willis and the rest of the cast were okay. M. Night Shyamalan made a brief appearance, which didn't really make me hold my breath.The good thing about the movie is it's overall creepiness and sense of fear. There were couple of jump scares that made me cringe. Having too much jump scares isn't necessarily a good thing, but the movie doesn't rely on them. Sometimes this movie reminded me about Shining with the hallucinations and everything. And no surprise here: I thought Kubrick did it much better.Some things don't appeal to everyone and this movie is an example. I just couldn't make myself to like it.


                
This is typical big-budget Hollywood fare.  Moody characters, moody lighting, moody music.  The unrelieved moodiness lets you know that serious things are happening.  But it does not set out to depress: in fact, everything looks quite attractive, whether animal, vegetable and mineral. The script aims for a high moral tone and a low intellectual one.  A perfect combination to lasso dollars.I cannot fathom how Willis went from "Breakfast of Champions", an outstanding performance of an excellent script, to this mumbling of dialog that does not matter.Overall, I found it very scary ...  that people liked it.


                
Beautiful acting, lovely atmosphere but the kind of "then I woke up" storyline written by an 11 year old. After being shot we are re-introduced to Bruce Willis's character "in the fall"..right. And it's not until the end of the film - after all the discussions with the boy - that he realises his wife isn't speaking to him. Mmm. Bit like the 'here it comes' ending to the Village. There's no major benefit building a whole film round the last five minutes and when the audience is lied to then it's even more unforgivable. Very few films build a case for spending 2 hours setting up the punchline - Usual Suspects springs to mind - but Sixth Sense isn't one of them. A cheap trick in a pretty dress.
It is hard for me to really comment on this film without talking about its ending (I won't). For about an hour and a half, this is a spectacular movie, well-acted, with excellent script and dialogue, and moving at a good pace. I think it's something of a cross between film noir and thriller, and it has that eerie "Silence of the Lambs" feel to it (though much tamer).This movie lasts one scene too long. I heard someone remark once that some movies "are great or awful depending on the ending". The very last scene in this film is absolutely preposterous; instead of wrapping up the story neatly, with maybe a tiny plot hole, the last two or three minutes brought to mind at least 20 or 30 gaping plot holes immediately. I have a friend who told me he could guess the film's "secret" thirty minutes in. Things like that usually don't surprise me, but this was so unbelievably, outrageously stupid I had no idea. I felt like screaming at the screen and demanding my hour and a half back based on that scene alone.The only reason I don't consider this movie among the worst I've ever seen is because it is quite good for awhile. Haley Joel Osment is excellent, and the only good reason to see this movie. Other than that, I can't believe this thing was as popular as it was. The ending left me feeling so cheated, I wanted to break the screen in two.


                
I find aspects of this story well-conceived, but the film has many loose ends which could have been tied together by enhancing the screenplay and the direction.  I have a theory about the popularity of this and similar movies:  Many people want to know what happens (or what might happen) when life in the human form ends.  As a clairvoyant able to see into different dimensions of reality, I have appreciated various screen presentations of non- ordinary reality.  The essence of this story aligns with what I can see in other dimensions.  But, oh, for more masterful story telling.


                
The so-called great "twist" is very obvious early on and causes the rest of the movie to seem incredibly drawn out and long.  There is no real suspense, and other than Toni Collette, the acting is very one-dimensional.  The ending really offers no permanent conclusion.  This is definitely not one the best movies out there.


                
i heard so many great things about this movie. are they kidding? i didn't find it scary at all. the overuse of music to set the eerie mood completely gave away any frightening surprises. the kid was endearing at first, but kept the same expression throughout the film. his dialogue wasn't very believable - what kid tells his mom, "i'm ready to communicate with you now?" beyond that, the whole film was built around the surprise ending, which was pretty good; but thinking back on the story, there were too many coincidences which neatly fit together to bring about the ending.  of course, i didn't even have to think back, because the pertinent scenes were all replayed in the montage. what i thought might be a refreshing film turned out to be another piece of hollywood drivel.


                
First, let me say, hitting the spoiler alert for this movie is akin to telling you that Soylent Green is people. Secondly, I didn't read every reader comment, but virtually every comment I read raved about the surprise ending. I'm not a smart guy, I assure you. But, I didn't figure the ending out after the first five minutes. I figured it out with two pieces of information - a kid sees dead people and there is a really surprising ending. Think about it. What could that surprise ending be? Hmmm, maybe that the kid is really dreaming? Oh yeah, that would leave the audience enthralled. Maybe he only saw people who were neurotic and thought they were dying? I like that, but it's a bit too sophisticated for Bruce Willis. Could there be any other surprise ending than that Bruce Willis is dead? What made me want to see the picture was to find out how a dead guy can't figure out he's dead. Did the director do such a masterful job that you couldn't go back and catch on? To answer that question...no, it's painfully obvious that Bruce Willis is dead, right from the moment you see him being ignored by everyone around him. I guess the point is that dead people are as dumb as the audiences who go to see films about them. Even if the movie had done a little better job of hiding the fact that Willis is being totally ignored, common sense would tell you that there would have had to be some interaction as he was recovering from his gunshot wounds. And, where was he during his funeral. Okay, I'll admit, I turned the movie off after about 30 minutes. So maybe these issues were dealt with, but I'm willing to bet that even if they were, they weren't dealt with in a very convincing manner. Anyway, I think the movie stunk, or is that stinked. After all, I ain't too bright myself.
The films only real high good point, was that it reminded people that Bruce Willis can actually act, the so called twist at the end was seen coming practacally from the start. On the whole a very disapointing movie that came to close to James Herbert's novel The Survivor.


                
Hate to burst all of your bubbles, but Sixth Sense is anything but unique. This movie is a big-time rip off of Jacob's Ladder (1990).And the fact that everybody was all hyped up about the 'surprise' at the end just goes to show that Hollywood hasn't made a good suspense or horror flick in years.I had it figured out about half way in what was going on, and once I figured it out, I sat there sulking, "I've seen this before. This is a rip off."It's like the quality of whole movie hinges around the surprise, and without it the movie just becomes a mundane bore fest. But everybody was duped into thinking it was an original masterpiece and started to coo, "Oooh, aahhh, M. Night Shalalaladingdong". Look at his lastest. Can anyone say "Blair Witch Project?'


                
But the problem was with the director's choice of inspiration.M. Night Shyamalan started with what could've been a classic in my book, until i saw the whole package and realized that it was just too familiar. It was in 1999 when I saw the movie with my father and we had gotten into the film from the shocks; Haley Joel Osment is such a talented actor that he truly deserved the Academy Award for the best supporting male role. Bruce Willis did much in this drama as the psychologist trying to help Haley Joel's character, which shows a rather different approach than him killing bad guys as John McClain.My complaint had to be the infamous ending where when i saw it in theater, I recognized immediately that Shyamlan took the idea of an episode from the Nickelodeon show "Are you afraid of the Dark?" called The Tale of the Dream Girl using the same premise. Yet, the director got a nomination for original screenplay that he never mentioned his so called "Inspiration" to anybody.Haley, don't stop acting in dramatic movies; M. Night, don't based your movies on TV plots next time.


                
For those who rank this movie is "great" I have to wonder if they've ever seen a truly good mystery/supernatural movie in their lives before. The plot in this work is so uneven as to lose my attention all together. We are supposed to believe many things that simply don't make sense when you add them all up. Good mood piece-yes. Good plot-no. The acting was acceptable. The sets were good. The suspense, not bad. But a screenwriter has to do better than just "trick" you. If there's going to be a twist, or lots of twists, fine. But make sure that they make sense. So many movie makers believe that if they can merely put together a piece with lots of twists and turns so the viewer can be fouled, they have succeeded. But it takes more than that. A lot more. Where's Satyajit Ray when you need him?


                
I have enjoyed Shyamalan's other efforts, but this movie was horrible. Cow dung.  One of the biggest wastes of time I ever experienced, and that includes my environmental science class from high school.This movie was not only stupid and a waste of Bruce Willis' talent, but it was also insulting to the viewers intelligence.  There are holes in the plot large enough to move troops through which are covered up by silly lines and ghosts.  This movie is an over produced monstrosity which should be avoided at all costs. If this movie is hailed as a classic after I'm gone from this world, I'll be rolling in my grave.


                
Reading all your enthusiastic comments about this film... Knowing that it was one of the big hits of the summer in the USA and the rest of the world... Hearing that common people and movie critics (even Maltin) loved this film...After all that my expectations about "The Sixth Sense" were "knocking on heaven's door"... and it really hurts to fall from there, my friends!!"The Sixth Sense" was, at last, showed in my country this month and I virtually ran to the theater to be one of the first to watch it. I was very careful to avoid reading too much about the plot, because I had heard that there was a "great" twist, and I didn't want to ruin the surprise. I've never been so disappointed.The fatal flaws:1. The trailer was too explicit: So I think that everybody already knew the Cole's secret ("I see dead people"). Then the scene where the boy tells Willis his "secret" (after an hour of boring round and round, without important scenes, with the good doctor trying to find out the "secret"), is as cold as The Haunting's "scares". It's just uneffective and predictable, there's no surprise, actually there's no any feelings or sensations at all.2. Wwhhyy It's ssssoooo ssllooww ppaacceedd???: I would have appreciated this movie if it had been released last year because I had some problems to sleep. I would have a good time (sleeping) at the movies. There are too many unnecessary scenes and the actors seems to be speaking t-o  a  f-i-v-e  y-e-a-r-'s  o-l-d  c-h-i-l-d. Without the commercials, and X-Files episode goes by 40 minutes length. There's more substance. And "The Sixth..." is a 2 hour feature.
3. The twist: Movies like "The Crying Game", "The Usual Suspects" or "Fight Club", would have been stunning movies even if the screenwriter wouldn't have added their great twists that made them unforgettable films. Why? Well, because the rest of their stories were great. In "The Sixth Sense", if you're a middle-skilled watcher, you'll discover the "famous" twist after 10 minutes, and it will ruin your experience, because the rest of the movie does nothing else that "almost scream-it-on-your-face". The story isn't interesting, because you already know all that could be interesting.4. The scares / The end: Two scares, one for hour. Happy end. Think in a cross between "The Shining" (Great film!) and "Good Will Hunting" (not bad). Isn't it like Coke with Corn Flakes?
The Best scare:What happened you, Donnie Whalberg!!!!????I rate this one: 1. (It's a shame we can't vote 0) I feel guilty because Osment does a great effort, but the rest of you, voters, have put this film to close-of-the-top, and I think that It has to be placed in the right place (out of the top 100, at least).


                
No doubt this was a good movie, but it was a slow tug on the audience, with clever scene manipulation, and a shameless play on emotional response at the end.  The film left me feeling used.  Looking back on the character list, there were few memorable individuals.


                
