The film focuses a child psychologist named Doctor Malcolm(Bruce Willis).One night, when the doctor and his spouse(Olivia Williams)find themselves their home, they are visited by a nutty patient and the tragedy take place. More later, the Doctor sees a traumatized young boy named Cole(Haley Joel Osment), he communicates with dead people who don't know they are dead. Cole's mummy(Tony Colette)is worried about her terrified son's nightmares ,increasing problems and episodes of acting out. Because of this, Cole is named geeky in the college where appear various dead people who ask his help.The film provides creepy scenes, a well-knit drama, grisly terror when the living dead appear and suspenseful throughout.The flick contains the more famous plot twist from cinema history, because the ending leads to a breathtaking and unexpected outcome on what's happened before. For that reason , gets a highly original and imaginative script by Night Syamalan,-also director and secondary actor, as usual in his films-, and has been copied and imitated several times, such as, ¨Stir of Echoes¨(David Koepp) and ¨The others¨(Alejandro Amenabar). Acting by main actors is top notch, Bruce Willis is magnificent as restrained psychologist and Haley Joel Osment is awesome as traumatized little boy, carrying the movie on his frail shoulders; furthermore, appear future promising actors as Mischa Burton(OC) and Trevor Morgan . Mysterious and sinister cinematographic atmosphere is well made by Tak Fujimoto and eerie soundtrack by James Newton Howard, both are Shyalaman's usual collaborators. The motion picture is produced by famed Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy(Spielberg's producers) and stupendously directed by M. Night Shyamalan.


                
The Sixth Sense is set in Piladelphia where child psychologist Dr Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) & his wife Anna (Olivia Williams) are enjoying a quiet evening in when one of Malcolm's former patients Vincent Grey (Donnie Wahlberg) breaks into his house & shoots him... Jump forward to 'The Next Fall' & Malcolm has a new patient, a young troubled boy named Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) who is withdrawn, isolated & seems unhappy. As Malcolm befriends Cole & earns his trust Cole confesses a shocking secret that may well have a great impact on Malcolm himself...Written & directed by M. Night Shyamalan The Sixth Sense was a huge hit back in '99 with 6 Oscar nominations & it became only the fourth horror film to be nominated for best picture, as a film it is as good as ever. The script is somewhat slow & deliberately paced, The Sixth Sense relies on quality storytelling & strong character's for it's impact & entertainment value rather than the recent trend of Hollywood horror films that want to incorporate as many fancy expensive computer graphics as they can. The much talked about & often spoiled twist ending is highly effective especially if you are unaware of it. The character's are well developed & you actually care for them which makes the film what it is, the dialogue is good & I can't remember a single swear word in it. The Sixth Sense is a fantastic modern day ghost story that hits all the right notes & may even bring a tear to a few people's eyes. The only negative is that I don't like long films which The Sixth Sense feels like, that's not a specific problem I suppose as it's a personal preference that I just don't like long films as I lose interest very quickly & that's just the way I am so if your looking for explosions, fights & car chases every five minutes you'd best give this one a miss. When all said & done for what it is it's still a great film though.Director Shyamalan does a functional job, there's no flashy camera-work here but again this is a film which relies on good storytelling & character's that is set in the real world. Keeping things very low key works well. There's a good atmosphere & some pretty creepy scenes.With a supposed budget of $55,000,000 I don't quite know where the money went & The Sixth Sense doesn't look like it cost 55 big ones. It's flawlessly made & has great production values. The acting is fantastic & everyone puts in a heartfelt performance.The Sixth Sense is a great horror film, there's the odd scare, some great performances, an absorbing & engaging story together with a classic twist ending. Well worth a watch, definitely recommended.
M. Night Shyamalan's first film was impressive. Like his later movies its strengths were in it's dark mood and atmosphere and in its modern take on a classic story premise (ghosts). Also notable were the use of color and temperature for thematic purposes.  Haley Joel Osment delivered an excellent breakthrough performance and was nominated for an Oscar.  However, the surprise ending was actually rather predictable, mainly because of the hype surrounding the twist which gave people almost a year to think about it if they didn't see it in theatres. Unbreakable and Signs were both significant improvements over The Sixth Sense.  It was good film overall.      7/10


                
"The Sixth Sense" is a good movie but perhaps a little overrated. I believe that those who don't like it are in minority. Part of this explains its success.The unfortunate reality is that this was the only Haley Joel Osment's successful movie. He made a reasonable number of very good movies and none of them was a success: "Pay It Forward", "Edges of the Lord" and "A.I.: Artificial Intelligence".Ironically at first nobody didn't expect that "The Sixth Sense" was going to have half of this success. This means that, if it wasn't a success, then Haley Joel Osment wouldn't have had a single successful movie.Now let's talk about the movie itself. Sometimes this is classified as a terror movie, but for me this isn't really a terror film. This is a combination of supernatural, drama, tension, suspense, thriller and instrumental (but suspenseful) music, without the use of special effects. Its simplicity works out well. This motion picture is also emotional, funny at parts and only in brief moments there is some terror.Haley Joel Osment plays a difficult role for a child, but with his incredible talent he steals the show. He was the first child actor ever nominated for Best Actor. Too bad he didn't win (not only for this, but also for his other movies I mentioned).Bruce Willis is surprisingly good in this. He is usually a very limited actor, but in this he's just as good as Haley. Plus, unlike his other films, Bruce plays a likable character here.Aside some absolutely unnecessary scenes, this movie is generally good. One of the best parts is when Cole (Haley Joel Osment) finally reveals his secret to Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis). That part is breathtaking, highly emotional and intense. Cole's facial expressions say all and some of the movie's best quotes can be heard in this sequence.The idea of this movie inspired the TV series "Ghost Whisperer" which stars Jennifer Love Hewitt.


                
"I see dead people"M. Night Shyamalan's first and most successful hour of his cinematic career was The Sixth Sense. A film that accomplishes, if nothing else, pure spookiness. Take any child, and give them supernatural abilities, and you've got a damn good recipe of freaking people out. Haley Joel Osment was an exceptionally great, mature actor for his age, which is what made this role even better. He compliments well with a quiet and calculative Bruce Willis. It's a fascinating story worthy of a Twilight Zone episode. But I don't believe that this is the best film of Shyamalan's catalogue. On more than one occasion during the span of the film, I noticed some of the dreaded trips of Shyamalan films that proved to be problematic later on in his career. I know, some of you out there love this movie, but go back and look closely. They are all still there. The "twist" of this film, suffice to say has been spoiled for me years ago. But even if it wasn't, I would NEVER have not seen it coming from the very beginning. That scene with Donnie Wahlberg as the opener is way too jarring and bizarre for it not to have meant something later on.


                
At the time, people watched it twice because of the twist in the end. Although the two main actors are excellent (this is probably one of the few films in which Bruce Willis wasn´t sweaty), this is an investigation film like an other. To be watched for the general knowledge as it is now cult.


                
The movie let the tension rise slowly, leads you everywhere you don't expect, doesn't rip off and totally freaks you out


                
First of all, I watched this movie for the first time today. I was not aware of the twist and the story beforehand but after watching it I felt like it was pretty obvious. Like, nobody talked to Malcolm except Cole. His wound was always hidden and his wife kissing someone else and dating someone else when Malcolm was living in the basement. I guess maybe I noticed all this because I have read too many mystery novels or watched too many mystery movies. I liked the movie, acting and screenplay and everything. But I don't think that the twist was something unexpected.
This movie has been out for six years. Although this appears to be a story about the supernatural, it is really about our hopes that we never are completely separated from those who love, or loved us.After a traumatic evening with a man breaking into their house, our Hero's life goes into a tailspin. He cannot seem to connect with his new patient, a young boy with similar symptoms to one he could not treat. His wife is distant and uncommunicative. He often has difficulty keeping track of time. And on top of all this, the patient claims to be able to see dead people. Sure, here's an easy case to solve in a stress filled life.This often has parallels to our own lives, as those who love us come closer and farther in a gentle, undulating wave. But we are not prepared for the separation that no amount of work can undo. It is this poignancy that the movie captures so expertly. Granted, it is couched in supernatural terms, but the lessons for us mere mortals should be clear.The soundtrack is superb. James Newton Howard has made several mediocre movies quite bearable, and here he makes a good film into an excellent one. The track is truly one of the important characters in the film, and does its job by staying in the background without interference.There are some moments of startling horror. I have seen this movie many times and I still jump at places.The pacing is well done, and the characters are all developed sufficiently for you to care about them. After six years, I still recommend the Sixth Sense.


                
After Shyamalan released THE SIXTH SENSE, the world expected tons from this guy, and that's not weird. Because with the talent of making such a movie as this, you're obviously having a huge knowledge inside movie making, though the three movies he has made later have none challenged this.We get to know Dr. Malcolm Crowe that's a child psychologist. He's trying to help Cole, a little boy that hides a terrible secret from the rest of the people he knows. His unbalanced mental side makes big problems with his mother that tries helping him out, but soon it's obvious that the only person being able to help Cole, is Malcolm...The movie shocked when it arrived, not for being extra violent or using more "f-words" that usual, this is just such a original, brilliant and story based around a fabulous twist. Bruce Willis stars as Malcolm Crowe in a great way, his truly fine performance of a child psychologist who's failed once and truly can't forgive himself for that - is a character that Willis does in a great way. Haley Joel Osment delivers one of the best child performances of all time, giving such a fright and sense to it all that you just got to be stunned.THE SIXTH SENSE gives you frightening scenes picked from the best of horror, and also pure humanity scenes with dialog and getting to know the characters in a absolutely wonderful way - and Shyamalan's unique way to mix together freaky horror with human drama, is without doubt one of the thing's that makes this, and all of his movies so interesting, exciting, smart and well made. This movie is his greatest achievement, because it reaches to the drama scene better than any of his other movies - but though shall be said; M. Night Shyamalan is a wonderful director that's delivered the goods on all four / UNBREAKABLE, SIGNS and THE VILLAGE.Shyamalan also does a cameo as in the rest of his movies. THE SIXTH SENSE is terrifyingly good and filled with details that will truly excite a film lover's heart. "I See Dead People"
Really enjoy the movie i like the logic behind movie good to watch it.
I'm nearly 40 yrs old and just watched The Sixth Sense for the first time. Please read my review from this context.I have long known about the film's unforgettable ending. That is the legend of this movie. Naturally, I watched it and focused on the character interactions with Bruce Willis' character to see if I could find holes in the behaviors or scenes.The anniversary dinner scene: I watched closely to see if his wife did anything that would be unnatural. Most of this scene checks out but there was a moment she looked up and straight across the table as if acknowledging Bruce was talking. She quickly looked back down. Nitpicking but hey, it's a review.The scene in the boy's house: this is kind of a giveaway that Bruce is a ghost. How in the world would the mother not introduce a first time guest to her son?Another thought I had is this: in what world does a child psychiatrist meet a boy that needs help but the two never meet in his office? Bruce is just waking around and meeting him from place to place?The acting in the film is average. Bruce Willis did fine but nothing spectacular. He was born to be John McClane in Die Hard, not so much Malcom in Sixth Sense. Haley Joel got a lot of praise at the time of the movie release as I recall. I'm sure he deserved it, but I have a hard time getting past his squeaky voice. It's an ear frequency thing.I enjoyed the film despite knowing its memorable ending beforehand. It started with appreciating the connection he and his wife had in the beginning. Then, Donnie Wahlburg gave a TREMENDOUS performance in his brief cameo. I was hooked from the start. While the movie may have slowed down a bit while we were introduced to characters and the relationship between Bruce and Haley developed, it picked up again as we were exposed to Haley's sixth sense. I though the tension in the ghost scenes were done very well, and like other reviewers have said, without the need to be gory or bloody.When we finally get to the plot twist at the end I was satisfied. I think I just appreciate a situation where a loving husband (ghost husband) looks over his sleeping wife and tells her to move on. It's okay. I thought it was a nice touch to a very good movie.
THE SIXTH SENSE - 1999Directed by M Night ShyamalanStarring Bruce Willis & Haley Joel OsmentPlot Overview: Young Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) is haunted by a dark secret: he is visited by ghosts. Cole is frightened by visitations from those with unresolved problems who appear from the shadows. He is too afraid to tell anyone about his anguish, except child psychologist Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis). As Dr. Crowe tries to uncover the truth about Cole's supernatural abilities, the consequences for client and therapist are a jolt that awakens them both to something unfathomable.Let me start of with saying this is definitely a 'good' movie. I imagine it'd be great if only it was not spoiled for me before watching. That is not the film's fault so I can't exactly criticise it for that but I can't rate it higher than my initial reaction to the final product. I am sure I'd like the movie more without the spoiler but, as it stands, it was spoiled for me and I can't give it a 8, 9 or 10 based on a hunch on what my reaction would have been.Due to that, I will provide critique on other aspects about the film. The story for example. The actual story for the movie is pretty weak, in my opinion. Obviously, it builds to the end and I will say I love the idea of the ending. It all builds to a conclusion and I admire that. I love the hints throughout but I just can't say I was impressed by the STORY whilst knowing the end. Again, not the film's fault but I can't rate it higher based on what I think I would have thought under different circumstances. Now for things that I actually like about the film. Bruce Willis is excellent as Dr Malcolm Crowe and I love the way his character adapts over the course of the movie. Haley Joel Osment gives the most creepy, odd, perfect performance in this film. He was truly exceptional in this role and stole the show for me. Without speaking for extended periods of time, he conveys so much fear, and anxiety, and worry, and sadness with just his face, and that is impressive for an ACTOR to do, never mind just a child. Toni Collete was pretty convincing as Cole's mum.Both the cinematography and editing were really really good in this movie. Shyamalan relies on building atmosphere and anxiety instead of blatantly using jump scares to incite fear in to the viewer. Why didn't this style of horror carry over from 1999 instead of the style of 'The Blair Witch Project'? This style was so much better and relied on actual SKILLFUL FILM MAKING, not cheap scares and horrific camera work.As a whole, The Sixth Sense is a very enjoyable movie and I will probably purchase it on Blu Ray. I am confident that if I did not have the film spoiled, I would have liked it so much more than I did. It is for that reason that I can't rate this film any higher and why I will rate this film 7 'DEAD PEOPLE' out of 10. I recommend you see this film regardless if it has been spoiled or not. I imagine you'll at least enjoy it.


                
Decided to revisit this classic. It was a brand new take on one of the more fundamental themes of the "scary movie" family of genres, life after death. M. Night Shyamalan adopted the always reliable Twilight Zone Gothic approach, but set up an all-time reverse twist finale that would have made Rod Serling stand up and applaud.This could be Bruce Willis's most understated and yet finest performances of his career. No laughing and destroying stuff; instead he approaches his role thoughtfully. It was a new side to him, and he carried himself well. He's a child psychiatrist, with a new patient, Haley Joe Osment, that is filled with angst and makes the claim that dead people are drawn to him like a magnet and talk to him. Osment's performance is emotional and oddly believable. His classic declaration about dead people "don't know they're dead!" is one of the best delivered ever.Ghost visitations are utilized perfectly and just often enough so that every one of them is executed with a dramatic impact and superior fright factor. Low lighting is used almost all the time for a dark, oppressive mood, which fits most of the time. Now the weaknesses. In retrospect, there are some serious lapses in logic through the course of the story. How could the "twist" have been concealed from the protagonist so long, without some character or action revealing the truth to him? The scenes that are meant to address this fail to explain it. There are some very awkwardly slow scenes in the story, and others that just aren't useful. These scenes are constructed to set up the shock value of the final reveal, but most of them are just plain dull.But overall, this is a fine work, complete with fine performances and an original concept that make for a good, scary ghost story.


                
I found this film a little bit slow. I was surprised to see it so highly graded. And I was surprised to see that it was so popular at the time.Plot is interesting, especially twist in the end. Hovewer, I saw so many similar plot thrillers that this one somehow looks pale. Hovewer, it did pass almost 15 years since the time of filming of this film, film industry did change extraordinary over these years.Acting is excellent, by all the actors, especially by the little kid.I would not rate this film so high on the ladder of IDBM films 250. I do not think it deserves to be so high.


                
The reason why I wanted to see this film is because of Bruce Willis. I'm a huge Willis fan! However, if your not that into Bruce then don't turn away that quick. This movie is perfection! If you like drama, mystery and suspense then this film is for you. I won't spoil what it's about but I will say I've never seen anything like it. The chemistry between Haley Joel Osment and Bruce Willis is incredible! They need to be in another movie together. The fact that such a young kid can be such a powerful actor is amazing. You should never doubt the youth because you never know what they can do. So check this movie out if you haven't already because it's huge. I've never met anyone who has disliked this film. It's up there with "Titanic" and "Psycho".


                
Of all the M. Night Shamalyan films that have been made (out of which I've seen five or six) this film (The Sixth Sense) is the only one I liked. Probably because it is the only one with a reasonably consistent plot that has a nice logical (but quirky) ending. All the others are full of loose ends that never come together, are illogical or have endings that are not explained or so contrived that I can only call them 'cop outs'. An example is 'Signs' which ends with a very small alien invasion by creatures intelligent enough to travel from the stars but who cannot figure out how to break into a rickety old barn who get so frustrated that they simply disappear. I suppose they get back into their starship and go home. As to who these alien gents are, where they came from or what they want is never explained and is really unrelated to anything else in the film. Shamalyan's work is very sloppy. What should be clever plot twists or fascinating endings turn out to be foolish tries, very falsely contrived or just too impossible to suspend disbelief. He must think we are all idiots. Guess who I think is the real idiot?


                
The Sixth Sense (1999, Dir. M. Night Shyamalan) Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Willis) is a child psychologist who is haunted by an incident which happened with a disturbed patient. When he meets up with young Cole Sear (Osment), a confused child with a similar condition, Dr. Crowe sees this not only as an opportunity to help Cole, but to also to redeem himself, he just isn't prepared to what truly haunts Cole.M. Night Shyamalan has managed to combine not only a well written script but also wonderful characters from Willis, Collette and Osment. Created is an enjoyable thriller which relies on suspense more than anything. The end result is one of Shyamalan's best movies.If you could change something in your life, anything at all, what would it be? - Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis)


                
One of the most famous movie lines in history - 'I see dead people', comes from this movie. I had always knew why when I first saw this like four years ago back at school (it was after our exams), I will get freaked out at times.Because, I am the sort who does at times believe that ghosts, may be lurking around us but we just don't know it. Call me superstitious, but then I had never did anything serious to believe that. It's just, me.Child psychologist Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) realises that his young charge Cole (Haley Joel Osment) actually has the ability to see dead people. Thus that famous line in the movie.About every corner and turn, it's just suspenseful, and scary. It may actually really scare those who are not really into movies like this, but it's worth a watch. Just don't give yourself too much stress.


                
I have read a lot of good comments for this movie but I must admit that it was not my kind of 'horror' movie. Whilst other people seem to have gained a lot of insight into the underlying themes of this film, such as it's emotional intensity and unexpected twists, I was watching the film in the hope of being scared by it! As it turned out I was bitterly disappointed. I used to consider myself a complete woos where horror movies were concerned, but having made an effort to watch more of them recently I now find them throughly entertaining, although as yet non of them have really 'scared' me, as it were and 'Sixth Sense' was the worst of them all! That's not to say I didn't enjoy this movie to an extent. I enjoyed it for it's originality, handling of emotional issues and occasional shocks... the ending was totally unexpected. However when it came to the 'scare factor' this movie is totally lacking. My friends found it hilarious when I asked them what they thought about it one day and concluded in my opinion that this film should be a PG not a 15!!!! I understand that there are a couple of what could be described as mildly graphic moments in this movie... but seriously I have seen PG's more gory than this and U's that are a lot scarier... I mean what the heck is going on in 'Alice In Wonderland'? In conclusion this is not a movie I would recommend to any hard core 'horror' fan. If it didn't scare me when I first saw it then it wouldn't even scare a 3 month old (I used to be a total woos!!!!) I'm now looking forward to getting to grips with real horror movies such as 'The Shining', and won't be watching 'Sixth Sense' again anytime soon... I hope!!!!!
I usually dont like to watch movies about dead people, but i really give a thumbs up to the director and the actors for selling us an awesome flick. the disturbed boy that is played by haley joel osment, deserved a oscar for that performance.  What kind of a kid could go into the mind of a distressed little kid and really go to convince that he truly is afraid? his senses and language usage was incredible to witness. he couldnt have done it alone. bruce willis would have intimidated me, but they share a bond that isnt broken once. if you saw the film, you understand why all this happens for a reason. you never really saw the twist that comes to it, but man it is so worth it! oh and if you saw this in the theater, extra credit points awarded to you... and is it just me, or (**SPOILER**) in the theater, did the air go on as you saw the dead people??  (A- B+)
PLOT SPOILERM. Night Shyamalan makes a brilliant directorial debut in this chiller-drama focusing on the Sixth Sense of the title. Not only does it bring about the required scares, but also it equally backs this up with some brilliant acting from all concerned. The film has that haunting, suspenseful atmosphere, as you really don't know what will happen next. But the one problem that has occurred in Shyamalan's film so far is the limited re-watchable factor. While at first it appears to be unpredictable and suspenseful, second time round you will notice the long gap between scares and the film loses it's intended atmosphere.
But the quality of the acting will never wear thin. Bruce Willis defies his critics and proves that he can act, giving a humane performance as Dr. Malcolm Crowe. Though lacking in experience, Haley Joel Osment is brilliant as the disturbed, depressed kid, and deserved the Oscar which he didn't win. Olivia Williams and Toni Colette make good support in their respective roles. `The Sixth Sense' is most famous for its HUGE twist in the end. In some ways it was good and a smart way to conclude the film, but then again it doesn't make logical sense and is unintentionally funny. I mean, Bruce Willis' character was dead for nearly a year and he hadn't noticed. What a dunce!
But in retrospect, `The Sixth Sense' is a haunting, subtle and brilliant piece of work that will live long in the memory. 7.9/10.
I nearly did not watch this one as I see no future in Bruce Willis categorized as one of those he-men in so-called action films: Seagal, Schwarzenegger, van Damme, Lundgren, Willis and the ilk are patently for underdeveloped fourteen-year-olds. Fortunately several things caught my eye on IMDb and <U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>It has been years since I last saw a film which might vaguely be categorized horror thriller which so held my attention, indeed so many years that I cannot even recall its title. Evidently Bruce Willis did not do this film for the pay-cheque, as he put all his heart and soul into it, such that he was not just simply bearable but very acceptable indeed. I hope he will do a few more like this film and leave the bravura stuff to the chimpanzees cavorting about the place with nothing to show or tell apart from biceps and fly-sized brains. Good work here, which obviously made or broke the film.But it is Haley Joel Osment who towers over him: an extraordinary performance from this eleven-year-old (when making the film). He has certainly come a long way since his minor rôle in `Forrest Gump', and judging by his performance in `The Sixth Sense' he has a long way yet still to go.  I would have like to see more of Mischa Barton in this film, but the story would not have handled two big parts from tender-aged actors. After her astounding rôle in `Lawn Dogs' (1997) (qv) together with an incredible Sam Rockwell, I had expected - hoped for - something greater than her brief appearances here. However, this is only a small gripe, taking what the picture is worth as a whole.During this film I uttered to my wife: but this is Oscar stuff. So I hopped up to see IMDb, and discovered that indeed the young Osment got a nomination for his rôle in this film. I am not at all surprised. Full marks, then, to Mr. Manoj Night Shyamalan for so wonderfully piecing together the parts and getting some really absorbing scenes during his story. One scene has the young boy lying in bed and Bruce Willis at his side: I assure you sparks, flew between the two actors <U+0096> not just simply `good chemistry'.Of films of this genre it is definitely one of the very very few I would like to see again.


                
1st watched 3/2/2003 - 7 out of 10(Dir-M. Night Shyamalan): Good psychological thriller with a surprise ending.  This is a well-told story about a boy  who `sees dead people', and is counseled by the Bruce Willis's character in an attempt to do better than he had done before with a similar child.  The best things about this movie are the pacing and the way the director moves us through the story and the performance by Haley Joel Osment as the boy.  Willis does his usual good  job, but Haley is superb. I won't give away the ending because I shouldn't, but in a way I'm kind of tired of surprise ending that throw the whole story out of sync and this is really my only real gripe about the movie.  Other than this, it is a very well done first effort for writer/director Shyamalan, which of course, brought about more to come for him.


                
i went to this movie expecting a really good and scary masterpiece film. But, i was pretty disappointing. There were some creepy scenes in it, but of it was really boring. It was just too much ofthe same things. A ghost passes by, he says something un-scary, he walks away, the boy gets scared and tells about it to Bruce Willis. A few minutes later, the plot has completely forgotten about that particular event. It pretends that we are scared by every stupid ghost with blood coming out of his head, while we weren't. Throughout the film i thought about that surprising ending everyone had talked about, but when the end finally came, i wasn't "surprised"at all, i knew this was gonna happen from the beginning! Therefore, i can't understand how come this movie is getting so much praise. It is truly overrated. If you're planning on seeing it, let me give you some advice: don't expect it to be as good as everyone said. Maybe you'll enjoy it more, because i thought it would be fantastic and i was very disappointed.


                
