The Sixth Sense enjoys being playful with our imagination. What your eyes see is not exactly what it is. What your mind paints is not exactly what there is. In the world of The Sixth Sense logic is your worst enemy.There are obvious (and sometimes less obvious) hints right in front of you but you don't grasp them because of your preconceptions and premises. I once read a novel called 'Somewhere carnal over 40 winks' which used similar techniques found in this movie, but in writing. I'm sure you will enjoy this book as much as I did, if you like to be intellectually surprised.If you haven't seen this movie, don't read reviews and don't talk to your friends who have already seen it. The movie is very much susceptible to spoilers. It is suffice to say that the ending is just shockingly delightful.I don't consider this movie heavily philosophical or thought-provoking. Having said that, it is one of the movies I love to watch again and again.
"I see Dead People!"  Sixth Sense is well worth the ticket price.  It's a tight story and the acting is outstanding.  There are a couple of good scares, rendered more effective because I dropped my guard.  My sixth sense says such was the Writer/Director's express intention. :-)It's a ghost story yet doesn't rely on special effects and computerization to chill your bones as the Haunting tried to do.  The scares come from the sliver of possibility "what is happening may be true."  Well that, and the dropping your guard thing.Everyone in the cast is outstanding.  Bruce Willis is at his best since Die Hard and The Last Boy Scout.   His patient is 33 years junior to him ( played by Haley Joel Osment) is outstanding.  Truly.  I was mesmerized by his ability to get into this "sixth sense" possessed character.  Malcolm and Cole helping each other resolve their problems occurs with good chemistry, and is believable, despite the heights you have to take your mind to believe the story's premise. I am sooo tempted to give clues on when to grip the one you're with or arms rests a little more tightly; but alas, cannot in good conscience (or for fear of hate mail!)  And out of respect for M. Night Shyamalan for a very good script and story thesis.Summing: if you're "only" looking for the Chill Factor, take in Blair Witch over this one for those final 10 minutes.  The reality factor is stronger, both despite and because of the low budget factors.  But if you want to see one of the best Hollywood manufactured horror films in a long time, give Sixth Sense a chance.  I enjoyed it.


                
First of all, I've read a few comments about the pace of this movie being too slow.  I sort of agree with that, but I think it's refreshing to have a movie which takes its time and builds things with subtlety(although here, as I said before, I think it took a little TOO much time).  And I think it was realistic at how long it took for the boy to learn to trust the doctor and for how long it took the doctor to discover what was really going on.Having said all that, in addition to the pace, there were some times when I felt a little queasy, like I wasn't sure what exactly the movie was trying to say.  At other times, I was caught up in it, especially in the performances of Willis and Osment.  Then came the famous twist ending, and I will tell you that I was quite surprised, and it's making me turn the movie over and over again in my mind. I probably will have to see this again. Overall, while I don't think it's the best of the year, it is a good film.


                
I don't really want to talk a lot about this movie because I could spoil the effect. Instead, I'll talk about this filmmaker's first movie. THE SIXTH SENSE, also by M. Night Shyamalan. I first saw it in December 1999, on a 20-hour flight from Chicago to Hong Kong. My only flight out of the USA. The film really pulled me in, which I suspect is particularly difficult on an airplane. Then, the ending. Based on the article you just read, we can say that some viewers weren't surprised. Me, I was blown the heck away and wanted to see it again. Years later I finally did. I taught movie classes, this is a film I chose, and I saw it about a dozen times, fully aware of the ending. It had a bit more going for it than that. My only complaint is with people who think Bruce Willis was the star. The star is Haley Joel Osment! I may have missed out on "the surprise ending" because I was watching the kid instead of the shrink. Bruce Willis could probably star in a few more movies after he died and we'd never notice. But I digress. THE VILLAGE is about a pilgrim-style village. Some place quaint, rural, close knit and low tech. Nobody from the village goes into the surrounding woods lest they encounter Those We Do Not Speak Of. The acting was flawless and the scenery most certainly created a mood. Shyamalan is a masterful writer, director and producer. But I had trouble caring about what happened to his characters. That could've been my fault. Saturday morning at 8, Jan was working, and my goal for the day was to pack for our impending move but I was too drained to begin. The neighbor had loaned us this DVD back in February, so I figured watching it and returning it to him was a good start. (The same bad attitude that I brought to THE SIXTH SENSE, right? One of these days I'm going to watch a Shyamalan movie in the right frame of mind.) "The ending." How would you like to be a filmmaker judged solely on "the ending?" In the case of THE VILLAGE, it worked for me. I thought about this film for days after seeing it. Actually, I was trying to decide what to write in this review. How about this? "Shyamalan is a filmmaker of bold originality surviving in a commercialized medium." That's a good thing, no matter what your opinion of each individual film is. I believe some critics are panning him, but I'm not panning this one. I'm glad I saw it. I've missed a few films between THE SIXTH SENSE and THE VILLAGE, and there will be more after THE VILLAGE. I'll watch them all.


                
We all know the ending by now, so I won't pretend no one knows how it ends. A suspenseful return back into the world of ghost stories carries The Sixth Sense, the first major film success by M. Night Shyamalan. The film revolves around a child, Cole Sear, who is socially awkward mainly because he can see ghosts and struggles with that each day, played by Haley Joel Osment in an Oscar Award nominated role. Bruce Willis plays Malcome Crowe, a child case worker who invests all of his time into Cole. As he investigates what is happening, he finds that he has come across a case similar to Cole's in the past, but is no nearer to figuring out how to help him. The human drama of a case worker trying to figure out what is wrong with his patient keeps the movie going, allowing Shyamalan to drop the clues throughout the movie about the ending. I have to admit I was blown away by the ending, but looking back, I should have known better, and many audiences were able to figure it all out. Some say that if you look at the movie logically, it does not hold water, but that is not the point. The movie is not about logic, but rather the experience as a viewer, watching what the director gives us, as we only see what he wants us to see. The Sixth Sense also boasts a strong soundtrack and looks good, setting a mood that gets the audience in the right frame of mind to be spooked, though it's not a horror movie. Suspenseful, smart, and well directed, The Sixth Sense is an achievement not to be underestimated.
Here comes Bruce Willis again in the skin of a rescuer! But unlike "the fifth element" and "armageddon", he mustn't save the whole wide world. Neither, must he save a group of persons from a terrorist threat as it was the case with "die hard. No, he simply must save a little boy called Cole, haunted by morbid visions and Willis, a reputable psychologist tries hard to heal him... With "fight club" and "the blair witch project", "the sixth sense" ranks among the best movies made in 1999. It also ranks among the movies that you must watch several times before really appreciating it. If you're watching this movie for the first time, you might be disappointed because there are numerous details that can escape your attention and however, they are important for the development of the story. The same thing can also be said for a few scenes, especially the one when Willis is in a restaurant with his wife facing him... Because the main strength of the movie is its screenplay. Rarely, a movie has been so well served by a watertight screenplay. It's disconcerting, disturbing and however perfectly coherent. For a long part, the movie is a beautiful "trompe l'oeil". On another hand, it's a pleasure to see Bruce Willis get out of his usual roles where he mostly plays the he-man. In "the sixth sense", it's obvious that he's between the hands of a conscientious and well-organized director. But he isn't the main center of the movie. This place goes to Haley Joel Osment. His performance in the role of a tormented and neurotic boy is extraordinary. Besides, he can be considered as a faraway cousin of Danny, the little boy in Kubrick's "shining" because they've got a common point: an odd power supernatural and all in all, the dead people who haunt Cole aren't so terrible as they look like: they're simply asking him for help... At the end, a fascinating movie held up by two great actors.


                
This might be the spoiler to beat all spoilers- Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), one of the two main characters in 'The Sixth Sense,' is actually dead through most of the movie and the audience doesn't know it. Thanks to an extremely clever and manipulative plot and a spectacularly successful twist ending, most people ended up going back to see 'The Sixth Sense' a second time, just to pick up all the 'clues' they missed the first time, and which are indeed there for anyone to see. The thing is, hardly anyone does. The movie was M. Night Shyamalan's breakthrough success, grossing over $600 million worldwide (all those second and third viewings helped big-time) and one wonders if it wasn't at least partially a fluke. With the exception of 'Signs,' none of his other films has been a success, either critically or at the box office. The approach that worked so well in 'Sixth Sense' does not appear to be readily transferable to other material. But 'Sixth Sense' is a certifiable masterpiece of horror and suspense. It benefits greatly from young Haley Joel Osment's totally believable performance as Cole Sear, the nine-year-old boy who "sees dead people." The state of anxiety and fear he lives in is transmitted to the audience beyond the point of feeling sympathy for him; we actually come to feel the emotions he feels. No one except Cole can see the dead, but Shyamalan does not resort to trickery or suggestion in this regard: the deceased are right out in the open for the audience to see. One might think this would be the film's fatal flaw. It is certainly audacious. At one point in 'Sixth Sense,' when Dr. Crowe asks Cole if there are any dead persons present, the boy says there are, and sure enough, in the background are three gruesomely made-up figures hanging from the rafters. Similarly, later on, when a cyclist is killed in an accident and Cole and his mother are stuck in traffic as a result, the dead cyclist is shown standing right outside their car, peering in the passenger window. Cole's expression seems to be one of "here we go again," and is almost grimly humorous. But it all works and somehow proves to be very frightening. This straightforward approach to things that are usually only hinted at or seen in fleeting glimpses (one might contrast this with the first 'Alien' film, where the creature is never fully seen till the very end) turns out to be quite refreshing and most effective. Bruce Willis underplays his character, which is essential for the ending to work. Throughout the film, we are led to believe that his marriage is at the end of its rope, and that his wife's refusal to speak to him or even acknowledge him is simply a manifestation of that fact. All of this is masterfully played out and when at the climax, we learn his wife has never answered him because he hasn't been there, it comes as a complete shock. If AFI ever does a list of '100 Greatest Surprise Endings,' 'The Sixth Sense' will surely top the list.
The plot twist in this movie doesn't really come as a surprise nowadays. Who doesn't know it? It's kind of like Darth Vader being Luke Skywalker's father; an obvious known fact to everyone even those who haven't seen it. Was the plot twist spoiled and somewhat disappointing knowing it beforehand? Yes of course. But did it spoil the entire movie? No.The story was very unique with brilliant writing and an amazing performance by the child actor Haley Joel Osment. It was truly remarkable to see the skill and depth of talent from a 10 year old. The relationship between him and Bruce Willis's character just worked perfectly. The film was haunting and sentimentally touching, though it would have been better if it was mysterious too (because I already knew what was going to happen). Overall a combination of great acting with a captivating story.


                
There are over 2000 IMDb reviews for "The Sixth Sense" so I don't think I can add anything that hasn't already been said. But in case someone has already spoiled the ending for you (like some dumbbutt did for me and the entire office back in 1999, causing me to avoid this movie for 15 years), never fear... it's still VERY MUCH worth watching.The cool twist is, of course, the main punch of this film. But it's the kind of film you have to watch twice. Once for the story and once for the poetry. So to all my fellow film lovers who happen to have friends & coworkers with big mouths, this film is still a real treat on a poetic & artistic level.M. Night Shyamalan is one of the few directors who deserves the hype and popularity he gets, at least for this film (I haven't seen any of his others but soon will). Everything is meticulously planned, every camera movement, every shadow, every color and every editing cut, almost to the point of obsessive mania. In the DVD extras he and his crew explain why they did everything the way they did; for example they do a lot of long takes because their philosophy was that rapid cuts tend to disrupt the viewer's thought process. So instead of showing a dialogue between two people in a volley of closeup cuts, the scene is done with 1 camera filming them from the side, slowly, almost hypnotically moving between both of them as it gets closer over the course of perhaps 2 minutes.I could go on for ages about such scenes, but you probably get the point. If you enjoy the classic directors known for their careful & deliberate approach to filmmaking, directors like Orson Welles ("Citizen Kane"), Otto Preminger ("The Man with the Golden Arm"), Kurosawa ("Seven Samurai") or even the younger crop of great directors like Steven Soderbergh ("Traffic") and Alfonso Cuarón ("Children of Men"), you definitely have to check out this movie and other works of Shyamalan.


                
The Sixth sense has been hailed by some as one of the greatest horror stories ever put on film. But I must disagree. I won't deny that I enjoyed the film, but to compare it to Rosemary's baby, Psycho, or The Omen... well, it just can't be done.The Sixth sense revolves around a psychiatrist(Bruce Willis) who is asked to investigate a disturbed child named Cole(Haley Joel Osment). Cole has been having some odd behavior, and the reason why is that he is haunted by ghosts.The Sixth sense, if you've never seen it, has a brilliant twist. Unfortunately, most people have probably blown it for those who haven't seen it. But at the time the twist was brilliant. Also, I loved the ending, and the overall message. And the film has got some chilling moments, and very good performances. Osment obviously steals the show, but Willis is strong too.But you can't sit there and tell me that this film was Oscar worthy. There were plenty of films in 1999 that deserved it more than this. Magnolia, Being John Malkovich, Election, all great films. You could probably sit M. Night Shamylan down in a room and watch Magnolia and he would probably say it was a ton better. And thats because it was.The Sixth sense is a good film, but its another Oscar nominee that just doesn't deserve it. Osment deserved a nomination, and Toni Collette, who was snubbed, would have deserved one too. But the rest is unnecessary. Good, but overrated.B+
The Sixth Sense is an effective thriller with a good twist ending from director M Night Shyamalan whose admirable in making this movie which was his first back in 1999. His other films that followed haven't even been on par with this one but thats okay. The cast are good in their roles including Bruce Willis, Toni Collette, Olivia Williams, and especially Haley Joel Osment as the boy who can see dead people. The rest of the cast are okay in their limited screen time. Its best to see this without knowing too much about the film because that will ruin some of the surprises including a revelation about one of the main characters. This film does have a little suspense and creepy moments but there could have been more of them. This film felt a bit like a drama with thriller and supernatural elements which wasn't a bad thing. The music by James Newton Howard seems to sync very well with the tone of the film and what was happening on the screen. The creepy moments usually involving a dead person being seen are well executed and paced. This is a movie you'll want to see twice so you can pick up on things you didn't notice before the first time around. The pacing was a little slow at times but the rest of the movie made up for its few flaws. Overall The Sixth Sense is a solid thriller with some suspense, creepy moments, drama, a little humor, and exceptional performances by the cast who make this movie worth the time to watch.


                
This movie was extremely well done. Bruce Willis turned out to be surprisingly good in this movie even though he is well known for his action movies more than these sort of movies. The ending if you have not already found out from someone is shocking and unforgettable. The movie is also terrifying so i do not recommend this movie for the faint hearted! Haley Joel Osmont was simply excellent in this movie. It is a shame that puberty really was not good on him but his performance was impressive and convincing as the boy with 'the sixth sense.' For those wondering what the sixth sense is, well it is the ability to see dead people! Toni Collette was also very convincing as the mother who is left confused and suspicious of her son and his secret. All the other support cast are very good as well. (Look out for Mischa Barton from the O.C.) Definitely a must see. And for those who have seen this see my review for 'The Others' another top notch thriller!
It just wasn't believable I watched this movie last night for the second time, and all the time I was thinking how does this guy not know he is dead? He spent a year thinking he was alive but dead. Not believable at all and I just couldn't take it seriously.I know a lot of movies don't make since like freddy krouger etc, but I just felt different about this movie. I mean I don't even believe in ghosts in the first place but I'm not complaining about that. I think they could have possible not started out a year later, that way it wouldn't seem like such and obvious plot hole.Still a good movie though
The Sixth Sense was deservedly a surprising Hollywood sensation. It is of course remembered for its amazing and shocking ending. I can tell you though, there is much more to this film than just the ending.People who say The Sixth Sense is rubbish because the ending is obvious and they figured it out are just being stupid and they don't know what they are talking about. I have watched films before knowing the ending, and have still enjoyed them as much as anyone. The ending is there for you to see throughout the film, but it is still hard to figure out - a bit like the twist in Fight Club. Even without the great ending though, this film would still be excellent. Bruce Willis has proved once again that he has many more strings to his bow than just action hero John McClane that made him famous, as he puts in a wonderful performance as a doctor haunted by his past. The script and direction by M. Night Shyamalan is also very good. Despite these two great performances though, the stand out has to be Haley Joel Osment as the disturbed young boy. He is really freaky, and he really captures how scared his character would probably be in real life.The huge twist ending does divert attention from the rest of the film, but the rest of the film should not be forgotten. If you haven't watched this yet, you will not just be sat there waiting for the ending, the whole storyline is a compelling and disturbing drama. It is a film to watch more than once, as the ending does fit in perfectly with the storyline before it. The ending of Unbreakable is about as shocking, but I don't think Shyamalan will ever make another film as good as this.


                
This is an incredibly powerful film. Awash with emotion but never stooping to sentimentality this is the story of one frightened little boy you will never forget. All your worst childhood nightmares: the noises in the attic, the intruder in your house, that cold breath that makes your hair stand on end are here and then some.Bruce Willis gives one of the best performances of his career as the child psychologist trying to get himself back on track after a violent encounter with a former patient and it would be a crime if Haley Joel Osment were overlooked at coming awards ceremonies for his powerful performance here. It has been a long time since a child actor displayed such maturity in a role. Cole's innocent little face hidden behind his absent father's large-framed spectacles betrays a child coming to terms with a terrifying secret in the only way he can.You don't need to go and see this film again to realize why the end is such a surprise but you will rush out to watch it again purely because it's an almost perfect example of it's genre.It is a near perfect 8 out of 10.


                
The story takes place in modern day America where a child psychologist Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is looking for redemption for a former patient's suicide. He finds a young Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) and along comes a bonding relationship; a man torn and broken and a collapsing marriage, and a boy terrified to wake up in the morning and classed as a freak by his peers. Directed and written by M. Night Shyamalan, it's clear that everyone on the set has worked extremely hard to make this movie what it is. But to have written such an elaborate and well thought out story is quite remarkable also.Haley Joel Osment delivers an astonishing performance for such a young actor, it's clear that he has a bright future ahead of him. It also refreshing to see Bruce Willis take a different role not the whole stereotypical Hollywood action film hero. He actually keeps his shirt on and he's not wielding some kind of firearm nor does he have a woman leaning on his chest saying how much she loves him. In this film he's really shown that he can do so much more than take out a gang of mobsters and be the hero of the day, in this story the hero takes a completely different role.It's very difficult to talk about the film without saying anything to spoil it but as Malcolm and Cole finally start to connect, Cole wants to tell Malcolm a secret and he says, "I can see dead people." Probably one of the most chilling and memorable lines in movie history it also had a big effect on me to see now what the child was going through. All these years of suffering and torment, and now he's finally being able to talk to someone about it.Toni Collette also delivers a fantastic performance as a regular 'super' mum; her husband has passed away and she is now working two jobs, constantly trying to protect her child. In one particularly well acted piece of drama Cole is unwell and faints; she takes him to the hospital and is accused of hurting her child as markings were found on his back. As she looks away towards Malcolm in disgust a tear falls from her eyes, But the unexplained issue is what gave Cole the scratches, a group of children could not have given him that. Nor can his mother understand why was he screaming, it just constantly builds up to the film's climatic and dramatic ending.Another well-acted minor role was Vincent Gray (Donnie Wahlberg). He was only on screen for about three or four minutes but you could see all the emotion and drama that was put into that short while on screen. But the minute he appeared there was a lot of eeriness and feelings of despair, and he was a completely unpredictable character.As the plot gets deeper the actors immerse themselves in the characters and really start to show their emotions, this is cleverly portrayed by several tear-jerking moments. Credit to Willis and Osment; they really make it the great film it is but my greatest amount of praise would have to be awarded to Shyamalan as for coming up and directing such a spectacular film nearly flawless in every aspect. I think it's clear that The Sixth Sense is one of the genre defining movies of the 20th century. 8/10. A genre defining thriller, really one of the must see movies, all I can do is praise this film, its blockbuster genius.
I thought I got a bum steer for the 1st 20 minutes or so, then the pace picked up bit by bit until the ending at which time my hair curled and I was left gasping. I'm so glad that I'm not a genius like some folks who are so gifted with super intellect that they figured the story out half way through. Being so smart must ruin a lot of movies for these hyper brainy beings. All you dummies, like me, must watch this highly unusual picture and be amazed....but view it closely.


                
The first 20 minutes are slow and it took me so long to understand the story, but in the end I mean THAT TWIST in the end give <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00AF> face. Genius! I don't see that coming. So it all make sense. Overall good horror film. Not so horror but recommended.


                
One of best climax in the history of world cinema.


                
The film The Sixth Sense (Shyamalan, 1999) is a story of Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment), a young boy with a supernatural ability to see the dead. This ability, or sense, has been haunting him since birth causing him social insecurities to communicate with those around him for fear of being an outcast. Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) is a psychologist trying to understand Cole situation and help him. The Sixth Sense (Shyamalan, 1999) confronts social problems of those who are deemed different from what society considers 'normal', encountering the fear of the unknown and truths of human nature set aside individual desires to help those in need.
 Multiple times in the film The Sixth Sense (Shyamalan, 1999) Cole is referred as a freak by the kids in his school. He is a child that keeps to himself and avoids talking with others about his experiences. He lives in a constant state of fear which can be identified through his body language. In the past Cole has tried to express what he is dealing but people become quick to judge him negatively. In one scene Cole tells Dr. Crowe about a picture he drew in school of a man killed by a screwdriver to the neck. The school had a meeting with his mother who cried over the event. Cole states "I don't draw like that anymore...I draw people smiling, dogs running and rainbows" (Shyamalan, 1999). This scene provides an example of how individuals on the surface present that everything is fine because that is what others want when in reality they may be struggling on the inside. 
 Dr. Crowe in The Sixth Sense (Shyamalan, 1999) struggles with the decision to continue to help Cole because of the amount of time needed to help him. While Dr. Crowe feels obligated to aid Cole, it is interfering with the time he could be spending with his wife. Dr. Crowe loves his wife but he also knows Cole needs him. This scene helps to understand the conflict some face when deciding what is more important, helping others or focusing on one's own needs
 This film uses two techniques that relate to the theme of fear and the unknown. One technique is motif of a room getting cold. When the presence of the dead are in the room the individual fells a sudden coldness and cold air can be seen from their breath. Another technique involve dark rooms, or the lack of sufficient lighting, where it is hard to make out what is truly there. Unable to clearly see our surrounding allows fear to sit in and imaginations to run wild. These techniques are used for the audience to experience the same sensations as the characters in the film. 
 A similar suspense film Shutter Island (2010) also has a main theme around social problems and how other in society are view that do not fit what is considered normal. The Sixth Sense (Shyamalan, 1999) leaves the audience considering the question of how far one is willing to understand and help someone else who may be in need.
When people talk about this seminal horror picture, they often tend to focus on and overstate the importance of the famous final plot twist which, while a fantastic reveal in its own right, isn't the only or even main reason why the feature has remained such a cultural touchstone and is often remembered as being one of the very best examples of the genre. Instead, the ominous sense of mystery created by the relatively slow and self-assured pacing; the mature and well-crafted scares stemming solely from our connection to the nuanced characters as opposed to obnoxiously loud musical cues; the layered and intelligent screenplay that dares to assume its audience is smart enough to understand what it is presenting; and the phenomenal performances that cement 'The Sixth Sense (1999)' as existing within a grounded reality - including what is arguably the best child performance ever put to film - are what make this emotional, gripping and complex drama stand out as one of the best horror films of the last twenty years. 8/10


                
Gorgeous cinematography, rich historic Pennsylvania locations and a tight, intelligent script are what elevates this film above the ordinary horror flick. It has plenty of interesting ideas. Such as, how old buildings have a human history we may not realise, for example the boy Cole's school theatre where there was once a terrible fire, and the three colonial people he sees hanging from a rafter. Cole's kitchen is taken over at night by a battered woman who shrieks and opens all the drawers. It made me think about who used to live in my house. I like the scene where the young couple shop for antique rings - who knows who once owned them? The central affliction of the film - Cole sees dead people - has parallels with sexual abuse. Cole is frightened and disturbed and he can't tell anyone what's wrong because he thinks they won't believe him. He develops little routines, like his figurines and going into a church, to get comfort. The psychologist Malcolm (Bruce Willis) hits on the idea of Cole asking the ghosts what is wrong and offering to help them. It makes you think about angry or sad or disturbed people in the real world. Maybe if someone could get down to the root of their problem, they could get help. Cole discovers that the little girl ghost who keeps vomiting is trying to tell him she was poisoned by her mother, and that no one suspected it. I thought the film could have showed more of this - Cole helping the ghosts out. Malcolm's violent former patient, Vincent (Donnie Wahlberg) is a good reminder that sometimes people's pain is so great they can't be helped. Or maybe Vincent represents what Cole could be like in the future if he is not helped. The twist at the end is a great one. Willis is allowed to demonstrate his cerebral side, and Malcolm's scenes with his estranged wife are a poignant exploration of grief, and of a couple drifting apart.
I enjoy ghost movies, and this one has to be one of the best.I knew that Bruce Willis's character was going to turn out to be dead -- from the moment the kid announces that he can see ghosts. I thought that his character a bit one-dimensional, though. I'm not sure whether the acting or character development is to blame.The movie is pretty good on the whole, but the amount of inexcusable gaping plot holes is ridiculous... such as: How did he go one whole year without speaking to anyone or being acknowledged by anyone (except the little boy), and not figure out that something is wrong? He lives with his wife, and... for a whole year, they manage to co-exist in the same household -- without interacting? Not believable.So Bruce Willis is a ghost, so why can't he see other ghosts? The boy knows that his "therapist" is a ghost, but he doesn't tell him, and he's not afraid of him the way he is of all the other ghosts.How did he get assigned to treat that kid? Who'd hire a ghost? How did he collect his salary? How did he interact with the kid's Mom, and whom did he pass his assessments to? How did a ghost manage to use audio tapes and a PC? We see that he writes and prints out reports. How is that possible for a ghost to do? Basically, there are MANY a plot hole here...But! It doesn't alter the fact that the movie is entertaining and enjoyable. The kid's acting was impeccable. I have never seen such outstanding performance by a child actor (or even a professional adult actor). I was very impressed.I think the movie deserves the high rating. Definitely far superior to the lousy "Paranormal Activity" franchise. The latter is just a lame joke compared to this one.
"A boy with a haunting secret seeks help from a child phycologist" "I see dead people".I don't usually enjoy all these paranormal ghosty stuff but this is one of my all time favourite films. When I first saw this film, it was halloween which added to the suspense of an already very suspense filled film and I have to say I was expecting a clichéd teen thriller with blunt acting and a meaningless storyline- I couldn't have been more wrong!The director's camera shots, lighting and music were perfectly placed to make this an enjoyably terrifying 107mins.i think what really made me want to review the sixth sense was the broad range of genres that were skillfully included;thriller, horror, paranormal, romance,drama, comedy which generally incresed the all round impact of it.Chilling, haunting,eerie,well written and with an amazing storyline that has you thoroughly gripped all the way through.The only criticism would be that i would have liked to actually see more of the ghosts. Of course i must mention the brilliant acting skills of Bruce Willis in his prime, Haley Joel Osment and Tony Collette whose acting helped keep this film fresh and engaging in a sinister way. M.night Shyamalan, in my opinion is a genius and a true master of screenplay and I feel I couldn't write a review on this film without mentioning what i think is one of the most immpressive, shocking twists in cinematic history perfectly timed to shock you just enough for this to be an all round brilliant film. Like a lot of reviewers i tried to find a storyline error or a plot hole(without success)although it will blow you away, unlike a lot of other films, the twist does not make you feel cheated, just impressed and stunned.I would definitely recommend it to people who are in to thriller, drama and mysteries as i doubt that there will be a thriller or any movie as skillfully written as this for years to come.
Sixth Sense is a well written movie that hits you from every end, here is a movie that tests your wits, you find yourself struggling to understand the character's predicament, and trying to see why things seem out of place, then you get to the ending of the film and M. Night Shyamalan trait of surprise ending hits you flat in the face and you go<U+0085> "OH! That's why"Sixth Sense is a movie that is so great but sadly it is not a movie for retakes, since the entire suspense is revealed in the end, the actors in the movie also performed well, especially Joel Osment and there is Bruce Willis, showing off his prowess as one of the great actors of our time. To me Sixth Sense is the best movie I have seen him in, although the Die Hard series are exceptional, this movie just stands out in your mind and heart.Sixth Sense is a psychological horror film about the perils of a young boy Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment). Cole lives an isolated life, finding it difficult to mix with others; he sometimes sustains injuries on his body, which he gets when attacked, by the people he sees and talks to, people whom others cannot see. Cole sees and talks to dead people.A child psychologist Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis) with troubles of his own comes on board to try and help Cole deal with his problem, all to find revelations about his life that he was not expecting.Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan, the movie script was first purchased by Disney before it was sold to Spyglass; Disney's president believed the movie was not going to be a hit. The movie production budget was 40 million and it was a financial success making over 600 million in the box office and the movie's tag line, "I see dead people" is a popular catchphrase, used by many other movies, TV and songs.Sadly though this classic was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture but won none, this doesn't take anything from this movie as it remains a classic in every way.This movie is a masterpiece introducing Shyamalan for a great writer and director, this and Signs (2002) (with Mel Gibson) stand out as my favourite of his films. There is no need to spare any cash, just dash to the DVD store and get a copy of this masterpiece if you have not gotten the privilege of seeing it yet.www.lagsreviews.com


                
