This has become by far my favorite series of all time, so much so I have given up watching television altogether and turned to DVD's instead. That's not to say it's the best show ever, but it's one of those things you can watch as fluff action-adventure entertainment one day, or chew down to its bones, if you like, the next. That is, it doesn't require intelligence and concentration or an easy day at the office to enjoy, but if you've read a few books or have philosophical leanings you can amuse yourself by wringing quite a bit out of it.On that note, it's especially fun to watch this series in conjunction with Danger Man/ Secret Agent. Although it isn't uncommon to have the same actors work together on different series, there is a town full of spies in DM/SAreferred to as the Village in the episode "Colony Three" which is the center of a debate on whether Number 6 and John Drake are the same. (McGoohan categorically denies this, but Markstein says it's true. Perhaps there is a legal hurdle involved? We will probably never get that information.)I recommend watching them in order, so you can see Number 6 gradually abandon his open desperation and anger ("Arrival" to "The Chimes of Big Ben") for a cool and calculated needling of the system from within ("A, B and C" to "Hammer Into Anvil"). They try drugs, brainwashing, torture, virtual reality, letting him escape, and even babysitting to get him to talk. Each episode will appeal to someone different, some funny, some aggravating, but they all fit together by "Fall Out"; I have never met anyone who was not surprised at the final episode. It's truly extraordinary!You will find references to the Prisoner are made constantly in other shows and movies, especially Sci Fi. The character Bester uses the Village greeting on Babylon 5; I have seen Village interrogation methods on the Pretender, John Doe and Farscape (whose leading man has an acting style similar to McGoohan's and a character similar to Number 6, IMHO, especially if you watch "A, B and C"); Number 2's trademark sphere chair is used on everything from Austin Powers to ads for American Idol.The Village itself has appeared in tribute episodes of the Invisible Man and, of all things, the Simpsons ("The Computer Wore Menace Shoes"). Rover has actually appeared on the Simpsons twice!I believe it's a classic that shouldn't be missed for anyone who ever feels trapped by rules that make little sense. If you like quoting Brazil and Office Space you'll find plenty of quotes to add to your collection here. My friends and I have even started referring to each other by number at work!Be Seeing You!


                
The best non-comedic TV show I've ever seen, and certainly one of the most unique TV shows of any genre. A terrific blend of Kafka's drama/satire, fantasy, and spy action/thriller. There is also a healthy dose of humour in it, but nothing over-the-top like we have in today's TV shows. Although it consists of 17 episodes, I would consider the first 12 to be the core of the series. After those 12 we have mostly filler episodes, like the dull one in the Wild West, or the one in which McGoohan barely even appears. The last two episodes, the less-than-grand double-episode finale, are a bit too abstract and quite tiresome at times even. From the last 5 episodes I would only name "The Girl Who Was Death" as being quite good. The best/most fun episodes are "Arrival", "Dance of the Dead", "ABC", "The General", "A Change Of Mind", and "Hammer Into Anvil". From the first 12, I would only single out "Schizoid Man" as being much weaker than the others. Several things went into making this show so much fun. First of all, the location, the Welsh village. Secondly, having McGoohan in the lead; I cannot possible imagine any other actor playing Number 6 in the excellent, off-the-wall yet controlled manner in which he plays him. McGoohan hits all the right notes; his performance is just as eccentric as it needs to be. (For the uninitiated, he was among the 2 or 3 main candidates to be the first James Bond, but refused the role.) Thirdly, the highly unusual, original scripts. Fourthly, the series was filmed in the mid-60s, and the visual quality of TV shows from that decade is superior to anything that came before or after. And fifthly, the acting from all the others was on a high level.


                
The Prisoner may not be the greatest television series of all time, but for me it will do until something better comes along. I was one of the millions of people in the UK who watched the series when it was first televised and sat enthralled every week.But rather than extol the virtues of the show overall, as many contributors to these pages have done, I would like to voice my love and support for the final episode.INEVITABLY SOME SPOILERSI loved the final episode and have watched it many times over the years. The first thing that has to be said, before one gets into its meaning and its relationship with the other episodes, is to acknowledge that it is an absolute virtuoso piece of television. The sheer imagination and creativity of the episode boggles the mind. The dialogue is quite astonishing, it's like avant garde poetry. The energy of the whole piece is staggering.I believe McGoohan wrote the whole script and knocked it off in about a day. How he did it I do not know, but to say it was inspired is an understatement.More importantly the episode is of a piece and complements all that went before. Where I think a lot of people have been thrown with The Prisoner<U+0085> well perhaps that's a bit condescending<U+0085>.the key issue one has to address and acknowledge with the show, is that it presents an allegory of the human condition wrapped up in a fantasy; surreal, almost Alice in Wonderland in style; and then tells the tale using the conventions of a (brilliantly executed) action adventure series.But you have to accept that it is the allegorical, stylised presentation that drives the show. Therefore one cannot expect a rational, neat conclusion. Who could the people behind the Village be? Who could Number 1 be? The Russians? The CIA, Ernst Stavro Blofeld? It just could not be anyone of these. In the context of the Village, my earlier comparison with Alice makes more sense; Number 1 might just be the Queen Of Hearts.But the reality of McGoohan's imagination is much more compelling. First of all he took the conclusion and climax in an obvious direction; to move further away from even the notion of reality and to challenge us with ideas. And to express those ideas in the totally bizarre and wonderful setting of trial is quite stunning.The whole series is about us, about the individual and how we confront the world and the oppressive evil in it; and how we express our own humanity. The Prisoner is about ourselves, the good, the bad; the strong; the weak. And to express that as an allegorical fantasy is, I think, something close to genius.I think the question one has to ask is who else could Number 1 be, if not ourselves; or because this is a series in which McGoohan is the hero, Number 6. And Number 6 is us; with all our strengths, weaknesses, anger, frustrations and, believe it or not, hope, despite all that outside forces may throw at us.But even having taken this line, McGoohan surely does not leave the "rationalists" empty handed. There is a conclusion, they do escape (albeit in a surreal way, bursting out onto the A2 <U+0096> incidentally try driving down the A2 at 70 mph today; that would be surreal!),And even the ending, with the Hearse driving up again and the compressed air "swoosh" of his house door opening, tells you the dark side may yet win.The whole episode is perfect, and more importantly, to repeat myself, is a totally satisfactory ending to what has gone before.Incidentally, as a coda, one comment on the whole series. Look at many of the episodes again, and evaluate the underlying themes of the whole series. Take away the sixties style and look, and doesn't the show resonate even more today than it did even then. What The Prisoner is fighting is more terrifying now than ever. And we are losing the battle with ourselves and letting it happen


                
A number of reviewers have said that this series was "ahead of its time". Actually, as with any truly insightful art, it was entirely with it's time, it was all the other shows that were slightly backward.Because of that, the series has dated in rather odd ways; the use of the Beatles' "All you need is love" in the final episode, for instance, really derives its power from the fact that Lennon and McCartney laced a lot of their songs with the same satirical venom this episode portrays, but much of this was lost on audiences (at least in America) until the release of the White Album. But now, 40 years later, only a handful of "Beatle-philes" remember this, so the edginess of the hallway sequence in which this is played has changed somewhat.Too, the Theater of the Absurd that functions as backdrop to much of this show has been all but forgotten - Beckett's "Waiting for Godot" still gets revived now and again, but Albee's "Sandlot" never does; Brecht, once thought to be the Shakespeare of Left-wing theater, remains only as an inventive apologist for a failed Stalinism who wrote a few memorable set-pieces.Yet "The Prisoner" survives, and likely will continue to survive, because it demonstrated both the potential power and the ultimate limitations of it's medium. There was never a show like this previous to it, and there has never been a show like it since, because the notion of a political/cultural satire extended for thirteen weeks for a mass audience is really unthinkable in television terms. How McGoohan came up with the idea therefore remains a mystery, but somehow he got it made. That there were millions willing to devote time and the effort of attention to it remains equally mysterious; but I think part of the answer is that at the time, many of us still weren't sure what the "television phenomenon" actually was. We didn't recognize it as mere audio-visual wall-paper, we thought it could be something else; and "The Prisoner" offered us a something else, something in keeping with what we had learned of great satire in letters, such as Swift and Voltaire.Television as a medium has exhausted itself; it can never escape its economics, and so can never again be thought of a potentially liberating art-form. But there was a time when it was possible to imagine otherwise....Not every episode is equally good, but "The Prisoner" remains brilliant, disturbing, visionary, and probably will for a long time to come.


                
In ARRIVAL, the initial episode of THE PRISONER (Patrick McGoohan's brilliant teleseries), our hero learns when he hands in his resignation that there's no such thing in his profession (he's apparently a secret agent). He's gassed unconscious and later wakes to find himself a prisoner in The Village, an idyllic NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUResque little hamlet. When he walks into a small shop looking for a map, the proprietor peers at him through fingers that form a "lens" and says, "Be seeing you." The implication is clear: The Prisoner is under constant surveillance. His designation turns out to be "Number Six." He meets Number Two, who informs him that (like the members of the current U.$. $urveillance $tate), "One likes to know Everything." Six explodes: "I will not be pushed, filed, stamped, indexed, briefed, debriefed or numbered! My life is my own!" To which Two calmly responds, "Is it?" During a tour of The Village, Six sees another man trying to escape; the man is chased (and eventually overpowered) by a large white balloon ("Rover," the surreal guard dog of The Village- and one of the greatest Fantasy constructs ever conceived). When a new Number Two arrives, Six tells him: "I'm on OUR side." Two refers to Six AS "Six." "I am not a number," he counters: "I am a person." "Six of one, half a dozen of another," the New Two grins. THE PRISONER remains one of the high water marks in televised Science Fiction/Fantasy. If only one in a hundred were THIS good...
Since so many others have commented so well on this series, I'll try to be brief.This masterpiece was Patrick McGoohan's idea through and through. It is a revelation of his thoughts & concerns regarding the role of the individual in society; a society that he feels certain is seeking to more closely monitor and to manipulate the behaviour of its citizenry. Does this picture of a controlling technological elite seem familiar to us today? Was he simply paranoid? Or extrapolating on the basis of the data he had in front of him?The story that is told of McGoohan as a former government official in a secret department who attempts to resign but is not allowed to. He is subdued, captured and sent to a strangely surreal 'village' at an unknown location, where all the inhabitants are under constant close examination and where they are expected to conform, to obey and to provide 'information'. McGoohan's character is the only one who constantly resists these attempts. It's a cat and mouse game between our hero, the individual, and the controllers; one that has so many wonderful twists and turns in it.There are many questions that the series poses but for my money the only one that really matters is the one spoken by No.6 and spoken directly to the viewer watching:'It's for you to decide: are you one of the Guards? Or one of the Prisoners?'


                
By many considered to be the best TV series ever, "The Prisoner" is a unique achievement. It was the brainchild of executive producer and star McGoohan, who had complete creative control over the series. It is, in essence, a massive critique of society's institutions and ways of constraining the individual. "The Prisoner" manages to be both the most paranoid and the most uplifting series ever, as the hero, the individualist, refuses all cooperation with his oppressors. It starts out as a spy story, and ends with an absurdist theatre-piece in two parts. "The Prisoner" makes "Twin Peaks" seem obvious, "The X-files" cosy and "Star Trek" childish and mundane. You will never see anything quite like it.


                
I was living in England when this show premiered in late 1967.  I was 12 years old, and this show grabbed hold of me and has never let go since. Patrick McGoohan has to be not only the most underrated actor of his generation, but also the most astonishing visionary ever allowed control over a TV production.  The fact that he took a popular genre like the secret agent craze and turned it on it's ear is only part of it.  So many loftier and more prestigious dramas have never come close to THE PRISONER in examining issues like integrity, societal pressure, the cost of freedom, and even the nature of reality itself.For a long time I have been mystified by how little this show is acknowledged in historical documents of television, and by how many people seem to have forgotten both it and Patrick McGoohan.  And after more than 30 years, I can only come to one conclusion about why that is.We are still all living in the Village.


                
The Prisoner has been, and will always be, one of the best TV shows to ever grace the small screen. Though full of action and intrigue, every episode delved into questions about individuality and personal agency: are we ever truly free, or are we being manipulated every minute of our lives? What is truth, and does it matter what we learn, or how we gain that education? Of course, a show is only as successful as its actors and writing- and with Patrick M we had the best there was. A true Renaissance Man, he could act, perform action scenes, and even create episodes, if he wished. Others directed, and contributed stellar scripts as well, so that all in all, the episodes were far and above anything else on TV, at that time. Of all the worthwhile programs that have existed, The Prisoner is the one that most bears repeated viewings and analysis. It has never been more timely and pertinent than it is in today's screwed-up world.


                
I've resisted writing a review for The Prisoner for years. Why -? because even though I have watched this series end to end at least a dozen times in the last 45 years; I still don't know where to start.Indeed - I was one of the lucky ones who as a 10 year old was allowed to stay up late to watch The Prisoner during it's first screening back in the 1960's. It was then and remains today some of the most remarkable and groundbreaking television ever made. It must be seen.Even though I have started this review - I still don't know where to start! There is no point in looking at the detail over a 17 episode series, so perhaps the best place to start is with a big picture; The Prisoner deals with issues of Man-kind as a social creature in a complex age. In this age the concept of "the individual" who exercises 'real' choices is lost - subsumed by Education; what is taught and who decides its relevance. Subsumed by Politics; what are the interests of those you are asked to vote for. Subsumed by Technology; is the technology my tool, or am I the tool of technology. Subsumed by Society; who sets the norms, who behaves acceptably and who does not, what, indeed is 'acceptable'? Subsumed by Consumerism; what do I need, why do I have to buy this, or this? The Prisoner encounters and has to confront these themes and find his own way to escape from them. The Village is the location and epicenter for every aspect of the individual that is subsumed. The Prisoners' quest is to escape. We join and share in his quest.There are many other deep themes going on in this wonderful and thought provoking series, but the deepest and most powerful of all is "Trust"; what and who can I trust? For the Prisoner, the ONLY person he can trust is HIMSELF, and there are times, for all his strength, when the Prisoner cannot even trust himself. The Village uses every muscle, stretches every sinew to separate the Prisoner from his own self-identity; to reduce him, actually and literally to a 'number'. It's brilliant stuff, because it causes US to question "who am I"?, "Where am I"? "By what definition am I free"? Brilliant stuff.Only by constantly challenging, constantly questioning, constantly feeling for the boundary, constantly and consistently reasserting his individualism, does the Prisoner manage to retain his self-image. The Prisoner is a primer for Everyman living in the modern age - a set of sign-posts that say; "TAKE CARE"! Keep control of your own identity, think what you are doing - don't blithely accept everything you are told and you won't become a number....Phew! I've done it! Encapsulated 45 years of reflection into 6 short paragraphs. Why 6 do you wonder?


                
Forget the tedious and drab 2009 remake, this is the version of The Prisoner to see. While most 1960s television seems dated, The Prisoner still remains as fresh, original, visually dazzling and enigmatic as it was in 1967. There was absolutely nothing like it then and, in spite of the production of the lame 2009 remake, there's still nothing like it. incredibly, even that distinctive sports car Number 6 drives in the surreal opening sequence is still manufactured today!The story is a nightmare blend of James Bond with Franz Kafka. It begins as a man resigns his job in a rage. Precisely what his job was is never precisely spelled out, but the implication is that he was some type of operative for an unnamed government intelligence agency. As he is packing his bags to leave he is put to sleep by gas. He then awakens to find himself in a mysterious and surreal community known only as "The Village", where he had become a prisoner. With the exception of the administrators, The Prisoner has no idea which of the rest of the population are fellow prisoners and which are warders. Despite the otherwise cheerful surroundings closed circuit TV cameras are everywhere, and no one and nothing is to be trusted. It is a paranoid nightmare in which The Prisoner (known only as "Number 6") must match wits and wills with the titular head of The Village (known only as "Number 2") in his efforts to escape, or at least to maintain his individuality. The series combines outstanding writing with an equally outstanding cast, headed by the scowling and ever-recalcitrant Patrick McGoohan. Along with the usual 60s futuristic high tech accessories, the production benefits greatly from the unique appearance of the exteriors of "The Village", which were filmed at Portmerion, in Wales. It is a bizarre place that simply looks like no other community on the face of the earth. Combined with the colorful, pseudo-Edwardian clothes warn by inmates and warders alike, the entire production has a completely original appearance, like nothing else ever done before or since.Most of all, The Prisoner is a television series that makes it's audience think. It asks more questions than it answers about the nature of the relationship of the individual and the community. In some ways, such as the Village's use of closed circuit TV to monitor every inch of the community, with the resulting lack of privacy, The Prisoner is actually closer to everyday life today, and thus more relevant to contemporary society, than it was more than forty years ago.


                
"You are Number Six." "I am not a number, I am a free man."When a new narrative show with actors is pitched to television executives, the first question to be answered is in regards to the show's genre, usually one of five: comedy-sitcom (like "Cheers" or "Friends"), drama (like "The West Wing"), detective (like "Magnum P.I." or "Hart to Hart"), action-thriller (like "24"), or science fiction (like "Babylon 5"). The remarkable 17-episode show of the 1960's, "The Prisoner", does not fall neatly into any of these categories; it is almost its own genre. "The Prisoner" combines elements of drama, action, and suspense with a little bit of Orwellian future-shock thrown in for good measure. There has never been and never will be a show quite like "The Prisoner".Patrick McGoohan plays John Drake, a former intelligence operative with an independent spirit and high intelligence to go with it, who is primarily known by his nom-de-plume "Number Six" at the Village. McGoohan was a former member of some of kind of international intelligence organization who is regarded as one of the most brilliant and loyal of all the operatives. During the pilot episode, we learn he has abruptly resigned. Because he holds some of the most vital and delicate intelligence information, his superiors decide to capture him and take him to a secluded self-contained place called "The Village". The Village has everything: shops, gardens, restaurants, even limited transportation. Meals and housing are provided for. The only stipulation being that all residents are permanent. It is full of a strange cast of prisoners, also people who had been involved with the intelligence service in some capacity, and a few who are involved with the organization and its objectives. Most of the residents have resigned themselves that this is where they will spend the rest of their lives, and they exude a veneer of contentment that seems horrifically complacent, as if they have lost their will to live.McGoohan wakes up in the Village and meets "Number Two" who claims he is in charge of not only the Village itself but with extracting the information the organization wants from McGoohan. However, in nearly every episode, Number Two changes, as if the last "Two" failed to meet expectation. "Number One" never appears but seems the unseen instigator of the entire operation. McGoohan continually asks to see "Number One" but is consistently denied. Most of the episodes involve the elite of the Village, especially "Number Two" trying to extract information from McGoohan while he is also planning an escape. In the Village, no one has names but simply numbers, an interesting way of dehumanizing the inhabitants.There was an attempt to remake the show which was broadcast in 2009 by AMC in the US. But even without having seen the remake, which I heard was a disaster on par with the Hindenberg airship, I don't see how you could ever produce a successful remake without Patrick McGoohan. McGoohan has the self-assuredness of a Steve McQueen and the independence of a Sean Connery. He is what makes this show work. McGoohan was actually born in America to Irish parents who moved back to Ireland when he was young; he seems neither completely British nor completely American but something in between. A lot like this show, which is neither a spy thriller nor a straight drama, but something in between.


                
As a few other posters have mentioned, I never got to see this series until a few years ago when PBS re-broadcast it. Even then, I didn't see every episode until I collected them all on videocassette, but it was well worth the effort. Patrick McGoohan has been one of my favorite actors since I saw him in "Secret Agent" late one Saturday night 27 years ago, and he doesn't disappoint in this landmark series. Among my favorite episodes are "The Schizoid Man" (especially Number 6's reaction when he finally gets his flapjacks!), "Many Happy Returns", "Free For All" ("Will you run, Number Six?" "Like the blazes. First chance I get."), "Hammer Into Anvil", and "Do Not Forsake Me...". I've heard a lot of recent hubbub about the last "Sopranos" episode, and maybe David Chase had people's reaction to "Fall Out" in mind when he took off for France!Disclaimer: My IMDb user name was NOT inspired by anything seen in any episode of "The Prisoner". At least not consciously....


                
The Prisoner is simply brilliant largely due to its excellent star, creator and producer: Patrick McGoohan. McGoohan is a true visionary. The amount of thought he put into the series is just breathtaking. He must be an incredibly intelligent man to come up with this magnificent and unique series.All 17 episodes are brilliant, full of unexpected and often mind-boggling twists particularly the finale "Fall Out". The dialogue, especially McGoohan's, is usually extremely sharp and very witty. His dry sense of humour is extremely funny in my opinion.I also love all the different elements that make the show so mysterious: Number Six's true name nor his reason for resigning are never revealed, who is running and operating the Village, who in the outside world knows about, why there is a different Number Two in almost every episode (although it is implied that most were replaced for failing to break Number Six) and most of all, the true identity of Number One.All in all, this is British TV at it best. Sky One is re-making the series this year, with Christopher Eccleston ("Doctor Who") playing Number Six. No matter what, it can never be as good as this. While it was also ahead of its time, it was also a product of its time (the Cold War). The fear of nuclear war is far less now in the 21st Century. As a result, paranoia is not as high as it once was. This means the new series will not make as big an impact. But it still probably be great! Hope McGoohan's in it at least once. He'd make a great Number Two.


                
The sixties was an era for experimenting and for social awareness.  This series combines these to provide viewers with unforgettable episodes and the addiction to find out who No1 is, will No6 escape and from what and where exactly?? These are questions that to some degree are part of our own lives. The Prisoner is a timeless masterpiece.


                
I did not see 'The Prisoner' on its original broadcast, but discovered it through one of the many repeats it enjoyed ( usually in late-night slots on I.T.V. ) in the early '70's. I had no real idea what it was about and did not care. I could see it was something special. Once all the fuss had died down from the 'Fall Out' screening, it was possible to judge the show on its own merits.Today I watch it at least once a year, and have yet to grow weary of it. It improves dramatically with each viewing, and as Western Governments seem hellbent on removing the democratic rights of individual citizens it has acquired a startling relevance Patrick McGoohan could never have foreseen in 1966. So what was it all about? An unnamed British secret agent ( Patrick McGoohan ) angrily resigns, but before he can begin the new life he has planned for himself mysterious forces spirit him off to a place known only as 'The Village'. Here other ex-agents are given numbers instead of names, and their minds plundered for classified information using highly advanced technology.Escape is impossible. Strange balloon-like creatures called 'Rovers' chase and suffocate the would-be runaways.The chairman of The Village is Number Two, who changes at regular intervals and is answerable only to the unseen 'Number One'.McGoohan is magnificent as the caged 'Prisoner', and was ably supported by the magnificent line-up of guest stars in the series such as Leo McKern, Ronald Radd, Derren Nesbitt, Colin Gordon, Mary Morris, Peter Wyngarde, Anton Rodgers, George Baker, Guy Doleman, Kenneth Griffith, Justine Lord, and Alexis Kanner.Brilliant though this premise is, it was obvious it could not be maintained for a full season, hence only seventeen episodes were made. McGoohan himself wrote and directed a few. His script editor, George Markstein, knew that a place like The Village really existed once, and thus was able to draw on his not-inconsiderable knowledge. Perhaps the most pertinent episode is 'Free For All' in which The Prisoner runs for office as the new Number Two. Here we see a press determined to print what they want rather than the facts, political candidates brainwashed by the state, saying nothing of any substance, and when The Prisoner attempts to change things for the better he is viciously beaten into submission.'The General' warns of the dangers of using machines as educational tools. McGoohan intended 'The Prisoner' as a stark warning against over dependence on technology. The show ended with perhaps the most controversial finale in television history: 'Fall Out'. Viewers were furious because they thought they had been cheated out of a 'proper' ending. Personally, I think it is a marvellous climax to a memorable show.Remake? Don't even suggest it.( One thing did puzzle me though. How come an intelligent, much-travelled secret agent did not recognise he was being held captive in one of Wales' top tourist spots? )Be Seeing You!
First, Patrick McGoohan leaves a ton of bread crumbs to figure out the last episode.He is telling a story through this serial about how life was changing then. You can look at this a few ways, you can look at the serial as a continuation of John Drake, a spy thriller, or you can look at this as a reflection of society and individualism, or both. For those who like to be intrigued and watch a story unfold as our main character fights a huge, bureaucratic system for his freedom, then this is for you.The last episode, Fall Out, the butler and the President of the Assembly all represent something we know all too well in society.
Prison it's always the last place we all want to be. However probably what makes the concept more discomforting are the prisons that come or attack our minds. Most of the time it has to due with a routine we are forced into or unintentionally build for ourselves, the wrong job occupation, not traveling away from home enough or far enough, just anything negative that makes us feel trapped. Which is part of why most to all of us constantly fight and exercise our freedom and rights to show that we're still people.This is one of my favorite TV shows of all time. It is defiantly one of the most creative and weirdest shows I've ever seen and I love that which is what I expect from TV and the Sci-Fi/Fantasy genre to always have something new and different. It was definitely a revolutionary show because it dared to be different but also challenge our intellects in a good way while at the same time having fun. The whole show by it's nature is one big puzzle, it's one of those shows where you may have to watch it more than once to uncover more.The theme song is great it's one of my favorite theme songs of all time, it really fits the show as it has a mysterious and almost adventurous vibe.I even like the main protagonist No.6 whom is one of my favorite fictional protagonists, his character in a way represents ourselves sort of our speaker and representative for humanity and sanity. He's got a dry charisma and sarcastic wit making him a bit funny. And like MacGyver he has to use his wits, cunning to somehow find a way to outsmart his unknown enemies. But what I really love about him is that he never gives up no matter the outcome of his plan he always tries again, which I feel is a good message to show not quitting makes you stronger. But also how much we emphasize with him and participation as were in the same boat as he is, not just in constantly trying to find a way out but also asking the same questions as him wondering what the hell is going on.There is also a feeling of isolation as we see the only person he can truly trust is himself, this increases the emphasize factor more as it looks like his the only sane person in a land gone insane. It's true that we never really know a whole lot about him, let alone his name but that's the point it just adds to the mystery of the show.However what really drive the show is it's story line and suspense. The story line in a way is like a mix of Franz Kalfka and Lewis Caroll tale. The Village is a really daft looking place. This really gives the place a surreal feeling from the buildings and architecture which is odd because it feels and looks like nothing really goes together,but even odder are the people whom may or may not be prisoners themselves but they exhibit odd behavior, let alone dress weird as some of what their wearing is not just colorful but also inconsistent with it's time periods. And each have some sort of rituals and customs that aren't really consistent or have any clear purpose.But this production really induces the unsettling feeling of total disorientation and paranoia throughout the show. Usually in the suspense thrillers this is something that would take place in the night but here it's in the day which increases the paranoia even more because here there is no place to hide and no one to trust.What makes the place even more disorienting and dangerous is that fact that each interrogator for No.6 is always someone different which raises the bar even more for No.6 as each have different methodologies to try and break him to get what they need whatever the hell that is. The interrogations remind me of Kalfka's "The Trial" which was about a man being accused for unknown reasons. Also it means No.6 has no way to understand what his unknown enemy's true motives are which means he is unable to get a step ahead or vanquish them which is a disarming feeling.But shows power is how it really leaves you to make your own interpretations. To this day I still have questions like "Is the Village some sort of shadow organization/secret society that hasn't been discovered yet or one we already know like the Men in Black?" , "Why the hell do they want to know why No.6 quit or not?", "Is the whole thing real or one big dream." whatever the case this just gives the show replay value to find more answers or more questions.Though personally I feel in a way the show satires on cold war paranoia though by today's standards it could be our war on terrorism. But gets into issues of distrust, conformity, information denial and manipulation, human rights constantly attacked and importance of defending them, but most of all about the importance of maintaining individuality.No.6 truly is the most human in the show and he is one with a real identity. Where we see the people in the village have no identities at all, from not having names but numbers but also each aren't entirely their own person as they've traded identity off for security from The Village which as put them in even more danger as they've sacrificed their freedom.I know once again haven't said a whole lot but it's one of those shows you have to see for yourself to believe, but to give yourself the benefit of participating in a great enigma.In the words of No.6 "I'm not a number, I'm a free man." so are we and should remain so.Rating: 4 stars


                
When The Prisoner first aired in the UK in 1968, it perfectly reflected the breathless, constantly changing, revolutionary times. The idealism and freshness of the early-to-mid sixties was gradually being replaced by cynicism and a creeping decadence. The world was convulsed by new breakthroughs in popular music, fashion and the arts, all played out against a grim background of the Cold War and spy paranoia.The Prisoner was enormously popular with the British public. McGoohan was already a huge star after Danger Man, and the public was primed and ready for what was, on the face of it, a superior spy drama with no expense spared on the production. Everyone was enthralled by the first 16 episodes, and eagerly awaited the last, when Number 6 would (hopefully) finally escape and all would be revealed. What actually happened was that people were completely confounded by it, so much so that there was a real hue and cry in the national press from ordinary viewers who thought that they'd been duped and cheated into wasting their time with a load of pop-psychology rubbish. I remember vividly my own father saying just that.Of course the story doesn't stop there and the series was repeated several times in the UK and US, beguiling new audiences with the multi-layered references in the stories and raising the same questions which seemed perennially relevant and disturbing. I still find myself going back to it and chewing over the themes. The episodes bear repeated viewing, revealing new details each time like lost pieces of an elaborate puzzle.Many on-line sources give superbly detailed critiques of The Prisoner and the philosophical themes it explores, so I'm not going to go into that. What I will say though, is that for me, the performance of McGoohan is central to the appeal. He demonstrates a perfect example of British bloody-mindedness, a refusal to be pushed around and manipulated, a determination to go his own way regardless of all entreaties by bien-pensants and the ruling clique. And oddly, in 2016, these attitudes all resurfaced again in the Brexit vote and the election of Donald Trump. Truly a series for all ages.


                
Patrick McGoohan's idea for a television series, The Prisoner, is still a source of fascination and admiration. This kind of guerrilla TV cannot be done now under the protective, moneyed auspices of men like Lew Grade (extinct species) who funded and promoted the series. The Prisoner lasted 5 months with 17 episodes, then it vanished for ever. I think this was for the best. It would be pointless and unkind to analyze each episode as to what I think they mean or who is running The Village and who is spying on who. It is more fun to watch events unfold in the haphazard way The Prisoner has. There is no story arc, per se, but there is an evolution in the behavior and tactics of No. 6 (McGoohan) that glues the series together.I hadn't seen The Prisoner in probably 40 years, since it first aired in the USA. I liked it then but somehow lost interest. The lava lamps didn't help. The era of the swinging, mod sixties is preserved like an old cameo in this show. The primary colors, the 'flip' hairdos, the tight crotchy pants and pointed breasts behind stripes on everyone's ubiquitous matelot tops, all shod in Keds tennies and Espadrilles (actually, I wish Espadrilles would come back, very comfortable); all contribute to the charm and fascination. Having just re-watched the series after all that time makes me sorry that I ignored it for so long.There are admittedly some cheesy elements to the props and acting but those little goofs add to the vintage charm of the show. Rover, the 'scary' guardian of the Village, is similar to Gort the metallic cosmic policeman in The Day the Earth Stood Still. He's always there, attached to some sort of Great Lava Lamp under the water from whence he sallies forth to nab anyone attempting to leave The Village. Rover is nothing more than a weather balloon inflated with helium which makes it bounce and wobble like the flowing shapes in a lava lamp (again, the lava lamp). Depending on one's transgression Rover will either absorb you (pressing face against surface of balloon and viewed from the other side) or hauled off or chased back to No. 2's door for punishment.The howler with Rover is that every time someone is absorbed it is the same face, some one from the tech crew who volunteered for the job of face-absorption when testing Rover's scare factor on screen. The factor is very low. Rover is also center stage for some very bad editing in an early episode. Nadia, an Estonian spy who has also retired and landed in The Village (so she says), is supposed to have escaped by trying to swim 30 miles, but Rover hauls her back to the beach. In the process the actress who is supposed to be playing a bronze-medalist in swimming from years ago, is seen flailing and paddling and lifting her head for air when she is supposed to be unconscious. Fortunately these technical glitches are few and far between and become a thing of the past by the 5th or 6th episode. Patrick McGoohan himself carries the show with ease. He was a good-looking man and a fine actor, though he hams it up from time to time with too much vehemence. There were times when I expected him to twirl his mustache (in a manner of speaking), his acting having taken a sudden Simon Legree aspect to it. There is a very camp over-the-top atmosphere about the entire thing.No. 2 is the second most important repeating character. The actors change all the time, which makes things interesting and was a brilliant solution for preventing rote acting on the part of the leads. There are a number of famous faces playing No.2 who you will recognize from older English films and television from the 50s to the 90s. Leo McKern (Rumpole) and the very unusual looking Mary Morris being among them.The Prisoner was McGoohan's brainchild and he was in full control of every aspect of its production. The Prisoner was a powerful influence on other screenwriters, like Douglas Adams with his Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Terry Jones and Monty Python's Flying Circus, and later, Terry Gilliam with his films Brazil and Twelve Monkeys. For his part, McGoohan was clearly influenced by the pop goofiness of A Hard Day's Night and Rod Serling's disorienting and disturbing Twilight Zone.interview with the producer Bernard Williams. He doesn't give away McGoohan's secret intentions but he speaks candidly about the creation of the show.With the A&E complete DVD (2004)collection there is included the original version of the episode The Chimes of Westminster. A&E has not troubled itself to make this listen-able so don't waste your time. The sound is totally inaudible, though I liked the primitive grainy film. Perhaps The Prisoner might have been even more effective in black and white. And A&E has scrambled up the playing order of the earlier episodes in a manner far removed from the original broadcast order.I made a list of the correct order and follow that when watching, though it's inconvenient to have to be switching around from one disc to another all the time. But A&E have been pretty chintzy, using 10 dvds for 17 episodes and two Features. Don't expect a solution to the series when it ends. There is one, sort of, but IS there. The sound and picture, however, for the rest of the episodes have been cleaned up and is very good for its age.
This series stands as a landmark contribution to television, to western culture, to man's affection for freedom, and to the ideological battle between individualism and collectivism. I was a grade school kid when the show came out in the late 60's; I was already a Star Trek fan (talk about doomed show choices of that era) and was attracted to the sci-fi / mystery aspects of the show on CBS. I never got to watch much because my parents owned the set; I was lucky if I got to see Star Trek on a regular basis. The images and icons of the show stayed in my mind; the tailored striping on the suits, the cloistered village, the menacing Rover, the high-tech surveillance center. I got a chance to see a few episodes of the show on PBS in the 1970's, however in an unsatisfactory presentation. It was a series called "The Prisoner Puzzle." A psychiatrist would comment on feelings of isolation and separation from society, then the Prisoner episode would be presented as an example of Number 6 yet again failing to fit in and deal with his social obligations. I suspected that was a topsy turvy way to use the show, but i did get to see the final three episodes of the series in this setting and wanted to see it all. THANK YOU AMC-TV for presenting the entire series on-line. I just watched all the episodes in order and I feel like a long-misadjusted part of my being has been properly aligned at last. What an experience. I know fans separate out "good" episodes and "bad" episodes (certainly we Star Trek TOS fans do it) but for me it was ALL GOOD. And all too brief. Thank you AMC, thank you everyone living and dead who made it happen.


                
Consider the following. It is a very simple three word statement. It can be found as a tag-line of sorts on the A&E Home Entertainment DVD box-sets released here in the United States to describe The Prisoner. That statement is this: "Television's First Masterpiece" In a way it seems a bit arrogant to call the series that, at least at first glance. The Prisoner, after all, was a short lived series that ran for a single season in 1967 and a mere seventeen episodes. There are shows that have lasted much longer both in terms of seasons and episodes that have been forgotten about almost completely after all. Yet The Prisoner is far from a forgotten series, it remain ones whose idea at the heart of it all keeps beating.But what it is that idea? At it's heart the series is about a simple idea. What if a resigned secret agent, whose name was replaced by a number, was held against his will in a strange isolated community (known only as the Village) by those wanting to know why he had resigned? That though is too simple an explanation of what The Prisoner is really about. True it is, on the surface level at least, a series about a resigned secret agent held against his will by those wanting to know why he had resigned. Like most things in life though, there is much more to be found beneath the surface.What is The Prisoner about then? It is a spy series of course. It was as series that featured plenty of action sequences throughout it's run. Yet it is a series that delved into political satire at times as seen for example in Free For All which was written by McGoohan (though under the pseudonym of Paddy Fitz) and directed by him as well. It was also a series that delved into the realm of science fiction with such concepts as mind control (as seen in numerous episodes) and the effect of technology on a society and its people (The General). It was a series about about trust and betrayal as seen through the lives of people who live in the society ruled by a totalitarian government (as seen prominently in Checkmate and Hammer Into Anvil for example). Therefore it was a series that was in some form a sort of social commentary then.Across all seventeen episodes it is a story of one man's attempts to resist a totalitarian government and its various attempts to control, manipulate and oppress him. ITC Owner Lew Grade was perhaps right to fear that the audience wouldn't tune in week after week to see the hero fail to escape. Yet despite the failure of Number Six to escape he did succeed in doing one thing week after week. Number Six never gave into his captors wish for him to reveal at least one vital piece of information: why he had resigned. Escape might be impossible but the ability to resist and continue resisting was a source of strength for the series.It was also a series that could be virtually incomprehensible. Look no further then the one of the rather more famous stories out there regarding the show's final episode Fall Out. Following the UK airing of the final episode people began to besiege the home of Patrick McGoohan who, was not only the show's star/executive producer but had also written and directed the finale as well. They came demanding to know just what it was that the show had been about. After all, they had watched for seventeen episodes expecting to learn (amongst other things) who the lead character (Number Six) really was, why he had resigned, what the Village was and, above all, the answer to the question in the opening of virtually every episode "who is Number One?" McGoohan, under a state of angry besieging as the story goes, eventually fled to avoid the questions for which he would give no answers.Ah the unanswered questions. McGoohan's concept (if not his star power of course) brought in the audience but it was the unanswered questions that kept them coming back. In the end it was those same unanswered questions that has kept viewers coming back to the series over four plus decades, causing novels to be written and even the creation of the aforementioned graphic novel just a handful of year's after series had its twentieth anniversary. It is those questions that have led to the writing of countless articles and books about the series. This is not surprising at all. McGoohan after all, it is said, had wanted a series that wouldn't just entertain. He saw that to it that it was made to, and continues to, make the audience think not only about the questions mentioned above such as "who is Number One?" but about the themes and concepts used throughout as well. McGoohan did his part to keep it that way as he would give answers to some, but not all, of those questions over the years leading up to his unfortunate passing in early 2009.So is The Prisoner indeed a masterpiece then? Like the Mona Lisa has done for half a millennium now or Stonehenge for thousands of years before that painting came into being, it has and will continue to look back at its on-lookers as a bit of an enigma. It is a piece of art that, while a product of the time it was made in, remains timeless nonetheless with its themes and its unanswered questions as well. So perhaps it is a masterpiece whose unanswered questions are the series's, and McGoohan's, greatest legacy and an appropriate one at that. That is, considering that this was a television series which had featured the following line of dialogue: "Answers are a prison to one's self."


                
The best ever produced TV show. The most copied TV show around the world. The most dreamlike, most symbolic TV show, while being very realistic. The most scandalous TV show. The TV show in the success never seen. The most relevant TV show. The most disturbing TV show ever made. The most current TV show; in the theme concerning an advanced dehumanization more true than never. The most enigmatic TV show. The most Kafka's TV show. The most suggestive TV show. The TV show which knew how to see farther than its time,period.We can go further with the qualifiers of these episodes which tell the eviction of a secret agent on an island and inside a village the numerous opportunities, which is a kind of golden prison, on which however nobody have ever escaped; and then his attempts as numbers 2 - all more deceitful some than the others - try to extort him precious information helped by diverse threats, while continues the life of the village and it while number 6 cross other numbers, those sometimes very close to him.An enormous cult in any case.


                
Wow, I have never seen voting stats like this on IMDb! I don't know what more needs to be said.The vote is especially remarkable since I suspect not everyone fully gets the concept behind the series.This was a continuation of the earlier series Danger Man. I happened upon an episode of Danger Man that makes this more or less clear, where Drake steps on the toes of someone very, very important. It had to do with a coup in South America organized by an industrialist with phony credentials but very high connections, as I recall.This series was way ahead of its time in its presentation of behind the scenes power politics.
Stunning achievement by actor, director & writer Patrick McGoohan about a recently-resigned British government operative kidnapped by either his government or a foreign one, imprisoned in a sinister "Village", where through the course of 17 episodes, various Number 2's(no citizen has a name, but only numbers) try to extract from him(re-named Number Six) the reason for his sudden resignation.Episodes dealt with themes of the worth of the individual in society, and how he refuses to be broken by the Village, run by the mysterious Number 1. Government corruption, media collusion with government, and the nature of power and identity are key elements of this series, and are still with us today...Final episode['Fallout'] is astonishing in its ambition and audacity, and is the single greatest episode of television drama ever, despite its controversial presentation and "resolution".Original and startling; viewers who stayed with it from 'Arrival' will be rewarded, even liberated by the final fade-out...though is freedom an illusion after all?


                
