I can't believe I just started a review with an excuse, with an apology, but that is the only way to explain this series. It was the 60s.(A smart reviewer would end the review after that simple 3-word sentence, but I can't, IMDb has minimums, and you don't mess with their rules.) The spy thing had more or less peaked by 67, but McGoohan's street cred was still amazingly high. Of all the spy guys, he was the only one that had insisted (Danger Man) that violence be kept to a minimum and guile to a maximum; he was the only one to have achieved such a strong international demand that a UK production actually was being repackaged (with a new name and theme song) for American audiences (Avengers notwithstanding, save that for another review!); and he even snagged a middling role in an international movie entirely on the basis of his spy "persona" -- ICE STATION ZEBRA. Well, against this backdrop of success (and, I repeat, IT WAS THE 60s!) Patrick pulled a "Tom Cruise" and put together his own production, based on on his own idea, and starring (surprise!) himself. It was quite successful. Never mind that no one completely understood whether the story was to be taken literally or allegorically - the last episode ended with the head of the village revealed to be a simian! -- and never mind that it was PAINFULLY obvious from day #1 that he was never going to escape (otherwise, what is the point?), the series snagged both a mainstream AND a cult following (wow) and remains both popular and enigmatic to this day. Now, if you have read my other reviews, you know that this is the point in the review where I usually explain why a series like this was so oddly successful, in spite of the terminal gloominess, the repetitive plot arcs, and the fact that even McGoohan's charisma has its limits...? Three 3 word answer? It was the 60s.
... but the last four episodes are tough to get through. Still it's enjoyable enough, and an episode as brilliant as "Schizoid Man" can't be argued with.


                
I finished the final episode and said to myself, "What did I just watch?" I couldn't figure out why the rapist from the episode Living in Harmony was singing Dem Bones over and over again in the finale. But, he died in that episode and came back to life in the finale, and Dem Bones is a song about resurrection. After spending some time thinking about it, my interpretation of The Prisoner is that Number 6 is in hell, or purgatory, or some other version of an afterlife. The man in the intro who gasses Number 6 actually kills him, and the final scene is Number 6 driving off and potentially starting it all over again in a loop. There is a theory that hell is reliving your sins over and over again (depicted well in Stephen King's short story "That feeling, you can only say what it is in French"). Number 6 was a government agent who resigned, and knew many secrets they couldn't risk, so it makes sense to just kill him. Why would they care so much about why he resigned, going to such great lengths to get it out of him? They wouldn't, they would just kill him. Number 6 resigning from his job is what led to his death, so perhaps he would spend his afterlife trying to figure out why he did something that led to his demise. When he finally encounters Number 1, the man behind the mask is himself. In the intro, he asks Number 2 "Who is Number 1?" and his response is "you are, Number 6." He is in a hell of his own making; the afterlife isn't an actual place, it's within one's own mind. The Number 2 in the penultimate episode Once Upon a Time also blatantly reveals the truth to Number 6, when he says, clearly, "You're dead." Overall, this show was captivating. The ending may have been a bit of a copout (like the finale for the show Lost), but if you re-watch the show keeping the ending in mind, and go with the theory that he is dead and this is some version of an afterlife, some things fall into place like the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. I applaud George Markstein and Patrick McGoohan, for creating a fantastic mind-fuck show. It's actually inspired the latest book I'm working on.
