No 6 is an individual who's previous employment was highly classified and is now at odds with his conscience. THATS why he resigned.(in one old interview McGoohan describes No. 6 as being a former government scientist) What he knew was too valuable to the state so he couldn't be left to continue has a free man, he had to be kept a prisoner by his former employers in the interests of the state, a less generous nation that Britain might have killed him.. or maybe they just hope to win him back one day. Or at least that's how I think George Markstein thought the show was about, and that was fairly subversive for mid 60's TV.McGoohan wanted to get more out of it, and he prototyped, as a TV show the kind of stories Philip K Dick was then writing and would eventually be successfully realised in stuff like the Truman Show, but he lost his way before he could write a proper finale. Nowadays on shows like 'Life on Mars' teams of writers and producers plot complex story lines that tease us and ultimately pay off.The Prisoner is a cult because its great but never quite fulfils its promise. We keep watching just in case it'll work better next time.
This show should be considered as two DIFFERENT series shows. Initially, it was incredibly well-written and original and I can't think of another series that came close to its brilliance (even the great "Nowhere Man" series from the 1990s). Later in the series, the surrealism just below the surface came out with full abandon--often making the show pointless and confusing. Let me explain further,...The show had the most brilliant pilot episode--which was summed up wonderfully in the show's introduction each week. Then, for about the first half of its run, each episode consisted on a variety of attempts to debrief our hero--and concluded with him once again confounding them. There were many weird elements, but they all worked together and somehow seemed plausible. These were among the finest shows ever conceived.However, later there wasn't much new or worth watching in the series. Often, instead of a brilliant and somewhat believable scheme to get him to talk, some episodes didn't even attempt to get him to spill his guts while others became SO unbelievable that they just seemed silly. They just looked like Salvador Dali paintings mixed with a healthy dose of LSD. Prime examples were the wild west episode (somewhat reminiscent of the STUPID surreal Gunfight at the OK Corral episode from the original "Star Trek") and the final episodes which featured the return of our favorite #2, Leo McKern AND the idiot who starred in the wild west episode. This knucklehead walked around in a catatonic daze most of the final episode in fact. Plus, the omnipresent malevolent midget inexplicably HELPS #6!? What were they thinking?! Maybe they just ran out of ideas and put ANYTHING up on the screen. I dunno. All I know is that it went from the greatest series to one that SHOULD have ultimately been canceled. It had simply outlived the quality of the scripts.


                
*Spoiler/plot- The Prisoner, 1967, A life-long English secret agent abruptly resigns from his job and is kidnapped into a strange fantasy village on a isolated seashore of an anonymous country. The village staff work their vast interrogation techniques on the X-secret agent or #6 to find out why he left his job and reveal all his mission secrets.*Special Stars- Patrick McGoohan, Angelo Muscat, Unit Production Manager: Bernard Williams.*Theme- Man will not be controlled when his freedom is at stake. *Trivia/location/goofs- British, TV series of 17 episodes. Portmeirion, Wales is where The Village is. The location was built by an eccentric artist and building salvager from the 17th century. Every episode has another new actor playing the role of evil antagonist against the show's hero, #6. The Rover is a large weather balloon. *Emotion- An excellent TV series for action, drama and to explore real modern societal issues through story telling. This TV show takes you on a mind-bending trip that pushes your imagination to the limit. Take an unforgettable journey to The Village, run by sophisticated 'jailers' whose one mission is to 'break' the new inhabitants and find out everything the inhabitants/villagers know about their recent top-secret government jobs of spying. It takes you alongside Britain's best secret agent, John Drake or #6 men whose missions are to preserve Britian from all manner of threats and by any means necessary. This film has become a cult classic with discussions about it's minutia and plot meanings of this multi-layered thought provoking TV show. Ahead of it's time interesting. A Blog telling about Patrick McGoohan's later in life dealings with a TV writer, just before McGoohan's death. LINK:http://www.2ndwindproductions.org/peopleilike/patrick-mcgoohan
As per a previous review I read, I have to agree with that reviewer, Darien Werfhorst, that The Prisoner still holds well today. In fact, most of the subject matter is still relevant today... in some ways, even more so. It's still the existential elements, such as, freedom, democracy, politics, and personal identity, that are so strong they can still hook the viewer and make the story more relatable. I mean... are we really free or do we kid ourselves into believing it(?) This for me, is the underlying premise for the whole story.I am not a number! I am a Free Man! Really?The entire plotline is so convoluted, that as a kid I didn't really understand and comprehend every nuance, but as an adult, this series now leaves me a little bit colder and has my little grey cells ticking over. I would like to thank the writers, the directors, and the actors for opening my eyes once again.There's very little in the way of thought-provoking telly series out there at the moment - except for Channel 4's Utopia and Humans (Series 1 & 2). There's plenty for us to enjoy but not much to make us think... to pause. Yes, there are documentaries. However, the way they are filmed and laid out just present you with the facts. If the documentary maker is good and gives a provocative film with an inspirational and questioning conclusion, it may have the same effect. Drama and storytelling though has the effect to get under your skin and into your mind. It can ask and answer a myriad of questions and sometimes not towards the best of outcomes... and it does it entertainingly. The Prisoner does this beautifully.Granted, you will need to let your imagination free as it can be very abstract at times, especially when dealing with brainwashing and the breaking of a persons' mind and will. The last episode, for me, was the worst for this. It was too chaotic and too abstract, though I know the reason why (no spoilers, sorry). I wanted a more substantial and satisfying end to The Free Man's trials and tribulations. However, what didn't work for me may work for you.The acting is superb and actors are all strong in their portrayals of their characters. Leo McKern is my favourite No.2 and he really does put his all into the role - I'd forgotten how good he really was.Filmmakers should watch this series and dream of composition, composition, composition. There are some beautifully created and crafted scene's. Episode 15 - Once Upon A Time is a tour-de-force, great work with not only the camera but with lighting makes this my favourite episode.This series is a Must See - though it may not be to all tastes, I'd advise that you'd at least give it a go...Be Seeing You!


                
This series was created years before I was even born, and somehow I had never heard about it before, but scrolling down the IMDb TV-list made me curious about its high ranking... So I watched all episodes, in sequence, and well... It was definitely ahead of time, using modern devices and ideas (apart from fighting scenes), but at present, having seen hundreds of films and series from 1960-70ies, I often felt that I was entering a world where Kubrick and James Bond creators were somewhere together and eating magic mushrooms :) I don't argue, it was all catchy to follow, in spite of a few predictabilities and trivial solutions, and the ideas behind and beyond were definitely worth pondering. Main male cast is distinct as well, beginning with Patrick McGoohan as The Prisoner / Number Six, females spend less time on screen and they are often typical beauty icons of that time.Well, it is impossible to provide a uniform overview of The Prisoner, but I can imagine strong feelings it created at that time. I personally have always liked London and it was pleasant to watch hundreds, not thousands of cars in its streets... Life goes on, but the atmosphere has preserved.


                
Ground breaking and highly influential series from the 60's that is surreal, thought provoking and innovative.Patrick McGoohan plays a character referred to only as Number 6 who, judging by the opening title sequence, is some sort of government agent. He wakes up at the start of the first episode in a strange village, where everyone dresses alike, is awfully polite, and seems to be run as a cross between a holiday camp and a communist township.Problem is, he can't find a way out of the damn place.As time progresses, Number 6 gets to meet a succession of people referred to simply as Number 2, and he is determined to find out who is running the show, who is Number 1.The village is guarded by bizarre, large, white balloons, which roll towards you and smother if an attempt to escape is made, and Number 6 encounters them frequently.Distinctly surreal in places, with a paranoid edge that was most unusual for the day, this really was well ahead of its time.Still gripping today, and still much loved, this has become something of a British institution.Excellent.
This was a fantastic summer replacement when I saw it as a kid in Dallas, back in the days when many normally scheduled shows took a break to give actors and crew a time off.Until the final episode. We thought it would all tie the loose ends together and finally figure out what it was all about. Instead, the final episode was so bizarre, off topic, off story line, non-senseical, defies common sense - you name it - that the viewers felt that they were grossly cheated.I understand that the viewers in the UK were so outraged, disappointed and disgusted, there were huge protests against the studio, writers, producers, actors, etc. Some allegedly went into hiding for awhile until things simmered down.
 
Anyway, still a fun and highly creative short series. Especially, all these decades later, to see the final episode.
