I assumed this show was about life in the British prison. Boy was I wrong? Patrick McGoohan who should have been knighted is delightful as number 6. The audience nor number 2 and the others don't why he resigned his top secret post. They are clever not to tell the audience rather using the intro montage of back history. We the audience don't know his name as well. He is transported to a self contained and controlled village by the sea. The village is very picturesque with concerts, lovely shops, parks, and culture. This prison doesn't seem so bad after all. The village inhabitants are quite friendly and pleasant. The village symbolizes an ideal utopia community that was tried in communal living during the time period. But 6 wants out ever since his arrival. He is a challenge to the controllers here. The show is beautiful with lovely art direction and costumes. You have to ask yourself what constitutes a prisoner.


                
Montage: a secret agent (Patrick McGoohan) storms into his superior's office and angrily resigns his post, for reasons unknown. A machine files away his Xed-out photo; he speeds away to his home. He enters his house and begins packing for a journey. Outside, a hearse pulls up to the curb. A pallbearer strides to the door. Knockout gas comes pouring in through the keyhole. When our hero awakes the room is the same... but the world outside is not.We are in the Village, a picturesque nightmare co-fashioned by Orwell, Kafka, and Carroll. The unnamed agent has become Number Six in a population of equally nameless, creepily cheerful residents, headed by a shifting, and shifty, Number Two. Who is Number One? Well, that's the question, isn't it... In one direction are impassable mountains, in the other the sea -- and on patrol is a bizarre, lethal white balloon that hunts down those unwise enough to dare them.Viewed today, "The Prisoner" seems so strikingly ahead of its time that one can only regard it as either a visionary masterpiece or a dazzling failure. Either way it is compulsive viewing. Co-creators McGoohan and George Markstein were seemingly at odds about what to make of it all, with McGoohan eschewing conventional James Bondisms for a more surreal, allegorical approach. (He himself wrote and directed some of the series' best and most bewildering episodes.) And truly "The Prisoner" works best when at its least explanatory and most hallucinatory. Not until "Twin Peaks" would another television show dabble this heavily in the logic of dreams.McGoohan also believed the premise would only hold up over a limited run, and his concern seems justified. A few of the later of the seventeen episodes show desperation: low points include the feebly whimsical "The Girl Who Was Death," the plodding "It's Your Funeral," and "The General," which might as well be -- and nearly is -- an episode of Star Trek.Yet at its best, in episodes like "Arrival," "Free For All," "Dance of Death," "Many Happy Returns," and the finale (one of the most astonishing hours ever programmed for television), the series achieves something extraordinary. Its influence reaches beyond such obvious successors as "Lost" and "The League of Gentlemen" -- and could you imagine "Brazil" or "The Matrix" without it? "The Prisoner" catches at a thread in our subconscious and pulls it loose; it tells us that something is genuinely wrong somewhere with the Great Big Picture. Its true antecedents are Chesterton's "The Man Who Was Thursday" and O'Brien's "The Third Policeman": nonsense that bleeds into spiritual unease.It's not hard to understand why the series has a cult following, or why, love it or hate it, it still packs a punch. We are in the Village. Be seeing you...


                
"The Prisoner" was an excellent series until the last episode, "Fall Out". It wasn't perfect -- some episodes were better than others, and those that were intended to be part of the abortive "second season" were generally not as good as the first 13 episodes produced (note that these aren't necessarily the first 13 episodes aired...). However, the program was consistently entertaining, interesting, thought provoking, and unquestionably unique. I had watched various episodes of "The Prisoner" over the years (It ran a fair amount on educational television in the 1970s) and was very impressed with what I saw, but I didn't get a chance to see the concluding episode until many years later. To say that I was disappointed is a significant understatement.The problem of setting up any "mythology" in a show, as Chris Carter found out with the "X Files", is that sooner or later you have to answer the questions that you've raised. That's where the last episode loses it -- it answers nothing about the previous 16 episodes, but rather asks a number of new questions, and then doesn't answer them either! It would appear that the reason for the odd number of episodes of the Prisoner was that it was cancelled with 16 episodes either in the can, or still in production, and "Fall Out" was written in a great rush at the last minute to close out the series. Although in earlier interviews, MacGoohan said that all the answers were in the final episode, in a more recent interview, he has stated (regarding "Fall Out") -- "If anybody admits to understanding it, then please pass the understanding on to me." I don't know if there would have been a more coherent ending if the premature cancellation had not occurred, or if original producer George Markstein (who left after the first 13 episodes due to differences with Patrick MacGoohan) had stayed. Overall, it is a pathetic end to an otherwise superb series. Mind you, the fact that there wasn't a coherent ending (plus the presence of lots of symbolism to encourage endless debate on what it all *really* means) is probably the main reason for the cult attraction of the series. Even with the inadequate ending, this series is a highlight of how thought provoking television can be if it's done properly.


                
This is the one. The show that everyone thought would be just another special agent series when it aired, and it wasn't. Far from that. The show with an extreme sixties look and feel, while at the same time injecting futuristic ideas, all around alternative, bizarre and psychedelic, even or especially when seen in the 21st century. Among its stars: a water filled balloon, named Rover, that substitutes for a special effect. This is the show that turned out to be labelled postmodern, broke its format and demanded from its viewers to think as individuals, not to be a number among numbers in the mass audience of mindless watchers out there. The show that forced its creator and lead actor to go into hiding after the final episode aired. A series that was way ahead of its time as they say and that still yields a thousand different interpretations in a thousand different people. This is the one. The cult show that is "The Prisoner".Brainchild of Patrick McGoohan who was fed up with doing just another typical agent show and even rejected the Bond role, opted to go for something fresh, but used the metier he was already familiar with to convey his ideas. As in real life McGoohan's alter ego resigns from being an agent, only to find himself trapped in 'The Village', referred to only as No. 6. He is kept in check by mysterious people headed by a constantly changing No. 2 who want 'information'. Possibly there's an even more enigmatic No. 1 pulling the strings in the background... It's a great premise, and that's just the beginning. Shot on location at the unique Welsh seaside resort of Portmeirion the choice of the place alone already mixes a-historical beauty with sharp irony when seen in conjunction with the background story. Also "The Prisoner" doesn't shun from heading in entirely different directions episode by episode: it's action packed and cool, however substantial, chock-full with philosophical issues and features mostly brilliant allegorical storytelling ranging from psychological warfare, brainwashing, reality games, even a fairy tale and a western are in the mix and surrealism at its absurdest but most effective. It should be pointed out that the series is groundbreaking in many respects and yet far from perfect. That however is part of its appeal. What initially was planned only as a series with a handful of episodes by McGoohan and producer Markstein was blown up to 17 very uneven segments. A curse and a blessing indeed, as there are parts in it that work like a charm and others that appear tedious and strained. But all in all "The Prisoner" is the perfect thinking man's buffet to pick from and start discussions, with the episodes serving as the springboard. Most of all the series offers insight in what stands between man and his freedom, it even finally provides a definitive answer to the always present question: "Who is number 1?" If you don't know yet, or need a reminder: Be seeing you - in the village!


                
Legend has it that Patrick McGoohan was at a party with some VIP types, sometime after making 'Secret Agent Man' (you will recall it had a great theme by Johnny Rivers), when the subject came up of what was done with 'retiring' spies or intelligence folks. A Government servant told him that they were taken care of, kept somewhere prosperous and comfortable, since the info they carried in their brains could be extracted by hostiles from the other side (in so many words). This gave McGoohan the idea for the 'Village', and, ergo, the Prisoner. What if retirees (or personnel like 'Drake' from McGoohan's old show 'Danger Man' AKA 'Secret Agent Man') abruptly quit? Could the powers-that-be just let them walk away?
This forms the premise for McGoohan's brilliant production of 'the Prisoner' in the late 60's, a production w-a-y ahead of its time, before the PC craze that came 15 years later brought massive volumes of info to John Q. Public in a matter of seconds. The notion that 'someone' out there had oodles of facts and opinions on us, in some recorded fashion, that we hoped would be private, was a scary notion back then. Nowadays, we accept the lack of privacy, despite the existence of hackers, and identity-theft artists who operate in the murky world of 'zeroes and ones'.Despite its age, and the tech era that has evolved since, somehow the Prisoner does not seem 'dated'--that's the genius of it. You could imagine a Roman Legion Commander resigning--and ending up in the same conundrum. No. 6 /'Drake' (we don't know his real name - to me he looks and dresses like the same 'Secret Agent' guy, Drake) quits his secret service job, gets drugged and wakes up in 'the Village', from which there is no escape (not that he doesn't keep trying). The Powers-that-be even have a device called Rover, a large floating bubble that can suffocate or render unconscious anyone who strays too far. To me, Rover symbolizes that, in Society, a non-conformist soon finds himself bound by social conventions he may not like, but cannot conquer.No. 6 is told (repeatedly) that, if he tells his minders WHY he resigned (really), they might let him go, but he refuses to explain. No. 6 is intransigent, tough, and stubborn. Who, exactly, is trying to extract an explanation from him is ambiguous, but only for effect--it is clear that the British are running this thing. In the second episode, his former Supervisors show up to deceive him into spilling the beans. Obviously, the Russians could not pull that off!What we are left with is an allegorical struggle by 1 man to retain his privacy. You will see the symbolism frequently, mixed with overtones of the Cold War era (friendly characters, even old friends, frequently conspire to trick No. 6 into giving something away). Only No. 6 could outwit these guys - he is a ruthless character in his own right--elusive, determined and cunning. McGoohan is perfect in this role - he is as charming, but cold as the Connery portrayals of James Bond.Final word: when this show ran on TVO in Canada (circa 1970), Warner Troyer, a great Canadian journalist, did a 5-minute wrap-up at the end, discussing the symbolism he detected in each episode. After the final show, he hosted Patrick McGoohan in a (kind of) forum at Seneca College, wherein McGoohan explained some of the mysteries. That final 35-minute Q&A can be seen on Youtube, if you look up 'The Prisoner Puzzle with Patrick McGoohan'.


                
There's a lot to say about "the Prisoner" - notably about how it challenges its audience and how it invites discussion and further exploration - but what charmed me (even on subsequent rewatches) is just how well it grabs you in the process. Could be due to a particular episode order (mine was the ITC order), but it was highly involving nonetheless. "Many Happy Returns", especially, is a nail-biter and you find yourself sticking around to see what happens. And I'd already seen the series twice. Aside from that, it is wholly unique; a '60s spy-fi series with a distinct cool factor. One that asks questions of its audience without much in the way of immediate answers. The beauty of the show is that this is ultimately a fun, not frustrating venture. And after having seen a few episodes, you have to know that the finale won't be a clear-cut solution to the questions raised. I don't know if I've gotten this much replay value out of such a convoluted show, but it remains one of my favorites. 9/10
The rating 9 out of 10 only applies to about first ten (10) episodes. So, the first episodes are not a fantasy. All this was very real in the former USSR where I lived. Every citizen felt and was treated the way the main character of the movie is feeling and is being treated. The paranoia, lack of trust, betrayals, etc. I especially remember the "trial" by clowns, in this movie: this is exactly how real trials were done in the USSR (without costumes, of course). This is what is going on in N. Korea and other such countries today, but on a more severe and exaggerated scale - even this movie cannot top the reality of those countries. So, when you are watching it, remember - this is REALITY is some countries. The only thing that the movie begins to deteriorate after about 10-th episode (I do not remember exactly which episode): the Cowboys series just kills / annihilates all previous episodes. And then the real blooper comes: The Girl Who Was Death (S01, e14) - total crap that made me puke. Writer began to write for pure "bang" and explosion effects and forgot about the main thing. So, my conclusion is that the writer was somehow forced to continue to write episodes (after about episode 10 ?) and wrote just crap. But I have not watched the series after the episode 14 (Girl Who Was Death) - lost interest, entirely, because I realized what happened to the originally good series. A drop of bile can spoil entire sea of honey, that's for sure.


                
Ah, 'The Prisoner'.A blast from the past and a time of greatest national creativity. 'The Prisoner' begins to a blazing jazz riff. Patrick McGoohan plays the agent who's been betrayed and means to quit. As thunder rolls and the jazz blazes we see him tearing a stripe off his boss. But nobody walks-out quite that easily.He drives home in his iconic 'Lotus 7' kit car yet is surreptitiously followed by a hearse. He is gassed.Later, he wakes to dream-like music in a village that might be a childhood fantasy. Now he is 'Number 6', and the most bizarre internment has begun. Pensive and dour-faced, tense, calculating, strong and explosively violent, Patrick McGoohan was made for the role in a programme which I'm told was actually his idea. His gravelly monotone speech seems to dance permanently on the edge of fury.Each episode is a well-plotted piece in a series jigsaw rather than a serial. Directing is simple and good. Camera-work is well thought out and makes excellent use of the peculiar architecture that is Port Meirion, in Wales, where they still trade on the show's success.You make of this programme what you will. It is by turns crass and clever. Lots of slick - what were then cutting-edge fashion - props are employed during the show, in particular the 'ball' chair, occupied by 'Number 2'. The most preposterous and at the same time alarming feature is 'Rover'. This is a huge flexible sphere, part-beachball part-balloon, that seems to possess a high level of semi-autonomous intelligence. It is released when some inmate tries to do a runner and goes bounding after them. Unaware of its purpose, fugitives let it get too close whereupon it engulfs their face and smothers them. Not very nice. Each week Number 6 is faced with a battle of wits apparently intended to 'break' him. And each week he turns the tables, leaving his inquisitors baffled. The script is something you must listen to carefully; it is very subtle and often contains clues. This format couldn't last too long without becoming ridiculous or boring, and the makers wisely kept it to a single, brief run. It came, and it went. And so far as I'm aware, has never since been repeated on terrestrial British telly. It remains as a thought-provoking enigma from the golden age of creative programme-making. Available on DVD, bonkers or brilliant, you pays your money and takes your choice.
First review for me today, I've been reading reviews for a little while, so much so that, I;ve been more entertained reading them and missing all the good programmes I could be watching.Anyway regarding The Prisoner and the theories of what it may mean. I feel it could be any number of things and that's the beauty of using your mind. Like life, there's not just black and white, one person's reality of something will always differ from somebodies else's reality, but see the same thing.Personally I think it is just a sixties trip and better if you are chilled out, so to speak.
