Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977) is a classic phenomenal arguably the best sci-fi film in trilogy away, the one that started all and arguably changed the face of cinema forever. I love this film is actually my number 1 favorite film in the franchise and it is George Lucas masterpiece - the man who make this film happening. He wrote and Directed him self, I love this film to death! I love everything that is in A New Hope. Before I go in to this movie I want to say after watching the new awful horrible movie Episode VII The Force Awakens, I decide to re watch the original Star Wars Trilogy and I have always loved A New Hope and I always will. This was the first film in the trilogy that I have saw as a kid and that I remember. Star Wars are starring Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher.The plot is actually more about Rebel Alliance, led by Princess Leia (Fisher), and its attempt to destroy the Galactic Empire's space station, the Death Star. It is a mission returning the plans of Death Star to the Rebel Alliance, while Galactic Empire want's them back and it is lead by Darth Vader (David Prowse). This movie is what it is, a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost perfectly with all the tools that fit the task -- actors, stunts, puppetry, models, and Special Effects.Star Wars is a film that I have watch it now and I will always watch it , because how much I really, really enjoy this film. This fun, pure joy, entertaining and truly a great film is like a classic, I recommend this film to any fan of the Star Wars trilogy, my favorite will always be A New Hope. This was the film that I have saw the first time as a kid and it grow on me. I love introduction when C-3PO and R2-D2 are walking trough the desert on planet Tatooine and are captured by Jawa traders, who sell them to moisture farmers Owen and Beru Lars and their nephew, Luke Skywalker. Here is the first time we met the character Luke Skywalker. This is the scene where C-3PO is walking trough the desert him self and than he saw someone far away and yells for help. I love this scene and it is the scene I remember from childhood.Which is your favorite character? My favorite character of all time is Luke Skywalker and I really love him so much. My second favorite character will be Han Solo but Luke Skywalker will be the ultimate hero of the galaxy for me.I love this flick, I love the end battle on Death Star, Luke joins the Rebel assault squadron and Luke becomes one of the few surviving pilots. Vader leads a squad of TIE fighters and prepares to attack Luke's X-wing fighter, but Han returns and fires on the Imperials, sending Vader spiraling away. Helped by guidance from Obi-Wan's spirit, Luke uses the Force and successfully destroys the Death Star seconds before it can fire on the Rebel base. I love that scene.I love John Williams score for Star wars which is the best score ever! It is an excellent score makes an actions scenes more exciting and more intense. George Lucas directed this movie well and did an excellent job been a writer as the same time been the director, the pacing is excellent the actors does an awesome job. I also love and I have enjoyed the character Darth Vader and I also love this film because it has a happy ending. Harrison Ford , Mark Hamill and Carrie Fisher did all a great joy playing their characters.Carrie Fisher is really gorgeous in this film and for the 70's film it had great pacing and great imaginary story that dose not gives you only a snippet of the backstory. The fight scene between Darth Vader and Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi was excellent and the death scene of Obi-Wan was a honorable death. Alec Guinness did a perfect job as Obi-Wan "Ben" Kenobi he is excellent. Overall: I have said everything about this film that I love I forgot to mention I love Han Solo, Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker (I love to death), Chewbacca, C-3PO and R2-D2. This flick get's a perfect 10 because it is the best beloved science fiction film.R.I.P. Carrie Fisher (1956 - 2016) she was the perfect Princess Leia and she is very missed.
What made this the hugely successful triumph it was? Was it casting, music, imagination, ingenuity, or luck?I remember opening day at the theaters. I was old enough to remember every scene, every character, every nuance of this film; having committed it to memory forever, as if I would never again be able to see this beloved, instantly loved masterpiece.I also remember that the HIT factor of this movie was so unexpected that you had to wait literal MONTHS to get the action figures promised on the cereal boxes. The pieces were still in the manufacturing process and we had to settle for coupons promising our toys in a few months. I wound up seeing this in the theaters a grand total of 36 times; much to my mother's dismay. She loved the movie as I did, but felt I was obsessed. Today, thirty years later, sitting here writing this review, I realize how right she was. I'm still obsessed with this movie, and with the subsequent movies which followed. I wait in great anticipation for Episode 3. I'm a fan, and I don't care what other people say about Episodes 1 & 2. I don't even mind the "prequel" factor, as the situation at the time, dictated to Lucas which movies he would do first.See, I remember the studios saying to him that he had to choose from the three central climactic books, and trash the rest, or just trash the whole idea. He didn't exactly "sell out," he did what he had to do to get his movie...his vision...out there for us to see and experience. I admired his decision then, and I admire it now. Episodes 1-3 are being filmed now, because Lucas had the clout, the money, and the patience to give us his vision...his complete vision and not just the three center books of a 9-book series. I realize that now, there are dozens of books, but at the time, there were nine. And while most of us were happy with Episodes 4-6 and would not have missed 1-3 and 7-9, I personally am so very glad he has taken it upon himself to give us his full vision. I have enjoyed each and every installment with the same sense of awe and joy as I did this one.The casting was the first triumph for this cinematic milestone. Ford is a charismatic and magnetic personality and portrayed Han with a professionalism that you'd expect from more seasoned actors. Sir Alec Guiness is an absolute joy as Obi Wan. His casting was precise and excellent in that part. Carrie Fisher portrayed Leia in a way that, up until then, had never been experienced. Most "princess" types before her were whining, whimpering, little snots who were incapable of anything beyond tripping and twisting their ankle in times of peril, while Fisher portrayed her character as a bold, brazen, yet sophisticated and educated woman who was aware of her surroundings and capable of defending herself and her realm with the utmost authority.And Mark Hamil. He was perfectly cast as the whining little boy who wanted more, but was afraid to reach for it. He grows up quite well on film in these three installments, and endears himself to the audience so much the more for it. But a cast member who is almost always left out of these reviews is Peter Mayhew. Chewbacca. His character, as a supporting character to Han's, was exemplary. It's not easy portraying a walking carpet, yet holding the attention, admiration, and love of virtual millions. I am VERY happy about his being cast as Chewy in Episode 3. Couldn't happen to a more deserving...or capable...fellow. Bravo! And James Earl Jones's voice being used as the voice of Darth Vader, was pure genius. His commanding voice haunted the dreams of countless thousands of star-struck children for generations to come. I also have to say that this movie would not have had the charm it does had it not been for Anthony Daniels' C3P0. He is a gift and a joy.The musical score by John Williams featured in this masterpiece was one of the contributing factors. But honestly, this movie's success was such a total surprise to everyone, including Lucas, that nothing could prepare the world for the aftermath of having witnessed this bona fide legend, first hand.The story itself; replete with sub-plot after sub-plot, rich in dialog and detail, was beyond anyone's greatest expectations. Everyone, including Lucas, expected this movie to fail. It is a timeless classic, which I will not repeat here. There are too many movie reviews giving full details of the plot, and I won't be redundant beyond what I have already said.However, that being said, there are a few points I would like to make concerning the symbolism of this endeavor. The Force is a metaphor for the psychic abilities with which we are all born. It was also a metaphor for hope and faith, dedication and commitment to the greater state of being. The Empire is said to have been a metaphor for the Germanic Nazi "storm troopers." While the Rebellion is said to have been symbolic of (what would later become) the NATO forces who defeated them.And then there are the effects. The effects were, in 1977, so awesome; so creative; so ahead of their time, as to ensure this movie's vast success for the next forty years. George Lucas enjoys an almost god-like status among sci-fi/fantasy fans worldwide.This movie does not rate a rating. Usually, when I say that, it is because the movie is so bad, or disappointing that I don't have the heart to rate it. But in this case, it far surpasses any 10/10 rating I could give it.The Fiend :.


                
Star wars made epic fantasy real. For a generation of people it has defined what the cinema experience is meant to be. Today it is probable that pc games will offer a deeper and more satisfying entertainment solution, but for pure visual and aural pleasure, mixed with basic emotional manipulation, there has never and will never be a better example of cinema than when star wars appeared over 25 years ago. When you think of star wars, you must remember what else was happening at the time. In America, the war in Vietnam had been lost. In the U.K economic disaster was occurring(a 3 day working week, and the army collecting rubbish). It was almost like the two most technically advanced countries in the world were going backwards. Star wars let everybody escape from that reality and reach for a future that was uncertain but ultimately good.


                
I can never pick a favorite movie because different movies have different effects. Goodfellas is my favorite drama. Face/Off is my favorite actioner. But when it comes to pure amazement, nothing beats Star Wars. We are introduced to a whole other universe with different creatures, different lifestyles, and different history. We are dropped in the middle of an intergalactic war between an empire and a rebellion that has raged for years and left the universe in ruin. It was the most fascinating thing to see when i was eleven, but to this day i am still a Star Wars nerd.The cast of characters includes some of the coolest, funniest, and most tragic in film, and the actors who play them fit seamlessly into this new universe. Alec Guiness is flawless as Obi-Wan Kenobi, a Jedi on the run from the evil Empire. Harrison Ford is awesome as Han Solo, a smuggler and thief who helps the gang rescue the princess. But the my favorite character of all time is Darth Vader. Not only is he the coolest bad guy, but we learn in later films why he is evil and start to feel sympathetic for him. Not to mention that badass booming voice that can make ordering a pizza sound threatening.This was not only the beginning of the best movie series ever, but it was the beginning of my love for movies. George Lucas is a genius for being able to come up with a great story and an incredible backdrop for what was supposed to be a flop, but turned into one of the best films ever. 10/10


                
There's not much to say about this movie this is *THE* movie that changed it all.It's my favourite movie, and not only among the quadrilogy, among all movies; it has everything that can be great in a movie, great characters, great story, great sights, great special effects (they don't show 23 years) and a mythological background that made us dream for decades now, and that'll keep us dreaming for a long, long time. Maybe the characters I liked most in this one are Old Obi-Wan Kenobi, wonderfully portrayed by Alec Guinness, and Han Solo, Harrison Ford's first important role, they're both great.Not to mention John Williams' wonderful score, without of it, the movie wouldn't have been this great it's a perfect mix, that's what it is!


                
Here begins the greatest cinematic epic of all time, and arguably one of the greatest stories ever told. Originally conceived as a serialized popcorn movie in the manner of the old action movies that Lucas grew up with, Star Wars surpassed even George's keen and bombastic imagination to become a central part of movie history.There are countless tales of the making of this movie; how Lucas never believed he would get the chance to complete the series, how it spawned an industry and made the name of nearly everyone who touched it a household word. But what that does not reveal, nor do the much diminished prequels, is the sheer joy and excitement these movies generated.It was a once in a lifetime experience. You could feel it from opening day, earlier if you paid attention to such things. We had never seen anything like it, and we are not likely to again.This episode finds young Luke Skywalker yearning to leave the agrarian life he has with his aunt and uncle, and chase after adventure as his friends before him have already done. And what adventure there is. The galaxy is in the grip of a massive rebellion against a tyrannical and oppressive empire, but on Luke's home planet, it's something you only dare speak of in a whisper.Along come two robots, "Droids" for short, who inadvertently involve Luke in a stellar attempt to contact an old wizard named Ben Kenobi, who lives in the caves near Luke's home.The rest is history, and there isn't a person alive in the civilized world who doesn't have at least some awareness of the epic story that unfolds. Luke's rise from adolescent obscurity on Tatooine to a leading role in the greatest struggle of all time is told with humor, action, adventure, and always a sense of story that is unmatched on the screen or on the page.With the completion of the prequel trilogy, these films are enjoying a renewed popularity among a generation that never saw the films on the big screen, and the theatric revivals are almost guaranteed. Go. Get some popcorn. And may the Force be with you.


                
Forty years ago, screens of cinemas around the world got full of action, science fiction and fantasy with the premier of the STAR WARS movie, the one that the world would later know as Star Wars, Episode IV: A New Hope. It told us a story that despite the fact of being extremely futuristic, his creator did not set it as happening in a distant future but in a long forgotten past in a galaxy far away from here.This review intends to celebrate the 40 years of the beginning of one of the best trilogies of all time and present a personal point of view of why this first trilogy of films ; A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi is so beloved among the fans and why it couldn´t be matched by its prequel trilogy and it doesn´t seem as if it could be matched by its sequel whose first episode was released two years ago. That is also, why I must warn you that this text contains spoilers of the whole trilogy and small details of the other two, nevertheless, if you are like more or less the 95% of the people in what we call "civilized world" you have already seen this first trilogy and my little spoilers will not be a problem.------- -------- -------STAR WARS; Episode 4: A New hope... ... told us the story of Luke Skywalker, a leading hero that in my opinion, was not even closely matched by Anakin Skywalker (his father) in the prequels that were released later and I don´t think judging for what we know so far that he could ever be matched by Rey (in the sequels to come) because of a simple fact: The three leading heroes: Luke, Anakin and Rey are desperate to find their path in life, but only Luke is desperate to follow the path of a hero. This is not something that is necessarily implied in the dialogues, but something we feel along the movies. Anakin and Rey are desperate to understand the world around them, and in this sense they are not different to most people nowadays, but Luke wants to know if something can be done to help. Yoda says that Luke is always looking " to the future, to the horizon", and even when he says it as a reprimand, this quote also implies that Luke thinks that the world can go better than it usually does in the present state of things.Anakin was in theory the "Chosen One", Luke chose himself among two possible choices of redemption for the galaxy, even when he didn´t know at first that "there was another one". George Lucas has confirmed that Anakin was the Chosen One and that the prophesy is true, because as Darth Vader, Anakin destroyed the Sith that in that point were the Emperor and himself (in Return of the Jedi) , but IMO, that means that Anakin, or Darth Vader is only the Chosen One from a very technical point of view, as it was really Luke and the Rebellion who defeated them and if Darth hadn´t saved Luke from the Emperor, they would have nevertheless most probably perished with the destruction of the second Death Star, being most of the merit LUKE´S!Now, besides being Luke a more likable hero that both of his counterparts (Anakin and Rey) and having given the main reasons to think why this is so in the last paragraph, I think that this first Star Wars trilogy did something that no other movie franchise has ever done, being the closest achievement that of the Matrix trilogy: It presents universal teachings and wisdom in a non-segregative format. Its teachings could well belong to Christianity, Buddhism, Shinto, Islam, Wicca or even some martial arts like Aikido or Karate and nevertheless these teachings are not necessarily linked to any of them; it was the first time that we saw a movie that tried to merge all the wisdom from different cultures and present a kind of "Universal Wisdom". And that is, in my opinion, more than the great visual effects, its amazing Light Sabers or its interesting characters why this movie and the next two conforming the first trilogy will always be so important ; because of its philosophical value: they gave us a story that tried to synthesize teachings from a lot of religions and cultures and present them in a simple and amusing way.
Thanks for reading.IMDb Review written by David del Real.Mexico City. MéxicoDecember 15th, 2017.
Truly a landmark film. When it came out, there had never been anything like it before, and it truly caused quite a stir. I would contend that it is not as good as its sequel, Empire Strikes Back; but it is still a great movie. There is humor, action, and some heartfelt moments. It is also our introduction to some great characters that people will never forget - Chewbacca, Han Solo, Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker, Obi Wan Kenobi...and of course everyone's favorite villain, Darth Vader. Alec Guinness really is outstanding in this movie. His role as Luke's first mentor is understated and believable...his somewhat tired attitude in retrospect seems very understandable after watching the prequels - after all he's been through, it is very believable when he tells Luke, "I'm getting to old for this sort of thing." The visual effects are not only groundbreaking, but they still hold up very well even in this CGI-effects laden era. I would contend that ILM's use of modeling and lighting in the old films actually lends a more believable look to the action scenes than the prequels' use of video-game style battles and sensory overload. There is great chemistry between the actor's - and while Luke is a bit annoying, the back and forth of Han and Chewbacca, and C-3PO and R2-D2, as well as Leia's chemistry with Han and Luke, make this movie extremely entertaining on an emotional level - it also makes you care about the characters. Let us compare the lightsaber duel of this movie with that from Phantom Menace. Although the acrobatics and sheer fury of the duel just are not there in A New Hope, we actually feel something when Obi-Wan allows Vader to strike him down. Conversely, when Qui-Gon Jinn is slain, there is not the same (if any) feeling after it is done. Well, I'm rambling now. But this movie has it all. Space battles, lightsaber duels (a la Samurai flicks), chase sequences, thinly veiled references to the Western genre in the Canteen on Tatooine. A Truly great adventure that, as it ended, was really just beginning.
I know there is already over 1500 reviews on this movie already, but I decided to write one anyway. Now, where does one begin? This movie changed everything. Everything in my life, and everything in any movie-lovers life, whether or not you are a Star Wars fan. This movie showed people a whole new potential that movies could actually have, by leading sci-fi into a direction never before seen. Movies after 1977 have never been the same, the vision of George Lucas was the start of it all This is with the result that pretty much every scene is iconic at this point. Movies are a subjective thing, and if star wars isn't your thing, then fair enough, but give this a watch before saying no to star wars. You can easily watch this without being a hardcore star wars fan, and still enjoy this movie alot! This movie is my favorite of all the sw movies (even though Empire in many ways is objectively better), and it pretty much defines my childhood. This movie is beautifull. If you're a parent, then do your child (not to mention yourself) a favor, and watch this movie with them.


                
This I admit is not so much a review as it is an ode.Thank-you to the writer, director, actors and the studio for nourishing a young man's fantasies and bestowing years of fun and pleasure. Whether a space opera, action fantasy, science fiction or a family drama Star Wars was for years a great source of pleasure and 'comfort movie' for me and even now as an adult I am in awe of the imagination and creativity that went into this film and the two episodes that followed it.It is frankly too bad that Star Wars fell into the hands of Disney, JJ Abrams and became a tool solely for cashing in and a line item on someone's accounting ledger, but I guess it was inevitable. I chose to ignore the boring new films and forever cherish Leia, Luke, Darth Vader, R2D2, C3PO and the rest of them.PS: I am glad you lost, evil emperor. I wanted you to fail the moment I laid my eyes on you!


                
Star Wars changed everyone's lives when it came out in 1977, including mine. I can still remember the anticipation as a little kid waiting in line to see this amazing movie I kept reading about.It definitely lived up to every bit of hype I had heard up to that point. I got my popcorn and my soda, sat down with my cousin and we watched in awe at everything we saw on the screen.I am definitely a Star Wars kid, and feel very lucky to have actually seen the original in the theater, something that today's kids can never experience because all big event films are all children of Star Wars after all. But there will never be anything like this first movie, the greatest film of all time! If you haven't seen it yet, see it!


                
In a distant galaxy, a long time ago, young Luke Skywalker assembles his motley crew of allies including space rogue Han Solo and two "droids" -- C3PO and R2D2 -- to rescue Princess Leia, the rebel leader of her planet from the clutches of the evil Empire as embodied by its enforcer Darth Vader in Star Wars:A New Hope.It is epic space opera film series created by George Lucas. The first film in the series was originally released on 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon, followed by two sequels, released at three-year intervals. Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy's final film, the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released. The three films were also released at three-year intervals, with the final film released on 2005.The Star Wars film series has spawned a media franchise including books, television series, video games, and comic books. These supplements to the film trilogies comprise the Star Wars Expanded Universe, and have resulted in significant development of the series' fictional universe. Obviously,it is a legendarily expansive and ambitious start to the sci- fi saga, George Lucas opened our eyes to the possibilities of blockbuster filmmaking and things have never been the same.It is a magnificent film.Lucas set out to make the biggest possible adventure fantasy out of his memories of serials and older action epics, and he succeeded brilliantly.It is a seminal movie that began a whole cycle of sci-fi works and also launched the careers of many actors and craftsmen.A sweeping epic with classical themes lifted from the teachings of Joseph Campbell, but it maintains strong central characters.And most of all,it is one of the most enduring movies of all time.
I couldn't have asked for anything more. Star Wars: A New Hope had it all. If I had to sum it up in one word, superlative would be my answer. I saw the film for the first time three months ago and loved it, and since then I have watched all the Star Wars movies. I was disappointed with the prequels (Attack of the Clones was my least favourite), but this, Return of the Jedi and Empire Strikes Back were perfection.I have to say that the film looks absolutely amazing even after thirty plus years, with highly imaginative sets and dazzling special effects. And the action sequences were superbly choreographed and brisk, the Death Star climax was a knockout. The music by John Williams is absolutely outstanding, by far one of his more exciting and rousing scores. The story is fast-paced, intelligent and has an essence of sophistication, and the screenplay is sharp and decisive.And the performances were flawless. In the prequels I had problems relating to some of the performers, namely Hayden Christensen as Anakin. Here, all the actors played their parts with superlative skill. Alec Guiness, one fine actor and will be sorely missed was a standout, likewise with Peter Cushing and Harrison Ford(hilarious here). Carrie Fisher was a fine Princess Leia, spunky, beautiful and sexy, and Mark Hamill was a completely likable Luke. And the villain Darth Vader, without doubt one of the best and in-depth villains in cinematic history, and James Earl Jones's deep booming voice was perfect for the character.All in all, a definite sci-fi classic, that blew me away. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
This has been by far the greatest movie of all time. The special effects are very fantastic especially when the movie was made before I was even born, even Return of the Jedi was made 7 years before I was born, or should I say it was completed 7 years before I was born. It's like George Lucas who's the Director for all the Star Wars movies including Episode III- Revenge of the Sith, it's like he went back in time a long time ago and he traveled to a galaxy far, far away. I must say George Lucas, I am very impressed. This probably did all happen a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. I just can't believe it, I mean how did he do it, this film is just ABSOLUTELY INCREDIBLE. George Lucas can make any kind of movie he wants. He can even make a movie about what happens far before Star Wars Episode I- The Phantom Menace and he can even make a movie about what happens far after Star Wars Episode VI- Return of the Jedi. So George Lucas I have been a huge fan of Star Wars since I saw Episode IV when I was 5 and I'll be honest, I didn't really understand the storyline because I was only 5. But I was just amazed on the Special Effects, it was incredible for it's time, 1977. And when I turned 7 my mother bought the Star Wars Trilogy Special Edition and it was even better with all new Advanced Digital Technology and I started to understand the storyline a lot better. And when I turned 14 I bought the Star Wars Trilogy on DVD and it got much better with one of the best pictures I have ever seen in a movie. But the Number 1 thing I hated about the DVD was that in Return of the Jedi at the very end of the movie you see the ghosts of Obi-Wan Kenobi, Yoda and Anakin Skywalker. I hated the fact that in the DVD you replaced Anakin Skywalker's ghost with the Anakin Skywalker from Episode II and Episode III. You shouldn't have done that George. It's great you re-modified the Trilogy and all with new technology but don't destroy the plot, because not even Luke Skywalker is going to have no idea who that person is, and you didn't make Obi-Wan Kenobi look like Ewan McGregor so I don't see why you did that. George try to re-modify Return of the Jedi that way it was before, the face that Luke Skywalker saw him as when he took off that black mask and helmet that Anakin Skywalker needs to live. Alright. That's all I have to say.
I've seen "Star Wars", I don't know HOW many times and I just never get sick of it. It's one of my favorites and one of the greatest movies of all time. A movie that's the perfect combination of great special effects, a great story and memorable characters. All these movies that have been trying to make another "Star Wars" over the past two decades generally overlook exactly what made this movie so great in the first place. They tend to just focus on the sets and special effects and overlook the story and characters. George Lucas took great care on all three. A classic movie that will continue to be loved decades from now. Unlike all the Hollywood, big-budget crap coming out these days, this was a low-budget film, but had more magic than all the others put together.
STAR WARS! Just the title evokes a reaction and what follows is a series of emotions. Passion, joy, love, laughter, anticipation and excitement. A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away there was once such a thing as really good films, and Star Wars may be just about the greatest of them all. Without going into too much detail on the other films of the original trilogy, Star Wars may actually be the best of the three just because of its simplicity. Sure Empire takes it to a deeper level, but Star Wars is just the simple and relatable fable of Dorothy on her farm, wishing for a greater existence in life, however in Star Wars our Dorothy is Luke Skywalker, searching for his own purpose in life. We've all been there surely? That's what great films are made of.Star Wars starts out with a small and soon to be obsolete rebel ship being pursued by the ominous and disturbingly bad guy looking star destroyer of the evil empire! The storm troopers soon board and take control of the ship, lead by their captain in command, Darth Vader. The moment Vader steps out from the smoke, stands tall above the dead rebels and his infamous breathing begins, one can easily distinguish the fact he is the most bad-ass evil villain in the history of villainy. And he is. No doubt Vader is as bad as they come, but you instantly get the sense there is more to this guy than first appearances would give. More on that later. So Vader and his storm troopers take the Princess Leia hostage, played wonderfully by Carrie Fisher, who has sent her faithful R2-D2 and his tag along C-3PO away with the plans of destroying the death star, down to tattooine, the Sahara of the galaxy. Que Luke Skywalker, played subtly by Mark Hamill, who dreams of a bigger purpose in life. The chances of fate bring him and the two droids together and from there the film catapults young Luke into the adult world of the rebellion fighting for freedom against the empire.So many great characters to talk about in Star Wars, Han Solo takes the cake for being the best character for my money. He is cocky, smug and shows growth of character the most throughout the film. Harrison Ford created his first iconic character in the arrogant and charming space pilot, captain of the millennium falcon (another amazing creation) and best friend to wookie Chewbacca. I also really like the character of Ben Kenobi. Not only was Alec Guiness the superb choice to be cast as the character, there is so much depth and richness to the character too. Ben is just an old guy hiding in the desert of tattooine to begin with, but once he rescues Luke and they get off of tattooine with Han Solo and the gang, Ben starts opening his mouth and you really get the sense that this guy was once a really formidable Jedi, and still is to an extent. The real power of the force lies within his voice, within his wisdom and advice, which are truly inspiring, not only for Luke, but for the viewer too. Not only is Ben a great mentor and adviser, he is a bad-ass. His climatic duel with Vader is not only thrilling but also insightful, as Ben willingly sacrifices himself, realising he will pave the way for Luke to become a Jedi and save the galaxy. Awesome stuff.Special effects are also a triumph in this film. Everything from the glow of the lightsaber to the fantastic final battle of the death star at the climax of the film all come together in a crescendo of beautiful storytelling. It isn't just effects for the sake of effects, they are in aid of the story and help enhance it. Also, the score of Star Wars is truly memorable and without a doubt, the opening credit sequence of the film along with its famous score makes for a thrilling film moment every viewing.Star Wars has so many great themes involved, but as Ben realises when he surrenders himself to Vader, it is all about the bigger picture. Its about the future, its about growth and learning, coming of age and of course, Han shot first. Star Wars might just be the perfect film of all time.
This is not a review of the first ( and best ) 'Star Wars' movie. I take it, fellow I.M.D.B. users, that you are already familiar with the plot, characters and production history, and how its success changed the face of cinema overnight. So rather than rehash all the known facts, I want instead to recount a personal memory.I first learnt of 'Star Wars' thanks to Granada's 'The Krypton Factor', a long-running game show designed to test contestants' intelligence, physical fitness, powers of observation and so on. I liked the latter round as it often gave one a chance to catch a sneak preview of a new movie. One week, they ran a clip of Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, R2D2 and C2PO escaping The Death Star in The Millennium Falcon, and being shot at by pursuing T.I.E. fighters. I fell off my chair. What was this? 1970's sci-fi movies were mostly depressing affairs, predicting gloomy futures for Mankind, now here was something fast, colourful, and lively, with lasers zapping about outer space and explosions. Right up my street.I had to see it. But the film was not yet on release here. There was no Internet then so I got my movie information from the local paper. I kept checking for news of an impending screening at my local cinema, but no - there was nothing. I began to wonder if the movie actually existed or not. Had Granada pulled off the greatest hoax of all time? I read the Sphere book voraciously until I knew the story backwards. I played the Meco disco single at every opportunity. When Marvel's comic adaptation went on sale, I was almost thrown out of the newsagent for jumping up and down for sheer joy.At my school, 'Star Wars' was a dirty word to sci-fi fans, mainly because it was not 'Close Encounters'. The Spielberg picture was regarded as 'adult' and 'intelligent', while the Lucas movie was deemed 'kiddie stuff' starring weirdos in fancy dress running around with a bloke dressed as a big teddy bear.The wait dragged on and on. In an episode of 'Coronation Street', Gail ( Helen Worth ) asked her then-boyfriend, Steve Fisher: "When's 'Star Wars' coming round here?" to which he replied: "It'll be some time I expect.". His words encapsulated the sheer frustration and impatience felt by all us U.K. fans. The highest grossing film of all time and we can't see it? What is the hold up? Are they redoing bits for the benefit of British audiences? Peter Cushing and Alec Guinness are in it so this cannot be right.In desperation, I told a blatant lie to my best friend. "I have seen 'Star Wars'", I proclaimed. He looked about as shocked as if I'd said I'd spent the night with Carrie Fisher. I claimed that my uncle Eric worked for Twentieth Century-Fox ( another lie. He drove taxi cabs for a living ) as an assistant editor and George Lucas had been so impressed with his work on the film, he had generously given him a print. To back up my claim, I reeled off a long list of plot details and scene descriptions. I got a few things wrong, such as Jabba The Hut and Biggs Darklighter, both of whom were excised from the final cut. But by the time my friend saw the film he had forgotten these. He did beg me to ask my uncle to run the film specially for him on Sunday afternoon, but I deflected this by stating that Uncle Eric's projector had broken down. He never asked again.Being about fifteen, I was too old for the toys, hence on Christmas Day 1977 I was denied the pleasure of reenacting the assault on The Death Star in my garden shed, with the aid of elastic bands, old Subbuteo figures and the John Williams soundtrack thumping out of my Hitachi tape recorder.After what felt like an eternity, the movie finally opened here and suddenly it became fashionable to denounce it as 'overrated'. 'It was childish when they were playing trumpets in the Cantina' was my best friend's verdict. That was all he had to say on the subject ( he would have made a great film critic! ). Many people felt that the film had not been worth the six month wait. I was one of the few to speak in its defence. I was glad that sci-fi movies were fun again. Nobody left the theatre with a spring in their step after seeing Milo The Baby Chimp's parents brutally murdered by the U.S. Government at the end of 'Escape From The Planet Of The Apes'.'Star Wars' spawned two sequels, neither as good, and inspired the likes of 'Alien', 'The Black Hole', 'Star Trek: The Motion Picture' and countless others. Without Lucas, these would simply not have been made.I am not a big fan of the prequels, but then I'm not young anymore, so can't enjoy that kind of movie in the same way. 'Star Wars' brought 'A New Hope' to those of us wanting old fashioned escapism on the Silver Screen again. I envy kids today for not having to wait until winter for the latest summer blockbuster.
It is now 36 years after this movie hit theaters, but it is not too late to write a review! This movie will and already is in the history books as the movie that changed the world! Star Wars, created by George Lucas, is the most iconic, awesome, epic and action-packed space opera ever made. This movie contains everything you want to see in a movie, for example: action, adventure, mystery, humor, emotion and, above all, creativity. The great visual and imaginative mind of George Lucas made it possible for other filmmakers to get from realistic movies to a generation of movies containing imagination and fantasy. The beginning of the movie is so perfectly written and makes it almost impossible for people not to like it. Firstly, the title scrawl. Although this scrawl was the same as the Flash Gordon series, in Star Wars this iconic and epic beginning was made great by the extraordinary music by John Williams. The music he composed made this movie what it is today and what it was then. His epic score for this movie was deservedly rewarded with an Academy Award. This great creation by George Lucas has influenced me, the American population and the rest of the world completely!!!


                
I don't think there's any denying that Star Wars changed cinema history and deservedly so. At the time of its release, science-fiction was considered a dead genre with the only major films from Hollywood's recent cannon being the work from Stanley Kubrick and cheesy, yet still fun flicks like Logan's Run. Yet, no other futuristic movie wowed more than George Lucas's space opera. From that infamous opening scroll, featuring that amazing heart-pumping score, to the end credits, people were gripped and hoping their heroes that had grown to know those two previous hours could come out alive. While, George Lucas did give his Jedi knights more adventures, I don't think any of those sequels and certainly not the prequels have managed to come close to the original Star Wars that practically defined the baby boom generation. Watching the film again recently, I am still impressed by the awesome power of the movie and the fact that even after thirty years after its release, it gets me more excited than the latest Hollywood blockbuster. Sorry, Michael Bay, but you're no George Lucas, that's for certain.After two droids crash-land on the desert planet of Tatooine, they are immediately captured and sold to a young farm boy called Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill), who desperately wants to leave the rock he lives on with his aunt and uncle. While fixing one of the droids, he finds a message from Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher), requesting the help of Obi-Wan Kenobi (Alec Guiness). Luke finds Kenobi, a hermit living in the mountains, who tells Luke of his family history. His father was a Jedi knight, killed by the evil Darth Vader and now Kenobi decides it is time to teach him the way of the Force. After Luke finds his family's home destroyed by stormtroopers looking for the two droids, they decide to find their way to another planet. They enlist the help of space pirate Han Solo (Harrison Ford), who decides to give them a lift. On the way, they find the Death Star, a giant space station run by Darth Vader, with the ability to destroy any planet of the solar system. Now, they must enter the Death Star, find and rescue the Princess and destroy the station before it produces anymore harm.George Lucas has been criticised for his so-called lack of direction and screen writing abilities, but I don't think most people can deny that Star Wars packs a mean punch in terms of solid entertainment. While Star Wars is playing, all eyes are on the screen savouring every delicious moment, whether it be a fantastic lightsaber duel or a quiet scene between Luke and Obi-Wan. The visual effects (including those in the special editions) are seriously some of the best in motion picture history as they manage to make the viewer believe they're in space, surrounded by various creatures and flying ships. Lucas has gotten a lot of negative criticism for the fact that he believes that the updated version of Star Wars is the ultimate way to see the film, but I don't mind. The special effects are better and they certainly do add to the experience. Greedo shooting first? It's such a quick, minor scene that goes by at such a fast rate, that I don't really mind. I understand where the die-hard fans are coming from, but for the casual viewer, it's practically nothing. Adding to the impressive technical delight of Star Wars as well is John Williams's magnificent score, the best in any Hollywood film. I seriously don't think the film would be as highly regarded as it is, if it wasn't for the fantastic music. I seriously would probably enjoy the film even less without it.Yet, I think the lasting appeal of Star Wars has to be the characters. Every child growing up wants to be like Luke Skywalker, the young Jedi who just wants to save the universe from possible destruction. Meanwhile, the older folks in the audience have the wise Obi-Wan Kenobi to relate and as Yoda shows in the other five films, that old age does not remove one of their abilities. Han Solo represents the coolness of Star Wars and Harrison Ford plays him with enough spunk and gusto to warrant what might be a minor character as a personal favourite of mine. And then, there's Darth Vader, the most famous character and the most chilling villain of the 20th century. James Earl Jones will always be connected with with this constantly breathing menace with a past of many hidden secrets. Even the stormtroopers tremble in his wake, for fear that he will force-choke them to death. With thrilling action, impressive visuals, lovable and both frightening characters and a world full of fascination and adventure, it's hard to go wrong with Star Wars, the epic journey of our hearts and inner wants.


                
Star Wars is the God of all movies. It is the greatest film to have ever been made, bar none. Nothing can be compared to it, nor should it be. It is definitive to our world, our society. It changed the way movies were made: for the better.In the 1970s, there was little unknown director named George Lucas. Little did he know (dispite a nightmarish shoot), that his galactic space opera would literally change the way people lived, worked, played and thought. The secret behind his success? His imagination.The script, the characters, the events, the locations, the humour, the opening, the ending... all perfect. Of course, it's not the most well-shot movie of all time, but there's no denying that nobody actually cares. Star Wars has become a cult and a religion, and earned it's place in my heart as the greatest film to have ever been made......Millions will agree.Whatever I say cannot reach the real truth behind Star Wars: just watch it and you'll know exactly what I mean.The force will be with us, always.Overall: A definitive masterpiece. Will never be forgotten, and will remain in the hearts of young and old for generations. Perfect. (10/10)


                
Star Wars was my first non-Disney movie that I watched at the ripe old age of 8. Immediately I fell into another world, getting caught in a new mythology from a Galaxy far, far away. My siblings and I would play "Star Wars" in the back yard, saving the galaxy from evil. We would try to make my cousin into the "A New Hope" version of Princess Leia; my sister's hair was too short. My best friend at the time and I would be Jedi knights - we were 8 so it was okay to do this.The best thing I have ever done in my life is watch the Special Edition release of Star Wars. Sitting in the front row, hearing that surround sound and experiencing Star Wars in a way that no one had experienced it since the 1970s and 1980s - it was truly magical. The image of everyone in the theater standing up and cheering when the Death Star blew up sears in my mind forever and was the highlight of my entire movie-going experience. Why can't movies do that sort of thing anymore? Why cant they cause such inspiration for imagination anymore?
what can you say about his movie.it set the bar by which all movies to come would be judged,and this was 1977.i'm talking about the visual effects,which were nothing less than astounding.it still stands up well to any movie in that regard.remember,they didn't have the benefit of CGI back then,so they relied on miniatures.when you add to that,a compelling story and a soon to be iconic villain(not to mention,the colourful cast of characters)and you have box office gold.sure,the dialogue may be wooden and stilted at times,but that is overshadowed by the achievement of the film.Besides,the film was marketed at 12 year olds,so they're not gonna care about stupid things like dialogue.The original "Star Wars" or as it is subtitled "a New Hope,was a landmark film and single handedly reinvented the science fiction genre. Obviously 10/10


                
Star Wars seems to lack the sense of importance that all of the sequels and prequels had. This one just seeks to entertain, and there's nothing wrong with that! Star Wars is one of those miracle movies (a term borrowed from Leonard Maltin) where everything went wrong but it all came together in the end, like Jaws and The Wizard of Oz. The movie was plagued by budget problems, and Lucas was so behind schedule he suffered a few panic attacks, which is probably why he did not direct the sequels. Star Wars takes the audience on a series of adventures, from encountering sand people in the desert to rescuing a princess on a space station. The special effects and production design is amazing. It takes you into a whole new galaxy and makes you believe it's real. I liked how everything looked old and dirty; prior to Star Wars everything in Sci-fi movies looked brand new. John William's Star Wars score adds a whole new element of fun and is arguably the best work of his career. I can't imagine what Star Wars would be like without his music.The main characters are all familiar archetypes. Luke is the restless, immature boy who wants to get off the farm and have an adventure. Han Solo is the rugged pirate who only cares for himself. Harrison Ford really steals every scene he's in with his wise guy attitude. Obi-Wan Kenobi is the Sorcerer/Mentor stereotype, like Merlin. Alec Guinness brings a certain classiness to the role, even though this is not even close to his best performance. His final lightsaber battle is slow and boring due to the limitations of the weak lightsabers (David Prowse kept breaking them!) and his old age, but he delivers his verbal quips quite nicely, as does James Earl Jones. The scene where he dies is still very powerful; I love how Vader steps on his empty robe, it's like he's thinking "hey, where are you hiding?" Carrie Fisher plays the kidnapped princess; her performance is tougher and feistier in this movie. She loses those qualities to a certain extent in the following movies.Hammer Horror film veteran Peter Cushing played the sinister Imperial Officer, Grand Moff Tarkin. It's amazing how Cushing was able to slip into the role of the villain so easily (he certainly looks evil), considering the fact he was most famous for playing protagonists like Van Helsing and Dr. Frankenstein. I cannot give enough praise to James Earl Jones as the voice of Darth Vader, one of the greatest villains of all time. Some of the dialog is embarrassing but the cast was able to bring the characters alive. That is the most important difference between the originals and the prequels. These characters were not complex in any way, but they had good chemistry with each other. The prequel's characters felt like cardboard. I used to think this was the most boring Star Wars film, and I just don't understand why anymore. I've noticed this film gets criticized for bad pacing, and I could not disagree more. Star Wars has the best pacing of the original trilogy. Empire's plot stopped moving in the middle of the movie, and the first 35-40 minutes of Jedi were a total pit stop. Star Wars on the other hand smoothly builds up to the final climax at the Death Star, without any long story lags. The Battle of Yavin has been criticized for being too long (by Alec Guinness and Roger Ebert), but I don't mind. The Death Star's destruction is an exhilarating moment. Star Wars is also the funniest movie in the series. The bickering between the three heroes on the Death Star is hilarious.In 2004 the Star Wars movies were revised yet again for the DVD release. I have to say I'm disappointed with how the original trilogy has been treated by Lucas. He seems to support film preservation in every case, except when it comes to his own movies. To me, replacing actors and revising special effects is just as bad as colorizing a black and white movie. It eliminates all of the historical significance. I hope one day the original trilogy will receive better treatment in the future. I would recommend buying the original trilogy on DVD now while you still can. It might not be released again, but with Lucas you can never tell.
All folklore no matter where you come from as several basic tenants. You have the hero, the villain, the damsel in distress, , sidekicks, minions, guides, heroic battles, tragedies and victories. Good stories but hardly the stuff of a blockbusting movie. Or is it...? How on earth to take something as basic as a Good-vs-Evil Hero-vs-Villain story and make a movie that will capture imaginations? It can't be done can it? You just can't do it? Well yes actually you can. If you're George Lucas.I was but a babe in arms when the incredible triumph that is the Star Wars Saga was wowing generations of movie-goers worldwide.But although I didn't experience it on the Big Screen I can honestly say I fully understand and appreciate Lucas genius today 20 years on.I can honestly say I have yet to see another Saga measure up to Star Wars in both its look and its content.The premise of course the story of a young farm boy Luke Skywalker, wonderfully played by a young Mark Hamill who captures Luke's frustrations and desires perfectly.Young Luke seems destined to spend his life on his Uncle's farm on the remote planet of Tatooine doing chores but he dreams off more. He longs to be a pilot and see the universe. But that seems to be nothing more than a dream.That is until a chance meeting with two droids called C3PO and R2D2 results in his befriending an old hermit by the name of Ben Kenobi( Sir Alec Guiness) changing his life forever. For the old Hermit is in fact a great Jedi warrior called Obi-Wan Kenobi and the droids carry a distress message from a Princess on a Star Ship under the captivity of the Galactic Empire and it's ruthless leader Darth Vadar. Now Luke will leave his home and begin an adventure he could only have dreamed of, make new friends and learn things about himself and his family that he never knew were possible.Thus began one of the greatest movie adventures of all time and thus were created some of modern cinema's most memorable characters. All the folklore-type characters are present in Lucas masterpiece but he has managed to change and alter them enough to fit his incredible vision.The Hero of course is young Luke. Spirited and dreamer, Luke is also fiercely brave and loyal and something of an adventurer. He is also desperate to learn more about his Father, about whom his Aunt and Uncle refuse to speak.Mark Hamil is top notch in the role.The Damsel in distress is the Plucky Princess Leia , played with gusto by the then just 19 year old Carrie Fisher. Leia is the sender of the message that changes Luke's life. She is a member of a Rebel Alliance formed to oppose the mighty Galactic Empire and she was carrying the plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon , the dreaded Death Star to members of the her Alliance when the Imperial Fleet attacked her convoy.Little do either she or Luke know that they are connected by more than the droids.Luke also acquires a side-kick in the form of the smart, selfish rouge Han Solo. Smuggler and skilled pilot Han also proves to be a useful ally and a firm friendship is formed between the seasoned Solo and the young idealistic Jedi-in-Training. Solo is played by the ever wonderful Harrison Ford who lends just the right amount of sarcastic selfishness to an essentially good lovable character.Sir Alec Guiness is a cinematic legend and his wise old Jedi Knight is yet another fine performance from this seasoned veteran. Just mysterious enough to make you wonder just who he is and what he knows ( you learn more in EpV) he is also wise and a comfort to Luke ( and indeed the viewer) as he guides the young man ( and us) through his development as a Jedi and a man.Star Wars also gave rise to perhaps one of cinema's most iconic and best loved Villains. His almost mechanical breathing and deep sinister voice ( courtesy of James Earl Jones) have made Darth Vadar the best loved of all villains and indeed the most feared. At this time he is in command of the Imperial Fleet and rules the Empire with an Iron fist. All in black with that fearsome mask he is the epitome of the Dark Side and is wonderfully brought to life by Earl-Jones and David Prowse who wears the suit.And of course as we see later on he is also one of the most human and pitiful characters in the Saga despite being more man then machine.He will become Luke's biggest threat but also his strongest connection, a connection Luke never dreamed he would find but the last he wants to have.This was a new genre of film, Sci-Fi mixed with Fantasy and it worked a charm. The world was, and indeed still is, captivated, and its easy to see why. Its got action, suspense, romance, humor, danger and fear. And all this from Lucas twin interests in Space Travel and Folklore combined with a love for and real skill at making movies. The Saga, so wonderfully brought full circle with parts 1,2 and 3 recently , took off from the base so amazingly created in A New Hope and has gone from strength to strength ever since. This film is a wonder of modern film and I firmly believe it will stand the test of time.
