This film is way flatter than any film starring Pacino and DeNiro has any business being. Choppy, inconsistent, overdrawn and forced, the salvageable bits of Heat can fill a thimble (I kinda liked that one scene where you wonder what DeNiro is going to do when he learns where Waingro is hiding).Al Pacino plays the generic LAPD policeman - the wisecracking, gum-chewing dry attitude dude who quips one-liners over dead bodies and issues swift businessman-like orders. He lurches from dry to overacting with such aplomb that he remarks to one character "yeah, I get over the top don't I?" It almost sounds like Pacino is explaining to the audience how the change came about. I can't believe DeNiro filmed this the same time he was bringing the nuanced Ace Rothstein to life in Scorsese's Casino. DeNiro's character in this film is so flat that he can be summarised in one word - "serious". The rest of the cast, which includes some surprisingly good character actors like Danny Trejo and Tom Sizemore, is completely and utterly forgettable. Only Natalie Portman kept my attention for more than a moment, and her character is ultimately completely redundant to the film.Heat's editing is very choppy, and there is some hideous green screen in places. The screenplay is heinous, as it lurches between flat dialogue and formulaic plot points - the scene where McCauley and Eady meet is so generic that I knew what was coming before it happened. His romance, along with the affair of Pacino's wife, Portman's troubles with depression, and the entire subplots of Dennis Haybert, Hank Azaria, William Fichtner, Ashley Judd and even Jon Voight could have been cut. Haybert literally only needed to exist as a fill in driver, so why did we have to watch all these scenes about his struggles? It just makes the film drag on so very much (an hour passes without anything actually happening).The film doesn't even try to constrain itself with police protocol - police stakeouts involve five guys gawking over a balcony down into the alley below. The cops discover information either by needlessly complicated methods (i.e. introducing new, unimportant characters) or by ridiculously simplistic ones ("oh I get it!"). The most heinous scene in the film is the shootout in downtown LA. Apparently Val Kilmer is still Batman, because the cops somehow couldn't hit him ONCE yet he and DeNiro rained lead hell on the LAPD. Additionally, the police fired willy-nilly into civilians with no casualties. Pacino is unable to shoot through Kilmer or DeNiro's plot armour when he has a clear line of sight, but he can headshot Tom Sizemore even when he has a hostage and human shield? Where is the consistency? The whole street fight was just excruciating for me.People call Heat a character study. I say the characters are boring and I cannot believe I spent over 160 minutes watching their bloated, boring story. Go watch Scent of a Woman or Casino instead.
The only interest of that movie, the hook, would have to be the confrontation between two major actors of the past 25 years. Nothing happens during most of the 3-hour blue-filtered feature. Save two dynamic action scenes (hour#1 into hour#2 then hour#2 into hour#3).The confrontation comes somewhere in between the shoot-outs and today, almost 7 years after the release, I only remember the Heinz tomato ketchup bottle on the table. The case is both characters are wooden. Where on hearth is it possible to do so bad with de Niro and Pacino?Need I speak about the dull TV-standard ending?Go back directing Starsky & Hutch episodes Mr Mann: I expect less, I don't waste 3 hrs and I save my buck.


                
De Niro and Pacino on the silver screen together for the first time in a crime thriller, sounds mouth watering doesn't it?. Sadly though this film bows under the pressure and ends up flat on its face. Talk about the most over rated film of all time, HEAT has got to take the biscuit. Apart from a fabulous street shoot out between the goodies and the baddies, which is so realistic you will think you are actually there, there is absolutely nothing to this film. It is slow, verrrry boring and apart from THAT scene has no action in it what so ever. The script is lost in the hype as the clock ticks on very slowly indeed and as for the scene where nemesis's De Niro and Pacino discuss their intentions 'over coffee' I just have to say eh????, what's that all about???. The climax is also predictable and poor which about sums up the whole film. If you must see this idea on screen watch the film it was based on, the little known LA TAKEDOWN as although it is also pretty rubbish, it saves you 1 and a half hours of your life.


                
I believe Heat must have been the concoction of some childlike-emperor of a movie producer. His vision, the sad delusion of having two of Hollywood's biggest tough guys square off against each other, Pacino versus De Niro, although neither tough guy is over 5'8". Val Kilmer wears a ridiculous wig, or maybe its his real hair, which would be much worse. Some fool cast Tom Sizemore to appear in this movie. Heat features talented actresses ( Venora, Judd, Brenneman ) but the movie asks of these ladies to be part of the scenery- I can only assume this is because having good roles for the women in this movie would spoil Heat's chickensh*t macho fantasy. Its like this movie was written by a twelve year old boy, who wrote the the script with burned food rather than ink. Great job Michael Mann.


                
Giving this film a two star rating was at least 500% more enjoyable and satisfying than watching it. Heat is predictable and cliche at its best moments and cringe inducing at its worst. Al Pacino gives one of the most terrible, over the top performances of his life as a grizzled detective who is also apparently on the LA SWAT team and does all the door kicking for the department for unknown reasons. Pacino even has a coffee date with Deniro just so they can have their deep "you and I aren't so different you know" conversation and cap it off with some threats to eachother that basically spell out the unlikely and ridiculous final confrontation of the film where Deniro and Pacino square off one on one.Deniro is okay considering what a terrible script he's going off of but his character is little more than a big fat walking cliche. The whole film is about as interesting as a South Park parody of a Jerry Bruckheimer movie.I will say that only reason I gave this two stars instead of one is because the guns sound powerful and realistic and the two big action scenes are fairly enjoyable. The photography was also good and most of the film looked pretty cool. If there had been a decent movie with an interesting and vaguely believable plot to connect the big action scenes it could have been pretty decent. As it is it's unremarkable, pretentious and pretty silly. I'm a little mystified at how highly rated this movie is.
This is probably one of the most far-fetched movies and wasted casts of all time. It starts with a heavy heist, spectacular but right from the beginning, you can tell that this picture is going to out-smart itself, with cheesy soundtrack and ridiculous slow pace. The whole theme of the movie, is let's make these vilains so damn smart, let's show how intelligent they are and let's make sure the cops repeat it 15 times so that the viewer gets it....BORING ! Why would a team of gangsters hire somebody off the street they never worked with until the last moment ? And why wouldn't McCauley just gun down the other thief in the van and get rid of him, instead of trying to pay him his share TO THEN kill him in the middle of a parking lot ??? Where is the sense in that ! Why give him a meeting in a cafe, give him his money but then plan to kill him ? Oh my goodness this makes no sense at all. For a gang of pros they really know how to screw up like amateurs if this is going to be the theme. And then the cops, they start off as a team of tools, who can't get any information by their own department but need cons on parole or ex jail birds and check this out, Vincent schedules a meeting with Albert an informant who for some reason has his brother coming into town (why would Vincent agree to visit his brother anyway?) from Phoenix and he holds some really special information about the current case he's investigating. Wow, just like that, an outsider from Phoenix knows exactly the authors of a big heist by lucky fortune because he once met an ex-jail bird in custody, right in the middle of some street. Who wrote this script ? This is bad, this is far fetched, this is a draft, this is not a script. How can the police or the FBI not have a list of cons working in a perimeter instead of going through informants who's dialogues make no sense ! Man this is the way to make Police look absolutely useless. So just like that by recognizing the word "slick", the LAPD then manages to identify several gang members without really revealing it to us, considering how appalling they are we have our doubts. But even with a team spying on them the gangsters still manage to outsmart the cops by spying on them as well !But there are too many shortcuts in this movie, I don't understand how the Police suddenly gets the bank heist information at the last minute, gets there in time and then not just fire one gun shot but at least a thousand of them in the middle of the street (lucky pedestrians) from some narcotic agent who turned heel, makes no sense to me, and they still lose out on the two criminals. Never understood the diner scene and the confrontation, especially to talk about nothing and a cop trying to convince a criminal not to commit a crime like that makes sense. Why does the gang who seemed so determined to kill Waingro forget him for so long and how the hell does he get Trejo's adresse ?But the shooting is the most outrageous scene of all, there is no way that the police can risk flying bullets and crossfiring kill pedestrians in the middle of a gun-shooting -- just let the criminals go and sacked them in a turn or whatever but don't stand there stray fire impulsively, this is absolutely ill-advised. This scene is completely nuts. If you did not secure the perimeter before it is impossible to get into this kind of a shooting, this is cowboy stuff, not to mention the moment where Vincent shoots Cerrito holding a little girl hostage in the head. And even after that scene, there's still a good 45 min, the movie is way too long, doesn't move fast enough, lingers too much on useless dialogues that get the story nowhere, the scene with the new-boyfriend watching the TV and the suicide girl I mean who cares when you're 2hrs30min in the movie just get it going ! The structuration of the script is completely wrong, these scenes do not add anything to the picture and especially not at the climax of the script !And the ending ends exactly like the whole movie is, far-fetched, a final chase where Pacino has legs of a 30 year old in the body of a 55 year old and shares a fraternal truce with McCauley, it's just not good at all. This whole theme of outsmarting vilains and making them look more glamor than they are is quite lame and uninteresting. Too bad, a lot of good actors, could have projected something so much better.
Terribly dated film -- a muddled gasbag of testosterone-infused drama.


                
