The simple fact that a movie contains two great actors does not make it a great movie. The interaction scenes between the two feel forced in writing and in the acting. The movie suffers from a sub-standard plot. In the end he does not drop and run. It makes no sense. The ending is forced into the good guy wins Hollywood ending. If he had gotten away it would have made much more sense. Often when I have have mentioned that this movie is sub-par others have reacted with shock, "Its Pacino and Dinero!," they always reply. Then I ask what makes the movie any good and "Pacino/Dinero" is the only response they can come up with.
You people are either brainwashed, or just plain ignorant to what constitutes great cinema.. First of all, 3 hour bank heist epics should never be made, period..Secondly, cut out every scene with a woman in it, save for the one with the stand in get away driver and his wife discussing the struggles of staying clean, and away from crime... The women are utterly useless to the overall story, and ruin the pace of the film..Third... The "Waingro" storyline was laughable... If these guys are such "pros," then why are they trying to whack this guy in a very public Diner parking lot?... This, after making a scene in the diner, assuring dozens of witnesses..And finally... The scene between Pacino and DeNiro... Completely forced, and doesn't further the story, at all (which is actually the point of scene construction... The telling of the story).. And not to be picky, but that would never happen in real life, either (which isn't such a big deal, until you compound it with all the other flaws in the movie)..Overall, the most overrated movie of the 90's... Easily..


                
"Heat" is the most disappointing movie I have ever seen. Robert De Niro and Al Pacino are mere shadows of themselves. And the big scope of the movie being them acting together...what a joke!It is also way too long. It could have been an okay action movie if it was cut in half the length. The most pathetic about the movie is the black guy that works at a coffee joint. You spend half an hour on his story and what happens? The Bank scene is good, though.This is a masterpiece in destroying a movie with potential..


                
I'm sorry to go against the norm here, but I didn't enjoy this one bit. Even more surprising given there's about half a dozen actors in it I really like. But It actually took me 3 attempts to hack it through to the end & sent me to sleep once at 11am after a full nights kip before.I'm going off police films or shows anyway as too many tend to resemble extended episodes of TJ Hooker or Dempsey & Makepiece & this weren't a great deal different. It started off with some promise but degenerated into an overlong soap opera. At no point did I ever give a monkeys about Pacino's marital problems nor whether DeNiro or Kilmer sorted it out with their women. That don't mean I like the bang-bang you're dead type police films, I like some character insight but the amount of dialogue in this was ridiculous. The script must have looked like War & Peace. The scene with Pacino & DeNiro in the restaurant summed that up. I knew as I watched it everyone would rave over it, but I still can't watch that scene, even on it's own, without my concentration waining half way through. It seemed as if the director wanted to get as many 'cool' quotes in as he could & sacrificed the tension level because of it. Thus, when the plot did get complex from time to time, with the extra characters, it really required 110% concentration at all times.John Voight mumbled too much, Pacino shouted too much, almost Ric Flair-esque at some points, each character much have had tracking devices on each other the amount of times they bumped into each other, some of the least adept Police were on duty, there seemed far too many anonymous or convenient tip-offs and lots more was left unresolved after the end.Over half an hour & some of the subplots could have been chopped from this film. I know it was an insight into the contrasting lives, of the 'policeman & the criminal' but it was too much insight. I rate DeNiro & Pacino as much as anyone, but lets be honest you could have an hour of the pair of them on the bog, having a dump & reading the paper out loud & there'd be a hard-core group of fans who'd still worship it.3or4/10


                
This movie was pretty good until the last scene when suddenly Al Pacino becomes God and Robert DeNiro becomes a bumbling stumbling crook. (spoilers) In the last scene Pacino inexplicably knows every move DeNiro makes. He knows the direction he runs, where he's going, where he's hiding, etc. And in the last scene, DeNiro comes out from his hiding place to find Pacino? WHY???!!! He could've stayed put, waited for Pacino to come to him, and then bang, Pacino's dead. Pacino was the one trying to find the bad guy. Why did DeNiro have to give up his hiding place? Stupid stupid stupid. And how did Pacino respond to a shadow, find DeNiro, and then aim a shotgun and shoot him before DeNiro could point a simple handgun and get one shot off? Stupid stupid stupid. It p****s me off when a movie wastes three hours of my time because the writers couldn't come up with a better ending. 3/10.
First off, I'll come right out and say that I've only ever seen two of Michael Mann's other movies: Collateral and The Last Of The Mohicans, both of which were entertaining but did not impress me overall. I'm no expert on his work, but he seems to have a knack for taking fairly talented actors and turning them into one-dimensional versions of themselves on screen.Heat is a perfect example of that talent. We have a huge cast of famous actors, each one morphed into a character that ultimately offers no kind of sympathy with the viewer (at least this viewer). Mann tries so hard to give his characters some kind of emotional value that the actors end up looking like cardboard cutouts of every other role they have played in their illustrious careers.Why does the director feel the need to delve into the lives of EACH AND EVERY CHARACTER in this flick? He easily added at least 45 minutes of time to a movie that is essentially of the action/crime genre, where character development is not necessarily as important as it would be in a romance or drama. Come on, dwelling on the fact that Natalie Portman's character had some parental issues, or that a minor player in the plot may in fact be a serial killer, or the fact that the getaway driver's wife is distraught over his death, is gratuitous at best. It only adds length to a film that already way too long to make it worth sitting through.Which comes to my next gripe- this is the first crime movie I have EVER watched where I felt the need to fast-forward through certain scenes that I felt were dragged out too much, which was about 1/3 of the flick. It's really too bad, because Heat certainly had it's moments: the café scene between De Niro and Pacino was outstanding, as were the shoot-out and the final chase scene. If only Mann had concentrated on giving the rest of the movie the same level of intensity, I could have possibly found Heat to be one of my favorites of all time. The director should stick to what he knows best- action. Although I suppose you can't expect too much from the guy who helmed Miami Vice, one of the cheesiest t.v. shows ever made.Mann should have looked at some other action/crime flicks, such as True Romance or Leon: The Professional to see how character development should really be done- colorful, well-balanced, and efficient. Although he did verify what I have always though about Robert De Niro; if you can make millions of dollars a movie just by hanging around on screen with your mouth open like a kid just off the short bus, then I guess there's hope for everybody to make a career out of acting.3 out of 10 stars just for the good parts, 1 out of 10 stars for making me wish I had been doing something else for the 172 minutes it took me to finish this yawn-inducer.
I watched this movie. Roughly 3 hours. A bit lengthy. It went too slow. You will find many flaws in the plot. The story was unconvincing. There were big actors. So expectation was high. But...you know...I got more disappointed.The little role played by Natalie Portman was redundant, a waste of her talent. If you are die hard fans of Al Pacino or Robert De Niro, you may like this film. The film is more about the lives and emotions of a master criminal and a police officer. Not so much to look for as an action film. Again the story is unconvincing in many ways. The film has been over-rated.


                
The only reason I give this movie a three is because one, it contains good actors (although this would have to be each one of their worst performances), and two its so bad it makes you laugh at times. This movie is complete garbage and at the time I am writing this it has a 7.9 rating. DeNiro and Pacino were not even on the set once together during the shooting (yes, that includes the scene at the diner) and it shows. If you want to see good actors at their worst then rent this film. You will get a couple of laughs out of it no doubt. Anybody who gave this film above a four is on crack and shouldn't be trusted. Please people who have seen this movie, bang out ten lines like I had to do and give it a poor rating like it should have but for some strange reason doesn't.


                
As a fan of Al Pacino's "later years" works, this seemed to be a gaping hole in my viewing of his films. When the film concluded after nearly three hours, however, I was left feeling severely disappointed by a whole slew of things in "Heat".For a basic plot summary, "Heat" sees Lt. Vincent Hanna (Pacino) square off against notorious big-time criminal Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro). As a sort of cat-and-mouse game emerges between those two leads, a secondary plot line focuses on one of De Niro's henchman (played by Val Kilmer).The #1 problem with this movie is simply that the story isn't anything to write home about. In fact, it is actually a sub-par plot that contains very little emotion or meaningful character development. It is a slow-moving, hard-boiled cop drama...but without any of the usual themes that make those types of movies watchable.Also, what really puts the nail in the coffin is that the acting (what should be the flick's strong suit) is also poor. I never thought Pacino could possible over-act a role, but he does here, while De Niro is pretty much just stoic throughout. I know those two can do much better, but this was just not a great vehicle for them to shine.I even considered giving "Heat" the dreaded one-star rating, but it isn't quite bad enough for that. There is one captivating scene involving Pacino/De Niro, and the plot is more recycled/dull than outright horrible.Basically, "Heat" is nowhere near the "epic cop drama" it is billed as. I would say go out a get "Righteous Kill" if you want to see a better Pacino/De Niro pairing. While that movie is only average in its own right, it still surpasses this bloated marathon.


                
I remember the buzz around this movie when it came out. De Niro and Pacino on screen together for the first time. I'm not a fan of the noise around movies, so I waited until it died down. You might think that waiting 23 years was perhaps a little too long but I wanted to be sure.I'm joking of course. I did see it in the '90's, not on the big screen. Probably on video. My memory of it was pretty sketchy, likely because of two things: 1) In my 20's I just absorbed everything, as people in their 20's often do. If it's the new thing, yes. If it's a classic or must-see/hear/read, yes. If it's one of those "I can't _believe_ you haven't seen x!", yes. And 2) Weed.So I know I saw Heat back then, but apart from the armored car robbery and the eventual meeting of Bob and Al, nope.I've revisited a few movies lately. I decided to watch Heat again because it's one of those movies that people refer to as a bit of a landmark of its time, beyond the heavily touted meeting of a couple of Hollywood's heavy hitters.I can't help but feel that this movie would either have been a very different beast if the two leads weren't involved, or it wouldn't have been made at all. How many drafts of the script came after Pacino and De Niro signed on? Was it Michael Mann's intention from the start to anchor the movie around a third act meeting? Did the plan always involve so much needless exploration of the protagonist's and antagonist's relationships with their lovers/partners? The production asks many questions. But the story asks none. Worse, the story _may_ ask a few questions, but I don't care what they are, let alone care to try and answer them.Heat is one of those movies that has you looking for the star in the EP credits to confirm your suspicion that it's a vanity project. Can't pin it on the actors, though. It's the vanity of the writer/director/producer, Michael Mann.Performance-wise, Heat is as you might expect. The two 'above the title' stars are given plenty of room to do their respective things, although you've seen them do it better elsewhere. The supporting goodies and baddies, with the exception of Val Kilmer, whose scenery-chewing turn is not helped by the fact that his & Ashley Judd's subplot is shoehorned into an already heavily domestic storyline.I've not seen the original trailer for Heat, but I'm going to guess that it was more concerned with guns, explosions and action than it is with the love lives of its stars.On a side note, Mann's last feature, 2015's Blackhat, was a critical and commercial failure, returning less than $20 million against its $70 million budget. Yet Mann is about to go into production for a biopic of Enzo Ferrari. By contrast, Peter Weir's last film, The Way Back in 2010, brought in $20 million against a $30 million budget, and Weir not only hasn't directed since, he's finding financing extremely difficult to come by. I'm loath to make direct stylistic comparisons of the two directors. I will admit to a preference for Weir's body of work, but that doesn't mean I haven't enjoyed a few of Mann's contributions. That said, Weir hasn't made a movie as bad as Heat.
