Take the big moment of this movie. What the trailers touted. What was supposed to be the meeting of giants. The coffee scene with Deniro and Pacino. Both legendary film actors with credentials that are undeniable. What possessed them to allow this scene to get to the screen is beyond me. If your 10 years old you could have written the dialog. If your not and have kids, they have. In fact I have written this dialog as have many people that have put pen to paper and were ever drawn to cop/robber dramatic films. "your going down brother" Need I say more.Then I read the reviews here and I am even more stunned. If you eliminate the horrific Pacino/Deniro scene you have a decent movie. Perhaps I would have given it a 5. Plot lines that were meaningless. A movie that tried very, very hard to be something more than it is, or was. Over direction. And the rest of the script wasn't Shakespeare either. It wasn't just the "big" scene. It was all of them. Kilmer's part was comical. I don't think that was the intent.Anyway, I suppose, based on the unbelievable reviews for this movie here, I am in the vast minority. So if you haven't seen it yet all I would say is this. If we assume you have some degree of film intellect, then do not expect to see what you read in some of these reviews. If you go in not expecting much you may very well enjoy this very ordinary movie. if you go in expected the "Best movie of the 90s" or a "masterpiece" you may be sorely disappointed. I will laugh about these reviews for days. Utterly amazing otherwise intelligent people could be hypnotized by the hype of this film. Guys, at best it's a 5 out of 10.


                
Spoilers herein.Here we have two of the most outrageous muggers of modern film: Pacino with full HooHaa and DeNiro dragging his biggest grimace.Obviously, this film was first conceived with the two facing each other at the diner, to be followed by a massive shootout. Give everyone women problems. Fill in the rest with some Mann repeats and heist mechanics. The result is incoherent, simply jelly to stick some episodes together.
Some of these are tolerable -- any of the scenes with Diane Venora or Jon Voigt. Venora knows how to be outside and inside at the same time. Everything else is TeeVee hash.That's because Pacino and DeNiro have just given up trying. Their `method' is to find the character in themselves, which is NOT method acting, at least the Brando style. The problem is simply that these two actors are not interesting people, far less interesting than their characters might be.
Ted's evaluation: 1 of 4 -- You can find something better to do with your time.
What passes for epic cinema these days can be found in Heat, a noisy, bombastic, self reverential cops and robbers bore that between gun battles drags for most of it's three hour (yes three) running time.Detective Vin Hanna (Al Pacino) is a standout cop with almost as many bad marriages as commendations. Neil MacCauley (Robert DiNero) is a career criminal always bent on the big score. Both men are very methodical and take great pride in their professionalism. After botching a brinks job Hanna pursues the gang which is beginning to fray at the edges. Mac Cauley realizes it's tough to get good help these days and decides on one last score before calling it quits.Showcasing the biggest meeting since Truman met Stalin at Potsdam director Michael Mann treats the first meeting of Pacino and DiNero together (both were in Godfather 2 but appeared in no scenes together) with the same solemnity as the two actors wheeze through their moment. With nothing new or revelatory to say, they show manly respect and understanding for each other. The problem is the scene is more about these closely identified highly regarded actors than the characters they play. Their star wattage (as well as their skills) may have dimmed by 95 but their legendary status carried a lot of weight. It's about as interesting as two old codgers reminiscing on an old folks home porch and rings hollow like the rest of this lumbering elephant of a film.The convoluted plot is filled with forgettable characters but it does allow Mann to wander around LA spreading gratuitous violence. The women in the film are relegated to looking tired and concerned over their boy friends, acting as sounding boards for the guys to spew their Mannly philosophy about honor and being true to your skills.The action scenes are big, loud, bloody, poorly edited and ridiculous as LA empties out to let the boys shoot it out in grand fashion on the streets. The badly paced montage of Al and Bobby dashing up and down the avenues with some very big weapons (size is everything to Mann)playing cops and robbers runs out of steam before they run out of bullets.By the time they made Heat Pacino and DiNero had peaked before doing self parody (though Pacino would go on to give a stellar performance worthy of his early years as Roy Cohn in Angels in America) and it shows in their lackluster tired performances magnified even further by the film stealing effort turned in by Val Kilmer as gang member Chris. Kilmer's energy and the self confident way he moves and acts delivers the passion the two stars lack.As in some of his other films Mann explores the theme of moral relativism with usual heavy handed pretension attempting to bestow nobility on the good as well as the bad, solemnizing the whole ponderous affair with Elliot Goldenthal's vapid score that is more appropriate for a coronation than a shoot'em up.In Heat MacCauley states "Never have anything in your life that you can't walk out of in thirty seconds flat". One should keep this in mind before watching this big helium balloon of hot air.


                
It is rare when you can identify the exact point where a movie goes horribly wrong.  Al Pacino pulls Robert Di Niro over in an unmarked police car and says: "How about a cup of coffee?"  I can just see a commitee of studio execs (they roam in packs like hyenas) saying "We need to have a meeting between the cop and master criminal, to give the movie, you know, more personal tension. Plus, it's Pacino and Di Niro, how can it miss?"  It missed by a mile.   After the friendly coffee talk, everything slides quickly downhill.  Plot holes open up like fault lines, little sub plots rise up with no rhyme or reason, then get cut off.  (witness the ex-con turned short order cook subplot.)  "Emotional" scenes with peripheral characters get tacked on to the end, I guess to tug at our heart strings, since they add nothing to the plot or to our understanding of the characters.    Everyone seemed to be going through the motions on this one.  What a shame, considering the cast.  This movie is not worth the talent put together to make it. Oh, and it drags on FOREVER.  Apparently the editor got shot in the big- obligatory-bank-robbery-scene, judging by the lack of evidence of his existence afterward.4/10


                
The personal lives of Al Pacino, the cop, and Robert De Niro, the thief, are intertwined in the film as the two literally pursue a cat and mouse game.The film might have been better had there been a common relationship in their lives.We also have violent chase scenes, especially on the street where the shooting doesn't stop, as well as the screaming from the people there.As he is so capable of, Pacino utters a mouthful of profanity in the film. He is on his 3rd marriage, which is troubled along with his young stepdaughter. De Niro, on the other hand, meets a nice girl, who he is ready to involve in his dishonesty, until the last moments of the film.There is much graphic violence and there is a need for a better character development. The meeting between Pacino and De Niro is memorable and soul-searching.
For the moment, the simultaneous pairing of Al & Bob isn't unforgettable. As in "Law and Order", the movie is boring. If the duo copes well, the fault is on the story and the directing. About the story, this cop/gangster is stupid because the cops find the crew easily when they are planning while they fail when the crew attacks. Worse, all the characters manage easily their jobs while they got problems with their relationships! About the directing, the scenes are slow and there are a lot of useless moments. If Mann forgot to go in editing room, i haven't forgotten my fast forward button on my remote. There are a few good moments (Natalie's scenes, Bob's trap, the last chase) but it's not enough and not worthy of 160 minutes! To close the case, the hair style is particularly hideous from Kilmer, to Bob, to Voight (who stays definitely in the bottom of supporting actors!).


                
A lot of people have made a lot of fuss over Heat. After seeing it for myself I really can't understand why. Aside from the presence of the two leads Heat is essentially a cops <U+0091>n' robbers saga given a little extra dimension and a lot of extra gloss. I can't fault Michael Mann's style. His stark vision of Los Angeles is excellent. The opening shot with the elevated train coasting past the camera with the haunting synth score is truly memorable. However, when the first shot of a film is the best part, you're in trouble. Mann as writer fairs much worse. His script (actually based on his 1989 TV movie LA Takedown) is a mess; padded his unnecessary subplots and characters; it substitutes intrigue for confused plotting. The near 3-hour running time is sheer self-indulgence, when the concept behind this film is complete mouse of idea: that cops and robbers are very much alike. In reality this so-called character development that Mann has put at the front of his film is just a story of male bonding between two highly unlikeable and unsympathetic characters. Pacino as the cop and De Nero as the robber are both well-worn clichés that are slightly deeper than normal. Pacino as an angst ridden cop, on his third marriage and De Nero as the calculating psycho criminal who plans his life so that he can drop everything and leave at 30 seconds notice when the heat is on. Both these characters are as unlikeable as the other is and this blunts much of the tension. A brilliantly staged gun battle on the streets of LA is wasted because we don't care which character comes off the better. The two leads don't do anything for their roles either. Neither gives performances that equal their best and the film's main purpose is simply to bring them on screen together. They appear twice together. Once in a coffee shop to discuss their morals and at the film's ending, which more than resembles that of Bullit. Clearly Mann has attempted to say that police and criminal are indivisible, and this is probably why we don't sympathise with either of them. This is such an unoriginal concept that has been explored as far back as the 70s with The French Connection and Serpico it also is the reason why, the film is overrated. Why should we spend 3 hours with two people we don't like?


                
An old piece of advice given to writers is "simplify". It is a pity such advice was not followed here, since the proliferation of subplots and other baggage (much of it irrelevant) make this film too unwieldy and long-winded for its own good.The build up to the much anticipated meeting between Pacino (Hanna) and De Niro (McCauley) sums up the film.. First Hanna is pointlessly seen in a helicopter before he is set down to follow McCauley in a car. Then Hanna has McCauley pull pver, McCauley is seen preparing to use his gun, Hanna gets out of his car, his own gun in hand, he steps up to McCauley's car and says "let's do coffee!"This was clearly meant to to an epic build up to an epic scene, but its effect is bathetic (and even pathetic).Even the meeting scene itself is mediocre, loosely written and rambling, like the film. Would there be anything notable about it if it were not Pacino and De Niro involved?The main plot is the hoary "heist goes wrong", but one of the criminal gang, Waingro, turns out to be a serial killer. He murders a prostitute in an unnecessary series of scenes, irrelevant to the main story arc since Waingro only gets his comeuppance (and not because of his serial killing) when he joins up with Van Zant (part of another sub-plot that I won't go into, although more integrated into the story).Most of the baggage here is of the emotional kind. Just about everyone has overwrought emotional scenes with their loved ones including the briefly seen black getaway driver (formerly working as a chef...the scenes of him before he makes his brief appearance as the driver had me scratching my head) and even the murdered prostitute has emotive shots of her family. Such scenes as this distract from the main narrative but there are even more anguished relationship scenes concerning the main protagonists.Neil McCauley (De Niro) has vowed to leave his woman at a drop of hat, but has apparently found 'true love'. Shiherlis (Kilmer) is a drunk gambler whose wife is leaving him until De Niro Godfather-like instructs her to stay. She has a lover who is blackmailed by the police into bringing her to them. Hanna (Pacino) has both wife and daughter problems. His wife is sleeping around while his daughter is suicidal.If all this sounds confusing, I can assure you there is much more and the film takes us down every one of these blind alleys one at a time.Despite the film lingering so lovingly on irrelevancies, important issues remain unresolved. Why, for instance, at the end does Hanna (the cop) take a fire arm from another policeman but not tell him to help him catch McCauley? This sets up an implausible and not very good, one on one shoot out and the unconvincing 'brothers in arms' handshake between the two as if Hanna had forgotten all those that McCauley (including cops) has murdered in cold blood.Likewise the relationships are left hanging at the end. What happens to Shiherlis and indeed his wife? Do they sail off into the sunset together? Not likely considering she is sleeping with someone else. And what about Hanna, his wife and their daughter? Nothing is resolved.The general look of the film is good but some shots are chosen more for their 'coolness' than their purpose. The action scenes are gory, perhaps unnecessarily so. The shoot-out, using sub machine guns, is overblown and unconvincing, and very Hollywoodian, including Hanna's "threading the eye of a needle" shot to kill one of the gang holding a child hostage. A note on performances. They tend to be rather overwrought at all times, with the cast being aware they are in an 'important' picture. Mumbling and histrionics are the order of the day. Pacino, in particular, delivers an over-the-top performance, often shouting his lines in a psychotic way that genuinely seems to surprise his fellow actors. If this was how Hanna was in real life, he would probably be under heavy sedation or psychiatric care.There is just about enough good stuff amid the padding to make this watchable. But only just.
It seems almost churlish to say so given the big movie names involved <U+0096> Pacino, De Niro and Michael Mann, but, depending on what you want from a film, Heat, isn't really that good. As usual here in IMDb reviews it gets both 10/10 an just 1/10. Well, both are off mark. I have given it 4/10 because <U+0096> well <U+0096> as a movie spectacle it does the business and then some. The trouble is that Mann apparently wanted to make more than just a intelligent crook v an intelligent cop movie. Mann wanted to inject meaning. Well, he hasn't unless you're the kind of guy or gal who thinks that your average R&B pop video is meaningful. That's not to say, of course, that this is merely on the level of such a video, only that it has the same spurious significance. The usual cliché is that you often have to suspend disbelief to enjoy a tale, and Heat demands that a lot of disbelief is suspend. For one thing there is no back story: we are presented with a range of characters and must either accept them or not. But how did De Niro, portrayed as rather an intelligent cove get into crime when undoubtedly his intelligence and character would have made him a success in many more legitimate areas. On the other hand, he is remarkably ruthless, is apparently incapable of forming relationships (until he meets a girl who he thinks might be 'it'), and can see himself pursuing no other career than crime. Then there's Pacino: wedded to the job, his third marriage going down the pan, the man is an interesting case history. But no explanation is offered as to why this should be. Well, you might say, none is needed. Just accept those two characters and enjoy the action. In that case, why does Mann introduce the theme of relationship, their hold over us, their strength, their weaknesses? What was needed was another film which would examine that theme at length <U+0096> but then Mann would not have had his action movie. So if that is what you want, enjoy it. But don't be taken in by the faux philosophical nature of the movie.


                
When you consider the cast, this is a really disappointing film. With a cast this good you'd expect some oscar class performances. Unfortunately, what we ended up with was worse then most soaps. It ends up as a fairly pathetic Cop obsession story, with a fairly routine finish.


                
I can clearly remember the talk when this movie was released - it was a hopeful tension and wishful thinking for another "Godfellas", by Mann. And finally Pacino and De Niro in the same movie! One one "the good side" and one on "the bad side"...and then - the question of who is good and who is is bad.....Doesn't it sound really interesting? Well, it isn't. The cop is running around shouting and the villain is a gentle man who is in love. The cop's wife is, of course, whining and demanding that her cop husband should stay home...o dear, haven't we all seen this before hundreds of times? And is it REALLY interesting to watch again? And this movie isn't even entertaining, it's slow but not tense. The characters are stereotypes without meaning, especially the women. And of course there are some explosions and things like that, but hey fellas, if you like that kind of thing, you'd better watch "Terminator"...which has a 100% more substance than this dull movie. Beware!


                
I found this movie to be extremely unbelievable and boring. I did not for a minute believe that either the crooks or the police were as sharp as portrayed here. What was even more boring was the women, who merely slowed down and dragged out an already slow and overlong movie. I am not a big DeNiro fan, but I think he comes off best in this movie. Pacino is over the top, Kilmer is a stick, all the black actors are caricatures, and Jon Voight is fairly decent. I must qualify my remarks by admitting that I have not finished the movie. I stopped it with about 45 minutes to go. I am not sure if I will go back to it or not. If not, it will not bother me a bit.


                
De Niro is great. Pacino overacts like crazy. Weird mannerisms, lack of eye contact, odd outbursts. Totally unrealistic performance that undermines the whole movie. Too bad. Remove Pacino and sub in a "fair" performance from, well...anyone, and my rating goes from a 4 to a 7.


                
