Al Pacino plays a cop and an avid hunter who, once he gets a scent of his prey, feels some sort of self-motivation that perpetuates him<U+0085> He is a jackal addicted to this process<U+0085> This is an elevated state of being an intensely eager predator pursuing his prey until he gets him down<U+0085> As strange as it is, as scary as that world is, Lt. Hanna has a social conscience<U+0085> He has a normal spectrum of human feelings<U+0085> He's very authentic in how he loves his life<U+0085> The fusion of Robert De Niro and Neil McCauley is so total<U+0085> He's committed to the rigidity of that perspective and it's a heartbreaking role<U+0085> It's a tragic character<U+0085> In his world, what he's doing, he feels justified in doing it<U+0085> McCauley has a quiet look at a thief who has a certain kind of lonely disregard for who he kills but yet somehow you're in touch with his humanity<U+0085> We can identify him when all that robbery turns out badly and when his lover Eady (Amy Brenneman) tries to escape from him<U+0085> Brenneman's part was the hope that De Niro's character could have of escape, and love, and forgiveness<U+0085> There's something so sad about these people and so poignant<U+0085> They are so lost, and they want to be found so badly<U+0085>It's like a huge opera<U+0085> On one level, the film deals with a crime saga, on the other, with the interpersonal relationships that are woven all these characters<U+0085>In the Pacino character and in the De Niro character you're basically seeing two sides of the same tough man<U+0085>


                
Not since Godfather Part 2 had Pacino and DeNiro been in a movie together and in Godfather 2 they were never on the screen at the same time. So, along comes Michael Mann and whoever else to convince these two heavy weights to do a movie together. They obviously agreed, but I wonder if part of the agreement was that the movie would be nearly three hours long? Must've been. Pacino: "It's my movie."
De Niro: "It's my movie."
Mann: "We'll give you both your own movie within the runtime of this one."
Pacino and De Niro: "OK."Even with Heat being a marathon of a movie it was still good. This was a high stakes cops and robbers movie with the leader of the cops, Lt. Vincent Hanna (Al Pacino), trying to outsmart the robbers while the leader of the robbers, Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro), is trying to outsmart the cops. This heist movie worked because you had some big time actors and a plot that was intelligent without trying to be too clever. Both sides made some smart and shrewd moves without either of them being overly complicated and relying upon myriad of high tech plot devices. We got to see some skillful gamesmanship without there being a lot of players and a lot of moving parts.And the story within the story was one of work vs. family. We got to see two sides of the main characters: De Niro, Pacino, and Kilmer. All had a work-life and a family-life and none knew how to balance the two. Whether it's the good guy or the bad guy; if you dedicate too much time to your work then your personal life will suffer. Sure, one of the guys' job was that of a lieutenant with the LAPD and the other two were professional thieves but amazingly their personal life troubles were remarkably similar and for the same reason.Heat pitted two dedicated alpha males against one another and said "fight". You couldn't watch without picking a side but only one could be the winner.


                
'Heat' is a long, epic crime film that pits two iconic Hollywood actors against each other in a game of cat and mouse. In a nearly three-hour runtime, it explores myriad sides of crime-the criminals, the police work, the sources on the street, and the strain these lifestyles put on everyone involved. It's an ambitious undertaking in which director Michael Mann opens many doors and closely all of them successfully in a deeply satisfying way. Vincent (Pacino) is a workaholic police detective with a hard liquor habit, two failed marriages in his rearview and another likely in front of him. He doesn't want to burden his wife or anyone in his life that he cares about with the horrific events he witnesses at work on a daily basis, so he refuses to share particulars. But the lack of communication doesn't end there. He hardly shares anything with his wife, which makes her starved for attention and a deeper connection. Neil (DeNiro) is cunning criminal who spent time in the clink and will do anything to avoid a return trip. His life motto is, "never get attached to anything that you can't walk away from in 30 seconds if you feel the heat getting too close." A philosophy that makes him successful as a criminal makes him a failure in any personal relationship. He's alone.After a robbery gone wrong puts Neil on the police's radar, Vincent begins to investigate Neil and his team, looking to catch them in the act on their next job. As the two leading men match wits, it becomes increasingly clear that they're sharper than everyone else in the game. We get the sense that they're impressed with each other. There's a mutual respect, despite their obvious conflicting interests. DeNiro plays the part with a brooding, quiet confidence, while Pacino opts for a more boisterous and manic persona. They're both equally entertaining, and they take turns delivering classic one liners that you'll be repeating for years. These aren't the only actors of note in the film. This is a loaded cast that seems to showcase a new star every few minutes. Mann masterfully juggles all the pieces of the dense story universe he has created. The plot never drags, and the scenes are always memorable. Because of Mann's directing acumen and a lively script, the moments of conversation are as exciting as the action sequences. And, of course, every Michael Mann movie comes with distinctive, pulsing music.'Heat' deserves to be recognized among the great crime films of the past 30 years. Even 23 years after its release, it still holds up in every way. If you're a fan of the genre, you absolutely must watch this movie.


                
this movie had such an awesome story.the movie has two kings in film: Robert De Niro and Al Pacino.it was as if someone just had the idea after the 2nd Godfather to see how De Niro and Pacino could act with each other. the story has both of them acting separately, and then once things get comfy, they both meet up for a chat. their conversation in the film was what made it for me besides all the awesome shooting action in it. they just acting so well together. it was some real eye candy.the movie goes for just under 3 hours, with the strangest angles. at times where you thought it would cut to such and such, either it didn't or it switched to something else that was awkward. The entire movie is made up of these strange angles that any other director besides Micheal Mann would use. it worked only because the entire movie was composed of these strange angles, creating a new way to see a film. it was cool, i bought it.SEE IT, IT WAS GREAT with many side actors who boost the performace of the film as a whole to lead De Niro and Pacino to do their work as well as they do.


                
Police detective Al Pacino is after mastermind thief Robert De Niro. Also De Niro's partner Val Kilmer is having trouble with his wife (Ashley Judd); De Niro falls for nice Amy Brennerman and Pacino is having issues with HIS wife (Diane Venora). Also Tom Sizemore, Wes Studi and Dennis Haysbert appear in supporting roles.Big, sprawling cops and robbers drama. There are multiple story lines and all the characters are fully realized individuals. The acting is great across the board (except for Kilmer). There was a lot made of this film because of the 8 minute sequence in which De Niro and Pacino face off verbally against each other. They're both great and the sequence is crucial to their characters--but it isn't particularly well-written. Still this might be the only time we'll ever see the two together on screen (They both starred in "The Godfather Part II" but shared no scenes).The movie is well-directed with constant close-ups (for some reason) and shot in washed out color with some truly incredible gun fights (the last one is just jaw dropping). An ALMOST great movie.There are problems. There are too many story lines and the film becomes quite convoluted towards the end. For example--a subplot between Pacino and his stepdaughter comes up, disappears and pops in out of NOWHERE at the end. Also the film is much too long at 3 hours. This worked great in a theatre in wide screen and ear-shattering stereo (the gun shots went right through you). It doesn't work as well on TV. Also avoid the edited for TV version which cuts out about FORTY minutes rendering the film incomprehensible. Worth watching...but it should have been tightened a little.


                
Wow! De Niro! Pacino! Together! Oh my god! A partnership which is the stuff of dreams. Add Mickey Mann and you've got a film fans dream. And it was. Everything in this film is perfect. Acting, Directing, Script, Cinematography everything! It basically is the story of a cop Vincent O Hanna (Al in a brilliant role) trying to track down Neil (Robert De Niro also great) and his band of robbers including Val Kilmer and Tom Sizemore. It is a great character study and also has great action scenes too including the bank robbery which is great. Natalie Portman in an early role does well to play Vincents daughter a very very troubled girl. What a cast though! Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, Val Kilmer, Ashely Judd, Tom Sizemore and many many more. That's what i call a great cast! Anyways, a brilliant classic and a must see.10/10
In many ways Michael Mann is the type of director who really does have his own style and flare. I can't honestly say I'm necessarily a fan but I think he really does try to make the audience feel his story, and bring them into it and then on top of that makes it a snazzy artistic film that people can look at and say "Yep that's Michael Mann." I hold a certain disdain for him since I paid and sat through the utter garbage that was Miami Vice but you couldn't deny he tried to make it feel real and sharp and gritty and Heat is the same way. He called it a 'crime saga' and there is no doubt that Heat packs a punch but is it for the right reasons? The film clocks in at nearly three hours which as much as I appreciate a good long film, it's far too long for this type of movie. There is plenty that could have been cut out to make the film move a little better but again Mann wants it a certain way. The film chronicles every detail of both sides of this fight...the criminal side and this little family of crooks and then the police unit trying to stop and catch them and then it goes into the details about the personal lives of the two leaders to (I believe) show us that the two men aren't different at all.The key to Heat being what it is are the two players in the game and this is the legendary and moving Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro in their first screen time together (they both starred in the Godfather 2 but never shared any screen time together.) I worship these two men, they acting gods and they don't disappoint in these roles. DeNiro is Neil McCauley, a life time thief who is brilliant at it and treats it like a major operation that it is complete with his tight knit crew. McCauley is cocky in some ways, egotistical and yet subtle and smooth. DeNiro is a sight to behold and does a great job. However between the two of them I have to give it up for the amazing Al Pacino who is mind blowingly good as Lt. Vincent Hanna whose passion for the job is bar none. Pacino's personal life is explored at length as we see how much he lives for this job and to stop McCauley like it's a personal vendetta for him. He's passionate and loud as Pacino always is but grips you to his scenes. The rest of the cast is just packed with stars of various talent and Hollywood status including Val Kilmer (underused but his character is still great,) Jon Voight (more of a cameo for him), Tom Sizemore (also underused), Amy Brenneman (terrific chemistry opposite DeNiro), Ashley Judd (really great performance), Dennis Haysbert (small role but really great and different for anyone used to seeing him on The Unit or 24), William Fichtner (small role but terrific as a slimy businessman), Natalie Portman (very, very small role), and Mykelti Williamson (always makes a good cop.) However you like at it, this ensemble cast was put together to support DeNiro and Pacino and they do that just fine.There is definitely some key moments in Heat and the first one is the cup of coffee that McCauley and Hannah sit down for. Here are these two Hollywood legends sitting and having a banter of wits over coffee and it's a terrific scene that can only be experienced. And then of course is the infamous bank heist scene that turns into a full scale war of M16's and automatic weapons that wraps the film up basically. I also thought it was well worth hanging in there to see the final cat and mouse game between Pacino and DeNiro which we've all wondered about and then to get to see right there on the screen. Despite the film running long which I understand he really was trying to make a saga of sorts and kudos to Mann for doing that...the film is worth seeing. I will say that I think it is a little over hyped considering it never did that well when it was released but only now has a cult following but it's still a powerful film to watch. 8/10
Great Writing 4 Stars
Great characters development, gripping plot and well written dialogue. Only slightly contrived during a few moments.Great Production 4 starsSuperb Cinematography
Superb Acting/Directing
Great Art/Location
Good Sound/Track


                
Michael Mann's Heat brings together both De Niro and Pacino. As if this in itself wasn't enough to warrant a watch it contains some of the finest gun shootouts ever committed to film. The bank robbery scene inspired a real robbery and even the opener of The Dark Knight(as confirmed by Nolan). This is Michael Mans's Los Angeles- incredibly stylish full of thieves and mules wearing suits and ray bans. The film's status has only grown with time and it represents the apogee of action films, in my opinion. Although overlong the pacing is excellent and you can't help but be engrossed. Watch it for Michael Mann- one of the most underrated filmmakers out there.


                
Michael Mann's Heat brings together both De Niro and Pacino. As if this in itself wasn't enough to warrant a watch it contains some of the finest gun shootouts ever committed to film. The bank robbery scene inspired a real robbery and even the opener of The Dark Knight(as confirmed by Nolan). This is Michael Mans's Los Angeles- incredibly stylish full of thieves and mules wearing suits and ray bans. The film's status has only grown with time and it represents the apogee of action films, in my opinion. Although overlong the pacing is excellent and you can't help but be engrossed. Watch it for Michael Mann- one of the most underrated filmmakers out there.


                
"Heat" is a heist film unlike any other. It surpasses all that came before it, and has yet to be outdone by any heist film that has followed.-Analysis of Notable Work- *Writing/Directing: The pacing and tension building is always right where it needs to be. The drama within each characters' arc is powerful as well. The heists are not the main focus all the time. The lives of the characters is what matters for much of the film, and that is a refreshing take to have in a heist film. Michael Mann demonstrates his control over drama and tension all throughout the film. Each character is flawed, but each on has their positive aspects. We are caught in a trap of caring for each character, and that is what makes this film so beautifully dangerous. *Cinematography/Editing: Much of the film is rather simply shot and lit. It looks natural enough, but does not draw the viewer in as much as could be hoped for. The work of Dante Spinotti is acceptable but not extraordinary. A few scenes feel like they were shot in the studio and that takes away from what is happening on screen. But overall, the cinematography holds up and contributes to the film in a positive manner. The editing of the film is simple as well, but it works well. It draws focus to the characters. There are a few weak moments where things look a bit choppy, though. *Dialogue/Acting: Here we have the strong points of the film. The dialogue is authentic yet interesting. The world that is created on the screen feels real. It does not seem staged like many other films fall victim to. The acting is beyond incredible. Pacino and De Niro deliver some of the best work of their careers. They don't share many scenes, but it is something special when they do. Val Kilmer holds his end of the bargain in the film. The rest of the cast is acceptable but not overly inspiring. *Music/Sound: The score is intense yet well hidden. It doesn't draw too much attention to itself, but it really adds to the overall experience of the film. The sound design and sound mixing are one of the highlights. Most notable is the shootout in the street. It hits the viewer with an incredible amount of weight. It is one of the most realistic and immersive gunfights to ever have been but to screen. While there are some amazing moments of sound in the film, there are also some very weak moments. Some moments of editing are off and a few sound effects feel inauthentic and cheap. *Production Design/Special Effects: The set work and costumes are average. There is nothing flashy about them, but the do a good job of being a help to the overall film, and not the focus of it. The special effects are immersive and impressive. There are very few moments that feel cheap.*Conclusion: "Heat" doesn't try to get too fancy where it doesn't need to be. It remains focused on the story, a gripping story at that, and it is all the better for it. The film paved the way for successful heist films. Some films try to live up to what "Heat" has accomplished, but none have as of yet.


                
Is is just me or is Heat the most underrated cop/robber movie of the last twenty years? Seriously, any movie with Val Kilmer in the foreground, doing his cool and Tom Sizemore in the background with a twenty-two inch flame coming out of an AK - - has to be awesome. And the cast...Al Pacino, enough said; Tom Sizemore (nominated many times...no, not for an Oscar, but a Golden Satellite - and he won, for Saving Private Ryan); Val Kilmer, also nominated (not for an Oscar), but multiple MTV Movie Awards (also won); Natalie Portman as an unknown, Jon Voight, Ashley Judd. Oh wait, I'm forgetting a big name. ROBERT DE NIRO. An average of 3 Academy Award nominations among the cast members I just mentioned. Tap 3 more nominations on Michael Mann for directing. All this combines to make the best Cop/Robber movie of the 90's, easily.


                
I really liked this movie. I remember seeing it about 5 years ago and not being impressed. However, upon further viewing last night, this is one to be remembered. First things first, Michael Mann is a great director. His films have always given the viewer the perfect blend of superb visuals and very in-depth, interesting plots. "Heat" is probably the 2nd best Mann film behind "The Insider", which to me is a masterpiece. I was surprised that the 3 hour running time never really felt too long, however, i do think some of the stuff involving the "Waynegrow" character could have been ditched. I know his involvement was central to the plot, as a means for McCauley & crew to be caught, I just didn't like the whole serial killer subplot. Anyway, De Niro and Pacino are definitely on their respective games throughout. Kilmer is good but not as great as some have proclaimed. Two of my favorite characters in the film were played by Wes Studi and Mykelti Williamson. Their roles were small but played perfectly and really added to film's realism. The final scene on the airport runway was, IMO, even more amazing than the bank heist/shootout. Excellent way to end the movie.
8 out of 10


                
"Heat" is a cops drama, but also a crime drama.  The stories of Lt. Vincent Hannah (Al Pacino) and robber Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro) parallel each other until they meet near the end.Pacino's Hannah might be considered your cliche "overworked cop can't spend time with his family" but if it is, Pacino still does it well.  De Niro's McCauley is strong and intimidating, but still gives off a "polite" feel in most of his scenes.  Of course, De Niro does that in almost all of his movies.Like I said, the two act very well, especially for a cops and robbers flick. The supporting cast is also star-powered, making this film experience worth while.  Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, Dennis Haysbert, Ashley Judd, Danny Trejo and Ted Levine to say a few, all play there roles like real people and not just mindless cops/robbers."Heat" shows that robbers have friends too, with the countless (but entertaining) "dinner scenes", showing either Hannah or De Niro sitting in a restaurant talking with friends.The message in "Heat": cops and robbers are people too.  Works for me, 8/10.


                
A remake of the tv movie La takedown, Heat proves to be a better film in every department. Its is a simple story good cops v bad robbers. The direction from micheal mann is surperb, and performances from de niro and co are balanced, realistic and honest. The real problem with the film is that is simply too polished, every thing  has a certain predictablity, there are no real twists. Everthing moves a easy pace. the stand out scene in the film truly great shoot out at films conclusion. 8/10


                
The score of the film is one of those things that many of us take for granted. It is sweeping and full of emotion though truncated when the film is viewed on American television. The lighting is at times searing and at times it is drab and lifeless, all timed to the story's continuity. The climactic scene in the shadows of the landing runway of LAX is terse and as it might happen. The running under the landing and taxing airplanes is right out of Bullitt, when Steve McQueen is chasing his mute witness across the tarmac only to gun him down in the baggage claim in front a waiting crowd.Bullitt has its car chase and its Jacqueline Bisset, but Heat has its opening robbery in hockey masks, the bank robbery shootout on San Figueroa in Downtown LA, the coffee between DeNiro and Pacino that sets the tone for the end of the film in the final act where one must die at the hands of the other.


                
Wow! What an action movie... Such suspense and tension, not to mention De niro and Pacino's acting. They are amazing. Nothing more and nothing less than themselves at their best: They are the sides of the same coin, placed one opposite the other,since each one is coping with his  life the way he knows. Very strong scene the one they meet and talk at the coffee shop, and then the hunting continues.. Also the big robbery scene.. Very "Mannish" the way all the "satellite" characters are presented as complete personalities, who's actions are affecting the main characters and vise versa.I shouldn't forget to mention the amazing scenery: the city, the jungle where the rivals are competing for their survival. Every single background of the city was amazing, characters are almost swallowed by it.Definately don't miss it.


                
A ruthless band of thieves, led by a criminal mastermind, locks horns with a driven, monomaniacal detective bent on their destruction. While the law closes in, the thieves plan their last big heist; a high-risk endeavor that will set them all up for life. Will their tenuous thread of luck hold, or will they go down in a modern Gotterdammerung? What Grand Opera is to musicals, "Heat" is to crime movies. It's well choreographed, loaded with action, fired with fever pitch emotions and tempered by deep personal drama. A great director and an amazing testosterone-driven troupe of actors power "Heat" through its three-hour running time. But don't worry; at the conclusion of the movie you'll wish there was more.


                
Here we have Al "Hoohah!" Pacino and Robert "Obey me or I'll repeat myself louder" Deniro together in an entertaining crime drama.  In the end, it's really more a collection of interesting scenes than a great work of celluloid (the parts are greater their sum, in this case) but still a lot of fun to watch.  Drags out a bit sometimes and imho could have used a bit tighter editing, but fans of Pacino or Deniro are bound to enjoy this.  A solid 8/10 for cinematic enjoyment.


                
De Niro & Pacino shine together even though they don't share almost no time on screen. The rest of the cast and performances are either OK or adequate, and it has a good script too, with some of the greatest filming locations in LA in Hollywood's history. But what is really, and the only thing that beats Pacino and De Niro together, was the bank shooting, which to me ranks as one of the best action sequences ever.8/10 because some lack of substance, anyway a terrific job.


                
Ignore the critics that poo poo this film. I didn't find it too long and the much hyped meeting of DeNiro and Pacino in the cafe was very subtly done (considering the stature of these two titans) and brought a smile to my face.  The bank heist was comparable to the best of John Woo ... the staccato sounds from the robbers' AK47 was so jarring and intense.  This was a stylish mix of a super crime action movie with well developed characters with complex personal lives and real problems. Yeah, sometimes it does take 3 hours to fully develop.  This film is very similar in theme and feel to Michael Mann's earlier film "Thief", starring James Caan as a super cool thief and featuring a seminal soundtrack by Tangerine Dream, but Heat's even better.Overall, the movie was brillantly conceived and oh so cool.


                
First: Does anyone know if Pacino and De Niro were actually together in the same scene at the bar meeting? The movie is about two genius. One is the good guy (Pacino) and the other is the bad guy (De Niro). The script runs around the intelectual fight between them and the involvement for their parties. Except for the bank robbering, and the last scene, don't expect a lot of action in this movie. Instead, be sure you'll find an excellent script and performances. The director of this movie (Michael Mann) is the same director responsible for the TV series Miami Vice. And he directed another movie (L.A. Takedown - 1989 - TV) that actually looks like today as a "draft" for HEAT...


                
I haven't seen a movie this involved in a while. I picked it from the video shop because I thought it would be a simple action no-brainer for a Friday night, but i was happily mistaken. Both De Niro and Pacino were excellent, and really touched on the hard, unromantic lives their characters led. I was surprised at how much time is spent with the minor characters, but maybe I looked too hard. I can't really think of a weak point in this movie. It does have some pretty intense gunfights (the one outside the bank is horrific) and some of the violence in it could exclude some viewers. besides that, it was fantastic.


                
i watched this movie about 2 yrs ago, but i still remember the scenes and the excellent script of the movie. Al Pacino and Robert De Niro are really good actors that impressed me so much . besides their professional acting, i would like to talk about the art design and the music backgroud in the movie. there was a combination of dim colors like black, deep blue, grey all throughout the movie. moreover, i like the background music when Al Pacino chased Robert De Niro in the middle part , this music was so great . but unfortunately i cannot find the soundtrack in hong kong. overall, there was a good film that no one should miss.


                
Warning #2: This review contains a certain amount of spoilers. You may not want to read it if you have not already seen the movie. In my opinion, this movie handles a good deal of the things I'm hoping to see when I lean back into the chair - it has action, but is not driven by it, and I would not call it an action movie. It illustrates in a good way the interpersonal relationships of people torn by their calls in life, and how two men on different sides of the law can come to respect each other. I didn't expect this to come out good, but the meeting, and the respect growing between Vincent (Pacino) and Neil (De Niro) is skillfully done. A very big part of this credit is due to the people behind it allowing the story to take its time to unfold, resulting in a movie 170 minutes long - this is a good thing. It gives you time to get to know the characters, and the plot and story rarely seem hastened, as is the case with a lot of movies nowadays.The length also, of course, allows for the buildup in suspense, another one of the Heat's strong sides - from Vincent and Neil not knowing about each other, via being brought to each other's attention and meeting over a coffee, to the inevitable showdown in the end. And this brings me to the big downside of Heat - the ending. Suddenly a lid is put on all the suspense, and you realize that like with 99 out of 100 Hollywood movies, it has to end with the good guys winning the day and the bad guys getting what's coming to them.In one way, this could be argued for: Neil ends up breaking his own rule about not letting anything or anyone get in the way of his escape when he can, as he puts it, "spot the heat around the corner." But mayhap his newfound love and his final decision to go for revenge rather than safety brings about his end.His partner Chris (Val Kilmer) on the other hand, makes the decision to leave his wife and child behind and flee (or at least lay low), when he finds out it isn't safe to meet up with them - and as far as we know, he gets away. Still though, this does little to diminish the over-all predictable element of the movie. It may not be a particularly happy ending for anyone, as all who survive have had to give something up to achieve their goals, but as so often, the hunter gets his prey, and case closed. In my opinion, this is what limits Heat and keeps it on the "definitely a good one"-level, while falling short of - to borrow a line from "Swordfish" - pushing the envelope.
