Micheal Manns'(director of 'The Insider', and 'Manhunter') smooth, straightforward direction is studded with brilliant and very memorable cinematic gems in 'Heat',  A bullet riddled drama with, yes , Al Pacino and Robert De Niro in their first on screen meeting.What do you want to hear about 'Heat'.  Is it DeNiro's best performance? No. Is it Pacino's best performance? I'd be lying if I said it was.   Do the performances improve the story? Absolutely.   Mann has written (he wrote it as well) a complex and exciting two-sided story that develops the hunter Vincent Hanna (Pacino) and the hunted Neil McCauley (De Niro)  separately throughout much of the film.  Underneath a hail of bullets Mann is able to paint both lead characters with the same brush by delving into the similarly tragic and chaotic personal lives of Hanna and McCauley, allowing for the final epic scene, which would have been too pretentious if it were not for the excellent performances of Pacino and De Niro.Bottom Line:  Not having seen this movie is akin to idiocy for anyone claiming to be a fan of movies.   9 out of 10


                
The flaw of all gangster movies, at least those acknowledged as "classics" (Godfather trilogy, Scarface, Goodfellas, Casino, White Heat, Once Upon A Time In America etc), is how obvious and predictable their narrative progressions are. We get the rise, the joyous ecstasy of crime and the obvious monetary rewards, and the fall, that period where the world violently collapses around the criminal. With the scripts all so loosely similar, it just becomes a game of dress up. Of who has the best period details, acting and set design.Released the same year as Scorsese's "Casino", Michael Mann's "Heat" positions itself as one of the first "neo liberal" gangster movies, all the others still caught in the old framework of mafia patriarchy, family values, loyalty, honour, total adherence to a distinctive creed, blood lines and tribalism. "Heat", in comparison, completely breaks away from these old-fashioned ways. In Mann's film, everyone is an individual in the most extreme sense. The gang is no longer a gang, but a crew of "independent professionals" who just come together for a specific job and then split. In this world, families and friends are non-existent or total charades.While Don Corleone hid like a king behind his armed guards and giant fences, Mann's gangsters are trapped in a state of perpetual mobility. Like a group of shareholders, they are held together only by the prospect of future revenue. Their arrangement is temporary, pragmatic and lateral. They know that they are interchangeable parts in a larger machine, that there are no guarantees and that nothing lasts. Compared to this, the gangsters of "Goodfellas" and "The Godfather" seem like stagnated sentimentalists, nostalgically trapped in dying communities. While The Corleone's fight over territory and family honour, Mann's guys are only interested in Capital. As DeNiro yells during a bank heist, "We're here for the bank's money, not your money!"Tellingly, the DeNiro character's creed is one of "zero loyalty". He has a 30-second rule of walking away from anyone, however close he may be emotionally or romantically. The message of the film is thus double edged. It isn't just that the film's final resolution is that "justice prevails" and the bad guys are put away; rather, it is that those who fall, who get caught, are those who failed to live up to the modern creed, which is actually repeated twice in the film: "Don't let yourself get attached to anything you are not willing to walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around the corner." In other words, late capitalism and attachment do not mix.So in this sense, a film like "Heat", though otherwise entirely predictable, essentially a bunch of little boys engaging in idiot machismo one-upmanship posturing (Pacino's obsessive-compulsive manic cop vs DeNiro's cool sociopathic dedication, etc), nevertheless was one of the first films to manifest a fundamental social change. A series like "The Wire" then takes all of this much further, with its attempt to consciously map out the vast and unrepresentable complexity of contemporary neo-liberal capitalism. (In fact, a series like "The Wire", with its sheer scope, complexity and writing credentials, renders ALL gangster and crime movies irrelevant to any serious viewer.)And so today's gangsters are all "entrepreneurs", all so called "self-made individuals", the "self-employed Petite bourgeoisie", radically without any social links, even down to the kid selling crack to his buddies. This is all a million light years from the long obsolete world of "The Godfather", "Casino" or "Goodfellas". While those elegiac films are about moments that had long passed, Mann's is distinctively modern. This is a film about the 90s. This is a Los Angeles of polished chrome, designer kitchens, featureless freeways, fluorescent bulbs and late night diners. All the colours, sounds, aromas and cultural quirks of Coppola and Scorsese have been torn out, painted over, re-fitted and re-modelled. Mann's LA is a world without landmarks. A vast urban sprawl, all traces of Old Europe replaced by business franchises, multiplexes and multinational coffee shops. While Coppola's film centred around a family called the "Corleone's", their name itself a reference to the village in which they originated, Mann's criminals have bland names like "Neil". They are without history, culture or family ties. In a brilliant touch, Mann even has De Niro reading a book on metals when he first meets his love interest. The guy is a piece of cold, polished steel in a world that is likewise.Rather than a "rise/fall" structure we also get something a bit different. These criminals get no joy from their profession. Trapped in a world of paranoia, Mann's aesthetic is one of flat glass panes and expansive windows, his criminals always fearing exposure. For Mann, crime becomes a means of escape from the world in its entirety. Crime is total disconnection from both family, society and man, his criminals all looking to amass enough wealth to escape to some idyllic island on the horizon.But it's Mann's style itself that seduces us. This style, which I call "Armani decorum", owes much to Mann's fondness for such painters and architects as David Hockney, Alex Colville, Edward Hopper and Ed Ruscha (Alex Colville's "Pacific" is visually quoted in one shot). Mann's thus trades the "old noir" look for 1950's modernism, block colours, expansive glass panes, geometric divisions and contemporary, linear houses. His frame is divided into flat surfaces, characters are dressed in pastels, scenes are assigned panels of light and buildings are relentlessly modernist, with fluorescent bulbs and geometrical, flat surfaces. Couple this with his unique choice in music (minimalist, industrial and techno) and you have a very sexy aesthetic.8.9/10 – Dismissed upon release, "Heat" achieved "classic" status a few years later due to young film buffs. As the star status of De Niro and Pacino fades, and films like "Dark Knight" rip off its style, the film seems to be on another downward spiral.Worth several viewings.
This is my first review I have ever written on IMDb. I felt the urge to do so quite a lot of times, but I thought there were so many already for the movies I wanted to do it for that there was no need. I just finished watching this movie for maybe the 20th time in my life of 26 years. There is simply one word this movie can be described with, and that is Masterpiece. Why do I say masterpiece? Because of this: 1. Acting - Stellar cast, most of them at the height of their careers. 2. Plot - Great story, plot holes are just for the nitpickers or the haters; 3. Cinematography - Probably some of the best heist scenes and a city at night ever shot on film. 4. Characters - Not all of them, but the main characters are well developed and you understand their motivation, their actions, their thoughts. This movie will not let you down. Perfect to watch in any situation.


                
Still, after all these years, one of my favorite films. Not just because of the great cast, but the overall vibe and style is superb. When this movie was just released I was blown away by the shootout scene at the bank, but in the years after I found myself enjoying every single scene. One of the few films where the violence serves the storytelling instead of replacing it. Also the dialogues are sometimes poetry without losing credibility. The soundtrack is timeless and sets the right tone, straight from the beginning. An almost dreamy world that portrays a harsh one. I am writing this review (my first) on IMDb to honor this movie that never bores me. And as a filmmaker, it really influenced me a lot.


                
What makes "Heat" such a unique crime film is that it is both a gangster and a cop picture, which means that it spans an equal amount of time in both sides of the law and still manages to be original and compelling when they go toe-to-toe. This is a film that is obviously addressed to viewers who are familiar enough with heists, shootouts and police procedural to believe they've seen them all, but Michael Mann made a 180-minute script, as methodic, intelligent and articulate as its characters. And speaking of characters, they're not defined by some narrative status, sure, the criminals are the bad guys and the cop the heroes, but the film mainly shows them as men, with lives, wives, girlfriends, motives and weaknesses, and it takes all the time needed to do it in the most absorbing way. After all, you don't just make a character-driven picture about five or six people in ninety minutes. Now, let's get deeper in the film.Generally, in cop movies like the 'Dirty Harry' films, you have the central protagonist and the 'charismatic' villain. Gangster movies are centered on a specific operation and the gangsters' personalities generally undermine the outcome. "Heat" works on these two levels but with one pivotal difference: the cop and the bandit are not portrayed in a way that would influence our empathy. The cop, Vincent Hanna, is a tormented guy who can't handle his third wife and depressed stepdaughter, and Neil McCauley is a solitary criminal who lives by a code. His golden rule is not to depend on something he can't get rid of in less than 30 seconds. Did I mention that Al Pacino and De Niro play these guys? Of course, everyone knows but does it matter? These two actors are my all-time favorite, but the story is so engaging and well-written that I'm sure any other actors would have made it work. "Heat" is so good that even the Pacino-De Niro pairing (the first since "The Godfather Part II") almost feels like a publicity stunt, as if the film needed that little kick. Well, I'm glad they picked these two actors, and their confrontation in the coffee scene, halfway through the film is a highlight and the best illustration of the film's central theme: men who live for their job and don't know whether they enjoy the action or they're entrapped in the impossibility to live a 'normal' life because of their jobs. They have more in common than they think, and they're both atypical even within their crew.Still, from the way the conversation ends, we know their worlds tightly interact but don't mix. There will be a confrontation sooner or later. The film doesn't sugarcoat the criminal doings, nor does it ridicule the cops and that's important. The character of De Niro outshines the others because of his no-nonsense professionalism, beautifully echoed by the more volatile and dangerous personality of the villain within the villains, played by a convincing Kevin Gage. Now, that Waingro is a creepy criminal who adds his little spice to the film, and whenever he's is on the screen, you know there's trouble coming. He's a disturbing human being but crucial to the film, we know McCauley is on the wrong side of the law, still, he's closer to Hana than to Waingro."Heat" is a patient and serious epic-scale crime drama that borrows many elements from a director I admire: Jean-Pierre Melville. There's a Samurai-like quality in McCauley and maybe a little something from Lino Ventura, physically. Here is a tough guy dedicated to his job, and nothing else, which means no girls<U+0085> but if he finds the right one, he might change his mind, for better or worse. "Heat" is about many men who end up acting according to their nature, even if it implies a price. And while the main focus is on Pacino and De Niro, it would be unfair to ignore Val Kilmer, Tom Sizemore, Ashley Judd, Jon Voight and Natalie Portman who seemed to have gained in maturity ever since "Leon". If Melville inspires Mann, he distances himself by giving a more substantial role to the women, the film features many domestic scenes and marital arguments and overall, the women are not just used like props to their men's macho appeal.But I make the film sound like some existential journey while it also a school-case of thrilling action sequences and a bank robbery providing the most spectacular shootout you'll ever see, it is long but you never feel anything happening there gratuitous, from the first moment where they enter the bank, the way they handle the robbery and leave the car, you almost feel sorry for the cops' arrival, not because you root for the criminals, but because the real chaos and loss of lives result from the shootout. And some deaths come as unexpected and shocking but they're here to show how random and cruel life is, after all, the whole chain of events started with a miscast criminal, who was lucky enough to escape from his execution. Karma is also an important character in the film.So we have one of the greatest shootouts of cinema's history, one of the most elaborate criminal operations and equally gripping police investigation, an intelligent drama about men ruling their lives according to what they do the best<U+0085> and we don't necessarily enjoy what we do the best. And we have a director who seems to have embraced the professionalism of his characters to make his personal masterpiece, perhaps the ultimate cop/gangster picture<U+0085> and it's only fitting that the film confronts the actors who played more gangsters and cops than any others. And if "Heat" is a inspired by classic Melville film-noir crime flicks, Christopher Nolan admitted to have borrowed elements from "Heat" to make "The Dark Knight". See, the torch was passed and "Heat" is now a milestone.


                
This movie has the best shootout scene ever made. Let's argue. They were the criminals that you wanted to win. i freaking love this movie. I became a serious Val Kilmer fan after seeing this one.


                
One of the amazing things about Heat is that during an almost three hour running time of the film, your interest in what happens in the summit teaming of Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro never flags for a second. Part of the reason is because these guys are at the top of their profession and brought their A game to the parts. The roles they have are not as good as Jake LaMotta, Jimmy Conway, or Max Cady for DeNiro or Frank Serpico, Michael Corleone, or Bobby Deefield for Pacino. But Neil McCauley master criminal for DeNiro and Jake Hanna dogged detective for Pacino does show these guys at their best.You can best describe Heat as a long running version of Law and Order Criminal Intent with a big budget. Like that show the action shifts back from the cops to the criminals and smoothly for director/writer Michael Mann. We see both of these guys as rather similar to each other. DeNiro prides himself on the fact that he says he can drop any relationship if it interferes with work. And Pacino is on his third marriage and his mistress is the job. He's been a failure twice as a husband and about to go thrice in the romance department.Mann gave Pacino and DeNiro a really outstanding cast for support in Heat. People like Val Kilmer are in DeNiro's gang, Jon Voight is the Sam Jaffe like mastermind of the operation. Pacino on his team has Mykel T. Williamson from Forrest Gump and Ted Levine best known as Captain Stottlemyre on Monk.This action film also does not stint on woman's roles. Diane Venora is fine as Pacino's estranged wife. Amy Breneman is also good as DeNiro's woman who watches her man helplessly trapped by his own criminal rules go to his destruction. Best in the film on the distaff side is Ashley Judd as Val Kilmer's loyal wife who has one great choice given her by Williamson, betray her husband or lose their kid. See how she handles it.Although the scene was shoehorned into the plot and would never happen in real life, Pacino and DeNiro do meet and have a brief scene together over a cup of coffee in a diner. They compare notes so to speak and take the measure of the other guy. Since these two guys are the most acclaimed actors of their generation, the scene artificial though it is takes on a whole different dimension. It's like when writers give Queen Elizabeth and Mary Queen of Scots a climatic meeting scene even though in real life it never happened.But like in Heat, it should have happened.


                
I was only five years old when this came out so maybe there is something crazy that happened around this time in the industry which would explain why this film only had six nominations. Am I the only person astonished by this? The cast line-up alone I thought would have gained some acclaim and academy consideration at least. It's amazing that the greatest accomplishments derived from this film was a few naf nominations and #136 on IMDb's top 250.Speaking of the 'Top 250' I'm surprised, considering some of the films in higher positions, that 'Heat' wasn't higher. Still though, can't complain. At least it's in there. A 10/10 for me personally however.


                
This film brought the Godfathers of Hollywood (if you excuse the pun) to bring you Heat, one of the greatest crime thrillers to hit the big screen. The overall plot is mesmerising, due to the fact that you experience the lives on persons on both sides of the law that are thrown together to take you on an incredible ride through the world of bank heists and shoot outs. You have Pacino as Vincent Hanna, the sharp and volatile cop investigating a line of heists. The thieves responsible for these heists are De Niro, as Neil McCauley, the smooth and mysterious mastermind, and his right hand men Kilmer and Sizemore. Despite the great ensemble of cast, Pacino and De Niro steal the show by both delivering unforgettable lines and action scenes. The beauty of this cast ensemble is that neither one of them out staged one another, as if one delivered one good line the other would just hit the other back with an equally good line. The scene within the diner is a truly classic scene, where you see Pacino and De Niro just talk, no yelling or physical movement, yet each line they deliver electrifies the scene.Other than Pacino and De Niro, the film also consists of a thrilling shoot out, keeping you on the edge of your seat by the sound of every gun shot.No doubt about it, Mann is a genius, and this is his masterpiece!
20 reasons why "Heat" is the best movie ever1- Best cast for a movie ever. How's this for a cast: Robert DeNiro, Al Pacino, Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Amy Brennemann, Ashley Judd, Natalie Portman, Hank Azaria, Henry Rollins, Tone Loc, Jeremy Piven, Mykelti (I have the coolest voice ever) Williamson, WIlliam Fichtner2- Love movies where the main character can beat up people twice their size, in this case Neil McCauley beating up Wayne Gro a few times and Henry Rollins. Close runner up would be Ed Norton beating up DeNiro's bodyguard in "The Score"3- Pacino explaining the first crime scene. It's so good you can overlook the amount of things he says that would be obvious to cops but not to us, the naive viewer (the exits, how they knew the average police response time etc). Not done as well in "The Day After Tomorrow" when scientists explain basic weather information that many movie goers wouldn't know. It would be like in "Rocky" if the trainer said "Hey Rock, you gotta knock him out before the 12th because that's when the fight ends".4. Al Pacino never saying "goodbye" or "ok" to end phone calls. Looks so cool just hanging up at the time you feel like it. I tried it a few times on friends but they no longer talk to me so my technique obviously needs some work.5. Neil McCauley's routine to pick up Eady at the bar. If you've never gotten a date, try this.6. Al Pacino's couple of screaming rants. Bill Simmons said about Pacino is his piece on DeNiro v Pacino that all of his characters in the last 10 years have basically been like the one he plays in "Scent of a Woman". Lots of silly yelling and screaming. The best one in this movie is probably "Gimme all you got!" in his ridiculous conversation with Albert.7. The cameos in this movie. The best ones being Henry Rollins , Jeremy Piven and Tone Loc.8. The quote: "Have no attachments, allow nothing to be in your life that you cannot walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you spot the heat coming around the corner"9. How creepy the diner manager is. He'd be awesome in "My Restaurant Rules"10. When has the "cop pursuing likable criminal" not worked? My second favorite movie of all-time is "The Fugitive", so. Even "US Marshalls" is watchable purely on this premise. Oh hang on, theory ruined, I forgot about the Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones one, "Double Jeopardy".11. Another McCauley quote "I'm talking to an empty phone...There's a dead man on the end of this line." Try it on a telemarketer sometime for a laugh.12. Vincent Hanna talking to Kate about why he doesn't talk talk about his work. Great Pacino work. She holds her own too, except that haircut ruined her character for me.13. The fact the movie seems to be around bank robbers but really is all about relationships. Watch from about the 56min mark for 10 minutes and see how it goes right into them. The movie has them all. The dead relationship between Kate and Vince, the blossoming relationship between Neil and Eady, the roller coaster ride of Chris and Charley and lots more.14. One of the few action movies with cops ever where no-one over rides the man in charge's orders. It's pretty much a staple of cop movies these days. See "The Negotiator" and "Con Air" for the worst offenders.15. Pacino quote: "Who..Who...What are you a %$^&*( owl?"16. Neil's suit.17. "The Scene" with Vincent and Neil having a chat over coffee. Both guys are almost having an "act-off" (like the "walk off" in Zoolander). Forget Shakespeare, aspiring actors should watch and rehearse a role from this scene and they'll be set for a huge career.18. Pacino Quote: "I'm very angry, Ralph"19. The directing of Michael Mann. Visually stunning movie.20. The Shooutout. Awesome cinema. Once again, look past the fact the layout is absolutely ridiculous (see Kilmer standing in between two ends of wall to wall cops and shooting one way and then the other)


                
This story is not only complete, which many movies seem to forget, but also entertaining. The story-line is complete and used to it's fullest potential within a given time-frame. The visuals are a spectacle, especially during action sequences. Along side the superb audio track and the audio effects, which are unparalleled. The acting is good, and the cast fits the characters. Some unique dialogue and character creation in this film has made it's mark on contemporary society by creating a "cult" in which predominantly young males admire the characters and their actions. Resulting in the creation of computer game genres where people play characters similar (almost identical) to the films characters. Games such as Payday, where you actively try to replicate the crime committed in the film on multiple levels.-You will always remember a certain scene when walking into a bank, and you might be hearing the soundtrack in your ear as you walk about casually towards the tellers.


                
A classic hip thriller surrounding a world where crime lords run the show and cops can only try and keep up with the pace. "walk out in 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around the corner" That's how the game is played. Criminals have to stay ahead of the heat and plan in advance to get away with whatever they can. First they strike an armoured van, then a bank heist. They do whatever they can, they are hi-tech and infinitely smart. Robert DeNiro is Niel McCauley the leader of a motley crew of criminals who think they're better than the law, and smarter than the cops. As the film goes on they get into bigger things, the heat gets turned up and they even begin to stalk the cops, not have the cops stalking them. But every game must have an ending, and even though DeNiro is on the verge of getting out, he can't help himself and so he begrudgingly gets back in on the business with the intention of killing a piece of scum killer who used to be a part of his gang. Al Pacino is Vincent Hanna a top notch cop who wants nothing more than to bang up his nemesis, but cannot find enough evidence to support his case. But as DeNiro gets back in he takes an even bigger risk, that exposes him to the full force of the heat, and Pacino is ready for a final showdown. A showdown of courage, guns, and willpower. Honestly this film is brilliant, tense and taut and not form the faint hearted. It is nonetheless fantastic and even Val Kilmer's thrown in to add to the bang. Michael Mann shows flair in probably his best ever film. It is a long three hour epic, but it is also a great film to watch over and over again.
The movie is one of the most clever crime films ever made. It is another flick of the 'Police VS Thief' genre but is much more skilled and artistic than most of the movies of the same kind. It possesses one of the most striking concepts, which is exhibited to the viewers in the best possible manner. The movie in spite of having a long run time of 170 minutes doesn't seem to tire the audience. However, the movie starts off with slow pace, but the latter part of the movie is breathtaking and intriguing.The star cast is absolutely outstanding. You can't expect a movie implicating greats like Al Pacino and Robert De Niro to let you down. Both have stood up to their standards, one playing a crucial police part and the other an adept gangster. The supporting roles played by Val Kimler, Diane Venora and Ashley Judd were slightly above average. Also, other supporting roles enacted by Tom Sizemore and Amy Brenneman were worth admiration.Michael Mann, the director, has done a splendid job indeed. Also, the screenplay has been commendable. Editing and cinematography departments have carried out a splendid job. The sequence involving Pacino and Di Nero is in a league of its own. The background score of the movie is intensified, yet extra ordinary. Overall, the movie is an excellent portrayal of crime and redemption, a collaboration involving legends. De Niro and Pacino fans are obliged to watch it. The movie is highly recommended to the viewers who cherish intense thrillers.


                
Plot In A Paragraph: In L.A, a group of professional bank robbers led by a loner called Neil (Robert De Niro) start to feel the heat from the police headed by homicide detective Vince Hanna (Al Pacino) following their latest heist.The pinnacle of Michael Mann's career so far, Heat is simply superb. It's interesting to note he hits a lot of the same beats from Thief and Manhunter, plenty of shots of the ocean, men sneaking out of bed leaving their woman sleeping, scenes in cafe's at night and again one hell of a score. Boy does this guy know how the chose his composers. So reminiscent of Thief's score, I looked to see if it was Tangerine Dream. But it was Elliot Goldenthall. Brilliant at helping create tension and setting the tone. People always wax lyrical about Pacino and De Niro in this, and they are worthy of the plaudits, but so is the supporting cast Tom Sizemore, Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Kevin Cage are all brilliant, as are William Fictcher and Hank Azria in smaller roles too.Of the women in the movie is Amy Brenneman and Ashley Judd (for years I thought it was Charlize Theron) are more than just scenery, as can often be the case in this type of movies. For her brief time on screen (3 scenes) Natalie Portman is superb and her subplot is heartbreakingly sad. Ignored by her Dad, no fatherly figure support from her step Dad (Pacino) and her mam pretty much ignores her. I love this movie!! One of the best of the year, if not the decade!! Heat did not do as well at the box office as I thought, grossing $67 million at the domestic box office to end the year the 25th highest grossing movie of 1995. To put that in context, Father Of The Bride 2, the Hugh Grant comedy Nine Months and Mortal Kombat all out performed it.WTF?? Don't get me wrong 1995 was a good year for movies, but I expected to see this higher when I looked.


                
At the beginning you are introduced to a bunch of characters that have their minds set on common things and some that are trying to stop those from robbing. Movie bases it's plot development on simple fact that they only know one so called nickname at it was absolutely great to see how story goes from there and how it ends. Along the way as characters are getting deeper in their thoughts and actions movie just starts to kick off high as it becomes tense, creating great suspense at times, then just showing you how brutal and violent it can be and finally how it kept destroying character that you didn't even thing it would get and some of the guys that deserved it. Al Pacino is incredible in his role, as he goes through various stages and moods that are followed by great emotions and some amazing scenes. Robert is also great as he shows his love towards women he feel for, hatred towards guys that betrayed him and that wanted to cross him over and is filled with emotions. Others were also incredible but not as those two guys and they sometimes leftover to get their chance to show but never get it fully. Amazing directing of movie with great action scenes that result in great violence and some dialogues were profound and emotional and just amazing. 3.5/4
I've seen a few of Michael Mann's movies...Manhunter (the original Silence of the Lambs), The Insider, Collateral. Heat has to be one of the best. A lot's been said about Heat, but there are a few standouts. Dennis Haybert plays Donald Breedon, out on parole and is hired by a crooked diner owner (Bud Cort - good to see him acting). When Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro) recruits Breedon to be the getaway driver, you feel a sense of foreboding. But good to see Dennis end up playing the President of the USA a few years later.The final scene between Val Kilmer's character and Ashley Judd's character was very moving even though no words are exchanged. Their facial expressions alone are enough, and it's quite moving.The shootout scene has to be one of the best ever in movie history. With all the death, damage and destruction done, I can only wonder the headache this caused to the insurers in the storyline.
I have very little interest in most action films or violent movies, so I am not the sort of person that would normally watch a film like "Heat". However, on a lark and because it's apparently such a good film I decided to give the film a look. Well, I must say that thought I was not in love with the film it sure was exceptionally well made and had a lot to offer--even for folks like me.The biggest reason I liked the movie and thought it was made so well was its rich and complex plot. At nearly three hours, there is lots and lots of time for the plot to slowly unfold. It also allowed for several concurrent plots to interweave themselves through the film--the story about the master criminals, the cops, another criminal as well as a rogue nut-job that just likes to kill. It's almost like a mini-series in this respect. I also loved how this was not a set-bound film but was made throughout LA--though I wonder how this was possible, as it must have tied up huge portions of Los Angeles! I also loved some of the characters--particularly Robert De Niro's oddly professional and scary criminal boss. It was one of his very best performances.There's very little to complain about in the film, though I thought Al Pacino's character was a tad over-acted at times. Unlike De Niro, I had a harder time believing Pacino was real. Perhaps it's just me....Overall, if you don't mind the violence and the occasionally frenetic pace, then this is a film well wroth seeing. Extremely well-directed and never dull.


                
Michael Mann understands character(s). This is why 'Heat' stands out as an original piece of work that can demonstrate to young writers and filmmakers on how important character is to a film. There is so much depth given to the two central characters that it may propel some to question its use in several scenes. Yet it is precisely why this film is effective in juxtaposing the parallels of good guy versus bad guy, highlighting how De Niro and Pacino's characters are identical though on opposite sides of the spectrum. Subtle dialogue and actions are incorporated early on in the film so we are able to determine that when the two finally do meet, well into the second act of the film, we have already established that they mirror each other. Thus when the dialogue flows, we are well aware of this observation and allow the scene to naturally flow without the need to reiterate this fact. Fantastic--fantastic--fantastic!!


                
Heat's opening heist certainly takes you aback, but thats just a mild taste of whats about to come. Somewhere in the second act is an absolutely shocking, stomach-chewing battle sequence that may well be the most numbing action set-piece ever committed to film. Nothing else like it exists, not in the most awe-inspiring war movies nor in the most fiercely adored action flicks. Its something like what Peckinpah might have done, only ten times more riveting. Heat literally climaxes at this point - in an orgasmic fusillade of gunfire.Heat is NOT a film about ideas or realism. Despite what countless viewers will have you believe, Heat offers no symbolism or metaphor, nothing beyond the literal surface story that we see. It has nothing deeper or psychologically real to say about anything, and certainly not about the so-called relationship between hunter and hunted. All that is a mere play on words and an escape for bored people. And by asking the viewer to identify and empathize with sociopaths, Heat proves that it has more to do with machismo than justice or reality.Enough grousing about what Heat *isnt*. I come to praise this film, not bury it. We are all seduced by the spectral filmic experience that Heat is. Mann's unrivalled synthesis of sound, cinematography and music. He aims for a very high degree of visual verisimilitude, and attains it. There is no one else in Hollywood who can bend the logic of big-budget film-making in this way.I'm just sorry that this film doesn't make me contemplate a thing, other than Mann's film technique. Never can I shake off the feeling that this a gigantic comic book, or a Western in techno trappings. He does try to convey something about the essential emptiness of these two men's lives, and how they seemingly need each other. Most viewers cant wait to label that as "existential angst". They might like to consider that maybe these two are just closet cases. That last scene especially is a bit too much.


                
Don't mind the running time, Heat will keep you on its ride for the whole movie. De Niro and Pacino sharing the screen for the first time does not disappoint one bit, and the story is smart, engaging and high octane. As of fan of The Dark Knight, I immediately realized why many have pointed to Michael Mann as one of the main influences for Christopher Nolan's masterpiece. Many of the heist scenes are echoed in TDK, which goes to show how effective the scenes are. It is these scenes as well as the investigative scenes from Pacino's character Lt. Hanna that carry the film. The personal life backstories of the main characters are necessary in moving the plot forward and creating an ideological struggle in each person's mind, but they are not what make the film memorable, particularly the angle on Neil, De Niro's character. Yet I will remember Heat mainly by the way it is carried by De Niro and Pacino, two world-class actors who balance and complement each other perfectly throughout the film, even when they don't share screen time. I shouldn't have put off watching this film for as long as I did. If you have Netflix and three hours to spare, do yourself a favor and watch Heat!


                
Best dialogue scenario I ever seen in the films.
Especially the last meeting between the two competitors.


                
Heat is a heist drama movie directed by Michael Mann who also directed The Insider, Miami Vice, Collateral, and The Last Of The Mohicans. This film is also a remake of L.A. Takedown that's also directed by Michael Mann and is an adaptation of the TV movie. After I read some reviews about this movie, Heat can be said as the best heist movie ever. Even this was more than my expectation. Some heist films which always focus on the point always contain excessive themes and seem unlikely.Heat uses two styles of realistic and modern. The final shootout scene in this movie also seemed realistic, simple, and normal to happen in the reality. The background that's used also feels modern for the film which made in 1995. Moreover, with the action of these two best actors of all time, Al Pacino, and Robert De Niro, we don't need to be underestimated again. This film was also their second movie after The Godfather: Part II where they played in the same movie but never shared a screen. This movie is the real proof that this is an actual action movie. Nothing exaggerated, a great cast, realistic sound editing, and the background that looks modern.Heat took a mediocre theme of shooting in the streets, bank robberies, good guy against bad guy, and clichés in the heist movie in general. Although like that, Heat is a different film from the heist movie in general. The main thing that can answer why this film is said like that because of the actors. From the trailer, the film shows the two actors competing in one film on a screen. What I mean here is the coffee scene where the two actors are the first time to compete acting after The Godfather: Part II. If you want to assess how the performance of these two actors, I think it no longer needs to worry about because both actors are performing with the best performance.Al Pacino plays his character as a policeman with a character that contradicts his job. Two times divorced until life with his third wife that becomes a mess, he is someone who's too obsessive about his work so he doesn't really care about the people around him. By the way, Natalie Portman also plays in this film as Lauren Gustafson who became the son of Lt. Vincent Hanna.On the other hand, Robert De Niro plays his character as a villain with his cleverness that can make the police drive insane. He has a calm personality, doesn't talk too much, and prefers to take an action as soon as possible. However, he is concerned with his friend including Chris Shiherlis played by Val Kilmer. Of these two characters, it's this contradiction that makes the film so good. The bad guy who doesn't like the bad guy and vice versa. Val Kilmer doesn't really dominate in here and I think he's so hard to get into the middle of these two actors. Another cast like Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Diane Venora, Amy Brenneman, Ashley Judd, and friends seems good and no one deficient.As I said, this movie is a contradiction between characters. Two main characters is a protagonist that focuses on a subject, woman. With the chaotic life of both of them, I think this movie sometimes displays some sad scenes because considering Heat is also a drama. Despite that, Heat is not solely focused on the aspect. But is Heat just as good as the big cast, not the story?Heat isn't completely overdoing some action scene. Simply, not too many action scenes here. The first impression is just the recognition of character with various problems, the process of chase between the two side, and the whole is only dominated by conversation. People who still lay with films like this and just looking for the action alone may not be in accordance with their expectations and will find that this movie's boring. One of the most memorable when watching this movie is the final shootout bank heist scene that exceeded my exploits. The first thing that immediately flashed through my head was a heist video game called PAYDAY 2 and Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight. Not to mention, Christopher Nolan himself is also inspired by this scene where he uses this scene as the opening scene of The Dark Knight. Speaking of the final shootout, this scene is one of the most real scenes ever in the movie. The editing sounds are almost similar to the sounds of real weapons, the cinematographic techniques of the splendid by Dante Spinotti, and the performance of all real performance when using weapons.The actors in this movie are also trained using weapons before shooting the movie. I also wonder why this film didn't win even nominated at all in Oscar. In fact, this film deserves to get an Oscar award in the category of Best Effects, Sound Effects Editing. By the way, don't forget the ending that's also pretty twisty and hard to figure out so the storyline of the two main characters will meet on something that cannot be speculated.Heat is one of the best heist movies ever. The duration that presented is almost three hours. Not to mention, this film is more dominant in conversation rather than the action. So, this movie can be a bit boring than you think but the action will make you lose your boredom. For me, there are so many memorable scenes in this movie one of the coffee scene, the final shootout scene, the suspenseful ending scene, to the chase scenes of the two best actors which all I think are memorable. Robert De Niro and Al Pacino are two of the best actors who perform their best performances in this film and together compete. The other cast is also like that with sound editing that is pretty realistic, I think this is one of the realistic movies I've ever watched. An experience in watching action films only exist on Heat.


                
WARNING: HUGE SPOILERS IN HERE! IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, DO NOT READ!!!!I admit that after watching Heat for the first time, I was kind of annoyed. I thought that it was overly long, and I had gone in expecting a complete action movie, nothing more. However, after thinking about it for a while, and after I figured out the story a bit more, I completely changed my viewpoint. Heat is a masterpiece. I commonly say that after about 1991 or 1992 action/crime movies lost their "spark," and I still think that. However, Heat is a movie that manages to fully resurrect that same spark that I love. Stupendous performances by Robert DeNiro, Al Pacino, Val Kilmer, and even Ashley Judd are coupled by a great, intricate story line, a awesome setting, and, for an action buff like myself, one of the most gritty and realistic machine gun battles I've ever seen. The ending also blew me away (no pun intended-sorry). After Pacino shoots DeNiro, that final shot before credits role...classic. It gives me shivers every time I watch it. The only thing that I have to complain about in this movie is that I do think that in some cases is just dragged on too long for its own good, slightly overstaying its welcome. However, overall, this is a small flaw in a truly great movie. Bear in mind, though, that this is not a movie for anybody younger than 15, I'd say. Language is foul (up to 60 f words), and the violence is very realistic; as such, it is brutal and bloody, and there's plenty of it. No sex though; I was glad that Mann didn't throw in the usual obligatory sex scene. In short, if you're over 15, and you can handle and appreciate complex movies, this is the movie for you. In my opinion, one in maybe 5 movies that come close to approaching the caliber of movie making so prevalent in the 1980s and early 1990s, and perhaps the only one that actually succeeds. Highly recommended.
Michael Mann's modern take on the cops-and-robbers genre, sees Pacino as a workaholic robbery-homicide cop tracking down ace thief DeNiro.The movie explores the mutual respect between a policeman and criminal and, in their absolute commitment to their own cause, how this affects the people in their lives. In the hands of lesser film-makers, this type of movie would have sunk without a trace. Given the talent on display, we would have had to see one of the biggest displays of 'off-form' for it to fail. But, it doesn't fail. It succeeds, and then some.Pacino, it seems, is allowed to be the energy source of the main characters.Full of bluster and showmanship, Pacino gives the most awkward moments (getting home whilst his wife's lover is still there, for example) a lighter side and, on occasions, some welcome over-acting. By the end, though, his character pays for his energy and we see a more restrained, considered approach from him for the final thirty minutes.DeNiro plays the quiet man, but with wonderful acting wrings every drop from his character. Given that DeNiro is not given the latitude to express his character like Pacino, then he could have been outshone by his co-star. Of course, he's not.Michael Mann shoots every frame immaculately. Mann has the style to go with the substance. His script doesn't treat female characters well but mainly because they are all making one last attempt to reach out to their male partners. I think the movie makes the point that people who give a huge amount of commitment to a cause lose sight of the people that are supposed to be the closest in their lives.Together with some great characters, Mann has also included one of the best shoot-outs ever seen. The almost balletic shoot-out between Pacino's team of cops (and a large chunk of the LAPD) and DeNiro's group of thieves succeeds because it almost feels as if you are in the middle of it.Of course, Heat is not perfect. Similarly to his Collateral, Mann constructs a weak final fifteen minutes. Both movies are far from standard Hollywood fare but do spend its final minutes in them. Both movies have a shoot-out that feels a little clichéd and you can't help but think that Mann had a thought-provoking ending to both films but the studio got their way. In other words, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt.Still, Heat is probably the finest movie of its genre.9 out of 10.


                
