Having just watched this series again, I am prepared to say that "Spaced" is definitely one of the greatest comedy shows EVER!Funny, striking, imaginative, clever, compassionate, sarcastic, inventive, etc, etc, etc. You get the impression that co-stars and co-writers, Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson, just cannot write a boring line of dialogue or envisage a predictable scene. Using its "nothing new" premise (mismatched couple pretend to be romantically entangled to find a place to live), this show twists and turns its way off into many brilliant and original directions, while never failing to provide the required belly laughs along the way.It uses movie in-jokes and references in a way that would make Tarantino envious, and the hipness of its execution makes it both a show that, paradoxically, is of the moment but is also certain to be talked about in ten or twenty years from now.The cast are all first-rate: Pegg and Stevenson manage to be both madcap and touching, and are backed up by a sterling supporting cast of fresh and exciting talent. Julia Deakin as Marsha, the flirtatious middle-aged landlady and Mark Heap as the pretentious but vulnerable artist from hell, Brian, make a hilarious double act; Nick Frost is a real find as military mad Mike; and Katy Carmichael as the initially snobby Twist manages to be dotty without turning up the annoyance factor.Even the guest appearances are great. My two personal favourites are Michael Smiley as the chemically enhanced Tyres O'Flaherty, a non-stop raver who even dances to the ringing of a telephone; and the excellent Charles Dale (II), who is usually cast as the heavy, but gives a marvellous comic performance here as the "yes man" security guard who helps our bumbling heroes rescue their beloved pooch, Colin, from an evil freelance vivisectionist!Credit must also be given to director Edgar Wright who has created a unique and vivid look to the show, enhancing the script's wired look at the banalities of everyday life with his brilliant use of camera movement, lighting, cross-cutting, flashbacks, etc. Even if it wasn't funny (which it most emphatically is), "Spaced" would get top marks for being the best looking show on the box.I could go on, but "Spaced" is a comedy that needs to be seen to be believed, and then seen again...and again...and again...


                
I am writing this comment after watching _all_ 14 episodes of Spaced that are currently available in what was basically one sitting. Living in Germany I had been totally unaware of this rare gem among all the mediocrity and outright rubbish that is usually aired on TV until the owner of my favourite video shop (which specializes in US and UK imports) pointed out the Series 1 and Series 2 DVDs to me.Right after I had seen about 10 minutes of the very first episode I was hooked. I am about the same age as the main characters in the series and many of their traits and interests seemed uncannily familiar. Maybe I should be a bit worried about being able to easily identify with Tim's motivations and obsessions or about actually knowing people like Mike myself... Uhm, I'll better not delve into all this, but let me say that watching all those familiar situations, topics of discussion and reactions of people being acted out so convincingly by the cast was pure enjoyment for me - unlike anything else I had ever seen on the telly!And then there are the pop culture references. Most of them are to films or TV series. If you are a film buff or comicbook/scifi geek and have always got some fun out of the film refs in Simpsons episodes _please_ by all means watch Spaced! Not only are these scenes all very well done and intelligently embedded into the narrative - it's also the whole context of the series and its characters that makes all the references so, uhm, fitting and, well, funny. (It's a bit hard to describe really, and I'm not going to spoil anything by giving examples... just watch it!)Taking in everything in one go I also found it nice that there's a consistent story arc that stretches across all 14 episodes, and I also liked the references to earlier episodes that were sometimes made, especially in the 2nd series.Well. I must say I feel a little bad now about having blown all this on one single day. I mean, you're supposed to save good and precious things and use them sparingly over time. But sometimes things are so f***ing good that you just have to have it all, at once, until nothing's left.So what do I do now with no more unseen Spaced for me to watch? Bloody 'ell, I'll just watch all 14 episodes again, tomorrow!!


                
The whole two series was as close to perfect as I can imagine. Funny, beautifully shot, well-produced, the only downside was that there wasn't more of it. Perhaps the reason that it wasn't as successful as it should have been was that it didn't get a large enough audience. It was aired in a time when "The Royle Family" undeservedly won all the awards and praise, whereas Spaced was considered to be aimed at immature adolescents, film parodies and comic book references only worthy of an audience that doesn't know quality when they see it. And this is a tragedy, because, if television series' can be considered art form by any stretch of the imagination, then this is a masterpiece, something to be admired by others, a definite benchmark for all other programmes.


                
'Spaced' is, for my money, one of the best comedy series produced in the English language in the last ten years; genuinely, laugh-out-loud funny, scrupulously well-written, brilliantly acted and with a kicking soundtrack that has introduced me, at least (and I'm guessing a few others) to some fantastic little-known bands (Using LemonJelly long before they were famous, for example) - this must rank alongside 'Black Books' in its cult-but-inclusive appeal. The true genius is in the fact that you could probably watch this with your vicar and - apart from a low swearing incidence - they would find little to criticise (unlike, say, equally funny but edgier shows; Chris morris' work for example) but it still makes perfect post-pub viewing. When one sees the dross that usually passes for sitcom in the UK, once-great Shakespearean actors mugging at the camera and silently cursing their agent as the canned laughter robotically shrieks, you wonder why they don't just hand over the entire comedy drama section of UK TV to Pegg, Stevenson, Bailey, Moran and Serafinowicz. Please make more. Please.


                
Well what can I say??? The man is a genius.Simon Pegg, Master of Modern Comedy and the gorgeous Jessica Stevenson (yes I did say gorgeous!) have written and starred in what I consider to be the best British comedy ever.From Colin the lovable dog to Brian the nutty artist who lives downstairs, the script and acting is 5*.Set in London with a fantastic cast including the hilarious Nick Frost as Mike (later Ed in Shaun Of The Dead along with Simon Pegg as Shaun and Jessica Stevenson appearing in cameo role) and Julia Deakin as Marsha, the permanently drunk landlady who lives upstairs, you know you're in for a great night on the TV.It was a shame that there was only ever 2 series made however I can understand why it ended when it did.Best character??? Brian as the somewhat over-emotional artist (Anger, Pain, Fear, Aggression...)My favourite moments in the series??? Tyres enjoying the effects of the rave culture with the help of various household noises!!! Best Line (episode 1) Tim : Daisy this is Brian... Daisy : oh hi, Do you rent downstairs?... Brian : Do you mean am I gay?All In All - ENJOY!!! You Americans don't know what you're missing!!!


                
Okay, so I happen to be a partying, comic book reading, horror movie watching, video game playing, thirty something-year-old gal from the US, who is also a major Star Wars geek. And according to some that is the only audience that this show would appeal to. Well, I disagree. It really spoke to me, for obvious reasons, and I think that the characters of Tim and Daisy are much of an amalgam of the people in my generation who want to succeed but are either afraid to take the risk, feel like they can't get a break, or are just to damned lazy to do so! But there is also something about the relationship of the characters that I think could appeal to anyone. And the peripheral characters are deliciously strange. I think that it's well written and acted. I think that it's funny, and weird and bizarre and just really, really fun to watch! If you liked Shaun of the Dead then you will definitely like this series. I only had one problem with it. They didn't make enough episodes!!!


                
"Spaced" has never been broadcast (to my knowledge) on French TV, so I bought the complete 2 seasons series on Amazon after seeing Shaun of the Dead, which I consider to be one of the best comedies ever. Well, even without any subtitles (I get around in English), "Spaced" appears to me as the exact epitome of what British TV can do at its best : a perfect brew of comedy, rhythm, political incorrectness, extraordinary acting, stylish writing, socially-oriented matters... I really was mesmerized at the creativity both screenwriters and director displayed all along the 14 episodes, always renewing what could be taken as pure show-off style on the first one. This is why I love British comedy, TV & cinema. Wit. Man do they have it. Simon Pegg if you ever read this : you ARE the Force !


                
I've just spent five hours watching the most terrific British sitcom, "Spaced." Now my inner voice speaks with an English accent and I'm left wondering if maybe I grew up on the wrong side of the Atlantic. I am an American viewer, and I'm sad that it has taken so long for this show to reach the States.In "Spaced" there are references comic books, Tekken, and Evil Dead II. It is also worth noting that Tim, one of the main characters in "Spaced," lost his job over "The Phantom Menace." I thoroughly enjoyed my hours of uninterrupted British indulgence. I recommend "Spaced" because it's so darn funny. Tim, played by Simon Pegg, is the assistant manager of a comic book shop. His boss's name is Bilbo Bagshot (I'm serious) and said boss has slugged people out on at least two occasions because the one getting slugged said that "Hawke the Slayer" was crap. Also, Peter Serafinowicz (aka the Voice of Darth Maul) turns up as the slick-suit who stole Tim's girlfriend away. They have a great showdown on a paintball course.Also wonderful is Daisy (Jessica Stevenson), the other main character. She's a writer, but comes up with all sorts of creative ways to avoid actual writing. The in-jokes are brilliant, the directing is fresh, the acting is endearing without being sappy. The next time this show airs on Trio or BBC America, grab some popcorn and hoard the remote because you'll want to watch all of it.


                
There simply isn't a better TV comedy around at the moment than Spaced. Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson's scriptwriting is so sharp and full of references it can sometimes be hard to keep up through the onslaught of hilarious jokes. With such well rounded characters it is just too good for words, it is the recognition humour and references that make this a wonderful comedy.


                
"Spaced" is like watching the cartoon of the life of the average SFX reader or Ain't-it-Cool UK talkbacker.  It's the closest thing to fanboy (and fangirl) heaven there is.  By that, I don't mean it's a perfect word for word film version of Lord of the Rings nor even a big BBC production of Asimov's Foundation trilogy.  No, this is where really good fanboys (and fangirls) go when they die.Set around the lives of Tim Bisley and Daisy Steiner sharing a ground floor flat somewhere in North London it shows in a disturbingly honest way the lives of the average late 20-something, recently moved to London, wannabe creative, painfully middle-class, skint people in much the same way that David Attenborough might bring to life the daily trials of a family of pandas.  Their many rituals and habits are studied in detail as they go about carving their way in the cruel world around them.  We see them go clubbing, going to sign on, in the pub, and rescuing dogs from animal testing laboratories.  The one thing that leads me to think that this is only a sitcom and not real life is that their flat is always suspiciously clean.As Tim is a struggling graphic artist trying to break into the world of comic illustration, it's appropriate that the characters are all cartoons themselves.  They almost spew stylised behaviour, phrases and clothes. Some even have their own signature moves such as Brian's standardised description of his 'work' when he is asked what he paints.  The editing follows this lead with many cut-aways into people's thoughts much in the manner of a thought bubble.  The sheer quantity of cultural references is staggering. However, having lived a life similar to this, I know the number of cultural references in real life is at about the same level.If you're currently aged between 27 and 34, this is the only sitcom you'll ever need to see again.  Well, Black Books is pretty good too.  Anyway, there are few things that make me laugh as much of this.  If you know the words to the Ewok song, watch this.


                
...this is the show for YOU.It's hilarious on many different levels, ranging from the ultra-obscure comic book/film/TV/music references to the downright slapstick.The much-celebrated references may cause you to roll around on the sofa clutching your stomach laughing, or they may pass you by.  It really doesn't matter.  The programme is also incredibly touching.  The writing and performances bring the paint-by-numbers characters (self-pitying cartoonist, lazy would-be journalist, tortured artist, drunken landlady, vain self-appointed fashion guru, weapons-obsessed idiot) to painfully vivid life, and no matter how cynically you may approach "Spaced" you will end up caring about these people and their relationships.  But hey, even if you don't, there's still the pop-culture references to cling onto.From Tim fantasising playing "Resident Evil 2" and blasting zombies in his living room (before reality takes hold), Daisy seeing herself in the future in true "The Shining" style, and Marsha seeing how she might have been had she not turned to drink and rock stars, you'll start laughing and you won't stop.In fact, it doesn't matter what age you are, you will identify with the characters and you will care about them and you will laugh with them.  A lot.Which just leaves the evil hidden agenda behind the series: watch it, listen to the audio commentary on the DVD and it becomes clear that they will make you watch Evil Dead 2.  Before you know it, grandmothers will be watching notorious horror films and LAUGHING.For that alone we should be truly thankful.


                
If you haven't been watching this gem, SHAME ON YOU!From the very first episode, this show has captured the trials and trivilations of Tim and Daisy, two people who met in a cafe and decided to pretend to be a married couple to get a flat.With their wacky mates, Twist, Colin, Mike and others, you can't help but marvel at this show!The camera work is as manic and paranoid as the characters, and there's that element of "will-they-or-won't-they" with Tim and Daisy.Also, they regularly feature quips about movies and TV shows that would even make the hardcore film or TV buff chuckle!Friday nights won't ever be the same, so get "Spaced" out!


                
A supposedly surprising sitcom based upon the very modern idea of a couple of twenty-somethings sharing a flat: 'Spaced' sounded as if it should feel fresh and original. But in fact the set up feels very familiar: the landlord (in this case, actually a landlady) lives under the same roof as her collection of sexually inadequate, loser tenants; although the permutations are different, 'Spaced' really doesn't feel so completely different from 'Rising Damp'. The one original quirk is that jokes are often followed up by vividly unreal exaggerations showing us what the characters really think. But this was done with more style in 'Dream On' and in this case, far from adding to the original joke, seems more to labour the point - this isn't the sort of comedy whose humour is allowed to nearly escape you. In some senses, these visual plays are more the equivalent of a laughter track - something to tell the audience to laugh. The odd line made me smile, but overall, I prefer a bit more realism in my comedy; there's no real bite when the characters are drawn so thin.


                
Id heard of spaced before but never had a chance to watch it, i loved Shaun of the dead and all the actors and recently saw some clips of 'spaced' on you tube and it looked hilarious. With all my Christmas money and nothing much to buy i got series 1 and 2 on DVD for 14 quid :D. After watching them both through and some episodes twice already this has to be the funniest, smartest and most relatable comedy I've ever seen. I hate to say it but as much as i love 'Peep Show' this has now found its way to my favourite comedy placement lol. All i can say is watch it, you will be hooked! All the characters are excellently put across, Brian is hysterical and the scenes with Bill Bailey are genius as 'Tim' (Simon Pegg) cant get his hatred for 'the phantom menace' out of his system. If you see the DVD's just buy it!


                
Spaced is, to put it simply, the best thing that has ever been produced for telly. It is a remarkably (sometimes painfully) honest, heartwarming and humorous look at what it is to be a youth (young adult) in 21st century Britain.The acting is superlative and, while comic and absurd, incredibly realist. The technical direction and editing are second to none, and the writing displays an encyclopaedic knowledge, and reverence of, the cinematic greats. I defy anyone, ANYONE, to have anything bad to say about this series.What amazes me is that so few people have seen it. My wife and I are evangelist in our recommendation of it (mainly because we quote from it constantly and get tired of getting blank stares when we do so, when people should OBVIOUSLY understand). Everyone I know who has seen it shares this fanatical devotion to Spaced, and for good reason.This is the salvation of British TV - long live Ms Stevenson & Mr Pegg.


                
If there is one show you had to take with you to a deserted island, Spaced would be it. It sums up exactly  how the minds of 20-somethings work. The fantasy world we would love to be in, but will never have. The only show to stand up to George Lucas and say that the phantom Menace was crap but at the same time cherish the magic of the first three.Watch this show, try to count all the films and TV shows it mimics, and all the shows it references. 2001, Empire Strikes Back, The Matrix, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's nest, Scooby Doo, Robot Wars, Close Encounters and so many others.The cast is top notch, and the writing is perfect. All I can say is "Roll on series 3"!!!


                
The adventures of Tim and Daisy who rent a room in Marsha Klein's house under the pretence that they are a couple.  Also in the house is frustrated painter Brian.  Together with TA fanatic Mike and Brian's girlfriend Twist the duo get into a series of situations with hilarious results.From my synopsis this could be Friends UK - group of people live together and get into series of misunderstandings etc.  But this is channel 4, this is written by Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson! Of course it's going to be better than that.  Friends is all gloss and is pretty simple and contrived each week - Spaced has a mad energy about it that loses the gloss but replaces it with intelligence, wit, great dialogue and overall a great imagination.  The story lines are never along the same lines as Friends - instead we have confrontation with youths in a pub, lost dogs, mixed up comic art portfolios etc., and they're never solved in the same way as Friends' predicaments are.  Instead they are always far fetched - imagine a stand off with a group of yobs being solved by a huge, slow-mo shoot out using fingers as guns (this is really well down and isn't as silly as it sounds!).The level of imagination around the stories is huge - it's filled with funny movie references like The Simpson, but more integrated with the action (i.e. not all background stuff), literally every show will have several scenes that echo scenes from films - but even if you don't get those there's still plenty to enjoy.  The dialogue is hilarious, the characters are larger than life and the stories are so imaginative you can't help be taken in.The actors are all brilliant and buy totally into each episode - this is not Friends where each actor seems concerned with their screen time or making sure that they look great!  Would a Brian or a Mike fit into Friends - but I do know that 5 minutes in Spaced would have Jennifer Anniston in tears.Overall this is a excellent series - continually hilarious, very clever, very imaginative and a wonderful example of British TV.  Showing in the Friday night slot after Friends on Ch 4 - this simply shows most US sitcoms up to be the shallow mass produced gloss that they are. Wonderful!


                
Since Red Dwarf drifted off into infinity, good sci-fi comedies are thinner on the ground than Captain Picard's hair. Think of The Strangerers, last year's woeful offering from Sky if you want further proof.
For a generation weaned on Star Wars and Star Trek, many writers have either been too consumed with their own in jokes, or have treated the much maligned genre which has left millions turning off in their droves.Luckily in 1999 there came a new hope which pushed back the final frontier of sitcoms. After a welcome re-run of series one, Spaced is resurrected for the 21st century and the gags are sharper than Luke Skywalker's lightsabre.
If you like The Matrix, Pulp Fiction, Mission Impossible II and hated The Phantom Menace, then Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson have written a show just for you. The series follows the continuing voyages of confused twenty-somethings, Daisy and Tim as they attempt to navigate life at a time when they should be getting serious but somehow are not. Together with their ragbag assortment of co-conspirators - tortured artist Brian (Mark Heap), would-be soldier Mike (Nick Frost), fashion fascist Twist (Katy Carmichael), rock casualty landlady Marsha (Julia Deakin) and Colin the dog - they tackle the big questions the 21st century poses: who are they, what do they mean to each other and who should switch on the kettle?
The second series proves just as good as the first, with Daisy back from her trek round Asia finding that little has changed. That shopping trolley is still outside her house and the lads are still watching the same skateboarding video. Imagine their delight when she unveils her latest toy: a video camera with hours of footage of her travels.


                
I am SO glad I ran across this show on BBC America! I'm officially obsessed with it now and only wish there were more episodes! I'm a huge Simon Pegg fan and this show is a perfect example why! The show is cleverly written, smart and hilarious. It's perfect for film snobs, comic fans, artists and writers alike! I'm an artist, writer and film snob, so this show is like my brain laid out on television! My favorite element are the subtle film references throughout. Some are so subtle that only the most advanced film snob can catch them, so it makes me feel that much smarter when I do!(-: I finally feel like my mind full of useless knowledge is being put to good use! Thanks to Simon Pegg and the others for this masterpiece and kudos for the X-File posters!(-;


                
Having now finished this series I consider it amongst my favourite ever comedies. The writing from Jessica Hynes and Simon Pegg is hilarious and heartfelt, and often very clever, resulting in great payoffs and well-rounded and quirky characters who all have such personality. The dramatic moments which are included are also thankfully not undermined by this and feel a natural addition to the story. All of the actors do a great job with their performances as well.Another thing that must be praised is Edgar Wright's direction which goes above and beyond anything comedies usually do, especially with the dynamic camerawork and editing, which greatly help in the construction of a lot of the jokes.What was also executed so well were the numerous references and homages to popular culture, which usually help the overall effect of a joke, rather than just be the joke in of itself and lose any potential because of it. It was also great to see a lot of well-known British actors appear in minor roles in this before they became popular, as they are a fair amount of them.Overall, this is a practically perfect British comedy which I would highly recommend. It got everything it could out of two great series and ended on a lovely note.


                
"Spaced" is a perfect portrait of my generation (well, pretty much my generation - I was born in 1979). It features everything I associate with people my age - clubbing, gratuitous pop culture references, heavy-duty substance abuse and, of course, chronic laziness.I probably shouldn't like it, because I tend to get really bored with TV shows and movies about shiftless twenty-somethings getting stoned. But "Spaced," weirdly enough, manages to balance its sarcasm and weirdness with brains and creativity and even a dash of sentiment. I like the characters, and I root for them to succeed, which is more than I can say for the jerks on "Seinfeld" or "Sex and the City"! I've also gotta admire Spaced because it looks so damned cool. Director Edgar Wright probably labored under a typical British budget of eight pence per episode, but he created some really freakish and memorable imagery. And the camera-work is great - how often can you say that about a sitcom? I have a slight preference for the second-season episodes, but basically the whole thing rules. I find it addicting. Once I watch the first episode, I find that I have to blast through the whole series in a day or two.I have maybe only one interesting (and possibly heretical) observation. Has anyone else noticed that, of all the lead characters, Daisy is the only one who's sort of unpleasant? Think about it...


                
This program is definitely another program of it's time. In the late 1990's and the early part of the Millennium Channel 4 had what was it's most fertile time with regards to producing situation comedies for all tastes. Amongst them were That Peter Kay Thing, Phoenix Nights, Father Ted and Black Books. But through all this there came Spaced with its touching tale of two flat mates and their strange assortment of friends living within the same house in London. But this was not the only winning formula that they had in there. There was also the film/television/art/theatre references which were sometime very surreal but they tapped into the post modern world we live in and highlighted certain statements by media guru's that say that there isn't anything original anymore.Tim and Daisy meet one another in a café whilst they are separately flat hunting. A mad scheme as posing as a professional couple helps secure a flat from drink fuelled landlady who turns out to be one their closet friends. Also living in the house is Brian an artist whose work displays Anger, Pain, fear and aggression. Then there is Tim's best friend from childhood Mike who is an army fanatic who has been kicked out of the reserve army for trying to invade Paris with a tank. Daisy's friend manifest herself in the form of Twist a fashion guru that works in laundrette. These wonderful characters are supported by their comedy contemporaries. We have Bill Bailey, Ricky Gervais, Michael Smiley as the brilliant Tyres, and Reece Shearsmith as an angry soldier.Like Shaun of the dead Spaced is very well written. Pegg and Jessica Stevenson make an excellent writing team. Each episode is skillfully written and each holds a lot of memorable moments. My favourite episodes are Epiphanies and Help which features the wonderful character that is Tyres played to perfection by Michael Smiley. Another favourite episode is when Tim and Daisy act out a shoot out to escape the clutches of an angry mob. Certainly not been done before to such a devastating comic effect.Also there is the director Edgar Wright who to my knowledge has cemented himself as one of Britains most talented television directors with his fast camera moves. With out his creative input to this show each episode would have had fantastic script but it's final presentation would have been very boring and it would not have been as interesting or exciting.If you want a quality TV Show that reflects modern day pop culture of the late 90's and early noughties then this intelligent comedy drama is for you. If you don't then leave it alone well alone. Definitely a classic 9 out of 10


                
This is, without a doubt, the greatest television series ever made. It is so good that it has even made it's way on to my illustrious Top Ten List of the All-Time Greatest Movies (#8). Now, it may seem odd that it is on a movie list, but in my opinion, this show deserves that classification. It is made with the same style, effort, and techniques as a movie, and maintains a continuity that is only found in movies. That is due to the amazing writing efforts of Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson and the superb direction of Edgar Wright. I can't watch it without starting from the first episode and finishing with the last, it's that good. Everything about it appeals to my sense of humor and intellect, whether it be some obscure reference to some film or a clever play on words. This show, or movie rather, is fried gold.


                
I have to say I'm overjoyed by the fact I'm not the only one commenting on Spaced, 4 years after the show last aired in the UK. In Australia, pay TV recently blessed us with a Spaced series 1 marathon and I fell instantly in love, buying the 3 disc DVD from a UK web site despite our hideous exchange rate. It is one of the funniest and most watchable TV series I've ever seen. Since I got it for Christmas (2 weeks ago) I've watched both series twice. With the "Homage-a-meter" DVD feature on the show has so many subtle pop culture references in it, it shames me and my geeky fiancé to know we actually missed some. Spaced is incredibly quotable "get off me you bummer!" with lovable characters and hidden pockets of amusement which make it so easy to watch over and over again because you're either waiting for your next favorite 'bit' or discovering something totally new and clever you hadn't noticed before. I implore anyone with a decent sense of humor (Joey fans need not apply) to give Spaced a go, I guarantee you won't think its TFU.


                
I remembered seeing a couple of episodes of this series then it first came out and I was quite impressed.On the strength of the reviews on this web-site I recently bought the DVD's of both of the series 1 & 2.I've no hesitation is saying that this could well be the best sitcom ever produced. I do not say that lightly.Both series of Spaced are on a par with (but different to) Big Train - first series, and the Alan Partridge series where he's staying in the Travel lodge.It absolutely knocks the socks off anything that we've ever imported from the States. It makes 'Friends' look like cheap plastic, and the characters in the likes of 'Will & Grace' look like cardboard cut-outs.My 2 sons (21 & 16 yrs) also find it side-splittingly funny.We've all watched each series twice in the last fortnight - and will surely be watching it again soon.I really love the attention to detail that gives insights into the personalities of the characters. I won't waste ink on a list of superlatives - there's only one word that does justice to it. Sublime! Do yourself a favour - order it now!


                
