I first saw Spaced way back in '99 when it was first aired, and I immediately fell in love with it. The characters, the humour, the stories, and of course the references - what's not to love? It's my favourite sit-com of all time, but it's much more than "just" a sit-com. It was just exactly what I would love to have written if I had the opportunity, talent, and had thought of it first! :)I prefer the second season to the first, but for little reasons - as a whole the programme is just about flawless. When the credits rolled on the second season - with everything as it should be - although I never wanted it to end I thought that the ending there was perfect. The Collector's Edition DVD has a wonderful gift at the end of the documentary, and although being able to look in on Daisy and Tim for that moment and finding out that they're doing great left me wanting more, it also reinforced how perfect the season 2 ending was; and that it's fine if that's all there is. Though a special when the gang are in their thirties and "grown-up" (hmm... :)) would be *special*. :) Or a third season...I cannot recommend it enough, and over the years I have made several people sit through the whole thing in one go, and all have kicked themselves for not watching it before. I must watch the DVDs maybe about every month or so, and not a moment of it ever gets old.I'll always have a huge affection for the series - and you will too if you watch it, I guarantee it.


                
Based around six main characters (and a dog), Tim (comic book artist), Daisy (Journalist), Mike (Tims best friend), Twist (Daisy's best friend), Brian (depressed artist who lives in the basement) and the wonderful Marsha Klein (Cigarette and Wine fuelled landlady), It tells the story of their everyday lives, sometimes very very odd, but so funny it hurts.Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson have scripted it simply and with a sense of humour lost to most of todays comedy writers.  Some have accused it of having a more "student" metality to it, and in a way i suppose they're right - many of the references to films, games and other TV series are that which can only come from the mind of a media student or film-obsessive, but if it makes you laugh, does it really matter?The second series picks up as Daisy returns from her year away in Thailand, and carries on in exactly the same formula as before - intelligent jokes, hilarious visual comedy and sharp references (but on the DvD you get the "Homage-o-meter" which displays the film/TV/music references as subtitles when they come around, to save you sitting there wracking your brains for where you heard that music before ;o) )Truly, one of the only comedies of late that has made me laugh outloud, frequently and genuinly.  The only other that i really rate of this standard would be "Black Books", with Bill Bailey and Dylan Moran.The third series of this was due to be written from March, according to the official spaced website, and i for one can't wait.


                
Tim Bisley (Simon Pegg) and Daisy Steiner (Jessica Hynes) are just platonic friends in desperate need for a place to stay. They pretend to be together to rent a couples-only room. It's a 20something show with Nick Frost as Tim's best friend Mike Watt. There's a lot edge to it. Tim and Daisy are both geeks. She's a frustrated writer, and he works at a comic book store. It's a great alternative slacker sitcom chalk full of pop references. The second series is better, and more well written. The first one is a little bit uneven. But more than anything, it gave us two important things. First, it gave us Simon Pegg and Nick Frost. Second, it gave us Burning Star Wars Paraphernalia for The Phantom Menace. For that, they should have gotten a Nobel Prize.


                
Ah, British brevity. The ability to create and develop complex, relatable characters and put them into entertaining albeit unusual situations, then have everything summed up, done and dusted within a few short seasons. This is a popular method used on shows like The Office (UK), Extras, Fawlty Towers, Life on Mars and many more.Once again, it works well; condensing all a writers best ideas and jokes into just a smattering of episodes makes for a remarkably consistent show and allows the plot to move at a decent pace, never stalling for time to introduce various inane subplots or numerous pointless side-characters.Each and every one of the leads - not just Daisy and Tim - has personality traits and habits you will remember. They all have moments where they're heroes, and all have moments when they are losers. At every step of the way, brilliant and surprisingly original comedy and some deft parodies or homages to pop culture. Every actor plays their character as needed, never hamming it up - they become the role, which is after all the point of good performances.Edgar Wright may have been tough on the cast but it was worth it - his multitude of takes are seamlessly edited together to maximise the comedy potential of each scene. For example, I'll never tire of Tim's nightmare involving his bear suit and ex-girlfriend from the second episode of the first season, or both of the times when Tyres appears and starts hearing rave music from the noises of everyday appliances. That's just a few of the "laugh out loud 'til your sides ache" moments, before even mentioning the deranged brilliance of Brian, who is not a million miles away from some of the more extreme artists I've met.This show is like the alternate music genres, alternative comedy if you will - it's undeniably inspired and hugely enjoyable - but it does not appeal to the widest range of people (i.e. the lowest common denominator) because of its off-kilter nature. To me that just makes it more charming: I tire of seeing the same formula repeated ad-nauseum with the same clichés so this show, like a handful of my other favourites, is something I watch sparingly to preserve the magic and freshness.This was the launching pad for Simon Pegg's cinematic outings, including the excellent "Shaun of the Dead (2004)" which has its roots here. It still remains his finest work, the moment when he moved from the shadow of fellow British comedians Coogan and Morris to become his own man with his own imitable style, one which is in such demand these days. It's overrated and forgotten rival of the time, The Royle Family, pales in comparison.


                
I was vaguely aware that Simon Pegg, Nick Frost and Edgar Wright collaborated on TV before "Shaun of the Dead" but I only really got wind of Spaced when the show appeared on Amazon recently. Written by Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson (who also star as Tim and Daisy) and directed by Edgar Wright "Spaced" is just brilliant and I can only recommend watching it.
Tim and Daisy, two 20-somethings pretend to be a couple in order to get a cheap flat in London. Together with their quirky friends - the constantly drunk landlady Martha, the tortured artist Brian, the weapon obsessed Mike and the fashionable Twist - they get in a number of hilarious situations. This premise is not particularly special but the show gives it a special spin.
One of the aspects that makes "Spaced" so great is that is isn't a relationship comedy. While it keeps hinting at Tim and Daisy having feelings for each other the focus is on the hijinks they get into. Also, unlike other - especially American - sitcoms "Spaced" is not moralistic: Tim and Daisy are flawed characters and fortunately there is no attempt to improve them or make them into better human beings. 
But it is Edgar Wright's special brand of directing that makes "Spaced" truly remarkable. If you have enjoyed watching other works of Wright you defintely have to watch "Spaced"!


                
This show is one of the most influential comedies of all time. It's definitely my favorite sitcom ever! As the title of this review suggests, Spaced is (at this moment in time) my personal favorite sitcom of all time. The characters, the situations and the filming is / are brilliant and the lifestyle the show focuses on will probably be quite a good prediction of what my life will be like immediately after University life ends. The characters are comic creations of real life and the situations are on the ridiculous side of real life, occasionally falling over into absolute madness, but in a very good way. It is the ultimate fan boys show - there are hundreds of nods to other TV shows and brilliant films and you can tell that the writers are just as huge fans of quality entertainment as most of the fans of Spaced are. The music is inspired. Although some aspects of the show look slightly dated already (even though it was filmed from 1999 to 2001) it is well worth discovering if you've never watched an episode. Also the second series is better than the first and just as fresh as the first series. The characters are developed further and the direction and stylistic features are even more sharp than the first series. The main characters (Tim and Daisy) are great, and the characters of Mike, Brian, Marsha and...Tyres (I LOVE HIM) are wonderful in supporting roles, and provide much of the comedy. If you've seen Shaun of the Dead and you haven't seen Spaced, you're missing out. You will love it.


                
This series reminded me of my friends, our time together and the stupid things we did, also it has a lot of pop culture references, especially if you like Star Wars and comic books, it shows that Edgar was born to direct comic book movies, this was the beginning of the cornetto trilogy, Pegg, Frost and Wright work well together, it's so funny and smart at the same time, if you like Shaun of the Dead, you will like this series, well written, well acted and well directed, granted the first season is somewhat superior to the second one, but still i recommend it in all, you won't have a dull moment, it's rare to find someone capable to translate so well what's like to grown whiteout forgetting who you are, check it out.


                
Watched Both series in one setting and got to say one of the best British comedy shows ever made. it is one of my favourite shows now I love the way they do the homages but do it in their own way and keep it original. it has one of the best endings to a show ever. the story lines are good and creative keeps you watching. the characters are really likable and the lines they say are really funny The cast play their roles well If you are a bit of a nerd like myself you will like Tim cause he is you're typical nerd Grumpy Immature but has a good heart he likes chilling out loves Star Wars and of course he works in a comic shop! he plays the grumpiness and immatureness in a way that he does not nip you're head. Daisy Is also a good character like Tim is immature does not like responsibility and is trying to be a writer but she always tries to avoid writing anything she is funny fun cute and a wee bit crazy and she comes up some cracking lines in the show one of the best female characters in a show ever if you ask me. Tim And Daisy are the main two characters but the Supporting cast are just as funny. Mike is probably my favourite in the show his obsession with guns and the army just crack me up if you loved Simon Pegg And Nick Frost in Hot Fuzz Shaun Of the Dead and other films you will love them in this. Brian Also humours me with his insane art work quirkiness and craziness some of the best lines in the show are said by him. I also liked Marsha Found her quite funny. I didn't mind Twist but she is not in the show as much as the others and does not add as much as the rest but still plays a part in it. And Colin is just adorable I love dogs and was delighted with the way he was treated it felt like he was part of the cast. I am disappointed it is only two series I Don't think a third series would of hurt but still all 14 episodes are little gems. if you were born in the 70's or 80's you will love this if you were not born in the 70's or 80's but love the decades and you like the 90's as well you will love this. if you love pop film Music Gaming And TV culture you will love this if you like Simon Pegg Jessica Stevenson Nick Frost and Edgar Wright then you should like this but most of all if you love comedy and just sitting back chilling out and is a bit of a Tim Or a Daisy then WATCH IT. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED For comedy fans everywhere if you do not get it then that is you're loss I am afraid. WATCH IT NOW


                
I remember watching this on Channel 4 years ago and remembered how much it made me laugh. Years later i decided to buy the DVD boxset and ahh...the memories. This is the best slice of British comedy i have ever seen, and the good thing is i can watch it again and again and again...and never get bored! It is fast-paced, surreal, clever and imaginative. It's one of those unique shows that producers, directors and writers of comedy can learn from. This is a fine, fine show and i truly admire the genius brains behind it. The characters you can relate with, the situations you can relate to. It doesn't go too far and out of context and it remains entertaining even in it's bleakest and emotional moments. If you love comedy, watch this...


                
I watched this series during my Simon Pegg obsession (I can't wait till Paul! Haven't seen it yet but will do). Having recently watched Shaun of the Dead I IMDb'd it and discovered that Spaced was a good thing to look into if you liked that film. Instinct kicked in and next thing I knew I watched the 14 episodes on youtube in 2 days.The writing is brilliant and really highlights the comic style of Jessica (this came as some shock to me as before Shaun of the Dead I'd only ever seen the actor in a really depressing Dr Who episode: the Family of Blood) and Simon. The camera-work is of course excellent as I'd expect from Edgar Wright. This is the same man who directed Scott Pilgrim vs the World, Hot Fuzz and Shaun of the Dead. All of those films are brilliant, all of those films are on my shelves. He just creates films with such a distinctive feel and look to them.I now wish I hadn't rushed through things, I re-watched them today taking time to laugh and enjoy situations as they came about. I enjoyed the first episode in particular a lot more on second viewing as I came to appreciate the gradual growth of Tim and Daisy's friendship. Throughout the series it was frequently hinted at or suggested that maybe Daisy and Tim would become a couple, so I was a bit disappointed when I discovered not only how few episodes there were and that they didn't together. Oh well.This is proper British sitcom material! It's so full of references which half the time you miss due to laughter. It probably doesn't help that I'm a 14 year old and haven't seen half of the stuff they're parodying...but I will! Eventually. It's quirky, hilarious and brilliantly acted. WATCH IT. You will not be disappointed!
i have spent so long thinking about how to begin with this review because i cannot flaw it in any way what so ever. characters are sweet and funny - except for marsha who helps keep it from becoming to sickly- there are funny inside jokes and cultural references littered throughout the episodes, it is well written, the actors bring the characters off the page. there is only one thing i disagree with the rest of these reviews, IT IS NOT EXCLUSIVE TO PEOPLE BORN IN THE 70/80S i am quite young and i still get the references, so it is not exclusive to people born in the 70s and 80s. i can still relate to all the characters and find it as funny as anybody else does. so don't be put off by the reviews by people who say its for people in their 20s and 30s.


                
Love it, Me and my circle of comedy starved British ex pats here in Germany have had many hours fun watching and getting to know and love the characters in this crazy series! And strange as it may seem we have maybe seen this series about a hundred times and we always find a new bit to laugh at, and some of the situations contained in the series are very close to home! very,very sharp observational  humour do yourself a favour if you have seen or own the first series get the second series also great fun after a while you will probably find that you have one or more friends that you can recognise from the series  cant say more than that can I peter ? (tyres clone) in joke there !


                
