As Planet Earth I was released about ten years ago, a visual improvement could have been expected due to the use of advanced technology, but man, did they up their game. The camera-work and the use of music were both truly superb, as well as the editing in which different sub- segments were all synced so well with the narrating of it by David Attenborough. It was nothing like a nature documentary, it was way beyond that. The short and different segments, were movies on itself. It contained all the different genres, from experiencing the thrill in a Hollywood-like impossible action-escape scenario to having a comical and truly euphoric moment of realization about the true extent of what nature has to offer. And this was all brought so incredibly well.If we had any more of such heavenly quality programs on TV, I would simply just glue my eyes to my TV and live out the rest of my life as a vegetable.


                
I have just finished watching the first episode on BBC 1 and I am amazed to find that Planet Earth II appears to have bettered the original! The photography is perfect and Attenborough's narration, both content and delivery, is unparalleled. This initial outing is titled "Islands" and whilst I don't want to dwell on the individual segments, the Racer Snakes vs baby Iguanas is probably the most terrifying piece of natural history film I have ever witnessed, not for the fainthearted or squeamish!The "making of segment at the end of the documentary proper was particularly enjoyable and informative.This is what the BBC does best and long may it last.


                
What to say about Planet Earth II which has not already been said about so many other fantastic productions from BBC Nature?I've no idea.However: the production values are as always the very best in the business, the photography is likewise unmatched and it's all tied together with masterful insight and authority by David Attenborough, the man who through more than four decades has taught the planet more about the natural world than any ten others put together.Simply superb.The actual content? That you need to see for yourself.


                
The professionalism of everyone involved in this glorious production is evident in every frame of what is seen and every second of what is heard. Most Hollywood blockbusters would struggle to compete with the cinematography on show here. Shot after shot seem almost impossible yet impossibly beautiful. Few things fill a viewer with simple awe but the first episode about islands does it and then some. The fact that it is all so enjoyable just adds to the experience. David Attenborough's narration is, as usual, superb.Whatever the cost it was worth it. The BBC has another hit.


                
The original Planet Earth back in 2006 was an astounding and refreshing series that tore down the limits of documentary making. It was universally lauded as exceptional, and if you haven't seen it then you're missing a genuine treat.Planet Earth II is everything its predecessor was. And more.Ultra sharp photography, iris-piercing colour and focus, and on a decent home set up, a superbly immersive experience. It is almost hypnotic the way the gorgeous landscapes and action scenes are interwoven with a sublime soundtrack by Hans Zimmer.The BBC receives criticism sometimes for the way it spends 'tax payers' money', but surely not for this. Whether you're aged 8 or 80, this is the highest quality television that will bewilder and astound.Truly wondrous, and David Attenborough is a legend.


                
Hello this is my first written review. Note that I haven't watched the first season (2006) so I can't compare both.This series will get you the feels when you read a good book, watched a good movie, or played a good game, because this is more than good.THIS IS A VERY BEAUTIFUL MASTERPIECE and of course with the danger of nature itself included.I don't know how they got those shots and the audio, even the music just like the rush when you first meet your crush, and the story with narration slaps you with the cold harsh of reality and the mesmerizing it gave. You are watching a book of life with enough drama and some bitter truth in every paradise, because life is never perfect.I'm very thankful for whomever people that makes this show to be realized, from the smallest task to the most dangerous.Thank you very much for this ineffable experience.


                
This is without doubt the best thing I have seen on television for years. The photography, narration and general story telling of the lives of the animals is simply breath-taking.Episode 1 was animals that live on islands. As others have mentioned I have never seen such a more terrifying piece of natural-history photography in my life. I won't spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it or caught it on YouTube but I never thought I would be shouting at the TV for Iguana's to run. Episode 2 was mountain living wildlife from Grizzly Bears coming out of hibernation to Snow Leopards. This programme is one of the few examples which envelopes you in its documentary telling. You are seeing things for the first time and you are left with wanting more. Roll on episode 3, jungles.


                
By far the greatest and best nature documentaries ever made. Everyone needs to watch this. I have no idea how many hours it must have taken to film this, and it seems like the people who made this are totally out of their minds. The snow leopard scenes in episode 2 are so brilliant it's amazing. It's one of the rarest animals ever shot on film and they've managed to shoot so much of it. It's crazy. They deserve every little credit they get. I'm thoroughly impressed by the work put into this and i'm sure it surpasses the work put into any Hollywood action film ever created. I think I learned a lot more from these people, more than how much I learned from the content itself.


                
One of the best documentaries I 've ever seen. Every episode is a new wonderful experience,getting to know the world that surrounds us. David Attenborough is the best narrator out there and this is his latest masterpiece. The crew has worked hard and managed to capture a large aspect of wild life whether it lives on a remote island in the arctic ocean or deep in one of the large human cities in India or United States of America. It shows that they put a lot of effort and time filming this under harsh conditions,but the close up captures of wild animals in their natural environment was worth the effort. Watched it already twice and will watch it again! This is something to watch again and again with your children, until the next Planet Earth arrives. Well done!


                
The opening image of Planet Earth II contained the promise of everything to come. It was spectacular, it was beautiful, it was magical. A hot air balloon floated like a snowflake, two miles abovean Alpine.The theme of the episode was "Islands", and we got off to a winningly cute start with a visit to idyllic Escudo, off Panama. Its star attraction is a three-toed pygmy sloth spurred into slow motion action by the cry of a potential mate. But no doubt what most people will remember, and talk about today, were the baby iguanas running the gauntlet of swarms of racer snakes on the Galapagos island of Fernandina.how beautiful our world and its living thing .....and how beautiful and big the creator of this whole universe ....I think people have to watch this types of films which is real one .


                
Absolutely adore the first 'Planet Earth' from 2007, one of the best documentaries ever made and actually is more than that. David Attenborough (brother of director/actor Richard) is wisely considered a national treasure for very good reason, no matter how much he himself dislikes the term.So hearing that there was a second series nearly a decade later, there was absolutely no doubt as to whether to watch it. 'Planet Earth II' is as good as others have said and there is not much to add, it is along with its predecessor one of the best documentaries personally seen and most of the time it actually feels much more than that. Throughout it's an awe-inspiring, utterly transfixing experience where one forgets they're watching a documentary and instead feeling like they're watching art. This may sound like extreme hyperbole, but to me and many others 'Planet Earth II' is completely deserving of its praise and even deserving of more. To me as well, it is easily one of the best the BBC has done in years.'Planet Earth II' for starters looks amazing. It is gorgeously filmed, done in a completely fluid and natural, sometimes intimate (a great way of connecting even more with the animals), way and never looking static. In fact much of it is remarkably cinematic. The scenery and habitats are some of the most breath-taking personally seen anywhere, whether in visual media and real life, the mountains in "Mountains" in particular are spectacular and "Jungles" captures the colour, excitement and formidable danger of the jungle beautifully. The rich colours just leap out. For a composer that composes normally bombastic, rousing and pulse-racing music that is epic even in the quieter moments, Hans Zimmer's music here is a remarkably good fit, it's unmistakably Zimmer in style but throughout it not only complements the visuals but enhances them.What of the narrative aspects? Can't fault 'Planet Earth II' in this aspect either. The narration has a great well-balanced mix of facts that will be familiar to the viewer and others that will induce the right amount of surprise. In short, it's just fascinating, informative and thoughtful. This balance was even achieved in the "Cities" episode, that may have been the one that transfixed me the least due to being more invested in the animals and their habitats of the previous episodes.But the episode still managed to intrigue and illuminate, and credit has to go to 'Planet Earth II' for adhering to what made 'Planet Earth' work the first time and then bringing a freshness with a few nice ideas to avoid it being too stale. Attenborough delivers it beautifully, there's a soft-spoken enthusiasm and precision about his delivery and he never preaches.The animals themselves are a wonderful mix of the adorable (the penguins in "Islands") and the dangerous (the lions in "Grasslands" and "Deserts"), and one actually finds they're rooting for them in exactly the same way they would a human character. 'Planet Earth II' contains a good deal of suspense (especially in "Deserts") and emotional impact ("Islands"). Even the fights/conflicts against the animals are completely riveting, some epic moments in "Jungles".It doesn't feel like six episodes either, and none of the episodes feel episodic or repetitive. 'Planet Earth II' instead feels like a collection of six individual stories with real, complex emotions and conflicts and animal characters developed in a way a human character would in a film but does it better than several.Overall, utterly mesmerising. For documentary lovers or fans of 'Planet Earth', 'Planet Earth II' is not to be missed at all costs and has more than enough to entice one to watch it again and again, finding something new each time and never getting tired of it. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I just want to say THANK YOU to everybody who was involved in the creation of this wonderful, incredible, breathtaking documentary! I forgot what it means to experience such genuine emotion of watching a movie! I hope that watching this documentary will help people feel the importance of all forms of life on our planet. Show it to people who forgot that nature is our native home. Show it to your children and they will learn to love our world. I'm sure that this documentary will not leave anyone indifferent. I am sure that this documentary will lift your mood and help you feel all the depth and beauty of our world. People, please, let's cherish and love our planet!


                
I cannot begin to express how inspiring and awing this TV documentary was. Though I would never have believed it possible, Planet Earth II puts its counterpart - Planet Earth 2006 - to shame. Not only does Sir David Attenborough and his crew manage to replicate all the power and awesome magnificence of the first Planet Earth, but they show us a fresh outlook on the environment, without shoving forceful and despairing details down your throat as is the case with almost every other nature documentary out there. Personally, I could be quite happy to never see another film or TV show again, just to have seen this program once. Thank you.


                
This is not just one of the best wildlife documentaries ever made - superbly filmed using the latest techniques and equipment – it is one of the great achievements in any area of culture from this or any other year. Little else shows such skill and dedication from its makers, or is as moving in its sense of beauty and feeling of something larger than ourselves. It is an emotive evocation rather than cerebral narrative, and to this end there is extensive and prominent use of music, and added sound effects. Some find these intrusive, but for me they were very effective. There were a few occasions on which I felt that emphasis on getting in close went too far - for example the fighting Komodo dragons broke from the top of the frame unnecessarily, and the framing of eagles fighting over a carcass felt a little tight. However pushing the boundaries in any field can sometimes mean going too far, and this is surely trivial set against the scale of the achievement. Sequence after sequence is profoundly impressive, and the cumulative effect uniquely wonderful. This is of course worth seeing with the best quality source and the largest, best quality screen you can find. The Blu-ray transfer is excellent.In reviewing last year's outstanding "The Hunt" I wrote that I found it hard to imagine how even the BBC wildlife unit could surpass that. Now I see. Can even the BBC wildlife surpass this? Maybe Planet Earth 3?


                
This is my first comment and I hope I am not bungling it.I have been watching nature documentaries for many years. Everyone of them has been a depiction of beauty of nature and the planet we are living in.With all the bloodshed and cruelty that is unfolding all around, committed by US human beings, it is a relief to the heart, so soothing to the mind and calming to the eye to see such an enthralling master piece. The mesmerizing scenes of birds, soaring in the blue sky, their sleek feathers glimmering in the sun, the captivating green of leaves trembling in wake of monkeys jumping over them, the enchanting scene of Nubian Ibex baby deftly climbing down the cliff, dodging the red fox, the eye relieving sight of flamingos parading in a single line and all the grandeur of mountains superimposed by the stars in the time lapse, specks of ice swaying down in the winter scene and all enrapturing beauties of nature playing out right in front of our eyes, it is all a reminder of how majestic this world is.The trance is culminated by the legendary voice of the gem, Sir. David Attenborough. He is a major part of all this beauty. All this fragile beauty and all the majesty of these creatures invokes a feeling in the viewers mind and heart that this world, nature, animals and human beings living in it are mystically intertwined, connected and linked. I also bow in respect to the crew involved in the creation of this priceless jewel, especially the cameramen, honing it to perfection. I hope more people watch such stunning documentaries so that they will admire life on Planet Earth.


                
The original was incredible 10 years ago but this blows any documentary you have ever seen out of the water. In centuries to come, students will study and reference this series as the pinnacle of BBC creativity, public education and scientific research. This documentary series is unrivaled in the power it has to change the way you perceive our home planet and will open your eyes to symbiotic relationships you had never considered could exist. Several times during the series, new species have been filmed, identified and discovered.The triumphal merger of Attenborough, Hans Zimmer and the best camera people in the world have created the most awe inspiring TV production ever to be broadcast.


                
Plant Earth 2 was everything you would expect and more. Watched both the first two episodes this week after Trump election and his climate denial. I would make him sit down, watch this and series 1 and tell me what damage humans are doing to this beautiful planet.Every scene, every vista shows that humans are the real parasites on this planet and the animals should rule us, not the other way round.However it gives me hope, it says to me people will watch this, hear about it and see the folly of our actions at some time.Hope is far better than despair.Oh David Attenborough, you are the king of us all


                
It's a shame I can only give this breathtaking masterpiece 10 out of 10, it really deserves more. It is the single most astounding cinematic experience I have ever witnessed. The cinematography, narration, and score are hands down the best I have ever seen. Never has my entire family been so excited to watch the next episode of a program or movie.Planet Earth II lays out in 5 episodes life on earth in 6 separate Earth habitats: Islands, Mountains, Jungles, Deserts, Grasslands, and Cities. Each one dives into live and it's will to survive in a level you've never seen before. Truly remarkable cinematography and color will literally make you gasp for air and your eyes open wide. It truly is the greatest nature documentary ever made and possibly the greatest documentary of all time.


                
This is probably the most intimate documentary I have seen of our fellow species on earth. Awesome. After having a bad day... watch this. Your problems will seem insignificant compared to life in general. We may be the top of the food chain. but this will illustrate the type of struggles we had to endure to get here. Humbling. Young people need to know their place in nature.


                
It's difficult to explain the magnitude of this series' brilliance.They ways in which the crew has been able to film all sorts of creatures in extreme detail left me speechless more than once. Insects freak me out a bit, but I can't deny the impressiveness of the feat that is to fully capture, down to the tiniest details, the workings of an ant colony or what have you. Not to mention the many hunter vs prey scenes, the mind-blowing footage of mountain ranges and vast grasslands, colorful birds performing strange mating rituals and the spectacularly beautiful presentations of the change of seasons. This is, without a shred of doubt, the greatest nature documentary (and stands among the greatest of the documentary genre in general) that has ever been produced, and surely will remain so until BBC produces the next chapter of the series. Planet Earth II is nothing short of a masterpiece.


                
Any rating below 10 is an injustice to this awesome documentary. I have never given anything a rating of 10. but this thing deserves more than 10 :) It is better than any action movie ever made.I have watched 3 episodes and I think everybody must watch this show, it is like your life will be incomplete without it. happy watching !!! :)
The combination of 2 living legends David Attenborough + Hans Zimmer. How better it could be. Thanks BBC Earth and the unsung heroes (The crew)for dedicating years for this amazing project. The music of Hans and the narration of Mr.Attenborough are the highlights of this show and it just doesn't get out of my head !!!


                
I never thought the original 'Planet Earth' could be topped, but 10 years on and Attenborough has given us something that is every bit as good, if not even better, than the first series.'Planet Earth II' is everything I had hoped it would be and more. Visually breathtaking, mesmerising and at times unbelievable, with expert narration by the legendary David Attenborough. Documentaries as awe-inspiring as this don't come about very often.I always enjoy the 'making of' at the end of each episode, giving us an insight into the lengths that the crew go to capture the footage. They deserve a lot more credit than they get. 'Planet Earth' is, without question, the greatest documentary ever made and a must see.


                
Planet Earth II is outstanding in every sense of the word. From the score composed by Hans Zimmer (Planet Earth II suite for anyone looking for the soundtrack) to the narrative genius of Sir David Attenborough, this documentary will leave you speechless and in awe of our wonderful planet. Not only is it beautiful to watch thanks to the absolutely stunning camera work, but you will gain a much deeper understanding for this planets intricate workings and the lives that inhabit it. With the help of Attenborough's mesmerizing narrative and captivating voice you will fall in love with the world once again, and become inspired to make a difference. What could be more important than that? I am completely in love with this documentary and cannot explain how inspired and thankful I am to be able to watch it. Simply put, our planet is amazing. A must watch.


                
Planet Earth II is one of the few TV Series/Documentary that can, somehow, be appreciated by almost all the viewers, no matter their age, sex, religion or perception and ideas about the world. At the first sight, it may seem to be another nature documentary like others and yes, it is one of those nature documentaries, but it is the best one so far, from almost every single point of view. The viewer ratings don't lie, as you will know after you watch a couple of minutes of any episode of this documentary. Due to the new technology available, such as the 4K/ULTRA HD video & sound format and also thanks to the newest filming equipment and procedures of capturing videos and photos such as the drone-filming, Planet Earth II is far more better than the first Planet Earth. After watching the first series from 2006, it may look impossible now with this new TV Series to present something new and different, in order to capture the audience's attention. It is unbelievable how this new series totally differs from the first one and it really has such a unique and entirely new way of presenting us the beautiful Blue Planet, in a way that can make you burst into tears. To be honest, I was't expecting much when I first found out about the Planet Earth II release. And now, after watching it, I am fully shocked and amazed about how a filming and producing crew can somehow reach perfection in creating such a masterpiece, one of the best documentary of all times. This is a truly and undoubtedly must watch for every single person in this world who has almost one hour of free time to kill for watching one of the episodes.


                
