PE2 is a first rate production, as professional and polished as they come. Logical, well structured and visually wonderful.It's also not as good as its predecessor, and the gap between the two series is quite clear. This is because of certain narrative decisions in the Part II. Most noticeably, the thunderously illustrative music gets in the way. This was a small concern with the brilliant first series, but here the music is, well, just bad, to put it bluntly. The sound design is also distractive: the foley work is easily noticeable, and the sound is irritatingly dramatic during the many slow-motion sequences.Another problem is the narration itself, which is written in a story-telling style, wherein the animals are anthropomorphized; binge watching the series, this strikes as infantilism. It doesn't help, that the "jokes" are often really poor.There are a surprising number of sequences revisited from the first series. These could have, mostly, been omitted. Like the wolves chasing the baby caribou.The camera work is quite a marvel - still, personally I prefer the more classical compositions of the first series. But to each his own.All in all, PE2 is still great, but the bar has been somewhat lowered. Compared to PE1, it's lighter and more pompous in tone - and more eager to entertain for entertainment's sake.


                
Before seeing this, the clips of the baby iguana escaping the snakes and the giraffe kicking the lion are already all over the tube. This follows the ground-breaking original but does more than repeat the brilliant cinematography. David Attenborough returns to narrate. There are six episodes titled Islands, Mountains, Jungles, Deserts, Grasslands, and Cities. There is one compilation episode. There are the epic visuals and the eye-opening animals. Jungles has the best animals. Cities is the new aspect for this franchise.Cities follows various animals which have carved out niches in the modern cityscape. Without it, there is a danger that this franchise narrow the focus on scraps of the natural world and portraying them as more widespread than reality. This episode reveal how modernity has affected nature. The most devastating is the story of the turtles. This franchise could go further by filming the mass fishing industry and massive environment damage using the HD filming.


                
Such great photography I cannot fathom how some shots were made. The music however was way too overpowering at times. And the sound effects were way overpowering. Deep bass accompanying an edit, blasts of bass for ocean waves.


                
This show improves on the previous season by providing even more breathtaking footage. Some of the shots, especially at this level of detail, are truly bewildering and awe-inspiring. This series also seems to be even more informative than the original, which is another great improvement.


                
So I am five episodes in and I'm hooked. I have not watched any of the first Planet Earth series or any of the spin off Planet Earth shows, so I couldn't tell you how these compares but I'm loving it. It is all about the production value. Watching high definition nature is just awesome. I'm not entirely convinced about the sound editing and some of the scenes seem edited in a way to force a story but whatever, it is better than most of the garbage on television. Oh, and I have to talk about the music score because it is inspired. The timing of the instrumentals used puts most modern feature length films to shame. Long story short, this series rocks.
Let me say first, everything we see in the series is really good film work, it is the best of its kind. But I'm only giving the series a 8 because I missed the oceans in the series. The oceans cover 2/3 of the world so I believe there should be at least 1 or 2 episodes of it in a series called Planet Earth.In Planet Earth 1 and the Life series my favorite episodes where the ones about the ocean. I think this is an missed chance.But besides that I loved it like usual! All the drama the music and the best camera-work, it is a real treat to watch this series. I would definitely recommend to watch it!Great work BBC!


                
Let me just start by saying that I loved Planet Earth, the original series, as well. This documentary is great I love the stunning visuals they present and the camera work on Planet Earth II is another level. After watching all 6 episodes I give this a solid 8/10.So I really loved all of the locations they visited and found it very interesting. Attenborough narrating the same as ever, informative and easy to understand. The animals were interesting to watch. I love the behind the scenes sections at the end and found it fascinating to see how some of this got filmed! Everything about this documentary is good.The reason I gave it less than 10 stars is because I felt like they dwelled on some of the animals for too long, at times feeling like I've had enough and want to know what else is in that area or maybe another area. This led me to get a little bored at times, but not to the point of discontinuing my journey.


                
I REALLY enjoyed the first Planet Earth, but the fake cartoon sounds come pretty close to ruining some scenes in this second installment. It's entirely unnecessary, and I even saw some scenes where they made it seem like something totally different was going on through cuts and added sounds. There's a scene of a sandstorm that I immediately noticed was faked using a satellite map and animations. The sound really is the worst of it though, it's downright bad. I work in hollywood productions. Sometimes sound editing is needed. But not like this.


                
Narrated by David Attenborough and with wonderful high definition photography. This is an exhilarating look at the natural world.Eagles battling over food, lions hunting a giraffe, a bear itching for a scratch, the snow leopard leaving his scent at a mountainous remote region.Sometimes taking a story based approach to the animals might look clunky. The pygmy sloth looking for love but it pays dividends with the marine iguana hatchling escaping snakes in a hostile island made from volcanic lava.Planet Earth II took over three years to produce and shot in 40 countries. It even concentrated in animals in the cities. Mangy monkeys stealing food in the pink city of Jaipur or new born turtles in peril as city life encroaches on their environment.There is a sense of epicness about this series, it looks wonderful and Hans Zimmer's music is a plus.


                
010101010101010101010111011100101010101010101010idk


                
If you love nature,you'll enjoy this one but if you think nature and wildlife is boring. I recommend you stay away from this as you won't like it. I'm kind of in the middle. If you don't like animals being killed. Don't watch it. I'm not the biggest fan of David Attenborough. But if you do geography in school. You'll probably watch this at least once. 8.2/10


                
