It's good to know I'm not the only person in America who thinks "The Raiders of the Lost Ark" is stupid and offensive.  With its villains designed only as punching bags (they are human, none the less...), its heroine intended to be ogled and scream at the right moments, and its pseudo-religious claptrap, all the praise it's gotten says something very disturbing about large numbers of people.


                
What's this - 2  Speilberg films in the top 10? Are you people mental, have you been out of the house in the last 5 years? Are there subliminal messages being transmitted in the endless re-runs of 'Dawson's Creek'? That this chump should have one film in the top 250 is criminal. I keep running across the term 'soul' in the user comments. The soul of a movie, the amplification of soul, yadda, yadda. What goes on here, did the Germans win the war? Cripes, the man is a living Xerox machine who couldn't successfully wrap up a storyline to save his many fold bank accounts. It's outa my hands.


                
Steven Spielberg and George Lucas had the idea to recreate the Saturday morning serials of the 1940s with Raiders. Harrison Ford is Indiana Jones, a globe trotting adventurer looking for the Ark of the Covenant which would give Hitler the power to conquer world. Mr Ford always appears to be sleepwalking through his roles; somebody please wake him up. Robert Mitchum had a similar style, except Bob had charisma which is missing in Harrison.Indiana battles Nazis, fights off snakes, makes several great escapes and moves around enough to be awarded frequent flyer miles. Back and forth we go with the Ark, to the point where I did not care at all.One chapter was quite enough for me; I have no desire to suffer through the many sequels that followed.


                
I thought it would be a fascinating action thriller, yet it turns out to be a nasty horror film that turns to supernatural power. There is simply no logic or reason behind the screenplay. The overall music score and the action sequences in the third act are good, which prevents me from giving this film a one star.


                
