*Favourite "Indiana Jones" quote* - "I hate snakes!" For having just a PG-13 rating - I was completely taken by surprise by all of the violence, gore and bloodshed that prevailed in this top-notch Action/Adventure film from 1981.Featuring a first-rate, adrenaline-rush, opening sequence - "Raiders of the Lost Ark" certainly delivered plenty of awesome, over-the-top stunts, as well as some good touches of cynical humour (thrown in for good measure) that kept all of the action moving along at near break-neck speed, throughout.My 2 favourite characters in this fast-paced action picture were - (1) Dr. Rene Belloq, the utterly ruthless villain, and Nazi-collaborator, played so wickedly nasty by actor Paul Freeman - And, of course - (2) Indiana Jones, our archaeologist-hero (sans super-powers), played very tongue-in-cheek by Harrison Ford.My biggest complaint here has to do with the unwelcome introduction of the Marion Ravenwood character into the story. To me, her presence in the action only served to interfere and undermine Indiana Jones's heroic quest to uncover the legendary "Ark of the Covenant" before the evil Nazis did.


                
Original, exciting, and lots of fun. Spielberg directed it and Kasdan and Lucas wrote it. Without it, we wouldn't have had "Romancing the Stone", "The Jewel of the Nile," "The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Empire", and many others too numerous to list. They were all more or less rip offs of this one. Of course the original was highly successful. I dragged my lugubrious ex to the theater and even SHE enjoyed it. For a while there was an attempt to merchandise Indiana Jones' leather jackets, fedoras, and bull whips but they didn't get far.The fact that this was such a commercial blockbuster raised the inevitable question, which may be roughly phrased as, "What do I do NOW, Ma?" What you do is produce sequels: "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom," "Indiana Jones and the Amazon Women of the Moon," and so on. Each imitation, each sequel, was less innovative and more desperate and sloppy, but that's in the nature of decadence.Harrison Ford, whose career this put the stamp of approval on, is an archaeologist who is recruited to find the Ark of the Covenant hidden somewhere in the Middle East. It's 1936 and the Nazis are after it and who knows what havoc they might wreak with its powers? Jones drags along Karen Allen, a former lover and assistant, to provide a pulchritudinous sidekick with whom he can exchange insults. Anything resembling sex is out of the question, though, just as it would never have been considered in one of the 1930s Saturday afternoon theater serials on which this kind of story is based.Here's the schematic diagram of the plot: Introduction, suspense, action, suspense, action, suspense . . . n. Then the climax -- a really BIG action scene.But the thing that made it successful and keeps it so enjoyable after thirty years is that the action wasn't of the usual sort. Oh, sure, Jones and his girl friend are threatened with immanent death lots of times -- involved in comic fist fights, shot at with poisoned arrows. That's de rigeur. But how often does a hero find himself dashing through an underground tunnel downhill pursued by a three-ton rolling marble? Another element that contributed to its appeal was its reconstruction of the period, 1936. The exotic settings of 1936 aren't just rebuilt. They're lovingly reproduced. The ordinary set dressings are there to suggest the exotic -- always look for beaded curtains -- but the men don't waltz around in immaculate double-breasted white suits and pith helmets. The settings are overblown, to be sure. I strongly doubt that in all of Nepal there was a saloon with the size and atmosphere of Karen Allen's. I'm not at all sure there were ANY saloons in Nepal in 1936. But they're meant to suggest authenticity, not embody it, and they succeed in an creative way.Finally, the characters are kind of enjoyable in themselves, from the often frightened and only barely willing Indiana Jones himself, through the cartoon Nazis with the monocles and Swastika armbands. Oh, boy, watch the ark of the covenant MELT them down to nothing while they are frozen in place and screaming! The force unleashed.
I understand that I may be forgiven for not thinking 'Citizen Kane' is so great, but the following is cinematic heresy- I've decided I'm not that crazy about the Indiana Jones series. They're fun films, no doubt, and there are certainly worse ways to spend a couple of hours. I watched 'The Last Crusade' again not long ago, and last night I watched the first one. At the risk of stating the obvious, what 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' really has going for it is Harrison Ford and a couple of slam-bang action/special effects sequences. Well, you say, for cryin' out loud, isn't that enough? And yeah, I suppose it is. I've just found I'm not nearly as enamored of the series as I once thought I was, and each of the films has flaws that perhaps only become apparent on repeated viewings. The aspect of 'Raiders' that grates particularly each time I see it is Karen Allen's performance. I'm sorry, I don't find her funny or attractive or even interesting. I understand that the idea is for her to be a feisty tomboy, someone who speaks her mind and is "more than a match" (as they say) for Ford's Indy. But does that mean Allen's Marion has to be so utterly unattractive, in every sense? At times, she seems more like a gangly, socially-challenged thirteen-year-old who hasn't learned basic table manners yet and who snorts when she laughs. I don't know what's more annoying, her behavior or the fact that every male in the film seems to think she's gorgeous. Granted, she doesn't have any competition... that must be it. So there's that. The film of course was a trendsetter in many ways, resurrecting almost single-handedly the grand old adventure flick. The durable plot elements and (other) characters were made to seem fresh again, from the resourceful adventurer venturing to exotic lands to those most reliably evil of slimy villains, the Nazis. And there is a toughness to the first Indiana Jones movie that seems somewhat lacking in the other two. Both Sallah and Marcus Brody are real characters here, alternately serious and amusing. By the time we get to 'Last Crusade,' the two men are strictly comic relief, and Marcus in particular becomes a scatterbrained buffoon. The climax of 'Raiders,' when it finally comes, was something of a revelation (so to speak) at the time. This was the big payoff, and it didn't disappoint, though it's actually pretty brief. The face-melting and vaporous spirits (to be used to a much greater extent later in Spielberg's 'Poltergeist') had audiences wide-eyed with amazement. And then a clever little epilogue left cinema-goers feeling satisfied, that they'd really gotten their money's worth. I shared all those feelings when I first saw 'Raiders of the Lost Ark;' as I said, it's only been the last two or three times I've watched it that I haven't been as blown away.
This film, starring Harrison Ford and Karen Allen is a decent action film for its time. Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is an archaeologist and a teacher at a college in the U.S. and besides teaching, he is on the hunt for the staff of Ra to get the lost ark. He isn't alone in trying to get the ark, however, because a group of Nazis are looking to obtain the ark to control God. The special effects are good for the time, however, to anyone watching this movie now would think they are cheesy and fake. The plot is very good and keeps you watching, but I feel that some of the escapes Indiana Jones makes isn't really realistic at all. All in all this movie is good, but you have to keep in mind that it was made many years ago.


                
Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark is the first of the Indiana Jones franchise that spawn out 3 sequels, a TV series and numerous video games. It is a classic and stood above many in the box office raking in over $380 million dollars. It also won 4 Academy Awards for Best Visual Effects, Best Sound, Best Film Editing and Best Art Direction.The movie pulls surprises after surprises, like what happened when the Ark was opened, that scene alone is not something you will expect as it starts from the time it was opened till when it was shut, you will be stunned.It packages in its 115 minutes run, a bolder chase, arrow flying here and there, submarine, car chase, gun fights, drama, comedy, adventure, Nazis, Gestapo, Arabian men and Spiritual power in high places, all this for your fun and view, in a movie that is shot in numerous locations.There was a scene where Indy is trapped in the well of souls with over 7,000 snakes, now that is a sight you really want to see. The car chase reminded me of the Mad Max movie Road Warrior it was intense, fun and dangerous.The movie plot has our favorite hero, trying to get a solid-gold idol somewhere in the Peruvian jungle in 1936. He gets it then loses the artifact to his rival and the movie antagonist who is French archaeologist named Belloq (Paul Freeman).Indy is recruited by the Army Intelligence to stop the Nazi's who seem to be after the Ark of Covenant so as to gain power to topple the world.So Indy saddles up and goes to Nepal to meet with his Mentor Ravenwood only to discover that he had died, so he is left to ride along Marion (Karen Allen) his daughter to Cairo where they meet Indy's sidekick Sallah (John Rhys-Davies) as they team up to stop the Nazis.The movie is one joy ride from place to place the movie had quite an interesting bunch of characters that will keep you both thrilled and entertained, one character that catches my fancy was the Gestapo. Raiders of the Lost Ark is set to be a sequel to the movie that came after it, as Temple of Doom was set in 1935. The movie has received numerous acclaim ranked 66 in the AFI's top 100 movies 10th Anniversary and also ranked 10th in AFI's top ten thrills.Here is Indiana Jones at the very beginning an intro to the character that we all love and admire, I believe there is no reason why you should not have seen this classic.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Steven Spielberg shows his historical view undisguisedly in the film, which makes the film look like a satirical Nazi comedy.
Some of the famous shots and some types of settings are certainly worth writing into history, and the action parts and comedy details perfectly guarantee the narrative's getting better and better. However, the use of paranormal endings actually undermines the shaping of heroic images and legends.


                
The adventure genre, often used, but truly destined for only a few films out there. Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark, is one of these films. The 1981 classic captures your cravings for adventure that you haven't had since you were a young boy or girl. It plays into imagination in a way that no movies succeed in today. Harrison Ford plays a timeless character, which is even more scruffy looking and bad-ass than his previous iconic role as Han solo. Beyond the dusty surface of Raiders, lays a deeply genius film. Embedded with great shots and wonderful techniques used in film making. Still very enjoyable today, Raiders truly stood the test of time.


                
Ford stars as Indiana Jones, an archaeologist adventurer, who spends his time traveling all over the world through jungles, deserts, oceans, and caverns in search for hidden treasures—like the priceless long-lost Ark of the Covenant (the Hebrew sacred artifact that held the supposed Ten Commandments). Unfortunately, a group of treasure-hungry Nazis wants it too, having heard that any army who wins it would receive supernatural powers<U+0085> With his trademark hat, whip, leather jacket, and pistol for backup, our stubborn, intelligent, determined and loyal hero escapes innumerable dangers, evades multiple obstacles including fearsome thugs in a busy Cairo bazaar, and hangs underneath a fast-moving truck in an exciting chase through a road<U+0085> These are only some of the film's incredible set pieces<U+0085> Steven Spielberg likable hero is not invincible, though, facing impossible odds, capable of getting beaten, struck violently, heart broken, and falling asleep after the first kiss<U+0085> The villains—especially Indy's suave and cultured French rival wearing a Panama hat and white suits, Rene Belloq (Paul Freeman)—are not really that much different from him, except in their motivation<U+0085> The shrill heroine, Marion (Karen Allen)—is not the girl always in discomfort either, but a resourceful, dynamic and formidable woman who doesn't require the hero at all<U+0085> "Raiders of the Lost Arc" is a perfect package of unforgettable scenes, countless action, humor, astonishing technical effects, thrilling sequences, and terrific performances<U+0085> It was followed by three fun sequels<U+0085>


                
Raiders Of The Lost Ark was the first installment in the Indiana Jones film franchise to be released, though it is the second in internal chronological order. The story is filled with the standard elements, (good v's evil, old lovers reunite etc) but the movie is anything but standard.I'll admit from the start of this review that I am bias. Raiders Of The Lost Ark is in my top 10 movies of all time. The opening is in my Top 5 movie openings of all time (only Jaws, Saving Private Ryan and Cliffhanger are above it) and the score is one of my favourite soundtracks. I love it. It pits Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) against a group of Nazis who are searching for the Ark of the Covenant, which Adolf Hitler believes will make his army invincible. I can't praise the cast enough of this movie enough here, Harrison Ford is perfectly cast as Indiana Jones. Karen Allen, Paul Freeman as Indy's nemesis, John Rhys-Davies and Denholm Elliott all deserve special credit. The action set pieces are superb, the humour hits the mark and the score is another valuable asset to the movie. Raiders Of The Lost Ark is a highly professional piece of work, swift and suspenseful, with a good sense of pace and atmosphere it makes for perfect entertainment. To put it bluntly, it is quite simply one of the best movies ever made. Raiders Of The Lost Ark was the highest grossing movie of 1981, considering 'Superman 2' and the insanely popular Burt Reynolds led 'Cannonball Run' was released that year it's an even greater achievement. Perfect entertainment


                
Hired to stop the Nazis getting hold of a priceless biblical artifact, a 1930s archaeologist has to combat swordsmen, sadistic Germans... and a pathological fear of snakes in this popular adventure film that brought the character of Indiana Jones to screens. The film begins strongly with a thrilling sequence in which Indy has to make his way through booby traps galore in a tomb, and while nothing later on quite matches this tension, there are several exciting moments to be had with a multi-tonal John Williams score perfectly complementing the action. This is hardly a deep or meaningful film, the antagonists range from one-note to one-dimensional and as a character, Indy lacks the charisma of an action hero like James Bond. The attempts to paint Indy as an ordinary university professor who just enjoys adventures never quite gels either since he is more agile and better at close combat than the very best of MI6. All that said and done, 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' is a film full of memorable small moments and there are several excellent artistic shots throughout, most notably some diggers against an orange sunset and Harrison Ford viewed as only a shadow against a wall when first meeting Karen Allen. A supernatural twist near the end also takes the film in some unexpected directions and the iconic final shot of the film makes for a fantastic final note to end on.


                
So much hype about how Spielberg learned his craft of suspense from RKO's matinée movies and series. Not a word about him being influenced by Chinese kungfu movies. I was surprised to discover that so much of this 1981 Raiders of the Lost Ark movie is almost a copy of a 1976 Chinese kungfu movie from Hong Kong. The English title of the Chinese movie is "Web of Death". It's about a spider with deadly supernatural power which was hidden by the spider clan to keep its power contained, just like the ark. Bad guys of course tried to find it and did, just like the Nazis in the Spielberg movie. The traps in this and later Spielberg movies are so similar to the traps in this Chinese movie. And the special effects in the final fight between good and evil are almost identical. Except the hero in the Chinese movie is an awesome girl. Unlike the Spielberg movie which had to keep Indiana Jones alive for sequels, the Chinese girl sacrificed herself and died to save the good guys even though everyone tried to kill her just a few moments ago.Indiana Jones movies are hits because it's easy to like the sassy professor and the Nazis are the perfect foil. But we should at least acknowledge the influence of this movie from Hong Kong on this film from Hollywood.


                
Raiders of the lost ark (1981) is a certified roller coaster of entertainment! If you start watching it you will not be able to get your eyes of the screen or keep in your seat. Even the current generation, used to cgi effects won't be deterred from the old time effects present in the movie (matté shots, physical stunts, etc...). I mean, for some reason Lucas and Spielberg decided to maintain the same style of filmmaking in the latest installment of the Indiana Jones franchise, despite the time gap elapsed since Raiders (27 years) and the technology developed since.This is an adventure-fantasy movie, period. No greater aspirations or elevating themes suggested. We have a hero, Professor Henry Jones Junior (AKA the gung ho archaeologist Indiana Jones), who is running against the stereotypical bad guys to get a land mark archaeological gem, the lost ark of the covenant, overcoming all the traps they lay for him, fighting of every scrimmage possible-and imaginable:- there's a fight in a moving airplane, a pursuit in the streets of Cairo, an escape from a large moving boulder, etc . In this Indiana Jones movie, the first installment in the series, the bad guy is a suave french archaeologist, aided by a group of nazi soldiers and gestapo officers (yes, the movie is set in a pre- second world war scenario), who always out wit Indy, but never seem to get rid of him!George Lucas has long stated that Indiana Jones is an homage to the old republic serial adventures. Well I haven't seen any of them (they never ran in my country, Portugal), but every one of the Indy movies seem like a very large and entertaining episode that when it's over leaves in me an overwhelming hunger for the next movie, so I supposed that was the general idea perceived by Lucas.The next thing is to try and explain to you why am I reviewing on this particular Indy movie. Because it's the best in the series? No, at least not for me. That accolade falls to the third movie, "Indiana Jones and the last crusade". Never the less, after seeing it recently I felt I was looking at a rough diamond. Not quite polished and there for not yet presented in all its magnificence, but awakening the nostalgic feelings in you, because you know your in for a fast and bumpy ride, keeping your blood running. Your in for the various lushing sets; the many adventures to come; the different exotic places around the world, everything well scored by John Williams (he actually has a different tune for each character and situation, a device that he followed through the entire series)!And in the end who (or what) do we have to think to: George Lucas' witty imagination? Harrison Ford's superb rendition of the Humphrey Bogart type of hero? Steven Spielberg's ability to film a fantastic adventure movie_ I've seen the recent Tintin movie he made and trust me, he still knows how to do it!Only one thing plagues my mind: when these guys are gone, who will we turn to for a good adventure movie on the Sunday afternoon?!!!


                
To "Star Wars" fans Harrison Ford is Han Solo. To serious film buffs he is the star of classy dramas like "Witness" and "The Fugitive". To everyone else he is probably best known as the creator of the greatest action hero since James Bond.The character of Indiana Jones originated in the love of producer George Lucas and director Steven Spielberg for the film serials of the 1930s and 1940s and their desire to create a modern equivalent, set in that period but using the techniques of the eighties' blockbuster. Another influence seems to have been the superhero comic; Indy does not actually have superpowers but, like any self-respecting hero, he has two distinct identities, just as Superman had the shy young journalist Clark Kent and Batman had the millionaire playboy Bruce Wayne. In the lecture room he is Professor Henry Jones, professor of archaeology at the fictional Marshall College and a scholarly, mild-mannered, tweedy intellectual. In the field he becomes Indiana, a tough guy whose trademarks are a fedora hat, a leather jacket and a bullwhip. Despite their period setting, the films also have something in common with the Bond series; both franchises feature a tough action hero who travels round the world, often accompanied by a glamorous female companion, to prevent the destruction of civilisation as we know it by the villains. Like the Bond films, the Indiana Jones films often start with an opening action sequence which only has a very limited connection with what is to follow."Raiders of the Lost Ark" was the film which introduced Indy to the world, and the only episode in the series not to feature his name in the title. (By contrast, the words "James Bond" do not appear in the title of a single Bond film). The action takes place in the Egypt of 1936 (apart from the opening scene which is set in Peru). The plot is a complex one, but the basic idea is that Indy is battling a gang of Nazis who are searching for the biblical Ark of the Covenant, believing that if they can recover it they will be able to exploit its power to conquer the world. This concept- a gallant adventurer in some exotic location battling the villains for possession of an artifact with mystical powers- has served as the basis for a number of more recent adventure film, including "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull" and the two "Tomb Raider" films whose archaeologist heroine, Lara Croft, can be seen as a female Indy, a sort of Indiana Joan.The film was a huge success at the box-office, and was also a hit with most of the critics, although there were a few dissenting voices, notably Pauline Kael (never a fan of the popcorn blockbuster). It was nominated for eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, but lost to "Chariots of Fire". Much of the credit for the film's success must go to Ford himself, who makes Indy a hugely charismatic figure- not infallible, but determined, courageous and indomitable- the sort of man everyone wants on their side in a crisis. The glamour is provided by Karen Allen as Indiana's former lover, Marion Ravenwood, who makes an attractively feisty heroine- much better than Kate Capshaw's annoying character in "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom".John Williams's musical score was a popular one, although to my mind the main march theme is a bit too similar to all the other identikit pseudo-military marches which Williams composed for other action blockbusters during this period. (Is it "Raiders"? Is it "Star Wars"? No, it's "Superman"!). Spielberg handles the action well and the film moves along at a brisk pace, making this a fast-moving roller-coaster of a movie- fast enough to persuade us to overlook the fact that the plot is really all a lot of hokum. (Klaus Kinski, who turned down the chance to play the main Nazi character, called the script "moronically sh*tty"). There are also elements of humour- the scene where Indy whips out his pistol and shoots a man who is threatening him with a sword always seems to get a laugh, largely because it slyly mocks the unwritten conventions of the swashbuckler genre. (The hero must fight at least one hand-to-hand duel per movie and must not take advantage of superior armaments, even against the most despicable opponent). "Raiders of the Lost Ark" may be a commercial blockbuster, but it offers enough in the way of thrills and excitement to be worth watching, even by those who would normally avoid the genre. 7/10


                
This is one of the films that led me, slowly but surely, to loathe the work of George Lucas.To be sure, it is not a bad film - in fact, it succeeds in generating the same kind of excitement as the B-movie/serial action films of the 1930s, the formula for which it is intended to resurrect. But it is that resurrection itself that annoys me, for two reasons.First, Although the serials of the '30s were certainly a bit of daffy fun, they were just badly made. In order to enjoy them, one has to 'dumb down' quite a bit. In the early '70s revival of these films on the college circuit, this meant taking drugs before or during viewing. Without inebriates, it means adopting a child's perspective - and there is nothing wrong with that. The problem is, why insist on an expensive Hollywood production that requires the same 'dumbing down'? And do so in a manner so as to close off other, more mature approaches to the adventure film format? Secondly, the cultural references of the 1930s action B-movie were all outside of film itself - references to the political crises in Europe, to fears generated in the wake of the depression, to ennobling efforts to maintain American values against threats from within and without, to the rise of organized crime, to a developing technology no one fully understood at the time, and to increasing awareness of the strangeness of non-European cultures. A heady mix, and it's clear why Americans found the B-movie useful in sorting out and coping with so many different issues.But the cultural references in "Raiders" are all to movies of the 1930s. In other words, there is NO world beyond the movie screen for Mr. Lucas. Even the myth of the 'Ark of the Covenant' has more to do with DeMille's "Ten Commandments" than it does with the Ark as described in the Bible, since it is clearly intended to work magic, which is about as much of religion as DeMille really understood. And let's not even discuss the hopelessly card-board Nazis here.This 'dumbed down' inversion of cultural reference makes "Raiders" feel claustrophobic and regressive more than any other film mining the same ore I can think of. To be sure, Spielberg gives the film a professional gloss and a sense of action Lucas' other films lack. And both Harrison Ford and Karen Allen are truly delightful to watch.So the film is certainly fun to watch - but it doesn't inspire any greater respect for writer-producer Lucas, one of the true con-men of modern cinema.


                
Pretty good and exciting movie. Seeing this in this days date, it seems like a pretty typical action movie. I suppose it was innovative for its time, though.The acting was great and the settings were also pretty awesome.My favorite thing about this movie was the clever trap type maze sequence at the beginning. It seemed so clever and I wish there was more of it in the later parts of the movie.Another great thing was the music. The now well known Indiana Jones theme is very melodic and sounds great.Would watch this movie at least once. While not ground breaking in today's date, it is still good to watch.
A movie of an epic adventure of a college teacher looking for the arch of the Jewish religion racing against the Nazis looking for immortality in battle. Indiana goes across the world in search of Maggie and her talisman from her father. As this tail unravels he finds many troubles along the way funding being the most basic and fastest solved he comes to life and limb from the beginning. If you've got children I highly suggest this title but pending on the generation you're from myself being in the age of technology looking for it's peak i didn't really care for it though if i'd have seen it 11 maybe even 13 years ago i'd have been on the edge of my seat the whole time.


                
Steven Spielberg has always been the sort of director whom, when provided with a 'log-line' or one sentence premise, has been able to use his ability to just grab the idea by the scruff of its neck and run with it. A bunch of people on an isolated tropical island populated by dinosaurs eventually running amok is given a radical overhaul and transformed into something more exciting and more substantial than it has any right to be; a man drives a car over a long distance across the barren states of the U.S.A., but is terrorised by a crazed truck driver becomes something quite special; a cynical parent of two young children faces the fight of his and his family's life when blood thirsty creatures invade Earth and he must guide them to some sort of safety. Raiders of the Lost Ark, along with the likes of the above in Jurassic Park and Duel among others, feeds off Spielberg in this mood and on this form; a feature that comes complete with dastardly villains trying to end the world; unadulterated heroes; feisty sidekicks; love interests; rounded, jolly foreign supporting acts of a differing ethnicity to that of the lead's as well as the Nazis as the bad guys.Following the adventures of one of the best loved protagonists in film history, Raiders begins deep in the jungles of South America sometime in the 1930s; the music ominous, a group of men trudging on to what appears to be the laughter of the wildlife as they undertake a march many have previously attempted, but never completed. One of the men, following in a pack behind that of Harrison Ford's lead Indiana Jones, draws a gun; but our man is whip-smart in a literal sense to the revelation, and manages to hear; react; work his skill with the bull-whip he possesses and then defuse the situation without ever having to use grosser means of violence. We can tell Jones knows his stuff, or does his research; he treats a temple "no one has ever come out from alive" as if he had been there before and done what he's about to do a dozen times. He ventures in, his accomplice the picture of fear contrasting Jones' own state, and beats the system; swiping the prize and getting back out again – in the process avoiding a boulder who's trigger system has done well to survive all these centuries of people not making it this far.There is something indescribably endearing about a man capable of the above, and yet by day, is a stuttering; glasses-wearing academic whom stammers around wielding arrays of scrolls he struggles to carry properly; in turn, knowing an awful lot about issues and subjects of an archaeological nature most would dismiss as somewhat nerdy. Jones is called upon by the American government to come into contact with a Biblical artifact known as the Ark of the Covenant, a mission laid out in no uncertain terms as being highly dangerous and mostly with the threat of the Nazi party spreading their wings into North Africa to try and find it for their own means. As a Macguffin, Spielberg does his utmost to effectively render the thing near enough to a character all by itself; a dangerous, looming character with what appears to be its own mind and priorities as these pesky early-to-mid twentieth century human-beings toy with it; transport it; fight for it but essentially wake it from its rest. An early revealing of the object in sketch form, lying there on a text book page radiating light and power, acts as an unnerving envisaging of what the thing is capable of. Jones initially rejects the proclaimed "power" that the Ark has, citing it as something in the region of "occult mumbo-jumbo", and therein that statement lies a refreshing little transition for Jones to undergo as he learns of its true power and of certain people's dedication towards it.Working with the Nazis is a French archaeologist named René Belloq (Freeman); an 'Id' to Jones' superego: a well dressed and far more formal man to Jones' grizzled demeanour and whose morals are equally spread eagle on the spectrum. Along for the ride, after an excursion in the snowy barren nothingness of Nepal, Jones enlists Marion Ravenwood (Allen), whom he shares a botched romantic history. Ravenwood is a woman capable of holding her own; the sense of the film's overly guilty disposition rife in its having her in the midst of a drinking contest when we first see her, before placing her at the forefront of a sober; competent conversation with that of another human-being minutes later. Ford and Allen bounce off one another to varying degrees of success, their romance of old constantly hovering in the background as we observe the man's shot at redeeming himself to her as a man and not a runaway – the film maintaining her hard bodied edge throughout proceedings without ever sagging to levels of objectification.There is an awful lot to enjoy in Raiders with nary a lot to necessarily get agitated about; the film is flat out adventure from the point of the Ark's uncovering, culminating in an eerie finale during which the culmination of several things explode at once in a dizzying moment of terror and thrills. The film is mostly an array of set pieces and stunts, but there is a grounded sense about the chase and adventure. We do not entrust Jones to be infallible; when he is shot, we grimace; when he takes a beating and bleeds, we observe him stumble his way back up and sense injury. In spite of its nature, the film never threatens to descend into that of anything below taut and engaging; rather, it is mostly a project filling us with a joyous feeling - lovingly constructed by a man out to do what he enjoys most, in making something exuberant that his audience can get stuck into.


                
It's very possible. It's definitely the best Indiana Jones movie that's been made. This movie actually runs on a path similar to a heart-rate monitor, where there are sudden blips of action interspersed in periods of relative calm. This is a very effective way of running this genre of film, because the sudden action creates a certain tension. There is the possibility of something big lingering. This style has become more and more common place recently, but was revolutionary at the time. In all the years since this style became popular, maybe even revolutionized by Raiders, the Lost Arc still is one of the most effective users of this pacing. Honestly, is there anyone who doesn't think that scene in the cave or that scene with Harrison Ford under the truck among the best action sequences of all time?The other element that this movie has that so many action movies somehow forgot to include recently is a plot. This genre has recently become a joke, with the extent of the stories going only so far as to allow the maximum amount of explosions and assorted other pieces of eye candy. Raiders of the Lost Arc doesn't include as many explosions (although there are some) as many other films. There is a lot more emphasis on human stunts on feats of inhuman athleticism.As far as the obligatory love interest for Indiana, Marion Ravenwood is easily my favorite. She's very believable emotionally and almost reminds me of a non-Italian Mona Lisa Vito in My Cousin Vinny. At least in the respect that her emotions toward Indiana fluctuate between intense anger and almost swooning. But not quite, because Marion is one tough chick.And Harrison Ford much improves anything he touches (although 8I can't speak for his new Extraordinary Measures, which I have no interest in seeing. Brandon Fraser generally ruins everything he touches. But that's a tangent for another time.) Anyway, Ford is fantastic, perhaps the best action movie hero of all time. Not only is he a wonderfully flawed relateable character, he can also be brutal. I guess that just goes with the profession. Or maybe not. Indy is one glorified archaeologist. If only all archaeological digs were this exciting, I guarantee this would be one of the more common professions.Those are some of the coolest death scenes, too. All I can say is watch out for rotors, and make sure to avert your eyes. And if you want to survive, make sure you have a great theme song.


                
Just watched it and I must say I'm not impressed. I totally respect the fact that it is made in 1981. and some graphic parts are stunning for that age, but it just has to much flaws, nonsense in the plot and lame character development. I mean, Germans are presented like stupid robots. They don't even have the ability to move when they are in danger or something, they just wait to die. Most of the scenes and character decisions are really unlikely to happen in real life, that's something i can't forgive even in the fantasy/adventure movie. I really like the car chase scene, though. 7/10. I expected far more intelligent movie, because of the love it got over the years, not some nonsense action with really poor character development.


                
Title: Indiana Jones - Raiders of the Lost ArkCondensed Storyline: Indiana Jones has to find the Ark of the covenant before a group of rogue Nazis do. Notable Acting: The two roles people know Harrison Ford for playing are Han Solo from Starwars and Indiana Jones from Indian Jones. These are well known because they are both high budget Hollywood movies in which Harrison does a good acting roles. Now name another movie he is in bar these, apart from Blade Runner and Apocalypse Now there are not very many memorable movies that he in is. But regardless he is the driving force of this movie, chances are this movie wouldn't be as entertaining if there was a different actor playing Indy. Everyone else was good at their roles, but they were overlooked because of the focus on Indy the movie kept pushing you onto. Noticeable Camera work: Worms eye view from the bottom of the pit in the first sceneCostume: The Afrika Korps uniforms are correct, but not needed in this movie as the Afrika Korps weren't formed until years after this movie was created. Indiana Jones' outfit is a timeless classic look at even the youth of today would recognize. Incorrect Science: Red Knee Tarantulas seen in the first scene of the movie are native to Mexico only, guess where that first scene isn't set. Most of the snakes in the 'Well of Souls' are not native to Africa, such as Burmese Python and Reticulated Python. I would also expect there to be a lot of death snakes there as it looks like they're not getting out of that well. Sand weights less than gold, if the idol in the first scene is pure gold, Indy would need a much bigger bag of sand.Incorrect History: The German Afrika Korps didn't exist until 1941. Indy is going to blow up the Ark with a rocket launcher which doesn't exist at that time. MP-40 submachine gun was inservice 1938, P-38 pistol was inservice 1938 also, two years after when this movie is set. Marcus Brody says "The Bible speaks of the Ark leveling mountains and laying waste to entire regions" This isn't in the bible. In 1936 there were British military posts in Egypt, so chances are Nazis wouldn't be able to dig, let alone force Egyptians to dig without the British Army finding out. Incorrect Geography: Thailand was known as Siam until 1939, this movie takes place in 1936 and has Thailand written on a map. Jordan was known as Transjordan until 1949, another incorrect map.Overall Feel: Classic action/adventure movie with a historical theme and romance subplot. One of, if not the best movie in the Indiana Jones quadrilogy. It does need to learn its history though as there are too many incorrect science and incorrect history moments in here
Raiders of the Lost Ark is a good film, even though the story-line isn't that interesting and it lacks the comedy of the second film in the series and the weight of the third.Karen Allen is beautiful, but the character is unnecessarily overdone in parts. The film excels when it's solo Indy, dodging booby traps and chasing down armed forces on horseback. Indy is a great character, that is certain. Though something had to hit him in that jungle escape, come on.For some reason the film has put me to sleep many times, around the area of being trapped with the snakes, it might be the first time I've actually finished it, not sure.
Nowadays we keep forgetting how beautiful blockbusters can be. Too much CGI makes everything possible and therefore very often also arbitrary. In Raiders you actually seem to feel the physical pain some of the actors/stuntmen had to go through to provide 2 hours of pure entertainment.Of course the story isn't waterproof, the Nazi weren't that present in Egypt in 1936 and how did Indy survive that ride on the submarine again? But lots of good and variable action scenes are accompanied by a story that develops fast and excitingly and is always close to being implausible but luckily never is. Spielberg, Lucas and most of all Harrison Ford created a hero that is nowadays iconic. With their attempt to make an homage to adventure comics of the 1930's they created their own legend. It's funny, exiting, thrilling and romantic. What more can you ask for?


                
Harrison Ford really puts in a brilliant performance in this movie. No one else could pull off the swashbuckling hero with such poise and confidence. It's like he was born for the role. My favourite part of the whole movie is that opening sequence where he is rescuing a golden idol from a booby-trapped cave - it encapsulates everything I imagine Indiana Jones to be about. Karen Allen also deserves a mention for a great supporting performance as the bolshy heroine Marion Ravenwood.But despite the classic performances this isn't my favourite India Jones movie. I think it loses its way at times. The scene where Marion puts on a white dress and drinks Belloq under the table is presented as a pivotal moment but doesn't seem to lead to anything. And towards the end of the movie, the scenes on the U-Boat feel disjointed from the rest of the plot. Others will disagree, but overall I prefer Temple of Doom and The Last Crusade.I don't want to be too harsh, mind. I really do love this movie. There are scenes such as the pit of snakes and the car/tank chase that rank among the best in the Indiana Jones franchise. A very enjoyable viewing.
After many years I watched this movie again on cable. I saw it the first time at the theater with my friends. It was a great blockbuster and everybody talked about the new Indiana Jones. This one is no doubt on of the best of the series. I mean especially the chase scenes in Egypt were well executed with charm and humor. Therefore some dialog sequences were unnecessary too long and stopped the dynamic pace. The story with the Nazi and the chase of the treasure was well mixed. Some special effects looked cartooning but didn't disturb at all. The technology was not on nowadays standard. Harrison Ford gave an original character to Indy Jones. Ford's performance will never be replaced by another actor. This franchise shows that it can still compete with other adventure series such as National Treasure. Final vote: 7/10.


                
Dear Steven Spielberg, Its the Boulder. With mixed emotions I am writing you on behalf of my career. Or should I say, my would have been career. Though I am grateful for the opportunity you gave me as a young, up and coming prop(it had been my dream to work with Harrison Ford since his performance in Apocalypse Now), I have to say the stigma that has haunted me since creates feelings of bitterness toward you and the Indiana Jones franchise. I did not realize how much you villainized me at the time; I am nothing now. Casting me has been impossible. I thought I had arrived with you, my dues paid, and then some.....turn me loose on Hollywood. No one was interested. At first I did not put two and two together. Convinced myself it was the parts that didn't fit. It struck me on the second day of casting for Labyrinth. We were in the final call back for the talking rocks she comes upon. Talking rocks Spielberg. A speaking part. Off camera I heard someone mutter, 'let's hope he doesn't chase us all out of the cave like he did in....' Just like that they took it away from me. No, wait. You took it away. You didn't have your sticky little fingers in that one but you're little partner in crime there Lucas did. I could have been the rock Sloth holds up at the end of Goonies. But wait, who wrote that one? I see everything has worked out for you. Kate Capshaw. Nice. You and this business ground me down to nothing. People hide keys under me now. Sure wish Stanley had stayed around a little longer to finish A.I. for everyone's sake. Yikes. Sincerely, The Boulder
