Nowadays we keep forgetting how beautiful blockbusters can be. Too much CGI makes everything possible and therefore very often also arbitrary. In Raiders you actually seem to feel the physical pain some of the actors/stuntmen had to go through to provide 2 hours of pure entertainment.Of course the story isn't waterproof, the Nazi weren't that present in Egypt in 1936 and how did Indy survive that ride on the submarine again? But lots of good and variable action scenes are accompanied by a story that develops fast and excitingly and is always close to being implausible but luckily never is. Spielberg, Lucas and most of all Harrison Ford created a hero that is nowadays iconic. With their attempt to make an homage to adventure comics of the 1930's they created their own legend. It's funny, exiting, thrilling and romantic. What more can you ask for?


                
I've seen Raiders of the Lost Ark numerous times on TV, DVD and big screen. My local theatre had a special showing last night and the 400-seat screen completely sold out (as Indy films always do). Luckily for me and my pal, we got the last 2 tickets available! I can't think of many films that still sell-out 25 years after their original release. There's just something about Indy movies(iconic hero, affection, epic spectacle) that brings you back again and again.The only trouble with that is there are zillions of reviews, critiques and dissections of this movie already out there, so what I have to offer will probably not be anything new. I will however not go the way of the cliché and mention 1930's serials, Tom Selleck or the sword/gun fight.I will, however, ask you one question. Did you know that some of the more iconic, memorable sequences from Raiders owe quite a lot to Duck Tales? What? Surely it's the other way around? Well, no. The globe-trotting adventures of Scrooge McDuck, Huey, Duey, Luey and Donald in Carl Bank's Disney comic-books from the 50s came first. If you can find some of these then you'll surely notice the similarities.The hunt for the Ark of the Covenant is more than just an excuse for action. So many movies these days seem to come up with action first and string them together with some lame plot. Movies like this are quickly forgotten and one of the reasons Raiders holds up so well is because it works the Covenant story so well into the plot.The action comes in a succession of set-pieces. I do enjoy films that have to increasingly better themselves in every scene. Raiders introduced this as a standard that the sequels had to live up to. My fave scene has to be the massive truck chase through Egypt, which is made up of many of its own smaller sequences. One little idiosyncrasy I like about Indy is that even though he's a College Professor and Doctor, he has no beef killing people. So very far from the ubiquitous PC heroes of todays movies.You might think that it's rather geeky to hype up the editing and sound design, but they do stand out from recent action movies. The gunfire and punching seem to have a sort of 'Indy' signature sound to them, that I've not heard in any other films. And obviously, John William's classic score is one of those themes that just everybody in the world knows (though I prefer his score to Temple of Doom), truly one of the best movie themes ever. Better than Star Wars! I'm not sure if Spielberg planned on Raiders starting the Indy franchise but there's already enough in here to establish a whole universe of potential stories and character arcs. There's talk of a fourth movie at the moment, but I personally don't think it will happen and I don't want it to. It's perfect existing as a trilogy and a sequel that comes traipsing in 18 years after the last is just not going to feel right. Even if you are hungry for more Indy then there are loads of books and video games out there and then there's the Young Indiana Jones TV show (where are the DVDs?), which are official Indy canon and even starred Ford once (they bounced around in time).I am giving Raiders 9/10 because I just have a soft spot for Temple of Doom (which is obviously a 10/10 movie). Even 25 years after it first came out it still has the power to captivate the audience and provoke sheer excitement every time. And in 25 years it will still be far superior to almost everything.Now there's something you cannot say about The Fast and the Furious! Sigh, where did all the special movies go?


                
Ford stars as Indiana Jones, an archaeologist adventurer, who spends his time traveling all over the world through jungles, deserts, oceans, and caverns in search for hidden treasures<U+0097>like the priceless long-lost Ark of the Covenant (the Hebrew sacred artifact that held the supposed Ten Commandments). Unfortunately, a group of treasure-hungry Nazis wants it too, having heard that any army who wins it would receive supernatural powers<U+0085> With his trademark hat, whip, leather jacket, and pistol for backup, our stubborn, intelligent, determined and loyal hero escapes innumerable dangers, evades multiple obstacles including fearsome thugs in a busy Cairo bazaar, and hangs underneath a fast-moving truck in an exciting chase through a road<U+0085> These are only some of the film's incredible set pieces<U+0085> Steven Spielberg likable hero is not invincible, though, facing impossible odds, capable of getting beaten, struck violently, heart broken, and falling asleep after the first kiss<U+0085> The villains<U+0097>especially Indy's suave and cultured French rival wearing a Panama hat and white suits, Rene Belloq (Paul Freeman)<U+0097>are not really that much different from him, except in their motivation<U+0085> The shrill heroine, Marion (Karen Allen)<U+0097>is not the girl always in discomfort either, but a resourceful, dynamic and formidable woman who doesn't require the hero at all<U+0085> "Raiders of the Lost Arc" is a perfect package of unforgettable scenes, countless action, humor, astonishing technical effects, thrilling sequences, and terrific performances<U+0085> It was followed by three fun sequels<U+0085>


                
Here it is, February of 2005 and I had yet to see Raiders Of The Lost Ark (or the other 2 in the trilogy for that matter). For some reason, it did not appeal to me. I did not get into movies until the early '90s and never got around to seeing it. However, upon urging of my friend I decided to rent it. I have to give credit where credit is due. Indiana Jones paves the way for the Tomb Raiders and other various movies of the same type.Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is a doctor in archeology who teaches at a college and in his spare time, finds rare artifacts and saves the world from Nazis. In this case, he is trying to find the Ark Of The Covenant, which at one time held the original Ten Commandments that Moses chiseled into the stone tablets. The Nazis, along with help from Jones' arch rival Rene Belloq, are trying to find the Ark for their own purposes. Along the way, Indiana meets up with a woman named Marion (Karen Allen), who he jilted in the past, which is not really explained in this movie but they end up helping each other in the search for the Ark.The special effects and the action in Raiders Of The Lost Ark are exceptional, considering this was made in 1981. It set the bar reasonably high for action/adventure movies, even to this day as many movies are still compared to the Indiana Jones trilogy. It holds up well, considering most of the movies from the early 80's are very dated and hard to watch anymore. 8.5/10


                
In 1936, Indiana Jones, an archaeologist and adventurer, is hired by the US government to find the lost Ark of the Covenant, rumoured to be buried in a hidden vault somewhere in Egypt. His quest takes him first to Nepal to recover a key artefact, and then to Cairo in a desperate race against time to find the Ark before Nazi agents also hunting it.For me, this is simply the best action film ever made. This film just roars along at an incredible speed, and it has everything in it - secret temples, tarantulas, Injuns, bar brawls, romance, Egyptology, Nazis, pompous Frenchmen, street fights, monkeys, buried treasure, snakes, car chases, pirates, submarines, the wrath of God and government coverups. I mean, what more could anybody honestly want ? The screenplay by Lawrence Kasdan, from an original (well, sort-of) idea by George Lucas, is just terrific but it's the sheer frenetic pace of the film that just sweeps you along - the story never stops for anything. It's a textbook model of how to cut all the flab out of a movie until there's just the good stuff left. The genius of the film is of course the genius of the great Steven Spielberg, with his unique combination of absolute technical mastery of the medium and his amazing capacity to entertain, but the sheer talent of the people behind him are what make this arguably his best film. John Williams' score is perhaps his best, with the most memorable of any of his great themes and entire sequences (the map room, the truck chase, the final ceremony) just awash in marvellously atmospheric music. The stuntwork (Glenn Randall, Peter Diamond, Terry Leonard, Vic Armstrong) is the best I've seen in any movie, and Deborah Nadoolman's wonderful costumes, Ben Burtt's sound effects and the special effects by Richard Edlund, Kit West, Bruce Nicholson and Chris Walas are simply fabulous. You can't have a great movie without great performances, and the entire cast bring such a sense of fun and enthusiasm to their characters that they are impossible to resist. This is Ford's classic hero performance - he fits into Indiana Jones seamlessly and somehow manages to be lovable, heroic, scruffy and noble all at the same time. Allen punches and kicks her way through the film with terrific aplomb and still manages to also be a classical romantic heroine. Freeman, Davies and Elliott all devour their roles with gusto and Lacey is indisputably the best, and I mean the best, Sinister Nazi ever to grace the screen. Despite what any critics might say, movies always have and always will be about one main thing - telling a story in pictures. This movie is a deliriously brilliant piece of visual storytelling with an unbeatable capacity to entertain. Outstanding.
Now I loved this movie a lot because it introduced us to the world of Indiana Jones and showing us how he is able to track down rare artifacts. In addition to that, this movie gave us loads of fun action, and the action (ALMOST) never stops! 
It just starts out amazing, showing us in South America that he is a cool, amazing, and FUN character to be around and explore with! 9/10 THUMBS UP!
Indiana Jones is about the Nazi's trying to find the lost ark. Indiana Jones try's to stop them.Indiana Jones is a great ilm. It is more like a comic book film. They actually wanted to use loud and fun effects for the movie. The score was a massive part of this film. This score is one of John Williams best. Also the acting is amazing. Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones was the best choice. Karen Allen did a great job too. Paul Freeman as the Nazi leader did great. He was a funny and mean at the same time.Indiana Jones is one of the best movies of all time. It was also done by two of the best actors of all time.


                
How do they cram so much good movie in 2 hours? It's so incredibly well built, with great pacing and acting, and it's got the cheesiest fighting scenes, just how could I (and many others) not like it?


                
This is a dynamite movie.  Is there anyone who hasn't seen it yet?  The first 5 to 10 minutes alone was well worth the money I paid to see the movie in the theatre back in 1981. This is the movie I use as a "benchmark" to rate any other movie. To me, this movie ranks a 10 out of 10 in pure enjoyment and entertainment.  If you haven't seen this movie...........why and what's keeping you?


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark marked the debut of Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones, two fisted archaeologist with a mean bull whip. The film also reawakened a longing in the American public for some good old fashioned pulp fiction adventure even if it is done tongue slightly in cheek.Archeology certainly is a competitive business, but I think Indiana Jones takes it to an exponential level. He certainly has to when he's dealing with the up and coming German Reich. What they and Jones are after is high stakes indeed. Both have a lead on where the Ark of the Covenant might be buried. It was spirited away after the destruction of the second temple in Jerusalem, whereabouts unknown until the 1930s. As the Good Book tells us the Kingdom of Israel was undefeated as long as the Ark was ahead of them in battle. So even with the Nazis rather well known policy about Jews, they'd like to have this thing with whatever powers it has.It's a pretty delicate matter. If you remember a soldier of King David was struck down for just touching the Ark as it was about to fall. You can catch that in the Gregory Peck-Susan Hayward film, David and Bathsheba. It should definitely come with a warning label. Anyway, Ford ably assisted by Karen Allen, Denholm Elliott and John Rhys-Davies goes after it and has to battle the Nazis for possession. As for the Nazis, it's like that old adage of being careful what you wish for.Raiders of the Lost Ark was nominated for several Oscars and came away with a few in the 1982 ceremony for 1981's films. After almost thirty years it's still rollicking good entertainment.As for Karen Allen and Harrison Ford. Go see Indiana Jones chasing down that Crystal Skull in theaters now if you want to find out what happened with these two.


                
This film is epic! The film is so entertaining and it created my favourite movie hero of all time. This movie is so iconic in so many ways. Harrison Ford was amazing in this and it is my favourite performance of his. The entertainment of this film is infinite, especially at the beginning and end were there is two of my favourite scenes of all- time. Spielberg directed this extremely well and this is his best work. Spielberg is known for his films to be iconic and a box office success. This is iconic as it gets and is in the 20 highest grossing films adjusted for inflation. If Spielberg were to be only remembered for one film (which is impossible) I'd like it to be this.The one thing that didn't blow me away was dialogue. It was bad but it didn't blow me away. It had s few memorable lines but not many. I like to quote my favourite films and I always struggle with this one. A common complaint is that Indiana plays no roll in the outcome of the film but there are instances were he has saved lives. If he was not there they would be dead. Indiana is a hero and I hate it when they say he was pointless. To summarise: Iconic and extremely entertaining. This film is a classic I can watch over and over again. Acting: 10/10 Dialogue: 8/10 Plot: 10/10 Characters: 10/10 Entertainment Value: 10/10


                
The movie begins in the jungles of South America- a place full of wonder and mystery (a prime spot for our main character Dr Henry Walton Jones Jr or Indiana as he prefers to be called). We later learn that Indy is a Professor of archaeology but has a far more interesting life outside the office as a daring adventurer. On his journeys he encounters interesting characters such as Belloq and Arnold toht along with his friend Salah and of course his sort of girlfriend Marion and many other evil Nazis.The practical effects in this movie are superb especially for the 80s- (better than some effects today). These scenes include: the boulder that chases Indy through the deserted tomb, the escape from the underground system and the gruesome yet awesome face melting scene. Other great action scenes that are so iconic include the truck scene where Indy gradually makes his way to the drivers seat and of course the fight by the on coming propeller blades. All so suspenseful and entertaining!I adore Spielberg and Lucas movies more than any others so its no surprise that this film is one of my all time favourites. Lucas' writing is just wonderful it opens up a new world like in the Star Wars saga. And Spielberg's directing brings it all to life so they obviously make the perfect duo. This is indeed Ford's best performance (he really does suit Indy) and drives the film as the leading role. William's score also makes the film as he does every time without disappointment.I love this movie as you can tell already I couldn't recommend it enough! I give this film a 9.4/10 can't think of any faults in particular. A awesome movie that will remain one of the best for years to come!
Absolute masterpiece of adventure movies. Lucas and Spielberg created from nothing to a character who has become an icon and stereotype adventurer hero, hat, whip and stir, being copied and imitated ad satiety, but never matched with the same magnificence that we saw in this film. And that is because Harrison Ford was able to give the character of all his charisma with that air of seductive and mischievous style of his other immortal character, Han Solo As Han Solo, and Jones is brave, but never cast behind your reasoning says otherwise, seductive, slaughtered and prepared to fight and die for what you believe. Spielberg, young, talented and with all the energy of which he was capable, he gave us an example of how to tell an affair with a mastery of time and fast-paced, with a nerve in the action scenes, especially the persecution, worthy of a teacher, and above all, with a sense of the sublime and great show, never missing the touches of humor that has always characterized all the films in the series. The side are all wonderful, and hard to forget, the lovely Marion Ravenwood, Sallah good-natured and friendly, the magnificent villain Toth Nazi spy, played perfectly by Ronald Lacey, the best I've seen on film, without forgetting Marcus, captain Katanga, the late Satipo ...... well, all unforgettable. With an argument of Lucas himself and exquisite production design by Norman Reynolds, is one of the best movie sagas and history, Lucas finally wrote his name with golden letters in the industry, as creative genius, as he had cast before his War Galaxies while Spielberg made <U+200B><U+200B>it clear who was the new king Midas of Hollywood. Artwork, which will spend more than the years but never ages like fine wine, better yet known. To your health!!
Raiders of the Lost Arc stands the test of time almost 30 years after its release as a immensely enjoyable adventure romp and a definitive moment for the genre. The film that introduced the world to one of the greatest movie heroes of all time in Indiana Jones, it goes back to a time when creativity and choreography were essential to pulling off the film's many stunts and action scenes. Harrison Ford brings so many iconic traits to the character of Indy, and he is allowed to do so by the subtleties of the film. He is sly, cool, ingenious, but most of all, human. Boring professor by day, ultimate swash buckling action hero by weekend, this isn't a superhero or a man with gadgets to keep him ahead of the bad guys. In fact, Indiana gets the worst of it in more than one instance in Raiders. This allows the viewer to connect and root for him, especially in amusing scenes such as when he literally brings a gun to a sword fight. Steven Spielberg shows off his ability to tell a great story, and packs the film with great symbolism via visual cues. The use of shadows in his shots in particular are very effective, and the different sets remain convincing. The story itself works so well because although it features a few moments of cheese, basing it on actual historical artifacts makes it very easy to enjoy and also gives Indy many exciting locales to visit. Using the Nazis as the villains was brilliant and gives the audience a clear "good vs evil" storyline, allowing the film to focus on the development of the leads without sacrificing investment in the plot. The action pieces work and create a real sense of tension and danger because it's actually a person performing the stunt. From the awesome truck chase (Wilhelm scream alert!) to the well of snakes to the awesomely ambiguous ending, Raiders is full of memorable moments that have understandably permeated pop-culture to this day. And not to mention the immense lot of popular films that are directly in debt to Raiders for making the classic adventure popular again. Outside of Harrison Ford's epic performance, the supporting cast has a ball, with one of the creepiest sociopath villains of all time and a great band of friends for Indy. Karen Allen does struggle to be convincing at times, but she works well in the romantic sections of the film, especially the "where does it hurt" scene, equally amusing and endearing. This is a film that hits on all cylinders and set the stage for two more underrated tales to come (let's not talk about the new Indiana Jones film for the purposes of keeping this review positive). Raiders of the Lost Arc is a great introduction to one of the best movie heroes of all time and remains a treat to experience. This is essential viewing.


                
Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark is one of the best films of director Steven Spielberg and storyteller George Lucas, if not one of the best films of all time. Almost everyone knows the classic tale of Indiana Jones so I don't have to regale you with the story. Suffice it to say, Harrison Ford is PERFECTLY cast as the title character Indiana Jones (I can't imagine any other actor in this role). John Rhys-Davies as Sallah, Denholm Elliott as Marcus Brody (both will make welcome returns in The Last Crusade), and Karen Allen as Marion are all great in the supporting roles. Also look out for Alfred Molina in a great performance at the beginning of the film (he is probably better known as the Spiderman 2 villain Doc Ock. Also a great score by maestro John Williams (one of his best for sure!). And of course look out for the snake scene! A spectacular 9 out of 10!
If you first time hearing the name Indiana Jones, you must be either a toddler or a time traveler. The symbol of adventures and a daredevil that will do everything to get his hands on priceless artifacts has become the common reference that keeps haunting all whip owners.We all know that mostly the work of a history teacher or even a real archeologist often excludes the adrenaline rush that was floating in the minds of eager students enrolling to a history 101. Here Harrison Ford who rocks the hell out of the leather jacket and the hat or just an ordinary everyday suit opens a secret door to the hidden desires of any class inhabitant.From hot to cold, from dry to wet he goes, sneaking as a mouse or running like a mad elephant. Resting comes only in the routine hours of passing the knowledge to book-dwelling student. Steven Spielberg's love to the details is omnipresent: in the auditorium, in the tomb, even in the plain desert. The immense job of building the decorations makes you feel like a real-life raider searching for remnants of the past.Unexpected threats pop up as soon as the thrill from a previous one stops ringing in your head. The chemistry of the characters stirred with the danger is a perfect cocktail to finish the movie in one gulp and then immediately stretch your shaking hand for another round. Epic score follows every step that you do, charging any moment until it starts bursting with sparks.Putting the hat over a rolled whip and closing a suitcase I would note that the movie started its own history that is rolling like a boulder from a hill: it will stop some time but I believe that it won't be soon.


                
Just finished watching.To my way of thinking,This is the best movie i ever watched.A brilliant work from Spielberg.No words to describe the movie.Amazing.


                
Great amazing movie! What else to say I am speechless?!!! I loved this movie because the action ( ALMOST) never stops!


                
You could pretty much say the same thing about this movie. Although over 30 years old, this movie holds up incredibly well to today's standards: fun, action packed, exciting, with a bit of religiosity in it (you'll see what I mean when I tell you the plot summary). This is everything that you could possibly want in an Indiana Jones flick.I know that pretty much everybody here has seen the film, but for those of you who are living under a rock, here is what it's all about: Indiana Jones (played to perfection by the legendary Harrison Ford, a man who's made his career in playing grizzled action heroes), an archaeology professor, sets off to find the lost ark of the covenant - the ark which was supposed to hold the broken pieces of the tablets which had the ten commandments on them (like I said, religiosity). He travels with his love interest Marion (the best female sidekick of the series, played immensely well by Karen Allen) to Egypt to dig it up, but his old nemesis Rene Belloq and a whole bunch of Nazis are also searching for the ark in their pursuit of power.Okay, do I really need to say how amazing this movie is? It's a classic! Harrison Ford is known for playing heroes such as Han Solo from the Star Wars franchise and Rick Deckard from the Blade Runner franchise; here he plays possibly the world's greatest adventurer and he seems to really love the part. While I have also mentioned Karen Allen's performance, I must also give a nod to Paul Freeman for convincingly playing an evil archaeologist whose lust for power is not healthy to say the least. All of the other supporting players do superb jobs as well.But you can't review this movie and not give credit to the two men who are responsible for getting it made: Steven Spielberg and George Lucas. What's to say about Spielberg? This is the guy who made Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, E.T. the Extra Terrestrial, Jurassic Park, Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan, etc. When it comes to directors...heck, when it comes to movies...he is the guy who changed the game forever. And as for George Lucas, say what you want about his Star Wars prequels, but he was the one who introduced us to a galaxy far far away. Simply put, these are two of the greatest storytellers of all time.I think I've said enough. Now go and watch Raiders of the Lost Ark.


                
What a movie. It is unbelievable to me that this was done in 1981. It is just excellent. Very advanced effects for the time too.


                
Movie Review: "Raiders Of The Lost Arc" (1981)This Hollywood Movie, just shot in 35 days under Steven Spielberg iron-focused directions at the age 34, released in the wake of two "Star Wars" movies already put on the market through George Lucas' company Lucasfilm Ltd. and 20th Century Fox to fulminate successes in attendance, especially on the U.S. domestic market of summer 1977 and 1980 respectively, comes an about-to-become legendary character of Indiana Jones aka Henry Jones Jr., portrayed undeniable by humor-as-action-beats alike joy-sharing actor Harrison Ford, at age 38, owning the show from the very first minute in classic Hitchcockian-suspense-indulging intension of visual delay; presenting the leading character's close-up after a string of over-the-shoulder primal shots, accompanied with the instant-ear-triggering score of composer John Williams, when Indiana Jones must chase down an alley of traps to escape certain death after stealing an ancient relic from a Peruvian indian temple scenario, before nemesis character-building actor Paul Freeman as Belloq intervenes the leading character's triumph.Director Steven Spielberg takes the shooting draft by Lawrance Kasdan based on a story by George Lucas and Philip Kaufman, known for strong dramatic features as "The Unbearable Lightness Of Being" (1988); Spielberg at the point of life-or-death proportions as young filmmaker, who recovers from giving-in to some creative risks in selecting his predecessor project "1941" of shooting season 1978/1979 under a astronomic 35 Million Dollar production budget for that particular time period of Hollywood filmmaking to an over-populated War-comic-action-movie; "Raiders of the Lost Arc" has luckily the contrary result of being stunningly paced in an 110-Minute-editorial by long-time Spielberg-collaborator Michael Kahn with precisely interweaved shot angles and camera motions created by cinematographer Douglas Slocombe (1913-2016), letting Steven Spielberg's directorial signature of connecting two-to-three single shots into one favorably been witnessed, when a burning Sibirian pub sound-stage-scene goes havok in reflecting white snow ambience lead Indiana Jones to meet his one-and-only archeaologic-side-kicking female support the character of Marion, performed by eternal-feminine-convictions-sharing actress Karen Allen, over to further military truck chases on North African desert roads to snake-pit high-suspense sequences of adventurous Nazi-fist-fighting and pistol-shoot-outs without forgetting constant infusions of audience-pleasing moments of thrills, romance and humor.Producer Frank Marshall provides a reduced-to-tight production budget of estimated 18 Million U.S. Dollars for second-chancing Director-"Wunderkind" Steven Spielberg, who accumulates all his powers for this motion picture in favor for a television-paced shooting schedule in an exceptional fast-turn-around to a major release for Hollywood Studio Paramount Pictures on June 12th 1981, when further international expansions took another four and a half months to reach West Germany on October 29th 1981, striking reminiscence in connection with Bavarian Co-production "Das Boot" directed by Wolfgang Petersen of sharing the same real-life-sized submarine property of "U96", repainted "U26" for "Raiders" in order tp provide both pictures with long-term cinema-historical fame, honored with six Academy-Award-Nominations for "Das Boot", including Best Director and Best Cinematography in 1983, and eight Academy-Award-Nominations, including Best Picture and Best Director in 1982, when four trophies get won for this technical as entertainingly flawless Action-Adventure-Movie, prevailing the test of time.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Raiders of The Lost Ark is a 1981 film directed by Steven Spielberg and stars Harrison Ford, Karen Allen, and John Rhys-Davies. It was distributed by Paramount, being labeled as an Action Adventure film. I have seen the film many times before and would gladly give you my opinions and observations to you. The film is set during the 1930's where professor/archaeologist Indiana Jones (Ford) has almost went away with a valuable golden idol from South America. He then finds out at the Nazis are trying find the biblical "Ark of the Covenant" and unleash it's power to give their regime an extra edge. It is up to Indiana to find it first with the help of Marion Ravenwood (Allen) and stop the Nazis in their tracks. I liked most of the main characters in Raiders, Harrison definitely steals the spotlight as Indiana in most of the scenes he's in. But the film doesn't make him overpowered or less relatable (which is a good thing). He has to fight off against seemingly impossible odds and strong brutes that give Indie a real challenge. Marion serves as a great companion to him and is more likable than the other two female leads in the next films. I'd even go far as to say the Egyptian Monkey was a good actor. There's a lot to like about this film and the IJ trilogy in general. The cinematography is great, grand, and in-camera. John William's musical score is still memorable to this day. From my point of view, this film is a lot "ballsier" than most PG-13 films today with people melting and exploding fantastically. My only gripe with Raiders is that Indiana survives death by a pretty big amount, really hindering on my suspension of disbelief. Raiders has a lot of Christian imagery, the "macguffin" of the film (Ark of The Covenant) is a reference to the Bible. And the attempt to summon it's spirits contains a Jewish ritual. But that's all I can think of in terms of themes and such. The film is just a really great action adventure film. After learning about the film for years, this film was widely known for decades and was a critical and commercial success. Young kids could be traumatized, but that would prevent them watching a great film, heck I've watched Robocop since I was 8. Adults will really like this, teens will also. I actually don't know anybody who doesn't at least appreciates Indiana Jones. No matter what your opinion on the film is, I will respect it. Overall, I give Raiders of The Lost Ark a<U+0085> 9/10
An iconic movie so good it will stand the test of time and has spawned sequels, video games, merchandise and all sorts. Harrison Ford plays Indiana Jones (well, Henry Jones actually but he borrowed his dog's name of Indiana because he preferred that), he's a professor archaeologist who dabbles in the occasional adventure for the US Government and wealthy benefactors. It's 1936 and the Nazi scourge is a real threat. Jones is hired to retrieve the Arc of the Covenant before the Nazi's get their evil grubby paws on it. Opposing him is Dr Rene Belloq played by Paul Freeman. Who will win the race to get the find the covenant and what will it mean for life as we know it?Directed by Steven Spielberg this is one of those movies which made him a cinematic master. With writing credits to George Lucas, off the back of Star Wars, and a John Williams musical score you are surely going to be entertained.This is a movie I can watch and re-watch, it never fails to entertain me. The musical score pushes a fantastic pace for the movie and delivers some iconic tunes too - I can still hum the theme tunes without any problems remembering how it went. It's a no holds barred adventure with fun, humour, romance, thrills, spills, horror and suspense. Harrison Ford delivers a fantastic performance as the archaeologist turned adventurer, I'd suggest his performance is the benchmark against which any other adventure film is measured against. This is slightly darker than other Indiana Jones films but in fairness it was the start of a dynasty so audiences were only just learning about him, character development in later films would make him more family friendly but this film was rightly a PG at the time as there is the occasional tense horrifying moment and occasional bloodshed. By today's standards that is nothing though, and you can still safely watch this with young children without fear. I love this film, just look at the other reviews to see that practically everyone else loves this film too. You can't go wrong with this at all. Get the popcorn, close the curtains and crank the volume up to 10. You are in for a treat whether you have seen this a billion times or you are experiencing it a new!
This movie deserves its status as an modern classic, and its many iconic scenes deserve all of their homages and parodies. Harrison Ford does a tremendous job as the suave archaeologist Indiana Jones, and the special effects are both real and well-done. As of course, are the ever-present glorious gore. The comic relief relieves tension and is hilarious. The creeping shadows in the wall, whether Nazi or Indie, are a particularly well-used cinematographic device as well.This movie may be at the root of many of America's misconceptions about the Third Reich and its relationship with the occult, but it is a fun ride. It is difficult to make treasure-hunting through ancient temples seem more romantic than it already is, but Indiana sure manages it.(I saw this on July 10, 2017.)


                
Lots of Bogart and Gable in this version of the Saturday matinée adventure serial. The action is ratcheted up and for sheer speed of thrills leaves in the dust such worthy contenders as THE PROFESSIONALS with the likes of Burt Lancaster and Woody Strode, and rivals for plot twists and turns such classics as Hitchcock's THE THIRTYNINE STEPS and THE LADY VANISHES. A humorously virile tale that takes its hero through a roller coaster maze of traps and escapes recalling Clyde Beatty and Harry Houdini.There is Harrison Ford giving his Indiana Jones character a professorial panache when he's not outrunning the Hovitos cradling a Golden Idol in his arms. There is Karen Allen as Marion Ravenwood channeling a little Patricia Neal and out drinking her barroom patrons before greeting the love of her life with a sock as a way of saying 'Hello'. There is Paul Freeman always on hand to take whatever Indy finds during his archaeological forays as his arch rival Rene' Belloq. Ronald Lacey gives his grinning Nazi Major Arnold Toht enough Peter Lorre to be darkly satisfying in his gruesomeness. John Rhys-Davies as the hearty Arab excavator Sallah helps Jones dig in the right place and rounds out a rich and diverse cast of characters.The pace is as breakneck as the Indianapolis 500 and leaves next to no time to grieve Marion when she's given up for dead in one of a series of teeth chattering death defying explosions. Every time the action clears the air for a little philosophical reflection we are off and running again after something Jones has lost to Nazi enemies or is on the verge of retrieving. Here we see the Fighting Male of the West as a sweaty beleaguered Academic scrambling for relics and artifacts worshiped by primitive cultures in both the East and the fascist West. Lucas provides more mythological motifs than you can shake a Joseph Campbell at, but it's all done with such zest that you barely mind being hit over the head with references to Moses and Odysseus before your breath is taken away.The sweep brings to mind TOO HOT TO HANDLE with Clark Gable and Myrna Loy, but the bump and the grind and the smashing glass and hiss and blood spatter is purely Spielbergian. It is a homage to old Hollywood and a move in the direction to a new Hollywood before you can blink an eye. This is THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE on steroids in a way; a faster paced epic about greed and how things can come to be valued over companionship and human life, but such considerations fly past faster than an arrow or a bullet or a poisoned dart. When it comes to plot pyrotechnics, this film sets the standard for action and adventure to all of the next generation to come.There is some reference to RAIDERS in most of the summer action blockbusters that now appear on the screen. Perhaps only the great Bruce Lee has been more influential with regard to the choreography of the hero adventure tale as you see his moves in everything from the AVENGERS to SHERLOCK HOLMES to THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM to THE MATRIX. But for sheer plot mechanics and acceleration of the narrative many die hard fans will make theirs Spielberg every time.
