Wow, I started watching first episode and was skeptical. Those type of shows about hackers and conspiracy are not my favorite. But I loved the first episode, it is well done, acting is amazing however it seems to be going too fast. It seems they have too many ideas and only show us a little bit. The first episode had just over an hour, yet so much happened in it that it could easily be split into 2-3 episodes. But at least it is not boring. It also seems real. And they use command tool for hacking, not one of those super spy CIA graphical interface that you just have to press "HACK" and you are hacker .. oh how I hate those. I am not saying this is the way hacking works, but it does seem closer to the real thing more than dumb Hollywood movies. I watch many TV shows and this one really got my attention. Highly recommended.


                
The pilot episode of this series shows great promise. At the risk of failing to appeal to the modern television viewer who has become accustomed to shows lacking true substance, it will most certainly captivate a core audience of viewers who feel alienated by the typical programming of the modern day. The narrative touches on topics like social and digital revolution through the thoughts of the protagonist as he narrates the episode. The status quo of modern social behavior, consumerism, and corporate greed prevailing by virtue of the complacency amongst the proletariat is a core issue that both the show and protagonist address with great disdain. It ironically begs the question that if our complacency with the quality of consumer items––such as substandard television programming––is so entrenched in our society, when we are finally greeted with an oasis of the kind of talented artistic expression that this show offers devoid of being dumbed-down or hollowed out in effort to appeal to a wider audience, will we be able to transcend our usual tastes, or will the level of real, thought-provoking narratives lead a disinterest among the typical armchair audience and eventually the show's demise? Much like other successful programs such as "The Big Bang Theory" and "House", that received a large following despite some very technical aspects of the dialogue that tend go over-the-head of the majority of their viewers, Mr. Robot followed suit and still holds true to it's core audience by fact-checking its more technical content and preserving its validity. Most films or programs with a hacker or computer science theme tend to overplay the "coolness" of what is shown when it comes something as dry as computer code by representing the digital world as it it were a fantasy, in lieu of the more accurate yet bland, plain-text unix coding on a computer screen. I was surprised and also relieved to see the actual computer science portions of the episode be accurate representations of a real-life scenario down the very character. As with other successful programs with story lines derived from complex subject matter (like medicine or theoretical physics), the amount of technical dialogue is not so much that it will bore the majority of the audience who will not understand it, but just enough that it will captivate and perhaps even educate them slightly as they are offered a glimpse into a fascinating world whose power and influence they wouldn't otherwise comprehend. My hope is that USA––the network on which the show will air––will recognize that they have struck gold, and not run scared if viewership starts off slow. Most shows of this caliber do not take off will a large audience, but rather begin to amass a strong cult following and later become a huge hit. We saw this kind of skepticism among network executives with Breaking Bad. Much like the idea of a school teacher cooking meth to pay his medical bills, a computer nerd with a social disorder and possible schizophrenia working for a network security firm by day and playing social hacktivist by night is not something that immediately screams "blockbuster". It's my hope that the timing of this show will prove to be its greatest strength in light of recent events in the hacking and cybersecurity world involving Anonymous, Edward Snowden, Julian Assange, Ross Ulbricht, and Aaron Swartz. Viewers are educated now more than ever when it comes to hacking and the impact that individuals can make on society through their "hacktivist" work.The protagonist of Mr. Robot is similar in many ways to these individuals, and the plausibility of his disposition is validated by their individual plights. Where they have fallen short of their ultimate goals and failed to elude capture, the audience will root for their new favorite anti-hero since Walter White to incite a social revolution through his hacktivist work. Whether he succeeds or is met with the same demise is up to the writers who have crafted this brilliant first episode.


                
Did USA really just do this? They have managed to give me a combination of the best parts of Swordfish AND Fight Club and managed to make it coherent, suspenseful and a joy to watch. And Christian Slater gives yet another go at TV-Land and may have finally hit the mark!The premise: A young man working at a security firm by day, and an elite hacker vigilante by night.Sounds like it would be a bore-fest full of misplaced techno jargon, dry suspense (remember BlackHat?) and poor acting, right? Wrong! Not only was I amazed at how the story was presented, but I fell in love with the main cast with some spot on character development, GOOD use of technological aspects of hacking and a great use of voice over.Color me impressed! I am a computer geek by trade and they hit the nail on the head with almost every aspect of security and defense without making grievous errors (think The Net & the worst aspects of Swordfish). This is a must see for geeks of all ages and even hits the mark for those not so tech savvy.While the show is littered with clichés, they are all so well done and accurate that I could not find this an actual fault with the show. Try as I might, I could not find any glaring faults with the dialog, character development or even the subtle "Big Brother" aspects that they were going for. This is a MUST continue for USA and I will be ecstatic if it gets picked up and more episodes are made (at the time of this review it appears only 1 episode has been made). Kudos for USA for taking a risk!To sum it up; if you are a tech savvy user of the internet, smart phones or computers this is an absolute MUST see. Even for those of you not so tech savvy please give this a go!


                
Another winning Dexter style formula of hero, the wife and I enjoyed this program a great deal and think this is a winner.Modern, gritty and self medicatinga good cast and well acted, the lead character is instantly likable and i know enough IT guys to see bits of some of them in there.watching him act in peoples lives and his struggle with his own mind is quite a refreshing scene in this day and age, i grew up with mechano and buckets of lego, this generation has a world of knowledge and with the right know how can get under the skin of anyone they meet, scary and cool in a happy bundlekeep making this one!!


                
Just an all rounder with this series. Sam Esmail's amazing directing completely takes the audience on a rollercoaster through all of its twists and turns. The whole series is amazingly directed with every single shot playing an important part in every episode. The directing perfectly shows Elliots state of mind in a creative and satisfying way. Every season has its own plot twists and always takes the story on a completely unexpected path. Rami Malek's acting and character are both outstanding. Elliot is such an unconventional but amazing protagonist and every episode is just beautifuly crafted. The show is honestly like no other i have watched and i couldn't recommend it enough.


                
...No, it's better that Dexter. Why? NOBODY CRIES!It's true. A bloody miracle. I watched the whole of the pilot episode and not one person burst into tears.Now, this is an American TV program, so this obviously won't continue. I expect the floodgates to open maybe next week or by episode three. The Yanks can't help it. It's not proper TV unless some sappy idiot is crying.I suppose it's a ploy to get the women interested in Sci-Fi. It won't work of course, but TV executives have the intelligence of a biscuit so they'll keep trying to push Sci-Fi onto women even though they absolutely hate it, don't understand it and just don't want it in the same room as they are in!It's just like Dexter - Sociopathic outcast narrates us through the plot and keeps mementos of his 'conquests.'If the quality of the pilot extends to the rest of the series it's going to be bloody fantastic. My hopes are low though... As much as I loved the pilot, I've learned not to get my hopes up.If you liked 12 Monkeys then you'll hate this. Mr Robot makes sense!


                
This is definitely my favourite show at the moment.I was gripped from the very first episode and ended up binge watching Season 1 over 2 nights. When season 2 was on Amazon it killed me having to wait a week till the next episode.Rami Malek is brilliant as Elliot and you get a inside into his mind and world that just draws you into the show and grips you. The acting from all of the cast is amazing, with some plot twists that make you go wow.It is a show that will make you think, and requires your attention when watching but it is well researched and the subject area does not seem to be glamourised of falsified. Instead it is very dark and gritty.I loved the direction that season 2 took, and it added a whole new dimension to the dynamic of the show.


                
Charmingly claustrophobic and delightfully disjointed, "Mr. Robot" does a fantastic job when it comes to placing the viewer in the mindset of the show's characters. With their enemies closing in on every side and not knowing just who they can and cannot trust, it is only fair that we viewers feel that closed-in sensation that they are, without a doubt, experiencing. Following along with Elliot's social and mental disorders gives us the same dizzying disconnect that he must be feeling. All of this, masterfully written. It is almost as if the nervous energy and confusion are the paints with which the masterpiece is created on the dystopian canvas the show creates.Along with the brilliant writing and acting comes the treat of the show handling computer "hacking" in a way that is the most realistic depiction offered by today's television and movies. The hacks are not illustrated with three-dimensional directory structures that explode with gibberish once the hack is complete. The hacks are actually done within a Linux shell environment (Kali Linux, specifically... one of the best Linux-based cyber security distributions out there). They are illustrated in a way that is tech savvy enough to satisfy my inner nerd, while being general enough to not confuse the technically uninitiated.If you are looking for a thrilling show that is full of twists, turns, and jaw dropping reveals, "Mr. Robot" is definitely for you. I warn you, however, to pay close attention to EVERYTHING. If you miss a detail, chances are you missed a lot, which can lead to the bad kind of confusion. But, if you pay attention, even the most confusing aspects of the show are explained in full in a manner most satisfying.


                
One of the best tech thrillers of recent times. Amazing story line with perfect casting.


                
I've always loved TV-shows that make me question reality - few shows has ever done that in a convincing manér. Well.. this is certainly one of them.First of all let's get this straight, I was NOT sure about the lead (Rami Malek), I had never heard of him nor seen him act.. but boy am I GLAD they chose him. I mean, this man can act!! He made me fall in love with his character in just 6 minutes. He is smart (actually very smart) but he is not perfect and that's precisely what I love about this Eliot character - he's deeply flawed and he knows it. He is feels utterly alone and suffers greatly because of it. This loneliness makes him have deep and controversial monologues with the made up person in his mind (the audience). He questions his sanity over and over again and even so he doesn't give up his resolve - that the wrong doers of this era (the 1% of the 1%, as he puts it) deserve to be put to justice.I also like the tech-y aspect the director went with, which I find very appropriate to this informational era. Eliot makes very strong arguments regarding the issues surrounding too much dependents on tech and how some people might use it in order to make a lot of money, and in some cases in VERY illegal ways. All in all, amazingly well acted TV-show with brilliant writing.
Where do I start? Perhaps by stating what I feel is important; forget the fact that Mr. Robot airs on USA network, as it is HBO/Showtime quality material from start to finish. The writing is fantastic, the acting is generally good throughout, and the music is uniquely fitting for the world these characters live in. Mr. Robot is a show of many twists, some more obvious than others, but more importantly it bucks the trend of storytelling found in most modern cable TV shows. What I found interesting about this show is that the producers/writers are quite willing to push the proverbial envelope for network television. There is plenty of sex, swearing(although it is "silenced" out, it's still quite obvious what the characters are saying), violence and backstabbing to keep even the most grizzled Game of Thrones vet interested. More importantly than that though, is the content that the show brings. For once we have an intelligent show about not just hacker's lives, but hacking in general. Most of the hacks found in this show are grounded in at least some reality, which is a far cry from what we are used to seeing in movies and media over the last several decades. Notice Elliot booting up a Kali Linux distro on his computer to "own" one of his targets? That's about as real as it gets in the hacking world, and I truly appreciate the realism the show brings. As a Computer Science student who is currently focusing on Cyber Security, I really appreciate the level of detail Mr. Robot brings in regard to cyber security/attacks. Even the computer jargon used by the characters is nearly always accurate, which is even more surprising for a TV show. If you don't care about all the techie stuff, there is plenty of twists, intrigue, and backstabbing here for everyone. While the show certainly focuses heavily on computers/hacking, you certainly don't need a background to understand whats going on. It sure does make it more interesting if you do, though ;)Overall this is a show that deserves all the credit it is getting, and more. I waited until season 2 came out before I started watching season 1, mostly because I thought USA wasn't capable of delivering a show of this caliber. This is my humble opinion obviously but if you are like me, don't let the network turn you off. This show has a lot to offer for most, if not all, adult audiences, and should be given at least the first 3 episodes before judgment. I just cannot applaud the creators/producers enough for creating a smart, accurate, show about the modern technology world. If you haven't watched it yet, well, you have 2 seasons to catch up on. And for that, i'm very jealous.


                
Foremost, I have to say that I've held my judgement and my review until the plot can develop. All of the "genius" reviewers who raved at the Pilot and cried at episodes 2 & 3 not meeting their expectations...just needed to take a deep breath and widen their vision. Yes, there were things that didn't make sense and pieces that seemed implausible at first viewing, but those moments develop into supporting pieces of the evolving story line. If you get bored and lash out the first time there is a loose end or something you don't understand, maybe you should stick to mainstream shows that tie everything in a nice bow after every episode.Despite the long shot percentage chance of certain conditions taking place and the simplicity in the description of events that would certainly be much more difficult and more complicated, the plot is fantastic, the writing is excellent and Rami Malek kills it as Elliot. Many reviewers have decided to pick at any little imperfection and try and tear apart a well balanced show...as if they could have done better. What most fail to understand is that...yes...you could depict the show a bit more realistically and make events develop slower and with more challenge to the characters, but THEN the show wouldn't move along fast enough to keep the attention of your average ADD tech junkie and then viewers would complain about that. The whole production of the show is a balance and sometimes TV probability and TV physics wins out over reality in the name of public interest and squeezing the episodes into 40 minutes. I could spend more time elaborating on my opinion of the review situation, but no one cares what I say because I'm just a single voice in the noise. In the end, Mr. Robot is an amazingly good show and I cannot wait to see where they go from here. If you're on the fence, check it out...but do yourself a favor and go in with a bit of patience and an open mind. I have intentionally avoided specific citations from the show, as I don't want to spoil anyone's personal experience discovering it for themselves and I don't feel like any single description or event can adequately describe the show and the underlying genius. (Yes, I said genius.) The real genius (said it again) is the restraint that the writing shows...the patience in letting the story develop and the excellent delivery of Malek, Chaikin, Doubleday, Wallstrom, Slater and an amazing cast of supporters. Well done!


                
I am lost for words. One of the best shows ever made. Gripping, intelligent, unbelievable.


                
I am an engineer by trade. An a lot of the hacker movies that project these geeky kids, and following a wire, are patently false and not even close to reality.This movie however breaks that mold. The realism of the computer hacking aspect and the paranoia that the main character feels, makes its a thrilling combination.Plot: I must admit i have often thought that the rich become richer, and the middle class eroding. Capitalism and democracy wasn't set up for corporations to take over, but for people to live in equality. But with big money and lobbying, and super packs, money decides politics not people. So this show hits important points to society today.


                
I have created an account with IMDb today because I am in shock that Mr Robot is only just in the top 100 for TV Shows... This must be a mistake with IMDb's database because It has to be top 5 at least! Mr Robot is quite simply; brilliant. The only way to explain it is that it is like if Fight Club (Film) and Twin Peeks (TV Show) had an extremely clever and topical love child. It is truly second to second entertainment that never lets up. The characters are acted perfectly, the story telling is fascinating and a thrill ride that you will never predict, and most of all like no other series before it makes you want to dedicate a wall in your office to investigate and understand the story fully with charts and time-lines like some sort of obsessed detective in a gritty cop drama.It is mind blowing and truly one of the best series ever created. I beg of you to watch it and give it a chance as you will not be let down, I can guarantee it!


                
I should have been sleep a half hour ago, but I stayed up to create an account with IMDb just to leave this review. This was the best thing that I've seen on TV ever. it was the perfect blend of fight club, hackers, and the matrix.. minus the special effects, bullet time and the crazy martial arts inspired fight scenes. o.k. maybe its not so much like the matrix. but it definitely has a strong hackers, fight club feel.I'm tempted to come up with a bunch of cool ways to describe the episode, and encourage more people to watch it thereby ensuring the longevity of the series. I really hoped that my first review would have been more altruistic, but this review is selfish in nature. I assume that they must have had the first 6 episodes in the can before releasing the pilot, but I want to find out what happens in the end. the only way that happens is if this show gets really popular, and manages to stay on the air for a few years.But its late, I have to wake up really early, and the other reviews that I've seen are more then accurate. so just do yourself a favor and check it out.


                
Excellence is the one word to describe what this show is in general.I still don't know/can't realize how much this show means to me.. Its been only 6 episode so far and I just can't wait for new one very time it ends(and boy am I gonna be sad when a season is over and I have to wait for +100 days for another one :X (No..Noo..NOOOOOO))Everything from acting to storytelling is great(hell, even camera work stands out from other shows). I've never been this impatient for a protagonist to talk to me, way he engages you in his work telling you to start thinking of solutions because you're in this mess with him..I LOVE IT!RECOMMENDED for everyone to at least give it a try because it deserves it!


                
Mr. Robot's debut episode flows so smoothly that you don't realize an hour has passed. Interesting characters that are already fully developed, including the lead who brings out your inner geek, make this show incredibly interesting and enjoyable to watch. Being a life long Neil Diamond fan, I was especially surprised and enthralled to hear "If You Go Away" begin playing as a back drop to the lead character's walk to his destiny. All the while the viewer is contemplating what his decision will be. You can see and begin to understand his thought and decision processes. I highly recommend this show. The best I have seen on television for quite a while.
Watched up to episode 6 and loving how it is building up nicely. Pity the other reviewers who bailed after episode 3... I'm now sensing some of the earlier scenes will have pay off down the road and so I recommend sticking with it.... the pilot episode is a barometer of the series as a whole and not a one off.The different plot lines are all individually interesting and the pace of how they are concluding holds the attention by giving moments of high suspense and gripping resolution whilst still leaving the sense that more is to come.Don't know anything about hacking but am told it is technically accurate... not that this really matters. Elliot is mesmerising and Tyrell's character equally so, though now less predictable in terms of where he will end up. Visually I think it looks great and the metronomic score helps build the excitement brilliantly.I'm not an anti capitalist but everyone likes an underdog story... I now find myself desperate for each week to pass for the next episode, which is always a good sign.Go on Elliot you crazy drug addled weirdo! I'm rooting for you!


                
So, not having much of a knowledge about this show or not having much anticipation, I just watched the show and now I'm glad I did.So many cool things for me in this show. Well for starters,1) A hacker story 2) A lonely character with a computer (sounds like me) 3) A vigilante (Well, that alone is enough for me to watch it for years) 4) Spoiled society (Screw it)As a huge fan of Person of Interest, I'd say I've fallen in love with this show. (Yeah yeah, the pilot)The story, acting, screen play and the casting are so good. The show kept me on edge from the starting. One great pilot and I'm so glad I watched. Looking forward for next ep.


                
I wouldn't normally write a review based on a pilot but this one really deserves attention and someone needs to question those low star comments. Firstly, this pilot episode has good photography, good acting - the lead actor is definitely one to look out for in the future, and a good plot that actually attempts to engage hacking properly - sure they have to cut a few corners for entertainment's sake - you can't spend days or weeks trying to crack a password in a TV drama but at least there are attempts at social engineering and awareness of terms. Now to address those low star comments... 1) Politics... this drama has a left wing agenda that is going to upset a few of those on the right. However, you shouldn't make a review that is clearly influenced by your politics and not what is on the screen2) This drama expects you to know some tech-speak... it is not overly complex but you should know things like DDOS attack, Tor, Onion encryption etc. At a guess expect more... <U+200E>judging by the plot, Low Orbit Ion Cannon and rootkit are going to be dropped in there at some point in the future. Rather than attack the program for your own ignorance, perhaps make a note of some of the terms and look them up - thus educating yourself. 3) Christian Slater was probably chosen because of his earlier films like Pump up the Volume and Heathers... that really defined him as an actor, maybe less so for the TV comedy Breaking In.


                
For anyone with doubts about whether they want to watch the show or not, do yourself a favor and watch the Pilot, you wont be disappointed. The show is about much more than hackers and computers, and takes us into a world must of us never see, the place where the 1% cool their heels. "Rami Malek" (Elliot) makes a believer of us within the 1st 5 minutes of the pilot and keeps us glued to the set for the next hour. In some ways his choices mirror the choices of people in todays society. My only criticism would be "Christian Slater" as Mr. Robot, while I like him as an actor, he just doesn't fit in the role of Mr. Robot. There are so many better suited actors that could have elevated the role. You really need a "Gabriel" (John Travolta) type character from Swordfish to complete the show.


                
First off, I want to say I have read a lot of reviews, and then read a TON of negative reviews, to try and grasp some sort of understanding of how they got their opinion on the show. With that being said I will continue my personal view, and state a few reasons why some may have negatively viewed it.I connected with Mr. Robot immediately from the first episode, the show is just incredibly well written, from the dialogue, to the characters lack of emotional and monotone presence, and even his flaws, which looked at negatively started to grow on me, (which I will go into at the end of this.) I wanted to say all the hacking scenes are in fact how they are really done, and do not sugar coat anything. Everything in this show is true down to the very core of its entire presence, and meaning, which can only be understood by finishing Season 2.Mr. Robot was an eye opener that I feel everyone needs to view with an open mind, clearly myself being in the technology space, and having hacked as a child for my own personal reasons, I related well to this show. However hacking is not the purpose of this shows full intent, it goes so deep into the mind of a character you may not 100% relate to, but know he exists in this world so you feel in touch with him. Mr. Robot is battling himself in multiple characters, one that wants to change the world, and free everyone from the grasp of a corrupt system. Down to the lost young soul, who is dealing with social anxiety issues, and sadly a drug addiction. Of course as I stated, you must have an open mind, if you are not open minded, this show is not for you... Shall I continue? Diving deep into the negative criticism that seemed mostly spawned over the first 3-4 episodes, I feel viewers did not truly give it the chance it deserved before rating the show, therefor could not possibly offer the readers an accurate review. I personally will not watch a TV show until a 2nd season has been completed, so therefore my review is being written a month after binge watching the full 2 seasons in less than a week. Which a month later.. I still cannot stop thinking about as I write this review.From my personal perspective I think viewing any drug addiction can have a strongly negative effect on its viewers. I was a bit shocked to watch them dive so deeply into his addiction, and social disassociation, which for me, was tough to watch, as it was portrayed all throughout season 1. Then I realized, what is a person, without a flaw? How do you find someone so careless, yet so optimistic about life? Someone who lacks the social qualities, which keep him up late at night scouring the dark web, and hacking everyone who crosses his path? You infuse a drug problem. Now you have created a ticking time bomb of which is, Mr. Robot.I ask viewers to rate the show after Season 2. As I honestly could not find a single reason to rate this show anything less than a 10/10. I personally am writing this review because I cannot believe this show is not ranked up to the level of Breaking Bad, which btw... I had a hard time watching at first, then once you get over the entire disgusting meth thing the show is entirely based on, you find something amazing. Just as you surely will find by venturing into the mind of... Mr. Robot.


                
The first episode is like the a small movie with its only plots and twists, and an curious ending. Those are normally the traits of a good TV series.Maybe I'm biased because I felt deep connection with him. I'm a programmer, too, but I don't hack and I don't break the law, I share his view of society anyway. Some people may find his view childish and exaggerated, but I like the way the writer sharply pointed out the hypocrisy of our modern day life and the seemingly freedom in capitalism. I'm not saying I support the claims of conspiracy in the show, I'm saying I like when people are being blunt and honest, if you are like me in this regard, you'll find this show quite enjoyable(even more if you are also a computer geek).The other thing I like about this show is that other shows that involves computer technology are usually very vague on the technical side and just throws jargons around without understanding them or trying to make sense. It's exciting to see a show that engages real geeks with real things that real geeks might get excited about and at the same time enjoyable to other people who are not so tech-savvy.It's a great show for everyone, especially for those who are not ones who live in "the reality of the naive".


                
Watched the pilot on a whim and was completely engaged in the first three minutes, and the next sixty-one that followed just kept building on that initial engagement.Excellent writing with actual attention to technical detail with minimal dumbing down, and exceptional acting from the lead, who managed to pull off detached, alienated, and utterly charismatic all at once).Cinematography was solid throughout, with the palette and framing reflecting the lead's mental state, surreal camera work during the final sequence, and tons of background details adding to the immersion and fleshing out of the world in which the main character exists.I genuinely can't remember the last time I felt so immediately and fully invested in a television show and so eager to see the next episode...PLEASE give this one a try and spread the word!


                
