Though Christian Slater's previous tech-geared TV drama flopped without notice, this new effort has just enough grit to keep people interested. The main character, not Christian Slater, could be one reason for a positive shift. Elliot, played by Rami Malik, pulls off the beady eyed grayhat fairly well, and riffs of "Fight Club", "The Matrix", and "Hackers" all coexist to compose a decent melody of scenes. For me, it appealed to the cyberpunk bookworm and anime watcher of old who spent decades in a barely fed genre.Yes, the technical aspect of hacking is dumbed down quite a bit, but you won't see giant pacmans eating pixels on the screen or progress bars labeled "VIRUS" either. Social engineering is given equal weight as well, which is a welcome area of focus. Hopefully the writing team and creative directors develop plots and characters in a non-linear fashion, and don't begin to rinse and repeat the show into yet another formula driven cash-cow.I look forward to the future of this series, with fingers crossed.


                
This is a show worthwhile watching. A series about hacking, but not the usual whiz kids. That helps a lot. The first period was already an eye opener and the characters are as real as they can get. The protagonist has personality problems, which makes him the more acceptable. He knows his way computer systems and is able to dig up all kind of information on others. And how is does is very believable.I won't go into details in order not to spoil it for other viewers, but I can really recommend it and suggest you lean back and pay very good attention. It is certainly not your run of the mill sitcom and requires your attention from the beginning till the end.


                
The series has a very interesting premise. By far it has the closest technical reality when it comes to hacking .(i am talking about the bullshit they show in movies probably using hackertyper). Very nice portrayal of solving computer problems in real world. The lead character has done a really good job convincing the viewer of his mental state. The writing was decent.The cameo from Christian Slater was very good. When he talked about software running the world, virtual money and moving away from gold standard which are absolutely true. Overall the subject is really tough to deal with and the director/writer did a wonderful job in giving the audience a clear picture. One hour pilot was spectacular and I hope it will progress into a more engaging TV show. I am confident of USA network since they have been giving excellent TV.
Rami Malek gives an outstanding performance in the initial episode of "Mr. Robot", a promising thriller series from USA debuting this summer. I caught a special screening at Google hdqts. today and was impressed with the premise and his powerhouse acting.The Ryan Philippe/Tim Robbins movie ANTITRUST, made 15 years ago, is the precedent that came to mind for this paranoid thriller which falls neatly in the vein of THE PARALLAX VIEW and other classics about conspiracies. Creator/writer Sam Esmail has bitten off a big topic, as our hero (or antihero possibly?) goes up against E (for Evil) corporation, a vast conglomerate that encapsulates our worst fears about how the contemporary world is rigged by just a few powerful & shadowy figures against the rest of its inhabitants.For this 62-minute opener, the ground was set for future episodes, as well as delivering a satisfying one-off story for starters. Most unusual aspects of the pilot are its truly dark mood and serious tone, plus the incredible emphasis on the central character.Rami Malek as Elliot, a computer whiz working at a Manhattan cyber security company which has E as its chief client, is in every single scene of the hour, and dominates nearly all of them, with his heavy narration (including interjecting his thoughts) talking directly to the viewer who he terms an "imaginary" audience. There is a crucial pivot after the halfway point, when previously dangled before us in cameos Christian Slater as the mysterious "Mr. Robot" takes over center stage and begins to manipulate our hero and hint at a counter-conspiracy of even greater potential power than the evil powers-that-be.Beyond the computer techno-babble (which of course elicited some chuckles from the theatrical audience of Googlers on a lunch hour break), what really made this series work for me is the bug-eyed (when necessary) spooky performance of Malek as we are invited to wonder is he crazy, is he merely imagining things, or is this social misfit going to save our world? I grew up addicted to morbid TV shows ("The Outer Limits" most obviously) like David Janssen in "The Fugitive" and its lighter but also effective Ben Gazzara clone "Run for Your Life", and Malek's anti-hero dovetails nicely with these brooding, romantic '60s figures and TV icons.Other cast members made a nice impression, though it was difficult to get one's foot in the door opposite Malek's one-man-show. Michael Gill as his boss Gideon was quite sympathetic and had a smashing (and needed) comic relief scene aboard a private plane alone with Malek when the boss "comes out", announcing to the bewildered introvert that he's gay, for no particular reason confiding in Elliot.Portia Doubleday is arresting as theoretically a love interest for Elliot, though as a co-worker she already has a comic relief boyfriend (also co-worker) who wants everybody to like him, even the untouchable Elliot. Guest star in first episode Gloria Reuben as Elliot's shrink and sounding board was also a good foil, as Malek insists on meddling in hers and everyone else's life according to his whim. I hope the producers don't head too far into "The Equalizer" territory that at times is suggested.His is a most complex character and I suspect part of the fun of watching the show will be to calibrate week to week how much the viewer identifies with him and his actions or disagrees with his peculiar tactics and issues. I can't recall such a self- divided frankly mixed-up hero since the Golden Age of film noir nearly 70 years ago.With Slater positioned to move potently in and out of the storyline at will, this otherwise top- heavy project could catch on, especially given today's audience having such a propensity for ingesting dark subject matter ("Banshee", "American Horror Story", "True Detective" and "Hannibal" to name a few).
Conspiracy thrillers are a favourite of mine but this one represents what could be the pinnacle in that genre, and I've only watched one episode! The casting of Rami Malek as Elliot is perfect, he plays the socially awkward and terminally lonely hacker in a manner that is so utterly convincing it makes me feel uncomfortable.Even down to the music the atmosphere of this pilot episode is one of intensity and underlying angst that creates a real sense of foreboding and darkness.Mr Robot says to Elliot at one point "Let me tell you why you're really here. You're here because you sense something wrong with the world". Yes, very much so. And if the rest of the series is like this then I will certainly be watching it, avidly!
It's all about the awareness of a disturbing notion that induces a malaise on someone from which one is distracted by it's very cause. Trying to change the world for the better may help coping with it as it is implemented by our protagonist in this promising pilot. Nevertheless there won't be any curing in sight for him since bothering with trivial circumstances of the 'real world' we live in is just an induced deflection from the real Mama: our own very existence. Life is short and vulnerable and the moment you pay too much attention to this notion, you'll end up like Mr. Robot. Cheer up, it's just a movie. Last but not least standing ovation to the Director Niels Arden Oplev and Writer Sam Esmail, not to mention the intriguingly interpretation of the lead character by Rami Malek. I was always hoping for a real world adoption of The Matrix- so don't mess it up people!


                
This show is just good. I can't put it into words to describe the excellence that comes from the carefully crafted and well thought story lines, acting and directing. Sam Esmail is truly a living legend as this show is a masterpiece. It's funny, Dark, scary, realistic, yet it includes elements of the paranormal, romance and even Sci-fi. This is all brought together by an excellent cast, in which is very likable, even including the shows antagonist (In season one). Combine all of this with dozens of fantastic plot twists that carefully explain themselves, while opening up new questions for speculation in future episodes. Mr Robot is quite possibly one of the greatest shows of all time, as it combines everything subtlety into almost each episode. It truly deserves a 10/10 rating. Please, go out and watch this!


                
Not knowing anything about this hackers stuff, I was skeptical. But the first episode proved me wrong. It's an amazing show. Full of emotions.
The first season is very well done, acting is very strong and powerful.
Rami Malek is full of potential.


                
When I watched the first episode i was feeling kind of skeptical and i forced my self to continue watching... i am glad i did.that The performance of the characters is beyond brilliant and the plot is very intelligent and requires the viewer to be attentive every minute in order to understand. What is also enthralling about this show is it keeps on surprising you, so whenever i felt it was getting dull something mind-blowing happens and flips the plot! I remember i almost cried in quiet few scenes in season 3!I think this show should receive more attention and credit than it has and i truly hope they do not ruin it in season 4.


                
Being a computer science engineering student, I find this series to be extremely interesting. The story revolves around a highly skilled hacker named Elliot and his hacking society named Fsociety. Their primary goal is to take down one of the biggest conglomerates in the world and this show excellently depicts their journey to achieve this goal. I recommend every tech and hacking interested people to watch this.


                
Amazing show, a different view of the world we live in today


                
Rami Malek. I haven't seen his other work, but I recognised the voice, from somewhere.In a state of stunned amazement I am, whenever the camera or microphone goes anywhere near him in this, and usually for some days after, just basking in the memories of it. Days pass and my anticipation of what he will do next, and /how/ he will do it, grows exponentially. No matter how slow or ponderous the shot, I just drink it in like some kind of acting nectar. It's amazing stuff! Try it! I've been gushing to all my friends about Mr. Robot, not normally my style. A performance that is almost a week later still frizzling deep trenches in my neural pathways, real memories. Dammit! I've got work to do, man! Family! Leave me alone! And holeebuzolee Christian Slater is in it! Who else possesses the insane charisma required to play Mr Robot himself, stomping on the old top of his game like some overused rag. Looks like Hollywood is granting wishes, at last! Thank you. Thank you!Every particle is in its perfect place, like some orchestral synergy of artistic and technical mastery; a magic show. I haven't been this exited about a second episode since long before I threw my own old-school TV out, many, many years ago. I am completely hook-line-and-sinker into this show.Waiting for a UK release isn't happening. Downloads are inevitable. Guys! Place a product in it, I'll buy it! Hardware, food, I'll try it! Just get this amazing show out to us!-fm


                
But it did lost it's point over the time and it did became more political -but not in a bad way it was still interesting... (yes it was ver focused from the start)i'd higly suggest you'll watch the first 2-3 seasones and if yo like them the 3'/4'th


                
I have to say, Mr Robot thrilled me during season 1 but I also sat many times through parts I wasn't so sure about. Some patches were breathtaking, others too obvious, some scratching on boredom. By the end of season 1 I was even a bit cautious if I should check out season 2. Of course I watched it anyway, and whereas it was a bit of a struggling through the first two, quite slow-paced and patient episodes, from the third one onward it hits a stroke that wasn't there before, more depth and detail, but also more chaos...all dissolved in a beautiful black void, shaken well, and served in a champagne glass with a cherry on its edge. Hats off to Mr Robot second season!


                
Mr. Robot is sweeping up all the important awards (Best drama, best actors) and well deserved! When i started to watch this series i didn't expect much, but it has blow me away even in the first episode. A dark story about what is right and what is wrong, and the madness that that question brings. The acting is solid and so is the directing.This character, Elliot, is really drawing me in. He's so fantastically flawed, beautifully destructive, sane and insane. His outlook on the world is perhaps pessimistic, or arrogant, but there is a truth in his words - his inner dialogue that comes across as well-written poetry. By the time you're on episode four, the confusion somewhat kicks in. This is okay though, as each character is slowly becoming themselves in the show and synchronizing.I can tell how each character is going to intertwine for the most part - but Elliot is the main attraction. I believe there are people out there who are like him; snorting Morphine 30's and taking Suboxone so he doesn't withdraw - a computer genius and natural poet, and a complete sociopath who abuses his power over computers and the internet to understand the human condition and even himself.This show is well worth your time; I think even the older crowds (I'm 22) - so basically people who would be my parents, can learn something from this show. They can catch a glimpse of what we're all really like: Sociopathic internet nerds who tweet and text and share, passing information around this sterile country as if it's the very air we breath. This show captures the current zeitgeist, or overall spirit of the times - Elliot is just the extremity, of course. A job well done. I give this show a 9/10


                
Intellectual and fast paced Mr Robot is the show we've all been waiting for, not a vampire or teenager in sight and about time too. In the mega choice of shows available these days it's hit or miss with a lot in the grey middle ground - Mr Robot is a clear hit. From the start it has you buying in to Elliot's story and this is thanks to Rami Malek's brilliant portrayal of him, a lost soul who is dissolutioned at the world and those who run it. He uses various methods to cope, including keeping most people at arms length, using illegal substances and oh yes, the internal dialogue that runs in his head, keeping him in check as to what is real and what is imagined. But what happens when those lines blur? Elliot's life begins to give him what he's thought he always wanted; a way to take down the greedy corporate bigwigs that wrung their use out of his father and then fired him when he got sick, that understand just what he's capable of and that see him for who he is and embrace him totally.
It's basic cable, so I like and expect a bit of cheese with my shows. Mr. Robot didn't give me enough cheese....and that's a good thing. I know its probably coming. They can lay it on a little from episode to episode. This show is cool. You can tell why David Fincher's name is connected to this. Rami Malek is going to be a star. Likable, but dark protagonists are where its at. I just came home from my first visit to New York city. Mr. Robot completely captures being in the city, the trains, the coffee shops, and most importantly, the people. What better city to have your character who suffers from anti-social disorder bounce around it? USA network, you have my attention


                
Fans of the long-lived Dexter series will immediately feel something familiar in Mr. Robot. The similarities are many, the main characters are detached anti-social oddities, strangely unable to emotionally connect with those around them. They are techies by day and vigilantes by night. They basically want to be good people even though they do things that are illegal or socially unacceptable. Dexter was cursed with needing to kill. Elliot is cursed with the meaningless of a world seemingly controlled by others.Dexter uses his official access to databases to zoom in on a target and then surveils them live. Elliot uses his hacking skills to do likewise. Both choose a punishment that fits the crime of their targets. They each seek to expunge injustices. Neither wants any extensive involvement with their targets, just instant and irrevocable justice.The routine soliloquy of questioning reality and what is being experienced is almost identical for each of them. Elliot is more playful in that his hallucination is addressed directly to the audience. There are also similarities in directorial technique. The way that pop music ducks under dialogue and then overlays it. The way that conversations happen and then, when you can't believe he actually said that, it is revealed as a virtual dream sequence. Audiences will be rooting for the awkward Elliot, just as Dexter fans wanted him to prevail. It is an excellent show with a pilot that will hook you.


                
Mr.Robot is currently the best thing to watch on T.V. Rami Malek and Christian Salter's acting is just pure class,every scene in which they are together gives me goosebumps "literally".I'll admit that some parts other than their screen time are sometimes boring but all shows these days have those flaws. People claim that it's nothing but a rip off of classic movies and shows;so what?They are gathering up all the good stuff and jumbling them up to make a Masterpiece!


                
"Mr. Robot" is truly one of the best series I have ever seen. It simply has everything a series has to have. Drama, depth, cleanly worked out characters, successful psychologisations, and a fabulous Plottwist. I can without hesitation claim that Mr. Robot has become one of my favorite series. I never expected Amazon to compete with the big others like Netflix and Co but with "Mr. Robot", they have managed to make a hit.What impressed me the most? Above all the cleanly elaborated, fascinating and authentic figure "Eliots". For a moment I did not doubt that the actor really possesses these diseases. I could easily get into the protagonist character, became him, and sympathize. Furthermore because the protagonist is someone who could almost be characterized as an anti- hero, one would like to share his weaknesses with Eliot. At the same time he seems familiar and amiable. One would start with Eliot together the journey into the unknown.Finally, I give "only" 9/10 possible points, because the series is already to be noted that it has a smaller budget than many other series. Some performers do not seem very convincing or overestimate their role. Too bad. However, it does not in any way impair the geniality as a whole.Please excuse my bad English.


                
So I watched two seasons of Mr. Robot.I waited to write this review after two seasons because i noticed that everybody just sees the pilot and start loving or hating the show based on that alone.And most reviews for a TV show on IMDb is based on just the pilot. i know it can be helpful to know just what you're getting into, But i also think it's not fair to the show whether it's good or bad. I've seen bad shows get good reviews based on the pilot, then turning to crap by the fifth episode and the other way around. So i wait to cast my opinion on TV shows. So two seasons in Mr. Robot is turning out to be a very good show , it's got good acting, directing and writing.The Story keeps you on the edge of your seat.And there are shocking moments in every corner. It does get slow in the middle that's why I gave it a 9. Otherwise It's an Excellent show with a new and realistic look at the world of hacking and crime, it deals with very strong ideas and has complex characters.


                
The spoilers in this will almost entirely be benign. Spoiler free review: Good show, give it a shot if you like the premise.Spoiler review: The reason I was interested in this was because the description provided by IMDb. Specifically the words "mysterious anarchist" jumped out at me because I'm an Anarchist, as well as having anti- socialproblems and live on computers most of my life. You could say it hit atrifecta with me and thus I was interested, but worried. I was right tobe worried, but my concerns probably wont matter to most people.I'll start off with the good. The main character is Elliot, played by Rami Malek. I've never heard of him before, but based solely on his performance in this single episode I'm interested in seeing more of his work. He plays the part of an anxious, withdrawn introvert very well. He looks the part and acts the part marvelously. From the looks of things, there's a strong possibility his performance can carry this program for quite a while(in my ignorant opinion).I really enjoyed the thought put into the characters, the setting, and set up. The techno-babble is kept to a minimum, which I like because then I don't want to have to deal with script writers ignorance(say, by having two people type on the same keyboard at the same time). However, since the whole story revolves around technology, we're going to be subjected to a lot of it. I expect to take it with a grain of salt and not expect too much, but I'm hoping to be pleasantly surprised.The troubling part is that this TV series is decidedly left wing from the beginning. This bothers me because politics is a large part of my life and if I start hating the message a TV series or movie is giving me, it will absolutely poison the end product.Much talk is given to Evil Corp, the company that Elliot works for tangentially. Evil Corp is evil because...well, for reasons, I suspect. However good those reasons are, they're not told to us. Instead, we're given a montage of other people doing bad things(Steve Jobs making money off the backs of children) and expected to hate Evil Corp because...they provide a product people want and make money while doing it? What bastards! How dare they do what everyone in the economy does!?I'm sure later in the series we'll learn they gave people cancer and then sold them a cure or something, but the warning sign is in the poster at the top of this page. "Our Democracy has been hacked!" Has it really? No words are given to the evils of government, the show only talks about the evils of the market, thus leading me to conclude that the government is a hapless victim in all of this. Those poor politicians, they had not choice but to accept bribes and kick backs. They certainly didn't connive to create a system where people with money would have to give them that money in order to keep what they've earned. No, they're just off trying to give money to poor people or puppies while the mean business men are trying to "hack" the government. The government is the victim, the corporation is the evil doer.Yawn.I don't expect this to get better. I've been bothered in the past by USA network and their left-wing bias. They always have a message, but I was hoping this time the message would be incidental. Instead, I fear we're going to be seeing a message masquerading as a TV show before too long.
Season 1: 8/10
Fast paced but bad twist is badSeason 2: 10/10
Slow pace and depressing Season 3: 10/10
Perfect mix


                
I watched the first episode of Mr. Robot and then I had to watch it again. This is one of the first times that I wasn't sure where a show was going and I'm still not sure. The show is very gritty and strange with almost no good characters. The narration sometimes gets to be too much but is part of the draw of the show. I love seeing Christian Slater back on TV and Gloria Reuben back on TV. Rami Malek is interesting as is his character Elliot. I find that at the end of the episode I have more questions than answers so it will be fun to see where this goes and if they can keep up the suspense. Definitely not a show for people who don't want to think.


                
Admit it now, you have private conversations with an invisible audience. When you compose your thoughts in your mind, you imagine someone listening to your unspoken words and responds to them with an intimate understanding of their meaning. You offer observations, insights, and explanations which serve as rationalizations of your perspective. You may even imagine silent nods of approval, or perhaps questioning glances of dubious thoughts but you persist in this activity because it helps to find clarity within a mind rife with chaotic thoughts that struggle to establish an arrangement of peaceful order and empower your future actions.Elliot is such a character who engages in this manner with you as a viewer and whose obvious genius is expressed within the arcane world of computer programming and the obtusely revered field of hacking. His skills are demonstrated within the plot as being far superior to most of his colleagues but also in such a stratospheric realm that he is recruited by an elite group of dissident hackers to perform a function vital to their socially disruptive goals.What has been emerging within the world of entertainment as a stereotype of genius is an accompanying lack of social skills. Doctor House is perhaps the first most successful example of someone possessing an advanced degree of expertise within their field yet being completely inept in their interactions with others in social settings. Doctor Temperance Brennan of "Bones" is another example of such disparity between academic genius and social ineptitude. Each of them is an exceptionally capable and uniquely engaging individual offering viewers an opportunity to both admire their talents and sympathize with their shortcomings. Elliot is the same in this regard but stands apart as a truly unique individual in a manner which emphasizes the nature of such a unique breed of human.Rami Malek delivers his role with convincing aplomb in a manner which implies his own uniqueness as a being whose profession happens to be an actor. He embodies the role with such naturally awkward grace that I believe he truly does have difficulties connecting with people in real life. Of course, such a well constructed character is formed from far more than acting chops and it is here where the writers deliver their punches.This story told through the eyes of a misfit is a treat for every thinking human being who questions the rationale of a society burning in turmoil over the many forms of inequity existing in our world today. Especially pleasing to someone such as myself who has become acquainted enough with the world of computer technology to recognize with painful awareness how rare deep insight exists within the world of entertainment fiction which does justice to its representation. The writers have done their homework here. Few outside the world of computer technology could identify what Linux is or what it represents, but the writers go deeper than making a vague reference to a geek's choice of operating system and identify its various flavours in passing conversation. I don't recall any other piece of television or movie entertainment which delves deep enough to identify a relevancy such as a ".dat" file, but the writers here do so in a way which does not alienate a neophyte with obtuse references and instead adds layers of credible dimension to their storytelling.To my delight as a socially conscious artist, the depth does not end at computer technology but enters deep into the realm of social commentary in a manner which is both insightful and entertaining critique. It is lush with subtle imagery which makes one question whether the company referred to as "Evil Corp" is the actual name of the company or just an extension of the perceptions of the main character of Elliot. Within every scene witnessed through his eyes is a subtle overlay of his perceptions of a world he struggles to inhabit with some degree of normalcy. His drug addiction is measured in precise doses to ensure maximum control over it instead of allowing it to rule his existence.Although Elliot serves as the story centerpiece, the series is titled after not an actual character, but of a badge worn on the disguise of a uniform worn by Christian Slater who performs in the role of antagonistic recruiter for an underground cause of socioeconomic disruption targeting the major client of Eliot's employer. Christian demonstrates both comfort and joy in a role suited to what I imagine his personality to be like in real life. The rest of the cast of characters has been treated with detail which hints of future developments. Each has been constructed with attention to the subtle details of personality, intelligence, and character hinting at interesting developments to bubble up in future episodes.This series is unfortunately being delivered painfully in weekly releases when each episode would be better watched back to back in an extended binge session. Nevertheless, it comprises one of my few weekly must watch programs which excite me on the day of each new episode release. The richness of story depth, the subtlety of scene detail, the intelligence of social critique, the insightful exposition upon the human condition, the nuance of character, and the implications of an unfolding conspiracy which promises to surprise as it unravels keeps me glued to a weekly schedule. Although only four episodes have been released thus far, it is a series which easily captured my attention within the first episode and which has offered a degree of entertainment that promises to keep me glued until what I expect will be a satisfying and likely gripping season finale.


                
