I am a Nolan fan but, and perhaps that's why, I see Interstellar as a failed magic act. The multi-layered surprise and amazement that we have come to expect of Nolan's films did not deliver. I believe this particular film, like Prometheus, failed due to the maker's inherent desire to create an epic - it took on too much, tried too hard and did it all wrong. I'm willing to suspend disbelief for the sake of artistic creativity, assume space suits and modern telecommunication systems pass unscathed through black holes (and really, who knows?) but there are things that cannot be excused with the budget and resources at the disposal of this genius film-making team (such as bad script and poor plot planning). IDEA / PLOT The overarching idea is good, if not new. I found it hard to feel amazed by the (too many) plot twists. Ultimately the combination of all of them was tepid. We were expecting Murphy to be older than Cooper midway onwards. Murphy's brilliant solution leading to mankind's escape from earth failed to awe. Firstly - a massive stretch on the Morse code / quantum data, secondly - the two laugh-out-loud "eureka" moments - and thirdly, the "aha" factor on seeing the new, curved reality space station was completely missing that feeling - "aha, so that was it, that's what it was all about". More failures - Matt Damon segue and the very overdone "ghost" revelation.SYMBOLISM / KEY TWIST The portrayal of the time dimension within a three dimensional world in the form of the undulating bookshelf wall was beautifully rendered. However everything else about that scene felt wrong - the space-suited Cooper - would he have stayed in exactly that form inside a singularity even if future advanced beings - them / us - have helpfully carved him a neat 3-D nook in a 5-D world? This needed exploration and some complexity. The continuation of his radio communication equipment felt way too convenient, the whole frantic scene "explained" again by the unexplained rush that's a hallmark of this film.So, although the symbolic setup was good, I had to work hard to suspend disbelief - to get Cooper to the back of the bedroom wall and have him throw out clues using gravity and love as forces transcending dimensions - why back of the wall? Why not front? Why did the space-time continuum stop him there (that you can't go back in the time dimension, does not explain how he could gravitationally interfere with that particular room - in the past - and why he couldn't, I don't know, leave a Morse code message to himself well before all of this happened? Also, why his daughter? We get no clue in the first part of the film why this duo in particular is chosen, the only hint to Murhpy's future proclivity for the sciences coming from a penchant for decoding Morse and Michael Caine's all- forgiving view of her as a"firebrand" or something such.)PACING / DIALOG Plot pacing was terrible (variously too slow and too fast). Dialog was terrible. It would have benefited from further revision and thought around how to present this particular story to the layman. I found myself wondering how an actor of Matt Damon's caliber did not just wave a huge red flag when he had to say why Prof Brand knew the mission would fail -"because he could not reconcile quantum physics with the theory of relativity" (not a direct quote). Even if he isn't a physicist. The only lines I can still recall liking in the film are by Dylan Thomas (also overused).PRESENTATION I write this with only an armchair enthusiasm for physics, familiarity limited to the most dumbed-down works of Stephen Hawking. I found most of the science concepts used very trite - wormholes, black holes, relativity, time dilation - trite because of their portrayal as convenient plot tools. Having agreed in an extreme and completely unexplained hurry to leave his family behind perhaps forever, we then find out that Cooper needs to be told these concepts one at a time using, at varying moments, a folded paper pierced by a pen, oyster/pearl metaphors, and a suddenly-presented love interest for Anne Hathaway (that plot point on love being an unexplained force was particularly deeply unconvincing). I understand some of the angles needed to be explained to most people, but Nolan has done hard things more elegantly in the past. That is where one expected Nolan to deliver. As things were it made you wonder the entire time why this crew was the best of humanity. Murphy's law, indeed.ACTING Matthew McConaughey's drawl was sporadic and seemed unnecessary. His character did not convince me either that he was the guy who is most capable of being spontaneously recruited for an urgent NASA mission (and what if he had refused?), nor that he was the guy who loved his daughter in a unique way that transcended dimensions (or more so than anyone else), nor even as a suitable candidate to return from this odyssey with all its shenanigans through black holes, gyrating space stations and a cracked space helmet (!) We never know his history well enough. Anne Hathaway and the rest of the crew were no more impressive. Michael Caine was convincing, but ultimately confusing, as his confession left more questions asked than answered. TARS stole the show, and should have had more lines.EFFECTS / SCORE The effects were not comparable to Gravity. I wondered why their spacecraft was not equipped with the basic equipment to check metrics / giant waves / frozen clouds / landing conditions when any commercial satellite today will do that for you and tell you where you are to a foot's accuracy. But, details.The score was beautiful, and one of Zimmer's best. What a waste.
Yesterday I watched the movie "Interstellar". A poorly scripted and poorly directed movie with an over-simplified pseudo-science and spoon-fed philosophical implications, basically a typically overrated Hollywood movie which takes no shame in copying from 2001: A Space Odyssey from Kubrick with none of its beauty, simplicity and none of its art. It shows that in 1968 they were able to make a masterpiece and in 2014 they can't even copy it decently. The fact that on IMDb it has an higher rating than the Kubrick masterpiece makes me lose all faith in the progress of humanity and in our current generation. I will watch 2001: A space odyssey again to forget about it and restore faith in human kind again.


                
If you saw "sunshine" and thought "wow, good thing they had scientist advisers, this stuff is so plausible", you will like "interstellar".If you saw "armaggeddon" and thought "what an awesome movie, i just wished they would have dragged the scene where he says goodbye to his daughter out even more", you will like "interstellar".If you saw "inception" and thought "this movie would be so much better in SPACE!", you will like "interstellar".And if you liked "2001" or any other intelligent/geeky sci-fi movie, you will hate "interstellar".Like some of Nolan's earlier works, it's long for the sake of length only. Its plot is up there with "armaggeddon" in pure stupidity and forced US-cowboy-patriot-macho-ism, its special effects are underwhelming, its plot twists are obvious, its setting makes no sense, its characters are flat and forgettable, and its constant citations of "2001" just serve to make you remember how much better Kubrick did all of this with a tiny fraction of the money almost 50 years back.Disappointing.


                
Interstellar is mediocre. The story is chock full of cheap clichés ("Love is the 5th dimension!"), over-layered with arcane science for believability and story points that are never explained.The movie makes sense until Matt Damon. Up to that point, the quantum mechanics and astrophysics hold up, more or less. Although<U+0085> If you know you're going to age by 5 to 15 years on the water planet, why leave that one poor guy on his own? It's kind of heartless and that's when I started doubting the movie. But OK, fine. I can live with that.Then they head for the ice planet. And, all of a sudden, "gravity is the force that transcends time" and "your mind fights death so you can see your children".All downhill from there, way into deep space 9. The movie takes a turn for the worse: A nonsensical allegory about how humanity can be saved thanks to the power of love between a father and his daughter. It's endearing, but incomprehensible.Granted, the movie's pretty. So I gave it two stars. The actors? Love all of them. That's another 2. But I simply cannot live with a script that's nonsensical and full of stuff we're supposed to take at face-value, because it's Christopher Nolan, and he's an otherwise brilliant director: What was Michael Caine trying to not solve? What is all the research about? And, sci-fi directors: Please, drop the blackboard and chalk cliché. We technology people use computers now. Blackboards were useful when Newton was running things. Now? Not so much.It sounded like (but I'm not really sure) the five dimension bookcase, which lost me completely, was invented by humanity in a very distant future as a communications device. But then I also have to assume that that future humanity has really awesome technology if it can pull that kind of prowess. Then, why not simply invent a cellphone that can bridge time? Why not just send an email with the data component that's missing? Why would anyone have to take a chance taking a dive into a black hole to get it? And how is that future humanity saved anyway? And: How does the robot, whose location in space is never explained, come in possession of that data? And do 21st century communications really work in a black hole? Going back to the Michael Caine thing: What's the precious data component that he was missing? What does the ghost send in binary format to his daughter? (sounds to me like a lot of zeros and ones).And how does humanity get saved? Do they invent some sort of galactic Noah's ark to get people off the smoking pile of carcinogenic garbage that Earth has become? Could they not do that before? I'm sure they could.How does a human being in a space suit even survive flying into a black hole? Or maybe that's not what happened. I'm just not sure. The list goes on and on. the movie is a confusing hodge-podge of pseudo-philosophical-pseudo-scientific mess full of circular logic and loose ends. It's intended for (1) sci-fi dorks who tend to not over-think things (2) Nolan worshipers and lovers of all things shiny (3) movie "buffs" who enjoyed Cloud Atlas, which was more boring and more bizarre than Interstellar, but only slightly.
I'm actually really angry right now, a few people recommended this film to me and i just don't understand why?! Maybe i'm just not that smart. I barely understood it and most of it went over my head. I pretty much relied on the synopsis to understand what was going on, and if a film is that hard for me to follow, then it obviously just isn't for me. I can't fault the visuals, music or the majority of the acting - just the story, and in particular the turn it took at the end...what was that? why? there was no need! I was bored at the start. Then the film peaked my interest once they were in space and then the turn it took just made me fed up and annoyed. I don't seem to love Christopher Nolan as much as everyone else does, i enjoyed his earlier films and two of the Batman films but most of his films just end up boring me. It's disappointing because i usually always love his casting choices and i want to like his films but most of them just don't engage me. Maybe he just isn't for me. Jon enjoyed this more than me and gave it 7/10 but even he admitted that he didn't understand the majority of it and he also enlisted the help of the synopsis. I guess if you haven't watched it give it a go, you may enjoy it or like me you might wish that you'd spent the past three hours doing something else...


                
Christopher Nolan once again gives more than enough evidence that he is the most overrated director in modern Hollywood. How is it possible to have such a premise (interstellar voyage to save human race) and make such a boring movie? It beats me, but what puzzles me even more is how it is possible to make a movie with almost no character at all. What is this movie about? It's not about an interstellar voyage, that's for sure. It ain't about discoveries, either. (imagine a group of explorers who are some of the first people to land on another planet and they are excited as my 90+ year-old grandmother is when she cooks dinner) It ain't about aliens either. It ain't about saving humanity either, there is hardly any people shown except for one village somewhere in USA. Can you really tell a story that big by wrapping it around just a few people? In theory you can and it could actually work if it made any sense. But to end the movie they it was done here, by placing a portal inside a black hole which is designed to connect only two specific people, two specific people who have accidentally found NASA's basement top-secret James Bond project - it is beyond me. Once Cooper started texting his daughter in Morse code through this portal I felt embarrassed. I felt embarrassed for Nolan brothers. That's it? That was the grand idea which connects the loose ends and saves humanity? I wish Matt Damon had killed them all, it would have been more interesting and much more plausible than this mess. His anger actually makes sense, who wouldn't be frustrated with a plot like this? I believe a big portion of estimated 165 million dollar budget went into paid reviews here on IMDb.
It's not a bad movie, but it's ordinary at best. Dialogue is very clumsy at times. It's too long, and way too much time is spent on explaining phenomenons that don't need to be explained. It could have been such an elegant and thought provoking movie, but instead it's dead set on explaining absolutely everything. It ruins the mystery, and the opportunity for me to use my own imagination. Unfortunately the time spent making sure that everyone in the audience understands the movie EXACTLY the way the director wants you to, is spent, at the expense of a good storyline and the development of believable characters and meaningful relationships. A funny idea, and a powerful soundtrack, just doesn't cut it for me. I was very underwhelmed and disappointed, but go see for yourself.


                
My wife and I love Sci-fi and have been anticipating this movie for months! When we saw the 9.3 review (that's what it is now anyway) we were even more excited. So, off we went to the theater last night ready to be blown away.We almost left the movie, which would be a first.OK, the special effects are great, but the sniveling factor we couldn't stomach. I'm mean seriously, there was someone bawling on the screen nearly 50% of the movie. Many of the lines were so cheesy we look at each other like, "can you believe this?" If you like sad drama's, depressing story lines and crying astronauts give it a go. This falls under SciFi, but it really should fall under drama. Ugh, I'm trying to forget it.


                
Attention: there might be spoilers here, but otherwise it is just not possible to discuss the film, IMHO. So do not read further if you have not seen it yet. Actually it is the first Nolan film I see, and I am open-mouthed at the HUGE hype preceding it. The film does not fulfill the expectations in most ways. The worst is the insufferable dialogue, which forces good actors into ineptness, Matt Damon being a particularly sad example. The whole screenplay needed about twenty (thousand) revisions more. There are characters that are completely superfluous, so much that one gets killed without any repercussions in the plot at all. And they do not seem to have a use for the character Romilly, either, except getting older. The idea of the NASA chief being a villain is preposterous; why send people on a mission you know they are going to fail? And his own daughter? Since it is all secret, which gallery would he be playing to? (and mind you, Caine is one of the very very few convincing characters, the other ones being Ellen Burstyin and the robots). There are huge scientific errors too, in spite of Kip Thorne. To slow time so much in the water planet, the gravity would have to crush the astronauts in essentially the first instant. A solution would have been to have the planet (or the ship) move nearer the speed of light, but apparently nobody thought of that. Points are about as subtle as a kick in the stomach, and I fail to see why anybody would think the science is "dense" and the film is "complex". Special effects are good. of course, but not as much as the hype says. And, sorry, if you get near a black hole, you would be thinned out like spaghetti by the enormous gravity. It is just impossible not only to survive, but to get out. The "They" is just a "Deus ex machina" to save the main plot from its own inepcy, and since this is all supposed to be so scientific, their appearance in the plot is completely arbitrary and illogical. And what, pray, would be these "quantum data"? Since the quantic theory applies only in extremely small dimensions, why go look for it in space?. Somebody thought it sounded cute, I guess. There was no need to be realistic and scientific if we are getting out of the mire by miracle. The ending is maybe the best part, at times moving, but the notion that somebody who has been in hospital and will be let out only in "a couple of days" can rush to a rocket and take off, without space suit, raining, or assistance, as if it was a bicycle, seems ridiculous. My first and last Nolan film, I suspect.


                
A couple years ago, there was a major motion picture called "Cloud Atlas." Never heard of it? That's because it bombed. It was a three-hour marathon of six non-intertwining stories, one of which held my interest. The least interesting depicted a futuristic world of cannibalism and idol-worship on the big island of Hawaii. I wrote at the time that Tom Hanks and Halle Berry are so bad in this story they seem like amateurs. The dialogue is stilted and ridiculous. I couldn't believe Warner Brothers had actually green-lighted this project.Now I've seen something similar. Christopher Nolan's "Interstellar" is a three-hour convoluted mess of science fiction, with a potentially interesting story buried somewhere deep inside the dialogue. To wit, in the future, the world is approaching the end of its habitability. I don't know why. It has something to do with crop blight, but if the explanation was in the script, I must have missed it. NASA has developed a secret plan to explore other potentially viable planets. Impossible, you say? Ah, but there is a "wormhole" near Saturn, which allows astronauts to explore five promising alternatives for the salvation of humanity. (A wormhole is a theoretical means of quickly traveling through space and time, based on Einstein's theory of relativity. Think of it like Han Solo traveling at warp speed, only it's supposed to sound more plausible.) I'm not sure anyone ever explained why all five planets were able to appear in the same place at the same time, when in reality, they must have been light-years apart from one another.The always-reliable Matthew McConaughey plays NASA pilot Cooper, and Anne Hathaway is Amelia, a scientist also aboard the rocket ship. In the best decision writers Jonathan and Christopher Nolan made, no romance is ever suggested between the two leads. I only wish they had done a better job of explaining what "Interstellar" is all about.After landing on one of the planets, Cooper and Amelia meet up with another scientist, Dr. Mann, played by Matt Damon, who was stranded on a previous mission. In the strangest plot twist, Dr. Mann tries to kill Cooper for some unexplained reason. Up until this point, I believed I could suspend my disbelief enough to recommend "Interstellar." But why wouldn't two NASA employs be able to work together? Is it because Nolan wanted Dr. Mann's shuttle to explode while attempting to dock with the rocket? Could be. Unlike last year's excellent "Gravity," "Interstellar" is a loud, busy picture, overstuffed with special effects, unnecessary music, and screaming characters.Eventually, Cooper and Amelia venture into a black hole (yes, on purpose; don't ask why) where time appears spatially, allowing Cooper to visit his daughter in her childhood and warn her to lead humanity to explore other worlds. Ironically, we see this warning at the beginning of the film, before the voyage even begins. It doesn't make sense then, but for my money, it never makes sense at the end of the picture either. Somehow, Cooper doesn't age, yet his young daughter appears as an old woman at the end. Again, it has something to do with Einstein's Theory of Relativity – and therein lay the problem: Nobody understands the Theory of Relativity! All the longwinded scientific explanation of the cast (which eats up most of the dialogue) sounds like a bunch of existential mubmo-jumbo from the original "Star Trek" series. It's impossible to follow, due to its complexity, yet it's impossible to suspend disbelief, because the plot is so outlandish. Coming on the heels of Alfonso Cuaron's far superior "Gravity" last year, "Interstellar" pales in comparison. Much as Stanley Kubrick did in "2001: A Space Odyssey," Cuaron managed to nail the silence of outer space. "Gravity" was a quiet, reserved film, which highlighted the loneliness of space travel. "Interstellar" is blaring and assiduous – like a semi-serious "Star Wars" crossed with the garbage science of "Star Trek." "Interstellar" is an old-fashioned Saturday matinée, revved up past power ten with top-notch actors, IMAX special effects, and a music score that just won't stop. "Interstellar" is so big and expensive, it was financed by both Paramount and Warner Brothers. It's movie-making on a grand scale. And at that level, it fails. It might have worked, had it simply been stripped down a notch or two. And it's probably just me, but I have a problem with the name. Why would anyone choose an adjective as the name of a movie? Interstellar what? Where's the evasive noun? Probably sitting on the cutting-room floor with Einstein's Theory of Relativity.


                
Although the idea is simple and written 100 times in SF novels and short stories, it could make a quite good space opera. It could be deep and wise. It could make people think. But no. It had to be wasted. The weakest point is not poor acting (by the way: McConaughey really can't speak? I am not the best in the world in English, but I know many native speakers who couldn't understand him talking), awful music. Even the dumbest possible design of a robot is not the worst part of the movie. It is a forced, painful solemness and pretended adherence to science and logic combined with funny, childish errors and a mile wide gaps in logic.It would take to much time and space to write down all stupid ideas, so just a few of them. Some of them are partially explained in the movie or e.g. in IMDb FAQ, but the explanations are even more naive than the goofs themselves. I start with a biggest problem: - In R. E. Raspe's "Baron Munchausen", the baron drowns in the mud and saves his life by pulling himself out, on his own hair. The Earthmen in the movie do the same: the humans from the future save their ancestors. But if the present people perish, there are no future people to save them... The most simple paradox, and yet they included it in the "serious" movie. And no naive explanations (branches, interpretations, non-linear timelines etc) can make it wiser, no matter how many times they use the word "fractal". And if the future people exist, they don't need to do anything, do they? - The best plan from the future humans is to put (in a past) a wormhole, 2 years flight from Earth, making it almost impossible to find and reach. Then the Earthmen would have to build spaceships for billions of people to travel to a new world. I would simply help the Earthmen get a decent crops...A catastrophic climate change destroys all the crops. How? During just several years? And all plants are dead? All animals? But humans survived? How? Isn't it possible e.g. to grow some algae in oceans? Why nobody even tries to do anything? - Why an anti-science education? A science never does any harm. Only the politics and businessmen do, using science. So it is not the science to be ostracized.A farmer drives his children to anti-science school fully equipped to bring a military drone down (has a specially programmed computer, antennas, means to establish a connection, etc.) - A "ghost" communication is very implausible. Does it really depend on gravity? Even some waves, oscillations would create observed effects on books/dust, the gravity hardly could.Barely legal NASA base, hidden in a barn, building a spaceship... Funny. Unsuccessfully looking for it's best pilot in the world, year after year... Funny. The pilot accidentally finds them, and is captured and interrogated like a war prisoner by scientists - funny. The scientists are pilot's old friends. And they just finished building a rocket. He has never seen this ship, he is a farmer for 20 years now, so will he fly it, the only hope for humanity, please? FUNNY! - Plan A and B. Science and technology so advanced that can keep human embryos alive during a space journey, and rise them to get humans, can not rise a radish on Earth (nor perform a MRI scan).Please, stop the stupid "expert's presentation how it works" (the imbecile with a pencil demonstrating wormholes, just like the similar imbecile in "The Martian" explaining the trivial maneuver around Earth). What makes it even more pathetic, the "expert" addresses his childish show to a engineer and best NASA pilot....and so on... I don't understand the physics that stands beside the unusual phenomena in the alien solar system, on its planets (the hundred miles high waves on an ocean two feet deep, the frozen, solid clouds in the air, the anti-logic movements of the ships, the anti-logic decisions of the crew... and so on...and at the end I (and all the nearby watchers) couldn't believe the stupidity of the falling to the black hole behind the main character daughter's bookshelves. It was... it was... unspoken. And the Future Men felt that the best way of communication with Present People is to shake the books in some girls' bedroom. If you can move the book, or a hand of the watch - that means, you can move objects - you can take a pen and write as well. It is the same action, using the same forces. Yes, I fully understand the meanings, metaphors, 11 dimensions of continuum, and so on. Doesn't help.To sum up: Interstellar is just another pseudoscience-fiction movie. It is intended to be deep and serious, but is just funny (including it's makers argumentation why it is not). It is not easy to think out a GOOD SF story. You can easily make a non-science fiction story which is very good and nice to read or watch (like Star Wars), but it cannot pretend it is serious and science-based. The most depressing thing about that movie is, however, it's huge overrating on IMDb. Are the young people so easy to control? If they see something that makes the first impression of having some value (slow, grave, pseudo-intellectual) they give 9 and 10 points just to show they are serious and deep-thinking? Is that why poor SF movies get such a high notes? Passengers, the last few Aliens and so on?My "4" rating is a real one, not lowered to balance the general overrating.
This awkward movie felt like Sci Fi produced by a technical, corporate entity. The idea was fairly cute. Much depended on the mourning by the daughter, but the actress didn't make me care about her. The protagonist didn't make me care about him either, for that matter. I thought the female astronaut was quite engaging but the movie was the most interesting, her choices, angst and suffering were the only interesting thing about the movie. The Black Hole stuff was horrible, but even the black hole in this movie is not volume enough for the plot holes and miraculous coincidences that drive the story. He was only able to communicate via a malfunctioning watch, What the...? Nothing in this movie made sense. Every major scene was blatantly impossible. Worst of all, there was no warmth, no compassion, no style, no love.


                
I was ready to like this film, given his work on The Dark Knight, Memento and Inception. Of course, I was worried about the casting - McConaughey doesn't belong in an intelligent sci-fi, and Hathaway should only appear in movies doing a bad English accent in a lush period drama, but I was hoping for he best.SO we get McConaughey mumbling for literally the first hour, during the course of which almost nothing at all happens. It's so bad you have to turn the sound up. And then of course we meet Hathaway, who is to acting what Genghis Khan was to community relations. And then, implausibly, we see them sent up in a rocket to save the planet, which is followed by some nice visuals and ludicrous plotting before the end which is almost as bad as Bobby Ewing waking up in a shower. SO it was predictable, absurd, and poorly acted which leads to the question why are people falling over themselves to say how great it is? I suspect it's because McConaghey is the man of the moment, and Nolan considered a genius. Which people think mean they can do no wrong.Which is a disappointing conclusion to reach.


                
Overall, "Interstellar" was an underwhelming experience for me.The film spent too much time establishing characters and relationships that in the end just felt unconvincing and contrived.It was full of wooden dialogue. The parts in which the scientists dropped basic astrophysical knowledge in a Wikipedia-like diction were cringeworthy.The conclusions to which they jumped (aliens put the wormhole there to save the human race, love has to be the fifth dimension) rendered these characters completely unbelievable to me.The turn of events by which Cooper came to be the chosen pilot of the spacecraft, that was probably the most painfully impotent writing I have ever seen in a large budget movie.The film completely failed to show the space pioneers having any sense of awe in light of the incredible things they were witnessing. When Cooper was told about the existence of a wormhole near Saturn and the habitable planets on the other side, he took it like a boring lecture and the most obvious thing ever. This grotesquely ignorant attitude was visible throughout the whole movie. Characters only ever showed care and concern for their own families or abstract concepts like "the human race". I found this totally anthropocentric perspective not credible at all and highly unlikeable.However, when the spacecraft passed Saturn, it was beautiful to look at. The spheric wormhole was simply breathtaking. Although the scene was way too short, it was one of the best.The black hole and its center was also quite good.Visually, the film lacked imagination and scope in every other aspect. Most of the space scenes consisted of unexciting chamber shots inside the spacecraft. The beauty and wonder of the foreign planets wasn't explored at all. Besides a very cool tidal wave, the most exciting thing happening there was a stupid brawl between two astronauts on a rocky surface.There was also a risky docking maneuver in space that was thrilling, but depressing nonetheless. When a standard action beat such as a docking maneuver is the most exciting scene in a film about intergalactic space travel, you know the scriptwriter did something wrong.The scene where Cooper meets his daughter as an old woman was very touching and well executed. It reminded me of one of my favorite Twilight Zone episodes, "The Long Morrow".In my opinion, the film suffered from a weak screenplay and little imagination.
Watched it with the Mrs and whilst we would enjoy many films in the top rated list - this one passed us by. Long, boring, weird, trying to be clever - all come to mind I'm afraid...
It's a Marmite film - though I like Marmite and didn't like this :-)


                
The production values are A+ but the writing is that of a class B picture. Filled with ridiculous, spacious claims and assumptions. The premise itself is the weakest link, but then there is a ton of little mistakes like driving through a sandstorm or placement of the conference room, that can really strain ones suspension of disbelief. It's akin to presenting Cinderella as a re-imagining of what life was like in medieval times.what was amazing was that there was no sound in space scenes (other than music) e.g. on thrusters. Usually I would appreciate that but it was doubly distracting as they seem to have left a few dozen more obvious, glaring oversights in.Then there is the horrendous acting by Anne Hathaway, and Jessica Chastain to a lesser extent. Those two ladies make Matthew McConaughey look like Alec Guinness. And McConaughey, with his annoying way of speech, like he's got his mouth full of peanut butter or some other brown substance, playing what has got to be one of the dumbest smart-guys in film history. In all fairness, they were probably going for tough but sensitive and smart just got lost in the cracks.It gets better as they get to the wormhole and some of the scenes located outside of earth are entertaining, it does not however save the viewer from a fate worse than Contact.
Writing reviews is not my profession or purpose..i prefer to enjoy a movie than to criticize it.. its my second time here after snowpiercer...but i had to write again because its pretty obvious, that some movies are patronised for some reasons although they don't worth it..interstellar is at this category...u know, i m a big fan of sci-fi movie, novels, books, theories of all kind..my entire life is dedicated in searching for answers ...i have watched ridiculous movies , low badget productions or with childish scenarios and i didn't mind, i always find a good spot in any movie..because i have a thurst to solve some of the mysteries that surround us..so , after all the promotion about this movie, i was looking forward to watch it..i thought it would be spectacular ..the promises were fine, the director famous, the actors, the plot...well , i was so wrong!!! first time in my life i slept during a movie...the beginning was awful...the plot was childish and impossible ...the scientific explanations ridiculous..the acting was pseudodramatic and weak..the philosophical and poetical references not convincing, the music terrible... at least i was expected, to see some spectacular special effects in space , in planets...instead , i was watching the side and the wings of the spacecraft and 2 empty planets with no interest...i am still disappointed and angry,cos i was expected a spectacular movie, and instead i watched crap..if a sci-fi movie manages to make me sleep, the biggest fan of sci-fi, its crap...if i have to send an advice to all of u, is this one..don't believe the reviews here and elsewhere with enthusiastic words or votes from 9-10..the movie is below 5 and very weak...in comparison with CONTACT, is like day with night...PROMETHEUS was a masterpiece compare to this, even all the ALIEN series , all the TERMINATOR series, the 2 TOTAL RECALL films, and even even LOST IN SPACE..i do not recommend this film to any sci-fi lover..thanks


                
This movie is everything I expected it not to be. It was dramatic, but not in a good way. Over dramatic. Far, far too predictable, too Hollywood and anything, and I mean anything but scientific. I'm just going to ask this once - Chris,have you ever actually read any Stephen Hawking? Because then maybe the story line could have taken a turn toward science instead of fairy tale, Hollywood pump up the revenue box office production. Maybe someone on your crew could have consulted with Hawking and came up with an alternate ending. One where people who enter black holes get broken up into their atomic parts such as happens to even light. Instead of some fantasy land Disney ride. Wow what garbage.The trailer in this movie made it look like an amazing adventure in deep space. And yes, don't get me wrong there is space, and a few time deadlines to add in some much needed suspense after one too many porch scenes with Grandpa drinking beer while tending the corn fields. However, what this movie lacked was a sense of logic. I mean really. Flat out.The blight that is taking down the humans seems to be completely overlooked in the movie. There really is no information on it except, our atmosphere has a lot of nitrogen in it which is feeding the blight. "huh?" The earth is written off in this movie because of blight? This earth has survived, earthquakes, giant meteorites, plagues, famines, flooding and we are done in by a blight?Fine, we can't feed people so we are headed for the stars, all covertly of course. And our hero just happens to stumble upon NASA. Which wants him to be the pilot, even though he's a reluctant farmer, who was a pilot - because as a pilot he's the best of the best with honors. The script felt like something I would read in an old spaghetti western Clint Eastwood movie. I feel like I threw money away on a cheap plot based on oversimplification of scientific notions and box office greed. And the end: omg it's "time," no, no it's "gravity," no it's time. Just stop. And our protagonist surviving a black hole. What? Because it's not a black hole? Human's built it? Future humans. Probably the one's from Futurama. OK I've seen enough roll credits. However, that said, if you want some good sound, yes the sound was good. Good visuals, nothing gravity didn't do better, and descent acting, almost like Armageddon, yah know, the Bruce Willis stuff. Then indeed this is your movie. Trust me, this is no Inception. If you go, enjoy, just don't go in with high expectations (9.1 on IMDb? really?)or you'll be let down.Oh and the 2001 monolith robots were the highlight of the movie for me. They were good for a couple of laughs. Have a good one.
It's almost as if those who made this movie wanted to use two and a half hours of less than stellar movie making (if you'll pardon the pun) just so that the viewer could tough it out to the end and see a ridiculously sentimental ending. Really, by the time the end finally came, I found myself wondering what the point of the whole thing was. Cooper (played by Matthew McConaughey) is a farmer in the midwest United States struggling along with his family to survive in some future world in which humanity is facing extinction. The atmosphere is changing so that there's less and less oxygen, and it's becoming harder and harder to grow crops. In this part of the world at least everyone seems to survive on a diet of corn, corn and more corn while being constantly threatened by horrible dust storms. I'm assuming this is meant to portray an environmental catastrophe. Eventually, Cooper and his daughter Murph (played as a young girl by Mackenzie Foy, who did well in the part) become aware that they're receiving some strange signal and they head out to investigate - an investigation that eventually leads to Cooper leaving Murph and the rest of his family behind to explore space in the hopes of finding a new home for humanity.I get it. I just didn't get excited by it. And I struggled from the start (well, once Cooper was picked for the mission anyway) with the question of why Cooper wasn't simply recruited for the mission from the beginning. He's clearly the best pilot around - which Professor Brand (Michael Caine) states openly - and he was immediately put in command of the mission, which made me wonder why they were just going to leave him playing farmer if he was really that good! That bugged me all the way through. But what bugged me more was that there was no consistency to this. There didn't seem to be any real direction to it; it didn't seem to be leading anywhere. I thought the storyline involving Mann (Matt Damon) was extraneous and just added time to the movie without adding much in the way of substance. There are a few places where it seemed as if the movie was trying to pay tribute in some way to "2001": particularly around the character of the robot TARS, and even some of the special effects/cinematography, but as I said it just didn't seem to be leading anywhere, and I wasn't entirely certain if this mission had accomplished much of anything.The entire movie seemed to be little more than a vehicle getting us to the sentimental ending. Murph had been angry that her father had left her behind, but she remembered that he promised he'd see her again, but because of differences in the way time would pass for the two of them (see: the theory of general relativity) she might be the same age as him by the time that happened. As it turned out, Murph was an old lady by the time Cooper returned to earth, and we get the sight of Cooper visiting his daughter in the hospital on her deathbed. Sentimental, yes, but I'm not sure it made the long wait to get there worthwhile. (4/10)
Christopher Nolan seems to draw a buzzing mass of Nolan-fanatics wherever he goes. These little buzzers swarm around The Light That Is Nolan and in His light, nothing can ever go wrong. Who cares if Bane's death in The Dark Knight Rises was ridiculous? It's Nolan, he's amazing, God sent his cute little pout to earth to bless our sorry asses, and have you seen his<U+0085><U+0085> (Aaaaand here we wander into dangerous territory.)Okay I get it, Memento was ingenious, The Dark Knight set new standards for the superhero-scope of the cinema-verse, but Nolan sure doesn't have the Midas hand of movie-making. He's a man, he makes mistakes, and not all of the stuff he makes turns out so fabulous.Hence the reason for the lame pun of this post: Nolan's latest film, Interstellar, wasn't as stellar as the name suggests.Sure, Interstellar has fancy technology, as its Oscar for Best Visual Effects will demonstrate. The most accurate portrayal of a wormhole, precision of orbital physics and astrophysics, (insert fancy jargon here)<U+0085><U+0085>All that's great, except that there's more to a movie than just technical splendor.Stanley Kubrick's science fiction masterpiece 2001: A Space Odyssey isn't considered one of the greatest sci-fi films ever created only for its revolutionary techniques in portraying space and spaceships; its profound ruminations of the nature of man and the questions it raises on the divide between natural and artificial intelligence are what has put the film on the pinnacle of cinema. Of course, the movie's amazing sequences of spaceships moving slowly in harmony with Strauss's majestic pieces cannot be overlooked, but that does not mean they are the sole reason behind A Space Odyssey's critical acclaim.Interstellar tries valiantly to mimic both the technical and philosophical marvels of historical sci-fi films like 2001: A Space Odyssey, yet it fails by a long shot in delivering a significant, poignant message. The early scenes between Murph and Cooper fall flat in emotion; neither the acting nor the dialog carry through the fragile emotions that should have been exchanged in such a scene. Nolan's efforts to raise questions on the "human identity" are easily spotted in scenes that seem almost forced, with little contextual connection to the sequence of events that move the story forward. The best example would be Anne Hathaway's excruciatingly cringe-worthy scene in which she claims love is worth jeopardizing their whole mission and the future of humanity for. Seriously, this comes out of nowhere—when did Hathaway's character become so irrational and obsessed with her probably long-dead lover?"Love is the one thing we're capable of perceiving that transcends time and space," she cries. Sound like something from one of those turn-your-life-around-through-these-10-steps books? It's unbelievably sloppy and unrealistic dialogue, and something I'm not at all surprised to find in a Nolan movie. Self-important, philosophic textbook quotes may work in a superhero movie where the hero is expected to be somewhat presumptuous, but not so much for a supposedly realistic science fiction flick.What I've concluded is that Interstellar is neither unique nor special; its ideas of travel through wormholes and warped time in different areas of the galaxy have already been entertained in science fiction films of an earlier age such as Star Trek. The only factor that Interstellar can show off above all other is the accuracy to which it incorporated modern theories of space and time— the wormhole's curved surface is supposedly the most accurate representation of such a thing ever put on screen.Perhaps the supposed scientific genius of the movie becomes more real to its audience because of the background of the movie, or the way the subject of space travel is treated. Science fiction movies like Star Trek seem far off from reality—such movies portray themselves as fiction, a made up world, a world that is usually beyond the parameters of a "what if" world that diverges from our own. Interstellar, however, tries to make itself seem like an extension of the reality we live in—our future very well may have in store for us a dry, bleak land that has forsaken the human race. Dying potato fields and giant dust storm seem less childlike, less like a figment of our imagination than do light sabers and evil warlords waging war on the galaxy. We are led to empathize with the world of Interstellar as if it were our own and not a created fantasy land, which is why some of the things that happen in the movie seem less absurd than what happens in other films of the same genre (of course, these "things" exclude the infamous bookshelf and Morse code scene, the absolute bane of the movie and the epitome of Christopher Nolan's over-ambition with his newest project).So if you thought Interstellar was an absolute blast, good for you. Congratulations for spending those extra dollars on watching IMAX 3D or whatever it is they have these days. Next time though, you might want to consider crashing on your couch with a nice, homemade bowl of buttery popcorn and let Netflix lead you through the world of true, time-proved science fiction. (Of course, Interstellar re-runs are always available. Respect personal preference I must.)
As this movie begins we are asked to contemplate a world in which today's dire warnings of food shortage and unsustainability are proved to be correct. This is a gripping and sobering premise for setting up a post-apocalyptic scenario and engaged me for a while.With hindsight, even at this early stage there were hints of the nonsense that was to follow. The high-speed chase, where a pick-up with a blown-out tire somehow manages to drive at top speed through cornfields without suffering any further damage, while Pop ensnares a semi-autonomous drone with his Dell laptop, is but the most glaring example.As the movie wore on, it became increasingly confused and nonsensical. Getting to Saturn was vaguely within the realm of the credible. The description of why the wormhole was spherical was pure comic genius. The 2-D representation whipped up by our friend has a round hole, we are told, so the 3-D version must be spherical. But what if he had used a pen with a square cross-section to make his point? Would the wormhole have been cuboid?Once they passed the wormhole, most principles of long-distance space travel seemed to be forgotten. The ability to hop from planet to planet, for some reason able to magically take off and leave orbit without the Saturn-V style craft or anti- gravity equations that would be required on earth, was nonsense. The plausibility of a habitable planet so close to a black hole seems dubious to me. And the final quasi-spooky drivel inside the black hole where some future humanity had gone to all that effort just to provide our hero with a totally lame-ass way of communicating... just sheer rubbish.It could have been so much better.
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning In the future, Earth has become a pretty sad, desolate place, where resources have run scarce and machines have taken over much. A space time continuum in outer space is discovered, around the planet of Saturn, that humanity can ascend to in order to begin a new life away from the rapidly diminishing Earth. Cooper (a continually, frustratingly mumbling Matthew McConaughey) a simple farmer, is chosen to man the space craft that will save Earth, along with co pilots Romilly (David Gyasi) and Brand (Anne Hathaway) and a talking robot thing that looks like a fridge, by the name of TARS (Bill Irwin.) But as the mission unfolds, they discover secrets and lies that threaten to plunge them into conflict amongst each other, I guess. They're possibly meant to do something else, and something else happens, but by the end (which, given the length, I'm surprised I stuck around till), the whole film had just so gone over my head I might have missed it.At the start of the new century, a young, promising director called Christopher Nolan emerged, an eager and hungry young mind that delivered Memento, an intelligent and original thriller that took a far flung concept and played with your mind and demanded your full attention to the end. He followed this with Insomnia, not only one of my all time favourite thrillers, but also one of my favourite films, that I still love to this day. After these two relatively independent offerings, he established himself as one of the top new names, and possibly Hollywood was happy to throw a lot of cash at him, and let him run wild and indulge his darkest, most inner most relentless cerebral musings, and from here on in, he went and delivered increasingly lengthy productions that bombarded the minds of his audience with so much anomaly and detail, even turning Batman into a challenging and complex ride three times. Even his comparatively short 2006 effort The Prestige seemed lost in it's own mystery and aggrandisement. But with Interstellar, he's just completely surpassed himself.Clocking up at nearly three hours, the film, in the time you spend with it (and you really do have to make quite a commitment) truly rakes up every last second of it's stated running time, and that would mean there's a lot to be taken in, and much you might have to describe and re-live about it afterwards. It could be quite difficult, but actually you can sum the film Interstellar up with one word: over. It's over ambitious, over indulgent, over bloody long!, over bearing, over cerebral over complicated and, just over whelming. And by the end, after grudging with it for so long, you'll be glad it's 'over.' Seriously, if you manage to get through it with out getting up to stretch your legs at least once while it's still on, you should get a telegram from the queen! I can't believe it took me so long to see it, but I'm certainly glad I missed it in the cinema.An intelligent concept is fine, but it can't give the audience no room to breathe like this. It's a shame, because if Nolan had delivered something a little more condensed, the intricate plot the film had to explore and any intelligent message it had to deliver could have been better absorbed by the viewer, instead of being lost in a sea of bafflement. Sadly, the best praise I can end up giving it is some fabulous cinematography, in space and at sea that sticks in the mind.Inception was too much, really, but I took it as the most intellectual film ever made and kind of have a soft spot for it, but this is just too much. Nolan can be thankful his films haven['t lost their spark and edge like fellow contemporary M Night Shyamalan, but he really needs to stop being so ruthlessly anti-mainstream and pelting his audience with such lengthy, cerebral exposition, or he might lose them forever. And stop least stop making them so dour and humourless to boot. In terms of a modern, space bound adventure, it goes without saying Alfonso Couran's much trimmer Gravity does a better job of being smart and in orbit. **


                
I'm a big fan of Christopher Nolan's work and was really excited to see "Interstellar." While the film started very strong and was loaded with emotional promise, the story just lost me and I quickly found myself growing bored with it.Yes, the film is visually stunning, Matthew McConaughey is awesome in his role, and the film has some very entertaining robots that provide some light-hearted and cool moments, the story's emotional impact was lost due to Nolan showing off how much he knew about science and time. While what we are presented with is interesting and neat to learn, they weren't presented in a way I felt was meshing with the story. They felt more like intermissions where the story is stopped and the audience is forced to pull out their textbooks to learn about what is going to happen. It felt like Nolan was stopping the emotional course of the story to show you all how hard he knows science.And while I loved McConaughey in the film, I felt a lot of the performances weren't coming close to what he was brining. Heck, even some of the characters come off as superfluous as they lack any real depth and feel tacked on in order to achieve the next plot device—for example, the surprise addition of a well known actor comes off as a needless villain that did little to really create tension and felt like something that was thrown in at the last minute.I still really enjoy Nolan's work and will forever admit that the visuals were gorgeous and McConaughey was very enjoyable in the film—and yes, I will say that all the science Nolan drops on us is very intriguing and cool but, in the end, I just couldn't invest myself in the story. It starts very strong but once the story took to the stars and traveling through black holes, the emphasis went from deep emotion to deep thought and that hurt the overall presentation for me. Science is pretty awesome but I just didn't see a balance of getting the human factor and the academic factor right. They didn't seem to gel and that kept me from getting fully invested in the journey to save the human race.Hello! The name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like reading more of my rants, ramblings, bad jokes, geek references, and other movie reviews (like a more in-depth look at "Interstellar" and other films that can instantly get the ears of Neil deGrasse Tyson to perk up) you can visit my blog at revronmovies.blogspot.com. If you don't want to do that because I didn't like the movie and that automatically makes you hate me and desire to call me "stupid" (because we like doing that on the internet), then you don't really need to visit my blog.
When I first heard of the making of this film, I had reservations about it. Then, I learned that a well-known scientist(Kip Thorne) was attached to it as a technical consultant and my interest began to increase. Getting it right, scientifically, seldom works with the film industry, although there have been limited occasions where it has. Avatar, Kubrick's classic 2001 back in 1968, and one even further back, Forbidden Planet (1956) show that it can be done.With this in mind, I thought this might be one of those rare ones that could live up to my expectations. I mean, after all, Christopher Nolan and Thorne. How could it fail. I've always believed that, in order to make a quality science fiction film, you have to have a writer that knows what the genre is all about. In this case, there is not only the potential for quality writing from Nolan but also scientific expertise from one of the top scientist in the field - what could go wrong...go wrong.... Well, in spite of all that, it did just that.Yes, it was a visual treat that applied all the wonderful effects developed over the years. And it did that very well. But that's not enough anymore; at least not for me.What I experienced instead was story that was based on a premise that was faulty almost from the start with scientific shortcomings and implausible circumstances. And that's where the disappointment comes in for me. I can understand Nolan's possible lack of detailed knowledge of wormholes, time dilation, gravity effects, and the like, but how could a respected scientist like Thorne allow it? Unless of course he had little control over the film's production. Alas, that is probably the case.I'm not going into any detail about the the actual story because that is already well documented in other reviews. I end with a final summary and opinion: If you know little about that actual scientific aspects of the various theories touched upon in this film, you'll probably find it entertaining. If, on the other hand, you have sufficient knowledge of what we humans actually know of such things; you too, may be a bit disappointed.


                
I believe that once people get on the band wagon they follow the hype of this move, hence the mega score of 9.5. I think Chris Nolan wanted to enter himself in the realms of Stanley 2001.I wont bore myself or anyone else, my major issues, 1. Why use Saturn rocket to launch out of earth when they had these cool ships in the rest of the movie to fly up and down from planets.2:They can go through worm holes, find earth like planets but cant detect its a frozen rock and the other has no land at all.3.If he could send a message to say STAY, why would he then have sent the co ordinates to NASA headquarters, why send anything at all.4.MATT DAMON, didn't fit role.


                
