There's no black hole like the script of this film, which seems written by someone without experience who gets into a maze of nonsense and fixes it all with "love". Gosh. It gets me on the nerves because I love stories about space exploration and new worlds and this movie didn't provide me but too few glimpses of that. And they were mostly rehashes of things from the 2001 saga and Contact. CGI were OK, but when they had the chance to imagine alien worlds they provide uninspired, boring settings. It all seems like a poorly written derivative story by someone who is too young and inexperienced to understand that a narrative must have some logic in order to work.If they wanted to tell a love story, well, it isn't good either.And no, I can't do what some "science" blogs say and recommend the movie despite not liking it with the hope that young people will get more interested in science. BECAUSE THEY WILL NOT. I didn't get interested in martial arts when I saw Mortal Kombat as a teenager. This kind of movie only promotes incoherence and irrationality.
This movie felt like it tried to accomplish two simultaneous and somewhat incompatible endeavors.First, it was thought-provoking. Many questions were raised. What would life on earth be like if our climate runs amok? What happens to government when we all have to live hand-to-mouth? Are "they" out there communicating with us? Is it the essence of humanity to survive, or is it to pioneer, and, by extension, evolve? Second, it was also an adventure. I watched this in a full IMAX theater, with eighty bajillion watts of Super Thunder-Round Sound, or whatever the kids call it now. The visual effects definitely shine on the IMAX screen. The format switches occasionally, and usually imperceptibly, between 70mm for the scenes with dialogue, to IMAX format for that full-on dose of retina-overload spectacle. This movie is a wonderfully fun ride through a strangely familiar extra-galactic world. There are also plenty of tense moments, after which you realize you've been holding your breath.I'm glad I went to watch this. That said, I think the film suffers a little from trying to be both an adventure thrill about the dangers of space travel, let alone an actual confrontation with a nemesis, and also a multi-layered allegory involving the dimensional tangle of time, gravity, love, and what it means to survive.It asks more questions than it explores. While it fills in for the missing answers with white-knuckled brushes with death, it wasn't as intellectually satisfying as I hoped. I spent an hour discussing the thoughtful components with a friend. In the end, we were grasping to find symbolism, metaphors, or other messages about humanity. We never coalesced "the message" of the movie.But did we need to? It was, as I said, also a thrill ride. The adventurous climax was a little less than terrifyingly dramatic; I can't say I had the same post-climactic cathartic experience as I've had for other movies. But it was a definite end, closing most of the open plot points. I certainly felt moved by the characters' resolutions.I was suspicious that Matthew McConaughey could convince me that he was a space-ready engineer; it turns out that he didn't need to, because he did convince me that he was a dad that loved his children as much as any dad could. I think all the leads delivered solidly: Caine, Lithgow, Hathaway, Damon, Chastain, Affleck... I connected with the characters and felt their pain and happiness.Hans Zimmer played up the drama in the music a little heavily, I thought, and unnecessarily. It wound up creating the opposite of the effect I think he intended. Many of the scenes could have used a lighter touch, musically. Some of them worked brilliantly.Although I had my quibbles, the final analysis is that I would definitely choose to watch the movie a second time, but I'm not making plans to, for now.


                
Interstellar (2014): Dir: Christopher Nolan / Cast: Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Matt Damon, Michael Caine: The future looks grim with sand storms destroying everything and corn pretty much the only thing growing. As with Inception, Christopher Nolan toys with the theme of time. This time a farmer and pilot, played by Matthew McConaughey leaves his young son and daughter with their grandfather and then leads an expedition to space through a worm hole. This is in hopes of finding planets to colonize on. Unfortunately complication arise when McConaughey discovers that his son and daughter are now grown adults in the span of a few hours that he was on the first planet, surfaced mainly of water. Watching someone be subdued with grieving regret while his children rapidly grow old is very depressing. It lends the idea of valuing time spent with loved ones. McConaughey is caught in such a dilemma and hopes that his daughter is bright enough to figure it all out. Anne Hathaway plays the daughter of the scientist heading the research, and who joins McConaughey on the mission. Jessica Chastain plays the now grown daughter, stubborn, determined, and clever to boot. Matt Damon plays an astronaut revived from hyper sleep on an ice planet with a secret mission of his own. Michael Caine plays the scientist heading the research that might outlive him. This is hardly an uplifting experience but it contains Nolan's signature curiosity of time. Glorious special effects are out of this world creating what science only dreams of. Score: 8 / 10
"Insomnia" is one of the top 200 films ever made. "Inception" is one of the top 100 films ever made."Interstellar" is one of the top 25 films ever made. All of Nolan's films are great. But this is better. This is something else. Granted, Nolan's "The Dark Knight" is one of the top 10 comic book films ever made, but Interstellar takes Nolan's career to a level few have achieved. This film forever cements Christopher Nolan's place in cinema history as it will no doubt be one of the highest Academy Award nominated films in history (we shall see this upcoming March). I feel sorry for the film "Gravity." That film was so ground breaking in the Sci Fi/Space genre... but it only held the torch for less than a year. Interstellar blows Gravity away, like the '91 Bulls would have overpowered and embarrassed any class B college basketball team. Gravity is amateur hour compared to Interstellar- it's not even the same sport. Bold statements, I know but anyone reading this will eventually see the film, and you'll understand what I mean. Interstellar is truly a masterpiece for any generation and will be considered a pillar of achievement a century from now, much like Star Wars, Jaws, 2001 and Lord of the Rings are permanent pillars of cinema achievement. This is one of those films that changes the conversation. There has never been any movie like it, and there will never be another one like it- only imitators. Having said all that, do I really feel like Interstellar is a 10 out of 10? No, of course not. I'd say it's a 9.5. So for IMDb, that means 10. It's not the best film ever made, but it's in the same conversation as The Matrix, Star Wars, Blade Runner, E.T., T2, Avatar, 2001, etc. From this point forward, you can't have a conversation about ground breaking visual effects films, or ground breaking space dramas without mentioning Interstellar. It's that innovative. It's so innovative, in fact, that the slow start, cliché elements and improbable story set up have absolutely no effect on the film once it's over. That is rare my friends. That is a film worth seeing! Interstellar starts out slow and is overly sentimental as you'll read in a lot of reviews. You'll read that because it's true. Some of the dialog is off and the initial premise is not believable. Matthew McConaughey is one of our finest actors, but it's just not probable that an old NASA test pilot turned farmer would be seeked out by the now "secret" NASA who was looking for him but didn't know where to find him, and once he happens upon them by a supernatural premonition, they put him on a rocket ship a few days later with no exercise, conditioning, or up to date training. Oh and he only lives an hour drive away from NASA's secret facility. Usually a film with those kind of strikes in the first 20 minutes... you're heading for trouble. But Interstellar starts slow and keeps getting better, and better, and better, and better... until the entire audience's jaw is on the floor (To see what I mean, give a glance at the audience during the act 3 climax and you'll see something you don't see very often. Total immersion. And if you don't watch this in front of an audience on IMAX, you've missed the point.) By the time Act 2 begins, it's so powerful that none of Act 1 matters. Again, that is so rare. Only a master filmmaker can design a film in such a way. Act 3 is where cinema history is made. It wouldn't be proper to give any spoilers here, as this is a must see film. I will only say that Act 1 is good, but partially flawed... and Act 3 is so strong that it makes the plot holes of Act 1 totally irrelevant. That never happens. Don't miss Interstellar if you have a chance to see it on IMAX! But regardless of how you see it, or when; it's worth your time and money and you'll be hard pressed to find a better new movie, over the next few years- especially with the all time low quality of Hollywood blockbusters and special effects showcases. Few directors have a command of the craft of filmmaking like Christoper Nolan does. In fact, I don't think you could say there is anyone better than Christopher Nolan working right now. He may not have the body of work Spielberg, Ridley Scott, James Cameron, Fincher or Soderberg have... but in the sci fi genre, Nolan is currently the best filmmaker in the world. Or you could say he's second to only James Cameron. Interstellar is a gift to us all on the same level as Avatar. Enjoy!
This is a good sci-fi tale, if you can manage to sit for almost 3 hours, about a mission to save the planet from some disaster (either global warming, dust bowls, or whoever wins the next presidential election). Matthew McConaughey heads the mission, along with Anne Hathaway and a few others I hadn't seen before. They also have a neat robot named TARS. They fly off to find some previous scientists, who have entered a black hole and settled on several worlds possible for human habitation. Matt Damon plays one of the scientists.You have to like black holes, relativity, and the fifth dimension (not the pop group) to appreciate this. I didn't know a thing about this film beforehand, so it was a nice surprise to see Michael Caine pop up. And when William Devane showed up, I instinctively blurted out "What's in your safe?"The special effects are fine, but the characters are more interesting, and you do want to see how the situations get resolved. McConaughey is good, but he mumbles on occasion, which drives me nuts. I liked the music score, but at times it drowned out the actors.


                
Christopher Nolan's "Batman"-trilogy, so here is his newest work: "Interstellar". He gets help from Michael Caine and Anne Hathaway again and a couple more familiar faces. One year after Cuarón with Gravity, he discovers the endless widths of space as well. The difference, however is that a large part of his movie, including the first 40 minutes or so completely, plays down on Planet Earth. However, it is also about survival in space, including two people instead of one though. Or you could probably say the whole human race and not one individual fate.This is like our generation's "Armageddon", only that it is much better and much more edge-of-the-seat. The lead character is played by Matthew McConaughey, whose career is still on a massive high after numerous critically lauded performances and an Academy Award win. "Interstellar" is much more than Sci-Fi though. I personally found the film was at its best when it touched more the emotional relationships of the characters. The water planet sequence was incredibly well done. And right afterward, when Cooper (McConaughey) sees how his beloved family has aged and become parents, it is truly moving as well. I had a lump in my throat just like I did when he meets his very old daughter at the end of the movie. The inclusions with the old people telling about the past seem a bit odd at first, but make sense towards the end as we find out who is speaking there really.Then, I also had a love-hate relationship with the Matt Damon parts. I found it pretty boring to be honest initially, but when we found out about his true intentions, it quickly turns into one of the best parts of the film. Nicely done. When Caine's character mentioned him with high praise early on, I felt there could be something fishy there and yes it was. The ending of the movie with Hathaway's character completely alone out there made me think maybe there will be a sequel. Saving Private... ehh I mean Dr. Brand. Who knows? The time during which the whole film plays is also interesting. Somehow, the NASA lost a lot of their reputation and the moon landing is called fake in American school books. It is some point in the future. that much we know. David Oyelowo, plays a small role here, as one of the teachers. He has "Selma" in the race for an Academy award nomination this year.The ending of the film was not among the best scenes in my opinion, but I still liked it. The whole ghost explanation about Cooper being actually the one giving the signs was pretty exciting. The effects are brilliant of course as that does not really be mentioned for Nolan movies. Hans Zimmer did a good soundtrack and there is also some comic relief coming from McConaughey's charm (if you like that) and some droll robot creatures. Anyway, I found the film interesting enough that I found it a bit say they did not get to visit the third planet (with Hathaway's character's lover), only the water planet and the ice planet. I'd have loved to see that. However, maybe that could be a nice inclusion for a sequel as well. The movie never dragged despite coming pretty close to the three-hour mark. It could have run for another hour and I probably would not have been bored. There really was hardly anything wrong with it. Affleck's character did not do too much for me. He wasn't particularly well-acted and the character felt just included as a simple man who quickly gave up on his dad in order to show the contrast compared to Chastain's character: the ambitious loving smart daughter with a true connection to Cooper. John Lithgow plays a small role too and is fun to watch as always.This is one of the movies I really recommend to watch it, preferably on the big screen due to it's sensational visual aspects. It's also good for a rewatch I believe, also to evaluate the characters' actions, especially Caine's for example. And the story of course. I believe, after one viewing, I am still far away from having understood everything that was going on, especially the scientific aspects. That however, does not hurt the viewing experience at all thanks to the film's great acting and emotional impact. If you are interested in space, you really have to see this too. It has distant planets, wormholes, black holes, spaceships and a lot more. Let me finish this review with two little snippets: First, the actress who played Murph as a child was the same that played Renesmee in the last two Twilight movies and, secondly, that fittingly Hathaway's character fittingly was called Amelia like the aviation pioneer Amelia Earhart. That can't be coincidence, can it? Especially with her last shot.
Look this is still a good film and my rating system has no actual weight here. Christopher Nolan is a brilliant film maker but lately you start noticing that he is not without his shortcomings.His films are laden with the same tropes especially the massive plot holes. And that was the reason I wanted to see this film, to see what plot hole he had this time and yes they are a plenty.I will still give credit to where it's due. He really wanted to make a head scratcher and this time with the laws of general relativity which the film does closely follow. Basically the emotional device here is that Matthew Mahogany traveling at a fraction of the speed of light through space makes him age slower than his kids and basically its a race against time.However the Nolan-isms come full circle with not-so-subtle foreshadowing, overly pretentious unnatural dialogue, heavy-handed symbolism, a really ear-ringing Hans Zimmer score which make the Inception horns sound like and an unnecessarily long run time.I can see that this is a script he didn't really have time to think through but you can see he tried and its still pretty entertaining. However it's no 2001 A Space Odyssey. He should stick to thrillers. Sorry.


                
As I begin this review of Christopher Nolan's latest movie, I want to point out the gorgeous visuals that we as an audience were able to behold with Interstellar. I truly believe this to be the movie's best quality and a true feat for the people in charge of visual effects. Having said this, I believe that many viewers were divisive over the plot's complexities. In fact, this is the most emotion driven movie I've seen from Nolan, something that he isn't ultimately known for. Nolan's strenght as a director lies in his ability to present us with a vision. He is meticulous and works the technical aspect of a film like no other director today. Once again, this is proved in every frame shot for Interstellar. So leaving behind my long praise, I now redirect this review to the story.The earth is dying, as the effects of our abuse of the natural resources is taking out the crops of food we need to survive. Upon this dark scenario, former NASA engineer Cooper (McConaughey) is asked to pilot a spaceship with the purpose of crossing a wormhole that will lead to another galaxy. This, of course, in hopes of reaching three possible habitable planets explored by scientists sent there in previous missions. Given the unpredictable nature of an unknown environment such as a different galaxy, Cooper will have to decide whether he is willing to sacrifice everything for the sake of humanity or if the urge to reunite with his daughter again is stronger. Personally I liked the story Nolan told us with this film, as it left you thinking about it after the movie was over, something Nolan does very well with his projects. Compared with his previous work, there are still movies that I love more than this. Still Interstellar is a brilliant film in it's own right and yet another great addition to this great director's Filmograhpy.In the end all I can say is, if you're a Sci-Fi fan, you surely must not miss this one. It will offer an unique visual experience and leave you wondering what the hell you just watched, even if you didn't feel completely satisfied.Rating: 8/10


                
(((SPOILERS!!!)))So you like it when actors cry on screen? Then man oh man, have I got the movie of the century for you! As for me, I have nothing against a good tear every now and then. But when people cry in almost all scenes, it all starts to seem a bit pretentious. In fact, I felt like Interstellar was pressuring me to feel for the characters. When that happens, I get kinda disconnected with the movie.But it wasn't just the over-the-top display of emotions that I disliked. From the very beginning I had this strange feeling that something was wrong. And then, midway through the movie, it hit me. I had a huge revelation, something I had never noticed before: Christopher Nolan, one of the most gifted movie directors of our time, is amazingly bad at directing drama! Then I started to think about movies like Inception and Dark Knight - movies which I really enjoyed - and suddenly I realized that they don't have good drama direction either! Of course those movies aren't that much about drama, nor should they be, so this flaw has been easy to miss. But bad drama is really a major screw-up in a movie that oh so desperately wants to open up your tear channels.In fact, while the space sequences contain a lot of good stuff, the entire drama part seems to be taken from the Big Book of Hollywood clichés. Have you read that book, mr. Nolan? I think I saw it in Murph's bookshelf...What do I mean? Well, they live in a cliché farm, communicating only through cliché phrases, as if they were characters in a 19th-century book. It just didn't seem real to me. Furthermore, many of the nonverbal visual images were over-the-top sentimental and clichéd as well. And I'm not talking only about McConaughey's face while he was forcing them tears out (YET AGAIN!!!). Take the ending, for example. How much do we get to see of the new home planet? Well, the American flag is there, waving proudly in the wind, and... then it ends. Oh, a patriotic message instead of a universal one like the theme of the movie would have suggested? Call me crazy, but I really would've wanted to see something else at the climax point. Something like, I dunno, how about... THE FRIGGIN' NEW HOME PLANET?!?Furthermore, there is something seriously wrong with the rhythm and pace of the movie. No, I don't mean it was too slow. I'm talking about the pacing of individual scenes. Things like this: when they enter the wormhole, we get to see this visually stunning trip from our galaxy to another one. Well, we kinda get to see it. To be exact, we see approximately 2 seconds of this awesome wormhole jump, then 10 seconds of Matthew McConaughey's face. Then 2 seconds of jump, then 10 seconds of face. IT SHOULD BE THE OTHER WAY AROUND, MR NOLAN! 10 seconds of jump, then 2 seconds of face. Or how 'bout this idea: don't show McConaughey's face at all! We've seen it already, we know how he looks like! I mean, why create this stunning visual moment, if ye ain't gonna show it to the audience properly?! And don't tell me its because Kubrick did a similar thing in his weird space-jump-scene in "2001", because that was supposed to be like a montage thing, to add some extra weirdness to the scene, so that one had a real purpose!Furthermore, when you get to be the first human being who enters the 5th dimension, you don't start mumbling how love guides you through that weird twisted world you found. Perhaps AFTERWARDS Cooper could've mumbled something like "maybe it was love all along that guided me". That might've worked. But not while you are experiencing something new and magnificent, something you can't quite understand. The experience should be so overwhelming that you can hardly speak! There is simply no room for preaching about love in that situation! (Especially since you are only preaching to a friggin' computer!)Furthermore, after mumbling a ton of clichés about love, how did Cooper suddenly come to the conclusion that the whole "3D-world-inside-the-5D-world" was created by humans of the future? Did love tell him that too? There was no reason for him to think that. He was like, "hey, this idea suddenly popped up to my head, so it HAS to be true!" And remember, it is the same guy who gave his daughter a huge speech about not drawing irrational conclusions until all available data was observed and analyzed! Talk about incoherent characters!***But enough about the bad drama. Now, the movie had good elements too:-I liked the space visuals. -I liked it how Nolan tried to make all the space stuff coherent with modern science. In fact, the whole "hey-let's-jump-through-a-black-hole-into-another-dimension" -scenario actually seemed more believable than all the drama! -I liked how the theoretical parts were not dumbed down for the masses, it really allowed the movie to play creatively with the concepts of time and space. And Nolan is really good at that stuff!In fact, Interstellar would've easily made an intelligent space adventure genre movie! But I suppose Nolan had more ambitious artistic goals. And I get it! We all strive to find the limits of our talent, and... well, I think Nolan just found his.Oh, and to those comparing Nolan to Stanley Kubrick: Nolan is a good movie director, but he still lacks Kubrick's coherence greatly. And Interstellar is no "2001", even without the flaws. Heck, "2001" had major flaws as well, but it also had a grand vision that perfectly connected the plot, the themes, and the visuals into one big ball of artistic greatness. Nolan still has a long way to go.
Uh-oh, here I go again. The movie's out, what, a week or so as I write this, and IMDb voters have it ranked the 11th best movie of all time!!?? If there's justice in a rational world this would never happen. But it's not a rational world anymore now, is it, when an MIT professor can be found on tape explaining how the President's signature health care law was built on lies and deceit, and the media isn't even interested in covering the story.I could rant on but what's the point. I guess if you're name is Nolan, any movie that comes out with the director's fingerprints on it will be hailed as monumental. I don't have a beef with Nolan personally, I think he makes some visually fantastic films (this is one to be sure), but most of the time I think the hype precedes the product and then everyone else falls in line singing the praises.Case in point - "Interstellar". Nominally a sci-fi thriller, the picture devolves into something of a time travel anomaly that leaves the viewer scratching their head when hero Cooper (Matthew McConaughey) finds himself on the wrong side of the bookshelves in one of the picture's pivotal moments. I'm sitting there thinking 'this is what I came to see the movie for'? I'm not even going to start on Coop's selection to save the planet just by showing up at Professor Brand's (Michael Caine) facility. Which by the way, didn't it start out as some shack in the desert? When we get a tour of the place, it's got NASA central looking like a global conglomerate.Speaking of which, how is it NASA's still around for this massive undertaking to repatriate all of Earth's citizens to another planet? Unless I'm mistaken, NASA's primary goal now is Muslim outreach and all the best and brightest brains have farmed out. My head is starting to hurt.It was a small theater crowd last night, and I usually don't do this, but since a gentleman ahead of me held the door as I filed out, I asked him what he thought of the movie. His exact words were "That was a piece of excrement", only he used the more colloquially popular term for excrement. I wouldn't go that far, but if one hour in the wormhole equals seven years of Earth time, you're going to get old real fast trying to understand this picture.
The first 80-90% of "Interstellar" I absolutely loved and was prepared to give this movie a 10. Sadly, the ending inexplicably had an ending that didn't make a lot of sense and only seemed there in order to tack on a nice Hollywood ending and wrap everything up perfectly. It's sad, but apparently the public embraced this sort of ending...so who am I to complain?!As for the film, there are a bazillion reviews so I will be brief. The film has incredible special effects and is a film best seen in the movie theater. On a HUGE screen at home, it would still lose something. Like the wonderful "Gravity", it just needs the big screen...trust me with this. The story is exceptional and offers many wonderful twists (up until the disappointing ending that is) and there are a lot of wonderful performances. Overall, the good certainly outweighs the bad and it's a film to see. But as for me, an ending with more sadness and vagueness would have been okay.
"Interstellar" is truly an epic, not in the sense of what we initially think of as an epic, for example "Ben Hur" or perhaps even "2001: A Space Odyssey" (a film which it is worth pointing out I haven't seen), but more in the sense of how when I think back to "Interstellar", I think of those visually captivating shots of black, of the unknown and of those desolate landscapes made of water and ice, and how I found myself in awe of them. It is these that come to define "Interstellar". Set in the near future, Earth cannot sustain humanity anymore, and it's worth praising Nolan's subtle view of it, be it seeing the New York Yankees playing on an amateur field or discovering that the Apollo missions were faked to bankrupt the Soviet Union, which Cooper (played by Matthew McConaughey) denies. This scene, whilst allowing for a sense of character development in regards to Cooper, in retrospect seems to be Nolan emphasising how he sticks to the traditional elements of film and he does so more than ever in this film, from building several rooms of a spaceship from scratch to using five industrial fans to create a dust storm, thus attributing even more of the credit for the film to him. Yet as I expected, it proves very difficult for members of this all- star cast to break through both the visually stunning shots and the label of Christopher Nolan, and be noticed. Only McConaughey succeeds in doing so, although Mackenzie Foy (playing a young Murphy) and Bill Irwin (voicing the robot, TARS) deserve mentions, as does to an extent Michael Caine (playing Professor Brand) and his recital of Dylan Thomas' "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night", although I still don't entirely understand its inclusion, leaving big names such as Casey Affleck (playing Tom) and even Jessica Chastain (playing Murphy) "down in the dirt". Interstellar is a quintessentially Nolan film, meant to be seen on IMAX, imposing those classic Nolan themes of love and family whilst asking questions that I have not seen asked before, in this case winding up the scientists, although it is interesting to note that Nolan answers them by playing with several theories, instead of just getting the science completely wrong, as is so common. Yet the film is so Nolan that it takes that extra unnecessary step that Nolan always has present in his work, be it taking the audience to Limbo in Inception or by adding the twist of Miranda Tate (played by Marion Cotillard) turning out to be Talia al Ghul in The Dark Knight Rises. Before I conclude, I think it is important to make this point in regards to Nolan and his (future) works. He has begun, whether he means it or not, to dwarf his own cast and to an extent his own themes and his commitment to traditional film elements. The amount of hype that goes into his films is widespread and if he isn't careful, his future works could take a turn for the worse. As I have already said, Nolan always takes that extra unnecessary step, one that I don't think I would be so sympathetic with if it was another director, yet the brilliance of what comes before it makes up for it, often leaving me in that No Man's Land of whether the film was worth 9 or 10 stars.
I saw this movie in an IMAX theater and I have to say, although it has amazing visuals and suspenseful music, I was disappointed. The story was engaging, I cared about the characters but it didn't touch me and it didn't amaze me.The visuals: Everything about them was breathtaking. The use of models and little CGI really impressed me and the camera angles were close to perfect. It seemed like everything was planned and planned again, kinda reminded me of a Kubrick style movie (somewhat like 2001) but more dynamic. All the space stuff was amazing and completely silent which added to the movie as a whole.The music: Now, I have a few problems with it. I didn't really like it because it seemed to repetitive. Usually, the soundtracks made by Hans Zimmer always impress me but this time the music felt too repetitive. Is was all like someone was beating a drum in my ear over and over again. Though it did add to the movie, I just didn't really care for it.The plot: Now, I'm gonna go into a bit of a spoiler zone, so if you haven't seen the movie I suggest you stop reading right about here. So, I usually have a rule that I tend to get mad when it gets broken and this rule is that when you make a sci fi movie you either go for the "realistic" future, in which the laws of physics and technology and everything about it is plausible, to some extent (like Gattaca, Moon etc.), or you make a future that is set in another world that has its own rules (like Star Wars, Star Trek etc.). You never mix the two, and if you do it's very hard to make it work. Interstellar doesn't really make it work really well. It starts of as a hard sci fi and near the end it turns into complete fantasy. From the moment Cooper enters the black hole the movie is ruined for me because the movie sets out to be believable and right at that moment becomes too much. I couldn't get over it. If it happened in another movie, or if the movie started out as the type of movie that throws this kind of "fantasy" things in your face I would've been okay with it, but when the whole point of the movie is to make it seem so real and possible and every little thing has science behind and that it and could happen in real life, when it tries so hard to make you think about it as a real world and tries to make you think about every detail in it the whole ending of the movie makes 0 sense. The ending really dropped the ball in my opinion.Overall, a great movie, stunning visuals, great, if a bit repetitive, music and a good story until the end. 8/10
Cooper is a former NASA test pilot, now farmer. Something has happened to earth and all there is now is dust. Resources are scarce, and fields compete with humans for oxygen, so they'll have to be eliminated. He's got a daughter Murphy and a son Tom. Tom is smart but since he's a boy in a Hollywood movie he's destined to be a farmer and become the bad guy later. Murphy as a girl in a Hollywood movie is destined for greatness. When Cooper and Murphy happen to run into a NASA facility he's introduced to a plan to save humanity from famine.Sometime in the past, NASA sent several ships through a wormhole to find livable planets. They want him now to run a mission to find out which one of these missions was successful. He agrees, Murphy is angry and doesn't want him to leave and Tom, well, he's a boy, so the movie doesn't care about him.So off he goes with a team of 3 others and some robots. Their challenge is time. They can't waste any because as they are traveling through worm holes at high speeds, years are going by on earth and people are dying. They arrive at the first planet which is nothing but water. There, some girl astronaut who looks like Michael Jackson screws up and gets a teammate killed and wastes precious time. The waves on this planet are gigantic and they are in danger. They escape.Years have gone by on earth. They land on the second planet that is nothing buy ice. They wake up the astronaut there who promises them that there is livable space somewhere underneath. But he has a sinister agenda.Meanwhile we learn that the plan by NASA was somewhat doomed from the get-go, that no one thought this team would make it back to earth. That forces Cooper and the girl to try and solve things on their own. And he's got some help from earth. Murphy herself is now a NASA scientist. And since she was little she has had contact with a "ghost"--some force that tinkered with gravity to give her messages. She, with the ghost, and Cooper racing at the speed of light, will have to figure out a way to save themselves and earthlings.Interstellar had the worst preview of any movie in recent times. After seeing it several times, I had no intention of watching the movie. But to my surprise Interstellar is actually good. Very good. The visuals aren't that compelling though I must say. Sure, it has some neat scenes, but overall for a space movie, this doesn't take advantage of it. We are not treated to cool sights of nebulas and galaxies. It's a smart movie though that doesn't scare away from the physics, but jumps right into it--relativity, worm holes, speed of light, gravity, string theory, multiple dimensions all make an appearance and are handled well. The physics aren't completely accurate nor is the movie plot-hole free, but it's not as obvious or annoying as in other movies.Despite featuring McConaughey in the lead, it is an engrossing movie that gets you involved for the nearly 3 hours. If properly directed in a "normal" role, he can actually deliver. Still, 30-45 minutes could have been easily edited out. It makes you think as well, which is a rarity in Hollywood movies. It doesn't dumb things down. The mandatory scene of someone telling a scientist to "speak English" is thankfully absent, truly revolutionary! There are even some philosophically meaningful lines. While I don't appreciate the anti-male aspects, at least it does place a lot of emphasis on family, on parenting, which is sorely needed in Western developed countries that are basically going to go extinct because successful, high-functioning people can't figure out a way to make long-term meaningful relationships work. And that is the even more revolutionary theme of Interstellar. It goes against the Hollywood agenda to destroy the family and to advocate for no-strings-attached, no drama, transactional relationships. Instead it places importance on family in this life, and maybe beyond.


                
Tries to be smart and gets it 70% of the time but movie is all over the place. Couldn't hear dialogs half the time because music soundtrack was too loud.Another movie where the USA saves the world, but get this -- Not only does the daughter solve the whole world's problems by solving complex issues unsolvable by the world's smartest people, but her dad saves Earth. Give them a double Nobel peace prize! Somehow father and daughter communicate thru space time via (gravity). Yes folks, next time your feet tickles, it could be your great grandparents communicating via the 5th dimension by Morse code.
Christopher Nolan's comprehensive Weltanschauung ( conception of universe and human's analogy to it ) Interstellar is his most endearing, audacious and expertly scripted venture. A script which once was developed by Jonathan Nolan for Steven Spielberg finally ended in the helms of his brother Chris. A sheer ocular pleasure, when viewed on 75 mm screen, this movie based intergalactic space voyage smells of ambition, emotion and beauty. The viewer doesn't needs to suspend his incredulity inspite of the film being a piece of fiction, owing to the fact that it is one of Nolan's strongest narrative.An enthralling and distinct start to movie reminding us of social documentaries which pictures blight-induced earth as a dust bowl with last shades of humanity left, earth has become inhabitable over time with increasing crop failure and frequent dust storms. Amidst the scenario comes Cooper (McConaughey), a widowed engineer-turned- pilot-turned-farmer who is prompted by some ghostly forces ( who send coded messages) to visit NASA facility in the outskirts of his village. The facility led by Dr John Brand (Micheal Caine) reveals Cooper about a secret mission in search of a habitable planet beyond the solar system and he asks Cooper to pilot the space ark 'Endurance' with the team. Devastated at the thought of her father leaving her, Murph (Mackenzie Foy) is filled with discontent and hatred for him.The film tracks Cooper's odyssey along with the NASA team and two robots CASE and TARS as they travel through the wormholes to discover a sustainable living environment while Dr Brand and grown- up Murph (Jessica Chastain) try and solve the inevitable problem of gravity. The direction is accurate and film balances well between different time zones as Cooper and his accomplices verge many light years ahead.Unavoidable comparisons with Gravity and 2001: a Space Odyssey, Interstellar thinks more about the future than focusing all its attention on the present and past. A graphically rich special effects packaged with a mammoth script which reflects a large time devoted to research and a great casting, Interstellar might be specious and flawed at places but it doesn't stop the movie from being a winner.8 on 10 stars


                
With Earth running out of resources, astronauts make a last-ditch attempt at locating other habitable planets within reach. This is possible via a wormhole, of unknown origin. And it *has* to work.At its core, this is about the love between a father, Coop(McConaughey, an everyday man with vital experience and a good team leader), and his daughter, Murph(Chastain, independent and as stubborn as he is). This is simultaneously its greatest strength and weakness. Everything we are excited about rides, to some extent, on us, and them, caring about both of them, and what they share. Thus, we never stop caring, and it enhances all the thrilling space adventures(almost exclusively grounded in reality, and the best theories), where the mastery of movement(or relative stillness) of the camera and the volume of the soundtrack(and sometimes deafening silence) builds tension to its breaking point, and, crucially, never beyond it. And unfortunately, this emotional grounding does eventually lead to some sappy sentimentalism.The ending will divide audiences. This owes a great, and openly acknowledged, debt to Kubrick's 2001, but it isn't a mere tribute to that, and to exploration of the stars and what that can bring, the latter of which it seeks to encourage a return to. It goes different places, and the third act will be long debated, as it deserves. The humor is well-integrated, not distracting and it eases us out of what would otherwise be relentless and unbearable heaviness. All of the effects are amazing, and the technology compelling. Watch this in the theater, it is made very much for that, as far as the visual and audible experience. The 2 hour and 45 minute running time, and that's not counting the closing credits, will scare some off, and it is perhaps too long.There is some disturbing content and a little moderate language in this. I recommend it to everyone who doesn't outright hate Nolan<U+0085> it is very much one of his films, for better as well as worse, however, even with the hokey aspects, this is one you shouldn't miss. 8/10


                
I guess the key to truly enjoy Interstellar is to think of it not as a sci fi movie but as a fantasy movie set in space. The cinematography is truly stunning, flawless. It breaks from some of the conventional shots and ideas you would expect on the space scenes and it does that with superb results. But it seems that the plot is not at the same level.Don't get fooled by the talk about wormholes and relativity, the science behind it is closer to a Doctor Who script than to 2001. Not that I have anything against Doctor Who, I love it, but they don't try to pass it as hard sci-fi. And sometimes it goes from bad science to downright impossible and cheesy, with some pages stolen from Space Cowboys or Armaggedon.And that is a shame, because this could have been one of the best movies ever, and the spiritual successor to 2001, but it does not have the courage to do so, opting for a more commercial and accessible script, with some memorable moments mixed with some dialogues I want to forget.It is a great movie and you should definitely see it, just avoid falling for those 10/10 reviews.


                
Interstellar is one of those sci-fi that demands your attention throughout the film.If you are hoping for action like The dark Knight or Inception ,you would surely be disappointed. For me it is more like feeling the movie rather than just watching it.Matthew McCaughey nailed it this time. The only thing disappointing in this movie is the way they ended it.The plot has so many holes that you can't help but notice.Anne Hathaway's one dialogue ruin its ending.'Love is the one thing that transcends time and space'.Seriously? I mean if you want to take liberty in Black hole's quantum data scene you could have shown anything but scientific.Anyway, overall its a fantastic movie ,after all its a Nolan movie. So overall I have to say this is a must watch movie in fact one of the best movies of the decade.


                
Great movie. The beginning is interesting, as we learn that they are in some future year, and there is lack of food, etc. I liked that part, of introducing the viewer to the future Earth. The worst thing is that it may actually be accurate. The movie has beautiful pictures but the first half gets a little boring, nothing really happens. However, that changes in the second half, as the team travels through space. Things start happening and emotions start appearing, as well as suspense. There are good dialogues between the crew and those talks between astronauts and their families are really touching. However, in the last third of the movie, it really gets astonishing. The part of Matt Damon's planet is exciting and from there it goes all the way up. It reaches its climax when the rocket is drawn to the black hole and all the process gets explained. It is a mind twisting movie with a great final. Also, the soundtrack is really amazing, which is easy to explain: Hans Zimmer. Matthew Mcconaughey has a great performance and for me it's one of the movies of the year.
With 169 minutes runtime, this is the longest Christopher Nolan feature and one of the longest movies I've ever seen. In the beginning, the whole idea of some "end of the world" could be seen as a cliche, but taking into regard that Nolan always offers us something that's original, or narrated in a unique way, it probably has a good explanation and an unexpected turn of events. Which it does. As someone who's watched many films about space, it was rather fun and interesting to see taking it to a new level. There's an emotional aspect of father having to leave his family in order to save humanity, which may be distressing and disturbing to many. I am not saying the movie is bad. In fact, probably one of the best movies with this thematic. It is just that at some points it felt overlong and unnecessary (maybe there are people who saw this as an almost 70 year long movie, so I can't blame them either), especially the dialogues. However, the duration sometimes is justified by spectacular shots and well-executed CGI, which is rather fascinating in itself, despite the plot. There are also some scientifical parts which are sometimes hard to follow, and I read more about some things I wasn't quite sure about, sometimes finding them described and explained completely differently than what's shown in the movie. However, one cannot blame the director for that, since many in the audience probably don't understand the subject completely. It was explained reasonably. The ending confused me a bit, which is also why I was slightly dissatisfied after finishing this movie. But generally, I would recommend this to anyone who hasn't seen it yet.DISCLAIMER : Everything stated in this review is entirely matter of personal opinion and doesn't have to coincide with the opinions of other reviewers


                
I have mixed feelings about this one. The beginning was very slow in order to set up the main theme of this movie, which is about the daughter-father relationship. But it was too slow. They could have cut many of the scenes to speed up the plot.The real cool part starts when they were traveling in outer space and exploring the planets. I especially love to see the concept of space-time relativity in works (that time moves slower in space). Visiting that first planet where they thought waves were mountains was visually stunning.However, the idea of fifth dimension and the concept of future humans were too abstract for me. And I thought that Cooper ended up surviving was too good to be true.Certain parts of the soundtrack I'm not a fan off. The music is too high pitched. I still enjoyed Gravity's visual effects and sound effects more. In conclusion, I was surprised by the family theme and enjoyed the space aspect of the movie but this movie is way too long.
I would say that this is a good movie but not great. I love these kinds of movies. I loved Contact (Robert Zemeckis), felt transported. Again felt transported by Sunshine (Danny Boyle), but did not feel transported by this movie. I was aware at all time I'm watching a movie. I'm not sure exactly why but probably part to some bad acting, bad storytelling and some very bad choices.*** Spoilers *** ahead. Stop reading.Casting Matt Damon was probably too much. I also didn't like the robot. It didn't feel realistic at all. Nolan trying to have something different went too far. No way I can accept that a big ridiculous wall is a reasonable shape for an intelligent walking robot. It screams look how clever we are.Also it was a bad idea to cast Ellen Burstyn as old Murph. That's the most important emotional moment of the movie and immediately you feel it's someone else, it's not Murph. I think even if they had used Jessica Chastain in a bad old makeup, it would have been better.
Well, it was indeed a great movie. The plot twist was exactly as expected and very similar to Inception :)Mathew is acting alright and that girl; Jessica Chastain; she's hella fine - oh yeah, her acting's good too :PThere's not much more to say about this movie; great special effects. The physics of the movie is a little intricate. If you know the least bit about relativity you're gonna have a good time. I'm pretty sure there's some pretty big holes and flaws in the movies theories of relativity.I enjoyed this movie, a lot. You will too!
This movie was amazing, truly amazing, some parts sad and others happy but mostly tense. The ending when she is older and they are on Saturn was pretty good, I would like it if it was before he left. But amazing, must see! It is also some times confusing but you'll maybe get it later. All I'm saying is that this movie is awesome and haters gonna hate. But why don't they try to make something better? Just saying. But the ending goes right back to inception again and makes it better in every way possible. There are some weird parts that make NO SENSE at all but are pretty cool. One of Nolan's masterpieces next to The Dark Night and Inception! Some deaths but mostly off screen and a robot, not like the one you made as a child, this robot is epic and has humor 70 percent.
