For entertainment and enjoyment of cinema, unfortunately I cannot recommend this film. I say unfortunately, because it features some of the finest cinematography (and mise en scene) you will ever see on film, cinematography that deserves to be recognised. But the flaws detract so far that it is labourous to sit through.A femme-fatale city woman on holiday convinces a country man to murder his wife so they can be together. He tells his wife they are going across the lake to spend a day in the city, but secretly intends to drown her along the way. Despite knowing, and being desperately upset, that he cheated on her the night before, his wife apparently seems thrilled at this adventure. When out on the boat however, he can't bring himself to do it. She is upset for a few moments, but he buys her flowers and she is once again in love, her near murder forgiven. They then spend the next half of the movie having some random fun in the city, while you squint through the fair rides trying to find where the plot went. If it sounds unbelievable on paper, it is even more so on film, partly because it is just unbelievable, but partly because there is so little dialogue that any reasonable conversations are side-stepped. The actors just hold their conversations with very intent gazes.As is typical with Murnau films, movements are often excruciatingly slow, while a great emphasis is placed on emotional details which were already easily understood. A far less indulgent story teller moves on from these movements quickly, lest they insult the audiences intelligence, but Murnau lingers and lingers, as if to bludgeon them into your brain. The result is something that is pleasant to look at, but a chore to watch.
I didn't care for this movie. I found myself wishing that the murderous husband would throw himself overboard! He was clearly unhinged. However, the movie's effects were wonderful and there was constant movement throughout. There were also several instances of foreboding-the wife telling the nanny that she won't be back for a while and when the dog breaks free and swims to the boat as if to save the wife. I found the scenes in the city to be spectacular and fun, but here the plot failed me. I didn't feel much towards the characters and didn't see how there interaction made him fall back in love with her. It appeared she loved him all along but he betrayed her trust and apparently won her trust back, that did not seem credible. The cinematography and the presentation were amazing as was the set.


                
Personally, I am not inclined to watch a silent film. In a day and age where visuals and audio are the two key elements to even have a movie, one without the other can be impossible to imagine.The film Sunrise(1927) progresses very slowly, it seems to almost never move on to the next scene, the entire plot of the film could have been chopped up to about thirty minutes rather than the painstakingly two hours and fifty-three minutes that the movie takes to resolve its conflict, but keep in mind that I am writing this review in a modern setting.Given the movie was produced in 1927, for a flick of its time, It's not half bad, I am actually willing to go as far as to say that it has a place in the wall of fame of the movie business. The portrayal of emotion in the characters and the visual effects captured are pretty good, again for a movie of its time.Sunrise has a historical significance that is shares with most silent films in the industry, and that has to be appreciated before sitting down and taking the time to study this film. I personally wouldn't watch this film for entertainment purposes But rather I would take the time to study and appreciate this film for its educational and historical purposes.


                
