I have no words. This is cinema. This is not a story, this is not a plot. This is THE STORY, this is THE PLOT. Murnau can describe the human beings, the men, the women and the fast blind society. The woman of the city seems to be a post-modern nosferatu. She is a vampire, she moves like Dracula, she is like a witch around a tree. This film holds the tragedy and the comedy, the laughing and the crying. "Sunrise" doesn't belong to the past, but It belongs to the story, to the time. Sunrise, yes...the sunrise of the modern cinema waiting for "Citizen Kane".


                
'Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans (1927)' is simply one of the most breathtaking motion pictures of the silent era, and certainly one of the most effective to have originated in Hollywood. However, the film's creative talent arrived from overseas, when William Fox, founder of the Fox Films Corporation, lured German director F.W. Murnau over to the United States with the promise of a greater budget and complete artistic freedom. Murnau, who had previously brought German Expressionism to its creative peak with 'Nosferatu, eine Symphonie des Grauens (1922)' and 'Faust - Eine deutsche Volkssage (1926),' spared no expense at his new American studio, and the result is quite possibly his most extraordinary storytelling achievement, blending reality and fantasy into a wonderfully-balanced melodramatic fable of love and redemption. Though inevitably overshadowed by the arrival of "talkies" with 'The Jazz Singer (1927),' the film was also the first to utilize the Fox Movietone sound-on-film system, which allowed the inclusion of roughly-synchronised music, sound effects and a few garbled voices.Just as he did in 'Der letzte Mann / The Last Laugh (1924),' Murnau makes sparing use of intertitles, and so the film relies very heavily on visuals in order to propel the story and invoke the desired mood. During his mercilessly short-lived career, the German director subscribed to two distinct film-making styles: German Expressionism, which deliberately exaggerated geometry and lighting for symbolic purposes, and the short-lived Kammerspiel ("chamber-drama") genre, most readily noticed in 'The Last Laugh,' which bordered on neo-realistic at times, but also pioneered the moving camera in order to capture the intimacy of a character's point-of-view. 'Sunrise' appears to have been influenced by both styles. The fable of The Man (George O'Brien) and The Wife (Janet Gaynor), its time and place purposefully vague, fittingly takes place in a plane of reality not quite aligned with our own, without straying too perceptibly into the realm of fantasy. Murnau also had mammoth sets created for the city sequences, fantastically stylised and exaggerated to re-enforce the picture's fairytale ambiance.The characters in 'Sunrise' are best viewed as archetypes, performing a very specific function in Murnau's moral parable. The story's primary themes are forgiveness and redemption. The Man, a misguided fool torn between two lovers, is driven to the brink of murder, but manages to stop himself at the final moment. The remainder of the film involves The Man's attempts at, not only understanding the gravity of what might have been, but also to recall his former love for his wife. I can't imagine what camera filters must have been used to transform Janet Gaynor into the supreme personification of innocence and vulnerability, but she is the most heartbreakingly-helpless figure since Lillian Gish in 'Broken Blossoms (1919).' Even so, for the bulk of the film, the power to reconcile their estranged marriage lies solely within the hands of The Wife, whose role in the story is to recognise the remorse of her husband, and, in accordance with their sacred wedding vows, to forgive him his shameful transgressions.The development of the moving camera was a crucial step towards the dynamic style of cinema that we now enjoy. Though the first notable use of the technique was in 'The Last Laugh,' and Murnau is said to have used it even earlier, some of the sequences in 'Sunrise' are simply beyond words in their gracefulness and beauty. In easily the most memorable long-take of the film, and perhaps even the decade, Karl Struss and Charles Rosher's camera sweeps behind The Man as he makes his way through the moon-lit scrub-land, before overtaking him, passing through a swathe of tree branches and arriving at The Women From the City (Margaret Livingston), who applies her make-up and waits for the married suitor whom she is about to convince to murder his wife. I first caught a split-second glimpse of this wonderful shot in Chuck Workman's montage short, 'Precious Images (1986),' and it's a telling sign that, of all the four hundred or so movies briefly exhibited in that film, it was this one that caught my eye.
Even though there are heavily over-dramatic moments as well as trivial, excisable ones, this 1927 masterwork by German expressionistic filmmaker F.W. Murnau is still an impressive piece of silent cinema released just days before the arrival of the talkie, "The Jazz Singer". It does seem a shame that the sound revolution made films as expressive as "Sunrise" obsolete just as film auteurs like Murnau, Chaplin (1931's "City Lights") and Carl Theodor Dreyer (1928's "Le Passion de Jeanne d'Arc") were reaching their artistic peaks. "Sunrise" is essential viewing for anyone who wants to understand how emotionally resonant silent cinema can be when directed by a master of the form.Adapted by Carl Mayer from a German short story, the story is really a fable revolving around three characters <U+0096> a farmer, his wife and a woman from the city. Feeling stagnant in his marriage, the farmer embarks on an affair with the city woman who is on holiday in the country. The melodramatic elements of the story fall into place as the woman suggests the farmer kill his wife and sell his farm to move with her to the city. He nervously goes through the steps to take his wife out on a boat in order to drown her in what he will design as an accident. His true feelings for his wife intervene but not before his wife, realizing his intention, runs away into the city. He chases her and makes amends, and together, they have a spirited, romantic adventure in the city. With their marriage solidified, they encounter a storm when they take the boat back to the farm, and then fate takes its hand on the three characters.The most startling aspect of the movie is the visual element which carries through the same stylized exaggeration of Murnau's German classics, "Nosferatu" and "The Last Laugh". Far more than the simple storyline or even the acting, the shimmering cinematography by Karl Struss and Charles Rosher and the impressive art direction headed by Rochus Gliese are what resonate today, as they all serve to add emotional weight to what is essentially an anti-adultery parable. The most impressive sets are of the realistic-looking city captured with all its pervasive impatience and scarifying traffic, and in particular, the Luna Park amusement park abuzz with futuristic rides and hedonistic crowds. A couple of impressive scenes involve the farmer and his wife oblivious to the traffic as they rekindle their love amid honking horns and piling vehicles.Overall there is an impressive use of deep shadows and exaggerated set pieces to mirror the inner feelings of the characters. Even though it is a silent, the soundtrack on the DVD has the original orchestral score and effective sound effects to help bring another dimension to the story. Just twenty years old, Janet Gaynor uses her innocent manner and porcelain look to strong advantage as the wife, but it is the little-remembered George O'Brien who turns in the film's most powerful performance as the farmer, especially in his guilt-ridden plea for forgiveness outside the church where they witnessed a wedding. To her credit, Margaret Livingston plays the other woman with relative subtlety even though she is dolled up as a Louise Brooks-look-alike flapper.The 2003 DVD has a terrific set of extras starting with informative commentary by cinematographer John Bailey, a protégé of the film's main cinematographer Struss. He also contributes remarks to ten minutes worth of outtakes that have been miraculously saved in the studio vaults. There is a forty-minute partial reconstruction of Murnau's 1928 follow-up film with Gaynor, "Four Devils", made up completely of stills and drawings and a narrative track. Production stills and the original trailer for "Sunrise" complete the extras.


                
As a person only used to watching films in colour and with sound it was quite a different challenge to sit and voluntarily watch a black and white silent movie. I am so glad that I did. I found this film to be one of my favourites of all time. The lack of colour faded away to the back of my mind and was forgotten about once I began watching. It was the lack of dialogue that was the biggest challenge but ultimately it was the lack of words that forced me to use my eyes and truly pay attention to the actors and the story line. The story of love and lust is timeless and the fact that the characters are nameless makes them more relate-able and you feel more accepting of them. I ended up feeling the emotions of the husband and wife. This is because they cannot use words and must rely on their body language and facial expressions to get their message across. They act with so much more passion than when they can simply use words and the tone of their voice. The other element that largely contributes to the success of the film is the music. The orchestra used adds to the drama and emotion in each scene and sets the mood. The music also builds anticipation and calms again when things seem to be going better. I truly could not look away until the film was over. Only afterward did it actually sink in that I watched a long black and white silent movie and I loved every minute of it.
Encouraged by his mistress to murder his wife, a farmer wrestles with what to do in this F.W. Murnau silent drama. Not everything about the plot adds up (killing the wife is senseless since the two lovers could just run away together) but the film is assembled in such an inventive and thoughtful manner that it is never less than thoroughly encapsulating. The editing design is especially innovative with dissolve shots that merge images together, most notably as the lovers sit on a patch of grass and 'watch' the city at they imagine it, as well as the iconic shot of the spirit of the farmer's mistress wrapping her arms around him. The title cards are cleverly done too, especially the how word "drowned" drowns as a title card fades away, and the tracking shots are very ambitious for a film of its era. Murnau's attempts to lighten the proceedings with comic relief do not, however, always work, with a sequence involving a pig and a woman's dress falling off at the shoulders not gelling well with the rest of the movie. The farmer and his wife are generally fascinating to follow around though with a real tension always felt between them, knowing what the farmer has contemplated. Janet Gaynor is also very good as the all-too-trusting wife while George O'Brien impressively goes through a lifetime of emotions for a story that, as per the title, only occurs in between two sunrises.


                
MODERATE SPOILERS Occasionally, you catch a silent film that makes you realise just what a marvellous art form they were, and just how different to talkies. This is one of them.Early on, you might shudder at the tired old set-up -- basically decent man seduced away from Virtuous Wife by Femme Fatale --while still admiring the photography and art direction etc.But once the husband and wife reach the city, and rediscover themselves, it becomes one of the most charming films you could ever see, talking, silent, colour, monochrome, whatever.Janet Gaynor and George O'Brien make an ideal screen couple, and their adventures together in the town are so funny and touching and tender,  you will so want them to work out their differences and stay together.The last section of the film returns to the melodramatic -- almost bathetic tone -- that we tend to stigmatise silent films as wallowing in, but by this time, you identify so strongly with the characters, that you are completely caught up, and prepared to forgive the fact that dramatic tastes were different eighty years ago.And the film looks like one of the most beautifully lit gems the cinema has ever seen from beginning to end.
SUNRISE is one of those films that carries both its art and heart on its sleeve...and pulls it off.  The story of "simple people" from the country nearly being destroyed by the evils of civilization (symbolized non-too-subtly in The Man, His Wife and The Woman From The City) is, on the face of it, trite and rather condescending, not to mention cliched to the max.  BUT...the glowing beauty of the images, the gliding camerawork, the realistically stylized settings, the almost naturalistic performances combined with a  heartbreakingly honest emotional connection, and even the strong hint of Catholic spirituality combine to take this beyond mere story-telling.  It becomes poetry in pure cinematic terms. To me, the best part of the picture is in the church, when the man and wife watch a young couple get married and silently remember their own vows.  The acting of Janet Gaynor and George O'Brien (as well as the priest and the newlyweds) is so pure and restrained, so real, so simple, when he breaks down sobbing into her lap, it's like lightning striking your soul.  Anyone not moved to tears by this moment is doomed to like nothing better than video games for all eternity. SUNRISE is a film that proves there is truth even in the "simple" ways of the world.


                
Many know F.W. Murnau perhaps only just as an early pioneer in horror movies but perhaps even better are his drama movies. It's always something powerful and real- and emotional feeling. You can always truly sense the character's emotions.It's such an incredible sweet love-story! The way the two lovers behave is very authentic and feels warm and sweet. They are a great couple who truly deeply love each other. This is really one of the sweetest and most warm movies you'll ever see! Also in this particular case I didn't mind that the movie had an happy ending. It of course also all works out thanks to the main actors of the movie; George O'Brien and Janet Gaynor. They are great and worked well together. There was some real electricity.F.W. Murnau really knew how to construct and build up a good sequence, with a good fast pace and also in this case with the help of some real fine cinematography. The cinematography in F.W. Murnau movies is always something special and innovative!Most dramatic sequences in the movie get stretched out for too long, especially in the middle of the movie, but it's needed for the story and of course also needed because this is a silent movie, that needs to tell its story purely with its images, instead of dialog.Perhaps the more dark and sinister aspect of the movie remain too underdeveloped, which in my opinion is a sort of a missed opportunity. It could had provided the movie with some more and interesting layers but perhaps it would had also made the movie over-complicated, with too many different plot-lines and characters.The sets are all grand and fantastic looking, though also fake, which for some reason only enhances the movie and its atmosphere. This also was the case with Murnau's previous movie "Faust". It's more artistic then just plain fake looking. The overall movie is put very artistically together, with a couple of great- and imaginative sequences in it.A definite must-see in my opinion!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
You'll have to suspend a whole lot of disbelief in order to fully enjoy F.W. Murnau's classic silent, but that's the point. "Sunrise" takes place in a fairy tale world in which love always triumphs in the end. The film's subtitle, "A Song of Two Humans," is an apt description, as "Sunrise" feels more like a song or a poem -- where images and tone are more important than logic.The initial scenes of this film are reminiscent of Dreiser's "An American Tragedy" -- indeed, the style in which Murnau shoots these segments, using dissolve editing to superimpose one image over another to ghostly effect, made me wonder if George Stevens was perhaps influenced by this film when he made his own screen adaptation of Dreiser's novel, "A Place in the Sun." Poor farmer George O'Brien, bored with dowdy country wife Janet Gaynor, is lured into an ill-advised love affair with a siren from the big city. She suggests that O'Brien kill Gaynor by drowning her and making everything look like a boating accident. At the last minute, he can't do it, and the film changes directions drastically, as O'Brien and Gaynor, who overcomes the newly founded terror of her own husband, spend a day in the city, falling in love all over again.On paper, and even thinking about it in retrospect, "Sunrise" doesn't make a lot of sense. But there's something irresistible about this sweet domestic story, in which two people who thought they knew all there was to know about each other begin to make tentative gestures at rekindling a flame that to all appearances went out long ago. Seeing these two country folk, removed from their usual environment and plopped down in the middle of the big city, juxtaposed to urban life and the ways of urban people, reinforces to us just how right for each other they are, without making condescending assumptions or resorting to the reinforcement of rural stereotypes. This movie isn't about much more than the love of one man for one woman, how that love is tested, and ultimately how the strength of its bond wins out over the hardships and bitternesses of everyday life.Murnau has fashioned a nimble, visually versatile film. It is evidence to all those who still need convincing that the late silents were more sophisticated and artistically advanced than the early talkies.Grade: A


                
I found this to be a very interesting movie. At its core, Sunrise is a movie about infidelity, and the heartbreak it can cause. The editing is great here, with some very nice cuts that flow between the different scenes well. I also found the use of lighting to be very dramatic, which helped heighten the high stakes mood of the film. There are many scenes where the corners of the screen are darkened, creating an almost circular spotlight on the center of the frame. I though this was a very neat effect and it helped both to draw my eye to the action as well as make everything feel more dramatic. If I were to find fault with the movie, I would say that the character of the city girl is not very well developed. Though she is meant mainly as a temptress to lure the husband away from his wife, I would have liked so see a bit more going on with her. Overall, the movie does a great job at establishing a somber tone that really resonates and I would highly recommend it.


                
A woman from the city holidays in the country. There she has an affair with a local farmer, a happily married man with a young child. He is besotted with her and the life she promises for him, to the point that, upon her suggestion, he is willing to drown his wife in order to be with her. With the murder planned, he sets the wheels in motion. Will he go through with it?Directed by the legendary FW Murnau, Sunrise is a classic of the silent age. Murnau takes the viewer on an emotional and psychological roller-coaster ride. The revulsion of the thought of him killing his wife, the apprehension at whether he'll go through with it, the relief, the wonderful day they spend together, the nerve-wracking trip home, the despair and elation. A simple linear story that packs in so much emotion, wonder and intrigue.It's not all drama though – there are some delightfully funny parts, eg the photographer's statue, the pig.Powerful, searingly emotional ending.All done with no audio dialogue and minimal written dialogue. It's amazing how much emotion and plot development can be conveyed through gestures and facial expressions.Sunrise was the joint first winner of the Best Picture Oscar, in 1929. That year, and only that year, the Best Picture was split into two categories: Best Picture, Production and Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production. Wings won in the former category and Sunrise in the latter.Janet Gaynor, who gave a wonderful performance as the wife, won the first ever Best Actress Oscar for a combination of her roles in Sunrise, 7th Heaven and Street Angel.
I will try to not spoil here, but there is one thing that struck me that might contain a tiny spoiler. I've never been a big fan of older movies and I didn't expect to like this. I loved it, this was an excellent film. The lack of voices did not impede the actors' ability to convey emotion. In particular, the male lead was great in that he convincingly made me afraid of him early on and then feel sad for him later as his character developed(only spoiler) and then happy as it continues. The music played a very key role in setting tone and mood. The acting was phenomenal throughout and they did a wonderful job of telling a full and cohesive story. I was truly worried in different moments about what would happen to them. For some reason, I just did not expect this. This is definitely worth checking out: an excellent example of early film that pushed the industry in a good direction for quality story telling.
Greetings from Lithuania."Sunrise" (1927) is a great movie that has great plot, very good acting, and great craftsmanship. It was made more then 91 year ago, but its story is still relevant. But the movie is more then a story - its an allegory of some sort. People move to city, willingly or not, and the outcome is more then they can cope.Overall, "Sunrise" is a very easy to watch, and hard to forget. This is a simple yet great movie on all accounts.


                
A married farmer (George O'Brien) is seduced by a beautiful city girl, who is spending vacation in the country. She convinces him to kill his wife (Janet Gaynor), sinking his boat while going to the city, pretending an accident. When they are in the boat, the farmer gives up the idea, chases his frightened wife until the city and spends the day with her in a 1927 modern and bright city. There, they fall in love for each other again. When rowing back home, strong winds sink the boat in a real accident. In order to avoid a spoiler, no further comments can be written about the plot. This is the first American movie of the fantastic F. W. Murnau. Along this week, I have watched `Nosferatu', Faust' and `The Last Laugh'. The last one available in my collection is `Tartüff' ( I do not have `Tabu'). `Sunrise' is a beautiful love story and also a great movie. The technique certainly was very innovative in 1927 and even in 2003 is not totally aged. Janet Gaynor (most known from `A Star is Born') was 21 years old and plays the role of the young, fragile and sweet wife and has an outstanding performance (she was the first actress to win the Oscar of Best Actress based in her performance in `Seventh Heaven', `Sunrise' and `Street Angel' <U+0096> the unique time an actress won an Oscar for multiple roles). I only regret the terrible quality of the VHS released in Brazil by `Continental Home Video': it is a shame! The copy is completely damaged and deteriorated (the viewer can hardly see the landscapes, and this film won the Oscar of cinematography). Therefore you can imagine how much we Brazilian are missing with such a copy. I really would like to know how this film was released in the rest of the world. Was it restored? My vote is nine.
That is the only way to describe this wonderful film.  I have waited so long to see it, and now I can honestly say that it was well worth the wait.This film is a treasure from beginning to end.  Thanks to the master craftsmanship of Murnau. He was obviously a visionary, ahead of his time. And had he lived ( he died at 43 in a car accident), who knows what other glorious films he would have made.  Thank God he was able to give us this gem.The Cinematography (by Charles Rosher and Karl Struss) is extraordinary, especially for 1927. High marks also go to Harold Schuster for his first rate editing.I won't give any of the story away (you probably know a lot of it anyway by now), just believe me when I tell you, if you love film and marvel at all it can do go see this movie. If you love a good story, with terrific acting, go see this movie. If you appreciate silent movies, and want to see one of the best, you must see this film. If you appreciate craft, and art, and do not want to see an over self-indulgent, ego-trip by a wanna-be director, go see this film. If you simply want to see one of the ten best movies ever made, you must see this film.10 out of 10


                
While America was watching movies of pure entertainment around the 1920's, Germany was producing expressionist films, movies which the reality was the focus. Dazzled by Murnau previous works, the American producer William Fox, invited the German director do produce an American movie with full freedom. A masterpiece was about to be created. The sound score helps you understand the intimacy of the couple , while the camera movements showed how bad or good the characters were. Perfect in every aspect (light, editing, acting, directing, sound, scenario and costume), "Sunshine" is definitely a must-see movie. The definition of the mute language used by the cinema in its beginning. With more special effects than "Terminator 3", "Sunshine" produces without sound a beautiful and expressionist view of humanity.
Like so many, I had heard of this film and finally -- thanks TCM! -- got a chance to see it. The few title cards are a strength here. The only time they are heavily employed is during the wedding scene. Their previous scarcity gives them real power. This is one of the few instances of an "artistic" use of the title card in silent films. That is, they become part of the rhythm of the production in that the husband responds to the words of the minister. We "hear" the words through his reaction. What plot there is is melodramatic and sometimes strains credulity. But -- the pace insists that we share the experience -- not just what happens (plot) but what is happening (character). In this instance, Gaynor is wonderful. As noted by others, the camera is deeply implicated in how we respond. The blend of realism -- in the remarkably detailed set-- and surrealism -- as when the reunited couple kiss in the midst of an intersection -- is powerful. The storm scene at the end is superb. This film builds slowly toward a remarkably convincing demonstration of the work of art that a silent film could be. I was reminded in the early scenes on the river of George Stevens' great film "A Place in the Sun." I don't know whether the husband's doubts about drowning his wife influenced Stevens, but his film emerges from Dreiser's "An American Tragedy" (1925) based on an actual event on a lake in upper New York state, so the links between the two similar scenes are tenuous. That is, unless "Sunrise" owes a debt to Dreiser's powerful novel. Without giving anything away, the film's title predicts a happier ending than Drieser provides. The lightning on the river in the film is not quite the same as the electricity that claims Dreiser's Clyde Griffiths at Sing Sing.
Sunrise: A song of Two Humans (1927) is the first film of F.W.Murnau shot in America.It tells a story where the husband Anses (George O'Brien) falls for the city girl (Margaret Livingston).She asks her to drown his wife Indre (Janet Gaynor).He almost does so before coming to his senses.The husband and his wife fall in love again and spend an unforgettable night in the city.This movie did very well at the first ever Academy Awards.It got Oscars for best picture, unique and artistic production, best cinematography and best actress in a leading role.Janet Gaynor certainly deserved her award.She fits perfectly for the role of the wife with those innocent eyes.George O'Brien is perfect as the man who starts out bad but turns good.Also Gibson Gowland of Greed is seen in the picture as Angry Driver.This movie is beautiful to say the least.The camera work is something unique and everything else works too.A lot of good came from the silent era.


                
My Rating : 9/10Often listed as one of the greatest movies of all-time, this is essential viewing for any cinephile.Good vs evil represented here as the good wife and the woman in the city who lures our hero into a plot to kill his wife.Sweet movie - an icon of silent film.


                
Director F.W. Murnau made an outstanding film in 'Sunrise', which is an emotional drama and real visual treat. The story of temptation is simple and stripped down to the point of not even having character names for the principals (The Man, The Wife, and The Woman From the City), but the theme is timeless, and Murnau wastes no time getting to the tension. The simplicity may bother some, but I liked how tight the storytelling was. We really don't know which way the story is going to go, and at different times find ourselves horrified, touched, and even tickled during moments of levity. Janet Gaynor delivers a strong performance, and demonstrated real range to earn the first ever Oscar for best actress. She is very cute in the scenes where she's playful, such as when she dances with her husband. George O'Brien and Margaret Livingston are solid too, but what makes the film truly special is how far ahead of its time it was in its direction. Murnau uses overlays, imagined sequences, interesting camera angles, and flat-out beautiful cinematography from Charles Rosher and Karl Struss, and there are brilliant shots in the moonlight, on the water, and in the city. Poignant and artistic, this is one not to miss.


                
Compared to what I am used to for silent films (comedy), this was definitely different. Very well done however like most of the silent films. Had great drama to it, had a love story to it that was unexpected. Had some bits of comedy to it still but overall was all about the drama and love to the story rather than doing some quick little funny bits like others. Felt all the emotions coming from the film just like as if it was modern, if not better than a modern film. Overall a really great film I would say, must watch if you can get a hold of it.


                
The structure of "Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans" might look too simple for our modern appreciations and our impatience to be mind blown by complex plots and twist endings. But it's this simplicity that transcended the technical restrictions of Cinema, still a young art in 1928, and made as a universal vehicle for emotions as music or painting. Indeed, the cinematography in F.W. Murnau's "Sunrise" and its revolutionary use on sound-on-film with synchronized score and sound effects, holds up very well, and is still emotionally affecting. But in 1928, "The Jazz Singer" radically changed people's expectations, now that the characters could talk, the focus would be on stories and plot, it was a close call for "Sunrise" that could still address our natural craving for basic emotions like joy, fear and sadness. The film is divided in three separate acts, each one building up to one of these emotions. The film opens in a rural area that could belong to any country, there's a farmer, the Man, a robust-looking fellow with intense eyes, played by George O'Brien, his loving and caring wife of angelic beauty only spoiled by a prudish hairstyle, she's played by Janet Gaynor and it's the first Oscar-winning female performance, which deserves a mention. A vacationing Woman from the City (Margaret Livingston) is infatuated with the Man, she tempts him, calling him with what appears to be a whistle, and when they meet, never has luscious passion been so explicitly illustrated, the Hayes Code in the thirties would make such scenes impossible for almost two decades. This scene is full of dialogues cards because it's the closest to a plot it will get, a plot indeed, as the Woman asks the Man to sell his farm and drown his wife in a 'boat accident', she prepares a bundle of reeds so he can swim ashore. Notice the way Murnau writes the word 'drown', it slowly fades and falls to the bottom as to illustrate the malevolent scheme. There's room for symbolism everywhere, even in the text. And the film gets quickly intense during the pivotal boat sequence, the Man is about to kill the Woman, but like the Huntsman with Snow White, he's defeated by his conscience and asks her for apology. It takes a long chase across the forest, a ride aboard a trolley, flowers, cakes and the Man finally tearing breaking down during a wedding ceremony so the Woman could read sincerity in his eyes. And at that point, starts the joyful excursion to the town, that is as fable-like as the previous bucolic setting. The couple visits a barbershop, a photograph and a funfair and each moment celebrates their passionate love like no other movies did.But I don't think I do justice to the film by making a description of what happens. It feels so simple it might sound dull, but the film will surprise anyone who expects the usual archetypes of silent movies. I must say I'm not the first expert on the silent era but "Sunshine" strikes me as the most visually innovative I ever saw, from the creative superposition of images to suggest the ghostly presence of the Woman from the City, or the hallucinatory walk through the traffic (a scene that uses sound in such a way it could pass as a talking film), F.W. Murnau wasn't an expressionist figure for nothing and he really pushed the envelope in "Sunrise". Yet the film, instead of being a milestone of the silent era, became its swan song overshadowed by the revolutionary "The Jazz Singer". The film won nonetheless the first Best Picture Award in history, emphasizing the slight edge visuals have on sound in the motion picture arts. After all, do we need to hear the couple when their passion seems so pure and passionate. And what I thought to be a romantic interlude became the film's piece of resistance, the story eases up and we get a half-an-hour celebration of marital love. Still, I'm from the cynical generation so I kept waiting for some tragic event to cut through the idyll as if it was too good to be true, there had to be a catch. And I got what I wanted, they drift across the lake on their way back home, under the moonlight, and a storm caused the boat to sink (the special effects renders the wind effects as masterfully as in Buster Keaton's "Steamboat Billie Jr."). The Man ties his wife to the bundle of reeds and manages to swim ashore, but a few hours later, people only find some bundle of reeds floating on the lake suggesting that the wife has drowned. I kept waiting for the twist, when the Girl from the City came in the morning, and found the Man grief-stricken, he jumps at her and chokes her, from the parallel montage, I thought he was going to kill her just before learning his wife is alive but no, the film had a Happy Ending, and why not after all? I questioned my own readiness for being let down, my appetite for tragedy? Maybe because in screen writing, we tend to expect real conflicts, drama, action, and exaggerate the impact negative emotions have. But "Sunrise" wouldn't care, it was purely and simply the celebration of love whose greatest stunt was to overcome tragedy twice, a love magnificently expressed by Murnau, a king of the camera who'd die 3 years after his masterpiece, as if his name also was to be forever associated with the Silent Era, while his "Sunrise" was the sunset of an era that magnified Cinema's emotional value."Sunrise" is still a fitting title as the first Best Picture, the one that started them all, it's so appropriate that it started with a silent film; and in a way, all the following Best Pictures, in a way or another, are 'songs' of one, two or many humans.
Hard to say what is the best attribute of this amazing film. It captures perfectly "that intangible something" between a man and a woman when they become married and promise themselves to each other. It achieves and exemplifies in just 95 minutes the highs and lows of married life, the trust, particularly by a woman that her man will never hurt her as she is vulnerable, forgiveness, the deep love, the temptations of outside forces, the sticking together thru thick and thin, sometimes the stumbles each may make and that one thing which no one can ever take away, their history together! I think for me it is the casting,along of course with the performances by the two leads, which shines in this film. The Man is the most mannish man I have ever seen in silent film, the restraint with his makeup (unusual in silent films) along with his large frame compared to her tiny frame, simply demonstrates this, that at the end of the day, women like to be protected by their man and men like to do the protecting, that will never change, it has always been the case. Within a marriage, people often behave differently to their public persona, only each member of that couple sees the true other person. The barber shop scene was particularly lovely to watch the married couple's interaction, it shows when you are in love, the simplest of things make you happy, to see your soul mate happy, makes you happy. This film spoke to me very deeply. Perfection on screen!


                
This being the first silent movie I've seen I didn't know what to expect. I'm so used to sound and dialogue so this would be a strange and possibly boring experience. However the lack of dialogue simplifies the film and let's you focus on the character's body language and the cinematography that is just as good as any cinematography done in recent films. You really feel what the characters feel because you have to involve yourself more with the plot because of the lack of dialogue. I thought it was wonderfully well paced and a great moral lesson beautifully rendered. It had just the right amount of bitterness and sweetness with some humour too (my faviourite bit being the strap incident). Overall I was pleasantly surprised and enjoyed it much more than some of the high budget trash Hollywood is churning out now. It is surprisingly ahead of its time to say it was done in the 20's (they use a green screen at one point which I didn't know was around THAT early). Highly recommend for anyone who can appreciate a really good film without the Hollywood extras :).


                
