I tried watching this with a couple of friends they said its really funny. I did not laugh once the humor is either childish or just dry and unoriginal. It is terrible writing terrible filming terrible acting this show is literally awful. I don't get how people find it funny, it doesn't have one single redeeming quality I will be very surprised if it Lasts much longer its the kind of show that is laughable in a very bad way. Just take this dry stupid excuse for a sitcom of the air already I would rather watch Disney channel then this garbage. Its ashame as well because there's a couple of actors I've liked on other things but they do not deliver in any way on this show. Absolute stupidity enough said.


                
Maybe this show would be better if they dumped Adam Sandberg. He is just over the top not funny. His stupid childish antics make me roll my eyes. His attempt at forced comedy is painful. The rest of the cast is also fairly weak, but let's try with dumping Sandberg and his completely unfunny antics first. I was really looking forward to this show when I first saw the previews. Not unlike a movie trailer, the TV spots show all of the funny parts out of context. When you see those same lines in context, they become very unfunny. That is an amazing feat. I watched the first episode and was just floored that I didn't laugh once. I gave it a second chance, and again, failed to even crack a smile. Looking back at those episodes, my dislike for the show centers around Sandberg.


                
I really tried to like this show. I found the pilot to be inane and not very funny but still kept watching episodes until I just couldn't take it anymore. Samberg plays Peralta. He is NOT funny in this role. His character is just a five year old in an adults body. The jokes are stupid, juvenile, and just terrible. The acting is really poor but I attribute that to the writing because I have seen a couple of the actors in other roles or on stage as a stand up (Peritti) and they were a lot better than the character's they have in this dumb series. Personally I don't see this debacle going even one season unless it is only scheduled to run for 5-10 episodes. Man do I hope so any way because then maybe something good will replace it.
After reading the reviews and all the hype about this show, I desided to watch it.
Man I gave it a try, and I was bored!
I even watched the most rated episodes to clear my doubts, but didn't help.
If you like the first episode, then go for it.
Otherwise the show is not for you.
For me It was a disappointment. Not funny, only cheesy and lame containt.


                
It is so obvious from the week long repeats and the hyper positive reviews of Brooklyn Nine Nine that we are dealing with a complete TURD. It was painful to watch but the network is so desperate to put Sandberg over that they are calling in every favor and pulling every resource available to make you think the show is good but we are just to simple to get the juvenile and poorly delivered jokes. It's disturbing that the network is so adept at fabricating a perception that it goes virtually un-noticed by the masses. Everyone I talked to came to the same conclusion. Brooklyn Nine Nine is DOA and no one can figure out how a show that is so bad can garner such high marks on the internet. Unless of course you consider how much money is behind it. I was fully expecting B99 to be yanked after the first episode. Yea....it's that bad.


                
This show is the worst most unfunny thing I have ever watched. TV is clearly hitting rock bottom. I saw an episode last night at a friends and it will be the last. Not even a single chuckle I got. Sandberg is the most horrible unfunniest actor ever. I believe he only became famous because Adam Sandler "got him in the show business door." Nice going Sandler. No characters are funny and the writing is horrific likewise. The only good thing is 'da gorgeous short hot brunette(Melissa Fumero) who is a cop-the one who kisses up all the time to the black gay cop. But even her hotness won't keep me tuned in.


                
I loved Andre Braugher in "Homicide" and the way he brought Frank Pembleton to life was a joy to watch. I can't believe that he's now been in two absolute turkeys in a row! "Last Resort" was pathetic, but "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" is just woeful. It's painful to watch. Andy Samberg isn't funny, he's just a jerk. There are no funny characters in this, just cardboard cutouts and lazy, stupid devices like Braugher's character being gay. Why? Is it supposed to be funny that his colour didn't hold him back but his sexual preferences did? This is a cross between "Barney Miller" and "The Wire"? I don't think so.If the networks keep coming up with this kind of dross, IMDb will have to introduce a zero rating sooner or later.


                
So, I've heard about this "sitcom" and decided to give it a try. I am this kind of a person who would enjoy watching both "End of Watch" and "The Naked Gun", so I can appreciate realism as well as humor. I mean, whatever the genre is, it is cool with me as long as it is well made. But this "sitcom" apparently tries to be so sickly politically-correct and non-offensive-inclusive-sorry-if-we-hurt-anyone's-feelings to anyone in the entire Universe that it becomes dull. What is the point of making a comedy, if you are political-correctness-scared to the point of reaching a state of total creative disability? If it's so bad, then don't try to be in it, you know. This is what I could suggest to the producers of this "sitcom". A regular "civi" might not appreciate the whole ridiculousness of this, but anyone who had anything to do with "the job" could probably spot a thing or two about a comedy that doesn't even try to base itself on any sort of real ground. What could be funny about a comedy that does not connect with reality? Would you really laugh at jokes that came from some sort of an alien planet? How funny is this for instance: "you know how an Ih-grr walks in, everyone throws their drinks on the walls, 'cause it ain't even the /Bzzd/ time? Well, yesterday, this lurghry Ih-grr walked in EXACTLY at the /Bzzd/ time and everybody was like 'whaaaat'?" Obviously, none of this is funny, because it has no correlation with anyone's actual experience. Any so is this "sitcom" show - it's non-correlating with what most Brooklyn-based humans get to experience! Do you know what the word "sitcom" means? In means "situation comedy". We're talking about a genre where certain FAMILIAR situations are taken and twisted around, amplified, ridiculed into a sort of a COMEDIC circumstance. This is exactly how the "News Radio", "Married with Children", "Seinfeld" and so on worked. However, this so-called "sitcom" fails this basic rule and becomes something more of a non-situational anti-comedy. One could not possibly relate to any of what they show. Whether it comes to the characters, the situations, the dialog - it all feels fake, flat, painfully conjured up and left behind. Besides, this "sitcom" had a chance to relate to some of the Brooklyn residents or frequent visitors of same. But the actual Brooklyn is never actually shown! Why would anyone make a show named "Brooklyn"-something, but there is no Brooklyn in it? It sounds seriously like the all-time-famous "Brazil"-titled movie that has nothing to do with the country of Brazil, only this time it's called "Brooklyn"-whatever and it's not political, sci-fi-eish, funny, clever, critical, scary, violent, sexy or anything else that a movie or a TV series should be like, although it has "Brooklyn" in its title, but no one could guess that the action takes place in Brooklyn! So, this time I must announce that the sitcom genre is dead. Great. All we have to do now is watch re-runs of the good sitcoms made in the past.


                
My wife and I were warned away from this show by our son, who said it was the stupidest thing he'd ever seen. Well, we both watched an episode simply for the fact that it had a corgi in it (we're both corgi nuts) and discovered, BOY did he understate just how much of a disaster this show is! I literally spent more time groaning and rolling my eyes at the horrible script and acting than I did even attempting to raise a smirk. There was no semblance of comic timing or character chemistry. The lines are read with such a pedestrian flatness which is something that I would expect from a Disney channel show, but not a major network sitcom. I really felt sorry for Andre Braugher and Terry Crews, both extremely talented individuals from whom I've seen greatness in other projects. Heck, even the corgi looked bored with this one. The real shock came when I saw that this show was in its third season! It literally made me angry to think of all the excellent shows that never made it to a sophomore season.


                
Season 6 went full retard and feminist. The show doesn't have a decent story line and has made up bull just like the feminist of the real world. I hate the writers turned the show into a propaganda machine and ruined a good thing. What a joke, this show used to be so good!


                
This show has all the elements to be funny. Some really solid cast choices , most are pretty successful comics and well known. Maybe thats what keeps it consistently falling short of being genuinely funny. To many alphas in one show? We know putting multiple big names in films rarely ever works for that reason of many. This isnt something i would recommend , IMO its a decent show to kill time when you dont really mind if u finish the episode or miss minutes. I think some better writers would be a good start. Its just to over the top , repetitive simple jokes. I.E. Andy Samberg character is so dumbed down comedicly it just gets to be annoying!? Most ppl know hes a pretty funny guy given the opportunity. Just could easily be such a home run show. Seems that ppl our content with what it is though. Personally im tired of these template shows that our allowed to stay so stagnate for multiple seasons , yet shows rated higher and more popular in short time frames get canceled..... I know its insanely profitable to cancel shows but it always tends to be the most original ,creative and entertaining.P.S. I rather have this budget be put into something hilariously clever like "rick and morty " Adult animation has taken way to long to be embraced! Quality original well written Adult based Animated shows and movies our the future! No Bounds Other then imagination!


                
I'm halfway through first season and this show is the most annoying show ever. The characters that matter are soo hateable that it makes you wanna quit watching despite some good spots in comedy and other good characters like Terry and Holt.
The lead, Jake Peralta is a self centered asshole and the show does everything in it's power to reward his character. When the lead of a show is despicable, you can't help but quit on the series. Other characters like Santiago, Charles are just meh.. Although the overall comedy is average to good in some parts, the stupidity of these characters are so intolerable that i became suffocated when I realized i had to watch these faces for 5 more seasons. The show luckily somehow boarded the hypetrain and you know how casual fans are, they watch it even it's bad coz everyone is talking about it. Wayy Overrated.


                
Poor acting, puerile jokes. 
It is sad to know that people are being paid for a performance like that


                
Seriously worst actor ever. Makes the whole series unbearable to watch.


                
Excellent show with great characters, but the phones who are ringing in the background all the time is so synchronized that it took away my focus on the show and destroyed the whole viewing experience. I had to stop watching the show because the annoying background noice!


                
Watched the first few episodes. Based on the reviews I thought it would be amazing but I just didn't find it in the least bit funny and I didn't like the characters. I don't know why my sense of humour is so out of tune with all these people rating it 10/10. Maybe I just prefer British comedy like 'Cuckoo', though, saying that, I did really enjoy 'Parks and Recreation'. If I where you I'd give this comedy a pass and try some other less hyped-up programs.


                
With fifth season currently airing i assume there is a devoted following of Brooklyn Nine-Nine. Yet i wonder who these people are.My first impression was that Brooklyn Nine-Nine was the show called Scrubs located in a police station. I saw the same half-witted humor that put me off, although this time we were in a police station not in a hospital.


                
Andy left Cuckoo for this. What a shame. Money is a hell of a drug.


                
