As of November 2017, due to Brooklyn Nine Nine I can safely say that my depression has been helped because of this TV show. I know it may sound stupid but when I watch the show I just fill up with laughter which most likely has resulted in me not committing suicide.Thank You 99.


                
This show is a masterpiece. I honestly don't know why and how it's underrated. Sure, I love a good sitcom like Friends, and although some might not agree, I actually find B99 more hilarious compared to those kind of shows.Let's see:B99 doesn't need those fake cheap laugh sound effects after every joke / funny dialogueThe dialogue is funny as hell and not corny. And the acting? Damn. I don't know how they can keep a straight face while doing those scenes, especially Andre.The diversity of the show. A black gay cop? Latina detectives? That's only the beginning.It's realistic. Not realistic in a sense that everything that happens there happens in real life (such as the comedic police situations). What I meant was, it doesn't need to be overly dramatic to get you hooked. The characters are all so mature, and they portray great friendship.Healthy relationships like what Jake and Amy have. Also, they do not promote nor show toxicity in any way.I'm gonna be really sad if B99 wont be renewed for a 6th season, because it deserves so much more than that.


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine is definitely one of my favorite ever sitcom. It's a show of pure comedy with humorous stories that are naturally delivered by the lovely actors and actresses, but also with a consistent storyline which a lot of sitcoms lack. The other thing I've noticed which makes this show better is the exclusion of laugh tracks. Although, laugh tracks do, to a certain extent, seem to make shows more hilarious and to a point where even if you don't understand a joke, you'd laugh. But no, this show has no cheats like that and amuses viewers with original content.
The show also does not rely on one-liners or simple jokes, and instead, make use of the characters' personalities and actions to entertain viewers, which is pretty smart. Some might think that entertainment with personalities do not last as they stay the same and eventually people would get tired of them. However, with the ongoing characters development, their personalities and stories are often changing, which makes the show so fresh all the time.


                
Please please please don't cancel the show,this show is too funny to be canceled especially on a cliff hanger


                
I just started watching this show after my daughter talked me into it. I was laughing so hard I was crying sometimes. I love the characters, they play off each other perfectly and I have no idea how the Captain keeps a straight face all the time. Some shows just have it-that chemistry, good actors, good writing. This is one of those shows. I was sad to hear they cancelled it, but hopeful now that I hear another company picked it up. All I can hope for is the same experience as the show goes on.


                
This show is just good fun to watch good by yourself or with someone it's just enjoyable tv great stories and characters please do watch this show it's worth it


                
B99 is a rare gem among serial comedy duds. It's such a smart and fast-paced show that never fails to make me laugh, smile, and sometimes cry at very touching and human moments. This is a comfort show for me and I love rewatching for the running gags, callbacks to previous episodes, and to see the character development as they grow as people in ways that don't feel forced or contrived. The characters start out fairly rough and jagged with their own individual struggles but grow as a squad after the introduction of Capt. Holt. This is a feature, not a bug! The point of the show is that they're flawed! Do not listen to anyone who rates this lower than a seven, most of the people who do can't be bothered to spell names right (racist much?).


                
Spoiler alert: this is one of my favorite shows. An incredible blend of lovable and hilarious characters. So much fun. So many laugh out loud moments. Even on a second full watch through I find myself laughing loudly in delight at this great gem of a show. It's a must watch IMO


                
Brooklyn Nine Nine is a new age police procedural comedy with an excellent cast and spectacular production. But that isn't what makes the show great, rather its something very trivial. The show, being a comedy, peculiarly enough,doesn't use any laugh track or a live audience to record laughs. In fact, they just provide us with a sketch where the viewer can decide whether it was funny enough for him to enjoy (laugh) or not.The show should be credited for its humorous subplots within an episode.The cast also portray their characters in an outstandingly witty fashion. The writer's vision of a comic police station is right on the money. I may have been biased so i couldn't think of flaws. An Amazing show. One of 2013's best.


                
Brooklyn nine nine required a few episodes for me to really get into it but when I did I couldn't stop watching it. this American sitcom is based in a police station. Each episode is completely unique and stays at a consistent level of quality for all 4 seasons that I have enjoyed. As I got into the thickness of the series I got to know each and every hilarious character and by season 3 I loved every well acted character. I may be a little biased but whether or not I know your gonna love it so watch it now. As a note I will say that like me your going to have to watch a few episodes to get into it.


                
The cold opens for B99 are always hilarious. I love this show so much. It does a great job of balancing comedy with personal issues. It is the only show on that is consistently funny every single week.


                
It may be too soon to say having not even finished their first season yet, but since i haven't seen an episode i didn't enjoy i think its safe to say this one is a keeper. The one issue i have is how short the episodes are, which means if you watch the trailer for the series you've already seen half of the first episode. There's a lot of great jokes particularly regarding the characters, each one with their own eccentric personalities, and one of the things i love about this show is that it doesn't have to play on racial stereotypes to be funny. Its got one of the most ethnically diverse casts out there but it doesn't even care because thats not who they are. for instance Terry Crews doesn't play the hardened streetwise character, he plays the hulkish desk sergeant who is absolutely terrified of guns. Seeing Terry Crews scream like a little girl and freak out trying to put a magical princess castle together is just priceless gold. Or Rosa, the extremely abrasive criminally adept cop who doesn't have an off switch for her intimidating nature. The conversations between her and the timid pushover Detective Boyle make for some great television."go to your happy place" "what is that? that sounds stupid."There's also the expressionless, unreadable openly gay police captain who is anything but a gay stereotype, the sociopathically manipulative secretary who in her own words "thrives on dysfunctional relationships", and detective scully who is in every sense of the word a failure, smelly, lazy, unadept and just all around a horrible police officer. Andy Sandberg really is just the cherry on top of a great ensemble cast. He plays his normal goofy immature character, but he's not without his redeeming qualities. He embarrasses himself on more than one occasion but this causes people to underestimate him and his wit which he uses to actually solve crimes. This and his competitiveness with detective Santiago cause him to keep his successes just above his screw-ups, and if he didn't actually solve cases he'd probably be fired for goofing off on the job. Overall i want to see Peralta learn some restraint and become a bit more devious, the competitive sexual tension between Peralta and Santiago become an even more competitive relationship and for Boyle to have a life changing experience when he finally sleeps with Rosa... Or just embarrass himself with a past due, overbearing attempt to become a man.


                
This show is one of the funniest shows I have witnessed in recent years. It's original and the characters are very funny. Love this show!


                
This show is awesome. Characters are hilarious and it features great character development with characters like Capt. Holt becoming unexpectedly hilarious, jokes are super witty. I thought I had exhausted the comedy genre (especially of tv) until I found this. Please give it a chance and it surprising has only gotten funnier. Gave it 10 stars for anyone crazy enough to give it below a 9.


                
Truly a comedic masterpiece. Enjoy each and every episode. The Cast is perfectly en-sync and compliment each other.
Andy Samberg a.k.a. Jake Peralta is the topping on the Nine-Nine Sundae (Without him the show just melts off).... He brings it all together. 
Melissa Fumero , Andre B. and Joe Lo T. (Along with Andy) are Amazing (Rather A-M-A-Z-I-N-G) at their roles and their characters seem to just envelope you into their roles and force you into binge watching the show from dusk to dawn.
Whereas, Stephanie Beatriz, Terry Crews, Chelsea Peretti play their characters to perfection adding to the hysteria the show gets you into.....Love it....Love it.... Love the show...Never want the show to end...... Wish they keep renewing the series over and over again...Three Cheers for the Entire team ... Even Scully and Hitchcock .... and the other extras who keep coming in at different times.Keep up the Amazing work


                
Comedy is a difficult thing to pull off, especially if you have to do it for around seventy episodes, but Brooklyn Nine-Nine does this to a tee. It's hilarious without fault, entertaining to the max and watchable, so watchable, binge watchable. The characters are all likable and relatable, which many shows fail to do without making one main character annoying or dislikable. It's also very much original, without being original if you know what I mean. It spoofs all cop shows, but does it in a way that the overall project feels fresh and like something you've never seen before. Brooklyn Nine-Nine is fantastic, a true gem for the silver screen. It faults only in the fact that it will almost kill you, and that is due to the suffocation when you can't breathe due to laughter. If you are a fan of comedy watch this. If you are a fan of cop films watch this. If you are a human being watch this!


                
This has gotta be the best show on TV currently. I didn't watch it from season 1 but found them on Netflix and watched them all within a week! Just shows how hooked I am NINE NINE


                
I love this show. It's so freaking funny. And I am ecstatic that it got a third season. I predict it will get many more. I like this show because it's a cop show, but it's not a serious drama. Instead, it's a comedy. This show has hilarious story lines and a fantastic cast that play their characters very well.This show is about the detective team of Brooklyn's 99th precinct, hence the title, Brooklyn Nine-Nine. Jake Peralta is a goofy, immature detective, but he's also very good at his job. His new commanding officer is not as laid back as his previous boss, so they don't get along at first. Boyle, Jake's best friend and side-kick, is a very funny man. Amy is the straight-up, do everything by-the-book girl on the squad. Gina is the funny, sometimes rude, assistant. Rosa is the cop you don't want to get into a fight with. And Scully and Hitchcock are just the best. Overall, I give this TV show a 10 out of 10, which in my ratings book is: Freaking Ridonkulous.
This is the best show EVER since friends. I think this is the next best TV show since FRIENDS.


                
Honestly this is the best tv shows i ve ever seen, and ive seen a lot! It fills my heart with joy, very funny and incredible. I watch it every day and even watched all seasons for over 10 times and i am.never bored. I cant understand how it is not rated 10


                
This is my first review on IMDb ever and I'm not reviewing this show because I think it's the best show in the world (How I Met Your Mother will always hold that place in my heart) but because I think it's the best new show of this season and it's really funny (not perfect, but really funny) and I'm afraid that as the ratings for this show continue to drop it's going to get canceled. But that would be a big mistake because it's a very funny show with lots of potential and a great cast. Also, it has Andy Samberg in it which is kind of a guarantee for me. So give the show a chance and tune in so probably the only good new sitcom this year doesn't get canceled like everyone expects!


                
This show is amazing, all actors do an excellent job. This series is so fresh and fun, so true to what everyday life really is. Each character is so different and with any of them we can identify us. The interaction between Jake and Amy is the best of everything, This way is a relation ship in real life, without great "dramas" to make it more interesting. All the stories are very well written. We have been able to see the growth of the characters, as Jake, although being a charming child, has matured in what he must and while still being fun. I hope they continue a few more seasons, but if not, please do not give a "surprise twist" to spice. As things stand, things are going very well. The basis of your success is everyday life. It becomes an eternity to wait every week for a new chapter. Andy Samberg is such a good actor. I think not many people can imagine how difficult it is to do comedy... a good one. I would not change anything to this show. A thousand congratulations to all involved in its creation.


                
Can see the jokes coming. Over-acting. Fantastical story lines. The markings of a truly, unmistakably amazing show! Seriously, although everything about this show that should make it a total flop makes it so bloody enjoyable. I have never written a review for any show/movie/game before but this show has me hooked and raving so much that I had to write this review. It's perfect for watching when you feel down and want an instant pick-me-up, when you are bored and have hours to spare, or the perfect 25 minute break from your maddening job or studies. You'll be hooked trust me. You'll even wish you were part of the dysfunctional, over- the-top team at the Brooklyn PD precinct nine-nine!


                
This is one of the best Comedy TV shows I've seen so far these days.
The performance of all actors and actresses is impecable. I wish this tv series could have many more seasons. Would be such a disappointment if it finished after season 6.
NBC can do it even bigger than it is right now!
Amazing Comedy!


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine creates a funny take on the seriousness of a cop show, making a hybrid comedy/cop show as it has both a sitcom's funny storyline and plot along with a cop thriller's crime solving. I believe it is better than many other sitcoms because it has the aspect of action to use, unlike shows with one-way sets and minimal camera movement. Overall, I would watch it 3 times in a row without rotating out another show because every time I watch an episode, I notice something I did not last time I watched.


                
