I watched the first five episodes of this new comedy, mostly because it received a Golden Globe for best TV comedy series.I spoke to a few friends that have watched this series and they said the comedy seemed somewhat like a flat The Office, Parks and Recreation or even Office Space. After watching a few episodes it felt as if that's the type of audience they were shooting for yet seemed to miss. The Office, while being fairly low-brow and borderline slap- stick, at least was able to deliver jokes and circumstances that were believable yet absurd at the same time and many can relate to this if you've ever been in a cubicle style office job for any extended period of time.Brooklyn Nine-Nine, to me, missed that gray area between the totally absurd and a documentary of a police station. Instead of riding that fine line, which makes a comedy work, they went too far off into absurdity land and anything there to anchor them back to reality is too far removed that this eventually begins to feel like a show full of absurd police-precinct jokes and 60 second skits mashed together to form a thoroughly blended plot. To top all of it off, the absurdities in these skits are executed by equally absurd character personalities.I actually like some of the actors in this show like Terry Crews, Andre Braugher and to a lesser extent Andy Samberg and I think with some re- tooling of the writing it could really work. I'm honestly confused as how the judges for the Golden Globe could pick this as the best comedy TV series. Maybe I'll check it out if it lasts through another season.


                
Well i loved this show and i cant even remember how many times i've watched each episode. And i feel like it was balanced and didn't really lean to any side untillll... this swap from fox to nbc i ve feared ruin the show. Show already become a radical leftish sht that forced idea on you and attacks on the opposite side with bad puns. So i give 10 so far and 1 to the this season. Wish they couldve stayed more balanced


                
This is the case in series I suppose, people who followed the show and get attached to the character and the feel of the series give it high grades. To me this show wasn't funny at all. I saw two episodes of it and I just gave up wondering why I even looked at the second episode when the first had nearly no redeeming qualities. The "funny guy" is not funny at all and his immature style remind me of police academy. When I watch him I don't get it in any way shape or form and how could you not dislike him, its like a clown in in elementary school, you know a kid that just wants everyone to look at him. I watch a lot of comedies series in my days and a lot of them is really bad, but this one is really really bad. Stay away of this one like its the plague.


                
This show is clearly mass-market, catering to the mind-quelled section of American society. There is nothing new to be seen here. Regurgitated jokes & comedic exaggerated expressions dripping from the screen. It isn't funny! Not if you're an adult with any sense of existential existence. However, if you've got 2 kids & a mind-numbing job with a wife or husband whom you've fallen out of love with but only stay with for shared empathy at how disappointing your respective lives are, then this show might be for you.If this show were shoes, it would be a pair of mass produced brogues rolling off a conveyor belt in Vietnam, picked up with tiny feeble child fingers & placed in a cardboard box, then onto a container bound for America along with the child's dreams. After arrival these shoes land on a shelf in, I don't know, Walmart. After a period of time these shoes are thrown in a bargain-bin where they are found by an over-weight trucker called Geb, who proceeds to buy & wear them out the shop. On Geb's way home he picks up a prostitute called Nancy. Now! Nancy is jittery from meth withdrawal & wants to turn this trick quick to get her fix, but Geb ain't up for no quick-trick trip, he wants value for money. He tells Nancy to slow down, but Nancy ain't listening, she's just ducking deep and hard. Geb loses his patience & shouts "slow down bitch!" Nancy, wired from withdrawal, springs up & screams "who you callin bitch? Slack ass truck-a-lump!" Geb, conscience worn by years of caffeine & failure, lets his fist fly; a crack whips back from Nancy's neck. Whilst Geb looks at Nancy's limp body & his own now limp penis, survival mode kicks in. He drags her from the vehicle & into the woods where he lays a spare car tyre on top of her & douses his guilt in gasoline. Before he lights this bonfire of shame he notices a single spot of blood trickling down the front of his new left brogue. He quickly kicks the shoes off & throws them too on Nancy and the tyre. The last thing the shoes see through the flames is Geb walking away. Basically, this show is those shoes.A positives comes in the guise of Stephanie Beatriz, who, without sounding too creepy (especially after the long-winded previous paragraph), is astoundingly beautiful.Conclusion: I'd like to marry Stephanie Beatriz but her show is shite. The sooty lake that is life's juxtaposition ripples through my mind. To be fair, I need to stop smoking weed.
Title, nothing more to say really it's just bad now.


                
Dry humor no longer fun, it was $ wise to die in 5 a good run the actors will suffer sorry guys....only tv show announcers for you now.... sad seen so many times


                
Tried to understand the hype regarding this programme but I just can not comprehend it unfortunately. Personally, I find the delivery and jokes themselves to be immature and stupid. The characters are mostly dislikeable with very few exceptions. Just seems like a stupid stereotypical American humourless 'comedy' that everyone loves. Overhyped


                
