Yeah, that's right... It's not that funny. I don't know how people gave it 10-stars. When I saw the ratings I decided to watch it. I watched 8 episodes and waited for a single good episode but hell I'm disappointed. Comedy in this show is way below average. Actors are terrible. Tbh, I'm not certain which one is more hideous Actors or Script. There is no punch line at all, just lame comedy.
The character, Gina Linetti played by Chelsea Peretti is the most awful one. Her acting can single handily make you hate the show (Believe me It's true). 
Look, man/girl if you're looking for a good comedy show then take this advice - Watch the first episode. If you like it then go for it and if you don't then don't wait for a decent laughable episode because there is no such thing in Brooklyn Nine-Nine for you.


                
Dumb boring homeless. If the fake writing crew of 30 ROCK were pretendeding to write a show this would be the fake show they would pretend to write. Or maybe if SNL wrote a fake parody about a fake show. But basically if you collected all the YouTube comments about a clip of a show like this strung them together then it could be this show. Wink wink nod nod inside joke meme reference. Old joke old joke reference to old joke nod nod etcetera and so forth. This show is just terrible. But not unwatchable terrible. Just awful bad background noise awful. But look at the cast what can you expect? Retreads from every other show no one remembers and that creepy guy from Superbad.


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine offers nothing new to the already bloated comedy shows. The characters have minimal to no growth as the show progresses and the jokes feel repetitive and bland after the initial season or two. The actions in an episode lead to no consequences and change under most circumstances. Though the ensemble as a whole was well cast, and had solid performances, the writing did not help this series. This Andy Samberg led police procedural offers nothing appealing or new and should be avoided.


                
This is probably the least witty popular comedy show I've ever seen. What is considered a joke in this show is eating something you found lying around and pretending it's delicious. I'm not joking. That's the quality of humor you get from this show.There is absolutely nothing witty about it. It is typical dumb goofball humor. Anyone can write a story where a guy is running to get away from his boss and then trips on a trashcan (not a spoiler, just an example of the type of comedy this show emulates). If that's all it takes to write a hit show, then I think we all are a lot more capable of becoming TV writers/creators than we initially thought.In conclusion, if witty humor is something you enjoy, then stay far, far away from this show.


                
I'm at the the point of season 2 where I might just give this show maybe two or three more episodes to pull out of its doldrums. The one bright spot, always, is Terry Crews. He steals every scene he is in. He always does that. In judging this show, consider the time/change for 2014-15. It has been lumped in amongst the cartoons. Which at first I thought was weird but it basically IS a cartoon. Even at that, they might have just kept the show at about the same level of humor as last year but they didn't. Melissa Fumero was a perfect straight foil to Samberg's character, but now she is just a shadow of her former self, mostly lapping at the captain's boots. So far, anyway. And Peretti's character was a high point of the show last year, borderline psychotic, but funny as heck. She is not the same character at all ... like she found her meds or something. I mean, it's okay, but it's definitely lost a good bit of its appeal. If you like poo-poo and pee-pee jokes, that's fine with me. But I'd be surprised if it makes it the entire year.


                
