I respect that different people have different tastes in music, clothes, women, movies etc...but if you are saying that this show is bad I really feel like your sense of humor is lacking. I'm a detective for one of the largest police departments in the country and I will advise everyone that doesn't realize it but this show is closer to how real police go about their day than any of those CSI, or garbage procedural shows. Cops do all that stuff all day...pranking each other, busting balls, trying to have a little fun. The job gets a little heavy sometimes so if we didn't have some fun it would be long days. This show is hilarious and perfectly timed retorts by Braugher and Crews are classic. Its the low key lines that make I hilarious...the over the top cheap laughs are somethkng all shows have to do to please the masses...who are stupid. Pay attention to the underlying comedy...its priceless......."Terry does love yogurt"


                
So I watch a lot of American cop shows like Criminal Minds and Castle, but as much as I love them, sometimes I feel like they're hugely unrealistic and over-dramatised. Brooklyn Nine-nine is a play on those kind of cop shows and it does it spectacularly. Also it even has a more realistic feel than the other cop shows. The writing is genius and the acting is spot on. I haven't seen a show this good in a while. It's funny, clever and endearing. I saw it on the Golden Globes and I'd seen a trailer for it and I was incredibly skeptical when I watched it thinking it'd be one of the awful American spoofs they do. But I was highly surprised making me love it even more!


                
The track record of cop comedies on television is not inspiring. While successful police dramas have ruled the airwaves for decades, the same cannot be said for cop shows that aim for laughs. There are some noticeable exceptions such as "Car 54, Where Are You?" and the very short-lived "Police Squad", but for the most part, it has been hard for show-runners to make crime a funny topic on TV. "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" could have ended up being super broad like "Police Academy: The Series" or "Reno 911", but luckily creators Dan Goor and Michael Schur have made the decision to keep the show somewhat grounded in reality, allowing for viewers to relate to the characters without them becoming complete cartoons. In casting Andy Samberg as the lead, there was the risk of "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" coming across too goofy. However, Samberg is at his career best here as Jake Peralta, a childish and immature detective who just happens to be very good at his profession. Samberg is great at delivering the most ridiculous and silly lines of dialogue without mugging for the camera in the way that some might expect a former "Saturday Night Live" performer to do. Half of what Peralta says is either completely juvenile or inappropriate, but because it never reaches cartoonish or mean-spirited heights, he remains likable and easy-to-root-for. The show may eventually reach a point where it may seem absurd that the character is able to keep his job, though that hasn't occurred yet.If "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" had just been a vehicle for Samberg, the show might have become stale after a few episodes. Wisely, the decision was made to make an ensemble series. It's typical for an ensemble to have one or two characters that aren't quite as funny or interesting as the others, but amazingly, every single character on "Brooklyn-Nine Nine" is excellently performed. Andre Braugher, Chelsea Peretti, Joe Lo Truglio, Melissa Fumero, Stephanie Beatriz, and Terry Crews are all perfectly cast in their respective roles and each have moments where they shine in every single episode. Crews is absolutely hilarious as squad leader Terry Jeffords, especially when the writers are able to make great use out of both his physical strength and priceless facial reactions. In addition to the main ensemble cast, the reoccurring duo of Dirk Blocker and Joel McKinnon Miller as Detectives Hitchcock and Scully, the two worst detectives in the department, are responsible for some of the best jokes of the series thus far. It's also worth noting the writers have made nice use of its guest stars including Craig Robinson, Andy Richter, Stacy Keach, and Dean Winters. Guest stars on sitcoms can be tricky and can often overshadow the episodes as a whole, but "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" almost always makes its guest stars fit organically into the plot in ways that never feel gimmicky or forced.Although there have only been a dozen episodes so far and there is always the chance that the broadness the show-runners have been so good at keeping down may eventually kick in, the series now remains as strong and frequently hilarious as any comedy on television at the moment. There isn't a particular formula that the show gets hung up on every week and more often than not, there seems to be an effort to get in a decent amount of character development by sitcom standards. If Fox is smart enough to keep "Brooklyn-Nine Nine" on for a while, it will almost certainly develop a cult following. If the ratings don't improve and only one season gets produced, at least the series will probably hold the distinction of not having a bad episode in the bunch. 9/10
I tend to have to find things in between a kids show and adult shows so the whole family can watch and not want to pull our hair out listening to Peppa Pig's annoying voice. 99 did the trick for us. We watched the entire 5 seasons over many months and were entertained. I found myself wanting to watch the next episode before it was family time... so I ended up watching some episodes twice.Generally it is a bunch of cops trying to do their jobs. It's less about the situation and more about the dialogue and how it's delivered. The do come out with some serious situations every once in awhile but even then it's handled with the same comedic dialogue as most of the other shows. Very well done, will be waiting for more seasons.


                
Equal parts Mockumentary-style Comedy + Cop Show = A perfect parody of detective shows. The star detective (played by Samberg) winningly carries the lead with charm (if not grace), but as part of a true ensemble cast, carefully crafted iconic roles played well, and all won me over in the first episode. The surprisingly gay new police chief is a riot for how he takes his zany team in stride, breaking character to enjoy their antics, while maintaining a strict iron-faced facade. Rosa, in particular, stands out as 'scary cop' - Stephanie Beatriz will be a breakout star with this role - you can't get enough of her...and if she and Clumsy Mousy Charles get together or even just continue to dance around it, they'll be the best, most hilarious parody of a Will They/Won't They ever! The producers claim to be channeling Barney Miller - a far-fetched chutzpadik claim for people who did NOT produce THAT 70s Show, because rarely have current television producers captured that classic 70s overt brand of comedy, but Brooklyn Nine-Nine has indeed! There's a bit of a Naked Gun feel to it as well, what with the vaguely idiotic running gags and horseplay, but Jake Peralta is sharper (and more competitive) than Frank Drebin - leaving Charles to play the fool for him. When Peralta solves crime, it's not accidental - but neither can you take it very seriously, as even the arrest is more of an SNL skit than a semblance of a cop show arrest. I watched the pilot more out of curiosity (and Samberg fan-girl-ing) then out of any hope I would add this to my roster, but wonder of wonders, this thing actually works! Creative and original "detective" comedy - I'll be watching.I'd recommend this to BOTH people who can't stand cop/detective shows and just want to look down their nose whilst laughing at them, AND to people who love cop/detective shows, so they can learn just how stereotypical, cliché and canned their favorites are.


                
The best Comedy. The acting is superb, the plot is interesting. The first few episodes were weak but from then on the show grew a lot.


                
I'm a late comer here, but I've found myself binge-watching 3 seasons in a week.Really fun show, lovable characters: Holt is a riot, Gina is a queen wolf, Rosa is the best badass character you've ever seen, and of course, Terry steals the show!
My one beef with the show is the character of Jake who starts out adorably immature, but unfortunately with every season, trends towards an irritantly unfunny Ace Ventura copycat.Give the show a watch, and you'll understand why many fans couldn't handle it being cancelled. They were right, we got something fun and unique here!


                
Funny, with a bit of actionAll is their for entertainment, and not too long and complicatedGreat TV show, continue like this :)


                
I'm in love with this show, and I'm not a "tv person". Its the one show that I can watch with my significant other to melt away stress and have a few laughs without having to cave in to shows like Southpark and shows that have become increasingly less appealing the older I get. Is some of the humor childish in Nine-Nine? Yes. But it has a lot of heart. Its not just stupid for the sake of being stupid. You genuinely grow to love all of the characters and their quirks. And to those reviewers who "can't understand Rosa" or whatever --- seriously? Is life so serious that having to understand every single character on a comedy show makes or breaks a show? As if! This is comedy gold. Love it.


                
I don't understand how someone can give this show 2/3 stars, let alone one. If a reviewer says it's that bad, I wish just one of them would have stated what show currently was deserving of 8/9/10 stars....just so I could get an idea of what they find funny. I like the fact that it's sometimes over the top and soooo unlike any of the other shows, ie,...the seriousness of every other cop show out there. EVERY other cop show out there is very serious. They tackle corruption, killings, spousal abuse, drugs, etc...and the detective work involved. The only difference between every other cop show out there is that they are filmed at different locations, with different actors, and had different writers...writing about the same topics.I think Bklyn 9-9's writing is silly, funny, and over the top. The characters mesh perfectly and I sometimes laugh almost as soon as the characters start with their retort. If you are the serious type and can't relax, do not watch the show. If you are constantly evaluating the cop tactics, how the chain of command functions, the way the uniforms look and cop jargon, do not watch the show. If you don't fall into those groups...watch the show.


                
Brooklyn 99 is a surprisingly well-written and expertly performed sitcom. The jokes are delightfully original, the physical comedy is refreshingly new, and the nuanced characters are simply the cherry on top. The best part about the show is how none of the characters' sexualities (which differ widely) ever overshadow their personalities, which is usually the case in most of modern media. The show also addresses some socio-political issues, though only very lightly so. The dialogue is sometimes extremely verbose, and so are the jokes, which may not agree with some viewers, but is completely fine with me.
The characters, as already mentioned, are very well-written, seeming to be simple caricatures of the clichés we have become used to seeing at first, but time and again breathing new air into their roles. The set design is also great, and so are all the rest of the locations, though that has sort of become a given for most modern shows.
My only issue with the show is that, despite being very inventive and clever, it doesn't take any huge risks, choosing to settle back in the comfort of the police procedural format. There are hints of some humongous developments in certain episodes, but the show ultimately rejects to take a giant leap. If that were to improve, I'd gladly give it a full rating.
But don't miss it out at any costs.


                
Funny. As. F**K. Those are the first words that come to mind when you ask me what I think of B99. This hilarious comedy set in Brooklyn's 99th police precinct is definitely one of the funnies show I've ever watched. I especially love (Spoiler Alert) Gina and Charles's relationship that lasted from 'Charges and Specs' (Season 1) to 'The Mole' (Season 2). in that time, they managed to have sex 16 1/3 times. (In the words of Gina Linetti "Don't ask how that happened).This TV show mixes my favourite actor and music artist, Andy Samberg, and an amazingly funny plot in every episode. If you enjoy Brooklyn Nine Nine, I suggest you watch 'Hot Rod' and 'Popstar, Never Stop, Never Stopping.' If you ever go for a snack, just remember that, "Terry Loves Yogurt!"
Pros: 1. Entertaining 2. Characters are likable 3. Situations are laughableCons: 1. Not very intelligent 2. Characters don't develop muchConclusion: It's supposed to be a comedy - not a drama : and true to the comedy genre it makes you laugh. You don't need to apply your brains, just need to sit back and enjoy. I saw the entire season in a single day of which 4 episodes were on a plane & I could feel the stares of my co-passengers as I was giggling to myself all the time. That is what comedy is supposed to be - not logically developed story and characters. Enjoyable.


                
I'm not going to waste a review by explaining why this characters departure will be like a bad co-worker finally leaving the work place. People who watch the show KNOW why someone would want the character gone. This issue aside, the show is just FUN. Occasionally there are episodes that can be too series, but there is always some humor to cut the tension--even if it's brief. Andy Samberg plays a cop much in the vein of 90s Adam Sandler. Serious when need be, but with tendencies to lean towards goofy and optimistic. Terry Crews playing a character that feels like he is largely playing himself in real life--nice, polite, and goofy every time given an opportunity to be. While also, never shying away from being the serious, aggressive character when need be. Andre Braugher playing such a straight laced, by-the-books cop that is very rarely intentionally funny, but almost always in a way that helps make the show work. Amy and Boyle kind of took some time for me to get used to in the first few seasons, but over the years, they really help to round out the cast. If anyone is looking at reviews, and considering watching the show, I HIGHLY recommend it. Just PLEASE, for your own sake, mute or FF ALL of the Gina scenes. Despite the sometimes frequent appearances per episode, skipping them very rarely takes anything away from the plot, if at all.


                
It's a funny TV show, I used to laugh a lot watching 99. But sometimes, jokes are too forced kkkk


                
Oh no! I thought, yet another American cop show where you get screaming police cars, bad guys being shot, lots of knocking on doors and interviewing suspects and then finally the two main characters ( surrounded by 'bit part' faceless actors ) get their man, or woman. Boy was I wrong. After watching the first episode I just couldn't wait for the second. This is nothing like the 'off the shelf' cop show we are used to and this is what I call excellent TV. It's funny on so many different levels, you relate to a multitude of characters and each have different affects on the story line. Take 'FRIENDS' and set that in a gritty police department with comedy that travels well over to the UK and I think this will be the show to watch. I have noticed that some of the 'not so good reviews' have been from the United States, I don't get that. This show will be a classic and if you don't want it we will have it. Absolutely the best show of this type to come out of the states for some time. I cannot wait for season 2.


                
Going into this show, I had very little hope that I would watch for more than a couple of episodes. I'm extremely had to please when it comes to comedies on local TV and Andy Samberg has a way of grating on my nerves. However, I found myself tuning in every week and now patiently waiting for season 2.For some reason when I think about this show, the first thing that comes to mind is the office. This is probably because I loved the office and have been waiting for something to fill the void that Jim, Dwight and Michael left. While this show has only been on 1 season, I see the groundwork being laid for what could be an excellent show.The biggest thing this show has going for it is a strong cast. As I said, Andy Samberg is hit or miss with me but I fell he was the prefect choice to play Jake. Along side Samberg, is Terry Crews, Joe Lo Truglio, and many others. They all have there stereotypes but I love the way each approaches their work differently. Similar to the Office, everyone plays a specific role.The plots for the episodes have also varied greatly allowing different characters to shine. I liked how this wasn't just a bunch of cops sitting around the station. Although it does happen, the characters are able to get out and breathe.With Brooklyn Nine-Nine, there is something to enjoy for everyone. You may not click with all the characters, but there is sure to be one person who you can relate to and enjoy. Season 1 started out good and just got better and better as the season wore on. I think the cast has found their identity and the writers have a feel for what works. This show has a bright future and I can't wait to see what comes next.


                
i really liked this show.This is a cop comedy,very witty show.The cast is great and almost every episode has something unique and interesting. This is possibly the first TV show where i like all the characters.They are all great and funny.This show is a perfect parody of other detective shows.The acting is great .It's very refreshing something like this to watch,because almost every show is about violence,murders,sex...nothing of that here.I missed this-just plain humor and jokes and yes no background laughing audience.Huge plus from me,i really started hating that.Andy Samberg is great for his lead role,but others are also important and interesting and funny.All in all worth watching.Give it a try.I recommend this show.


                
This is an incredibly funny comedy. although it's probably not suitable for people over 26-ish. Andy delivers the comedy incredibly well and leaves me wanting more after each episode. i also trust that this show will be going on for a while considering the variety of the characters. But as i mentioned earlier it's not suitable for people around 29 or higher. it obviously has to do with the main character Andy, he also stares in a band named The lonely island. This band has many perhaps "childish" songs. Another thing is how i like that there is no "laughing audience" in the background like most shows have. It really intensifies the awkwardness which comes with the inappropriate jokes. By the way this show is nothing like the big bang theory so stop comparing it to it please.


                
A great police series that is not like all the other great series. Something different.


                
If you liked Scrubs, you'll like this one. Very funny, similar characters and situations, but police instead of medical. Great show!


                
I love brooklyn nine nine , but it just there're many boring episodes especially in season 2 and 3 maybe the 5th as well , season 1 was really AWESOME ..
ps : Gina is so irritating , I hate the way she talks !!


                
This is one of the funniest shows I've seen!
Samberg is really good with the Jake Parelta character, it's like he was made for this.I don't get how people say this is not funny, the jokes are right on, the friendships and pranks between the guys are great and really funny, everyone should watch this show!


                
Super funny, full of good humor. This is a show that i hope never ends. i laught all the time. i just don't give 10 stars because that two fat voops are absurdly dumbs and the last episodes was much more romantic than funny


                
I have been watching this show since the pilot and never gets old. The cast is great. The writing is suburb.Ever episode is a banger. Watch it, you won't hate it.


                
