Quite easily among the best-written comedies of all time. The razor-sharp wit and the superbly crafted word-play will have you both laughing out loud and oooohing and aaaahing in appreciation. Yes Minister tracks the day jobs of its three pivotal characters: Jim Hacker, the honorable Minister of the Dept of Administrative Affairs, his Permanent Secretary Sir Humphrey Appleby and his Private Sct, Bernard.In each episode, the somewhat idealistic (though exceedingly publicity-hungry) Minister tries to reform govt in one way or the other, but is blocked by his Permanent Sct, Sir Humphrey. Though this comedy is based on the British system of govt, I think the problems presented have universal appeal and so it would be appreciated by Americans, in fact by people of all nationalities.The highlight of the comedy, in my mind, is the brilliant script, esp the lines Sir Humphrey delivers when he wishes to "talk a lot but say nothing". Nigel Hawthorne's acting is Grade A material and a treat to watch.For those of you who enjoy wordplay, a somewhat cererbral comedy, or are simply an official in one or the other branch of govt, don't miss this one.


                
I really do not have words to describe this masterpiece! This must be kept as the series to compare with! Excellent writing and excellent acting! I'm a huge, HUUUUGE fan of YES MINISTER (and YES PRIME MINISTER of course). If you are even a bit interested about politics, you will adore it! I think you will adore it even if you are not! This is British humor at its absolute best!


                
Yes Minister is Britain after three hundred years of Democracy.As an assessment of Democracy it is hard to surpass, and so I believe that every one studying for a degree in political science should watch this serial, or better still, read the books.I watched this programme with my parents who are civil servants (in India), and they tell me that every bit is true.If one had to nitpick, then I should observe that the initial episodes had more of a serious strain than the later ones. They are better because they concentrate on the politics, rather than on the comedy as is the case in the later episodes. Yes Minister became massively popular very quickly, and so the authors naturally tried to enhance its comic appeal. The last few episodes are a bit feeble in comparison to the initial ones, though they are, of course, still much, much better than any other television comedy.Crossman's diaries are the real antecedents of this programme, and some of the incidents, such as moving the contents of the in tray to the out tray come directly from Crossman. This is the best programme on television that I have seen, and the the standard by which one should judge all others.


                
I first saw Yes Minister when I was about eight. Even then I could see some of the humour that would lead me to fall in love with it years later, but I had no idea that I would to such a degree. Paul Eddington plays the Rt. Hon. James Hacker MP, Cabinet Minister in charge of the department of Administrative Affairs. He comes to his position high minded and full of ideals, only to find them being compromised as he finds that he is merely a cog in something far bigger, something he has little, and at times no control over. This bigger entity is humanised in the form of Machievellian Permanent Secratery Sir Humphery Appelby ( a brilliant Nigel Hawthorne ), who opposes the Minister on every turn with the power of the Civil Service behind him. Switiching sides as he sees fit is Hacker's Principal Private Secretary, Bernard Wooley ( Derek Fowlds, who's great ), a high flier who's job is to stand by Hacker, but who's future lies with Sir Humphery and the Civil Service. The great thing about this show is that although Hacker is weak, cowardly and vote-grubbing, you cannot help but pity him as his ideals and principles become distorted and disappear completely due to the brutal pragmatism placed on him not only by Appelby and the Civil Service but also his own Cabinet colleagues. A must for any one studying a Social Science.


                
I love the way the writers, Anthony Jay and Jonathon Lynn, wrote the characters of Jim Hacker and Sir Humphrey Appleby. Jim is shown to be a weak, indecisive politician eager to change his mind to keep the voters happy, yet the audience love him. Humphrey is shown as a dominating, power-mad, scheming civil servant and yet the audience love him too! It's wonderful. And of course poor Bernard who is stuck in the middle, always a little unsure as to where his loyalties lie. As well as the excellent writing, the programmes wouldn't work without the wonderful talent of Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds. After watching just one or two episodes one thinks that the actors were born to play their parts! A must for future politicians!


                
I first discovered "Yes Minister" by accident, while flipping channels.  I came across A&E (this was the mid 80's) and there were several British comedies, much like my local PBS station.  Two of these shows stood out; "Blackadder" and "Yes Minister""Yes Minister" is the supremely witty and genuinely funny portrayal of the battle of the Ministerial Will and the Administrative Won't.  The characters were highly developed and hilariously funny.  Paul Eddington was a master of timing (illustrated beautifully in a sketch on "A Bit of Fry and Laurie") and Nigel Hawthorne was an expert with verbal humor.  Derek Fowlds was the junior civil servant, caught in the middle.  As such, he often got some of the best lines, while showing his befuddlement. The writing was a triumph; extremely intelligent and delightfully witty. The supporting characters were always well rounded and memorable.  The situations rang true, because they were true.  The creators have stated that they did their research by taking various important people to lunch.  They were able to glean the most amazing stories from those lunches.  For example, in the episode, "The Moral Dimension," the British set up a situation room at a reception in an Arab country.  Since Islam forbids alcohol, they use the situation room to smuggle in alcohol.  Throughout the night, the British receive messages from Mr. Haige, John Walker, and the Russian official Smirnoff.  According to Jonathan Lynn, this actually occurred.The series rings true for the US, as well.  All you have to do is substitute a President, cabinet secretaries, and Congress; and then use the same situations.  Bureaucracy is pretty much the same in any government.Thankfully, the complete series is now available, in the US, on DVD.  It should be required viewing for every civics and political science class.


                
"Yes, Minister" was an impeccably written, masterfully witty British political satire.The late Paul Eddington was very funny as James Hacker, a bumbling minister who is constantly at odds with his civil servant, Sir Humphrey Appleby, played masterfully by Oscar winner Nigel Hawthorne.This show provided perhaps the most insightful and interesting look behind the scenes of the British, or any political system. This show gives new meaning to the saying, "Red Tape."It's a shame it's not on in the US much anymore, but it's still available on video.


                
This series is simply the best political comedy ever. From first hand experiences not with the british but the european administration and from my studies of political science I can pledge the satire to be really, really sharp. The dialogues are superb and I simply love the characters. Sir Humphrey is unbeatable. As a fellow writer already commented a must see for everyone into politics.


                
I was very happy when I saw "Yes, Minister" available on DVD. It used to run on YTV here in Canada a few years back, and I would try to catch it whenever I could. To have the entire series in one DVD set is an excellent addition to my collection.The show itself concerns Jim Hacker, the Minister of Administrative Affairs and his staff. Paul Eddington is fantastic as the hapless Hacker. His staff includes Humphrey Appleby and Bernard Wooley. Of the few roles I have seen Nigel Hawthorne in, I would have to say that this was by far his best ever. He portrays a civil servant who really truly believes that it is he and not the Minister that runs the department, with perfection. Derek Fowlds is also brilliant as Bernard, the dry-witted personal secretary.The show, despite it's obvious comic content, gave a very real portrait of the bureaucratic red tape that almost all government has. I find the exchanges between Hacker and Humphrey hilarious, as poor Jim can never understand what it is Humphrey is saying, as a result of Sir Humphrey's very proper and precise English. Bernard also supplies some great lines as well."Yes, Minister" is definitely one of the Top 10 all-time greatest comedies. The next purchase I will be making is the "Yes, Prime Minister" DVD set.Rating: 10 out of 10
JIM HACKER: Bernard, Sir Humphrey is not God!BERNARD WOOLLEY: Will you tell him or shall I?When I first saw 'Yes Minister' many moons ago, my initial reaction was: "This will never catch on. It is too good.". Making fun of politicians on television was not new then, of course - 'T.W.3' ( which Antony Jay contributed to ) did it two nearly decades earlier - but this was, I think, the first time anyone had done it on this scale, albeit with fictional rather than real ones. The premise is this; the well-meaning but naive Jim Hacker ( Paul Eddington ) is appointed Minister of Administrative Affairs. Though he has sound ideas, such as cutting government waste and ending bureaucracy, he is undermined at every turn by Sir Humphrey Appleby ( Nigel Hawthorne ). Jim is basically a figurehead, the real power lies with unelected civil servants. The show got much comic mileage out of the elusive gobbledegook spouted by politicians, and skilfully avoided naming Jim's party. but I think there was no doubt in anyone's mind as to which one it was. The superb titles featured caricatures of the cast done in his inimitable style by Gerald Scarfe. Ronnie Hazlehurst's theme was suitably bombastic, if a little similar to the one he did for 'To The Manor Born'. Along with Jay, the other writer was Jonathan Lynn, an ex-cast member ( and contributing writer to ) L.W.T.'s 'Doctor' series. Together they came up with some outstandingly literate scripts, which were then impeccably delivered by the cast. Hawthorne's 'Sir Humphrey' in particular was a marvellous comic creation, being charming and sinister at the same time. Hacker's habit of turning into Churchill regularly creased me up. Derek Fowlds likewise was hilarious as 'Bernard Woolley', who, while not actually stupid had an unfortunate habit of saying the wrong thing at the wrong time.The show caught on, won dozens of awards ( particularly for Hawthorne ), and was a surprise hit in Australia. I suppose that it was because politicians are much the same wherever you go.I do not know how accurate this depiction of British politics is. If, as was alleged, Ministers are nothing more helpless puppets in the hands of skillful manipulators such as Sir Humphrey, then the democracy in which we live is a sham. This subversive ( not to say depressing ) message could not have hit home with the then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who pronounced herself a fan, and even participated in a specially-written sketch at which Mary Whitehouse was in attendance. Eddington and Hawthorne were not keen to do it, apparently, feeling she was exploiting the show's success. One of the best episodes was 'Skeleton In The Cupboard' in which Sir Humphrey's involvement in an old scandal comes to light. It was fun to see the tables turned for once, as poor Humph breaks down in front of the Minister. In another, Jim and Humph were at a reception in the Middle East ( where alcohol is not allowed ) and kept sneaking off to a fake communications rooms to imbibe. But easily the best episode was 'Party Games', an extended special which finally propelled Hacker into No.10. Everything about it, from Jim using a minor issue ( the E.U.'s renaming of sausages ) as a crusade to the blackmailing of potential Prime Ministerial candidates, felt right. Ludovic Kennedy obviously struggled to keep a straight face during the interview.Three seasons were made, followed by a sequel 'Yes, Prime Minister' which was, in my view, not as good. Eddington and Hawthorne are sadly no longer with us, but fortunately the repeats are. Unlike other sitcoms of the period, this has not in any way 'dated'. Its themes are as relevant as ever.With all the hoo-ha over honours recently, it seems strange no-one has questioned as to how Jay got a knighthood ( as well as co-writing 'Minister', he also penned speeches for Thatcher ) while Lynn did not. Surely he is just as responsible for the show's success? Perhaps him being openly left-wing had something to do with it.I will leave the last word to an outraged 'Points Of View' letter-writer. When the first season was being repeated, he/she wrote to Barry Took's show to complain, adding: "If this is the way the country is being run, I would rather not know about it!".
Yes, Minister and its successor Yes, Prime Minister managed the difficult trick of being extremely humorous, intelligent, and relevant, all at once. With the exception of a very few dated references, most episodes are as relevant today as they were when they were made -- quite a trick! If you want to know how parliamentary democracy *really* works (as opposed to the theoretical details they teach in school), this program will teach it to you, and provide plenty of laughs at the same time. Another nice touch is the fact that in the series, the deck isn't entirely stacked against Jim Hacker, and he does occasionally put one over on Sir Humphrey. Some of the shows greatest moments are listening to some of the incredibly long strings of government-ese gobbledegook that Nigel Hawthorne delivers with such aplomb. Perhaps the greatest thing that could be said about the program is that apparently both politicians and bureaucrats considered its portrayal of "the other side" as dead-on accurate.


                
This one sneaks up on you. As I have little knowledge of, or interest in British politics, I didn't really expect to like this when it first appeared on my local PBS, but I soon found myself rolling in the aisles. Paul Eddington(the Minister)is one the funniest actors you'll ever watch. His expressions are priceless as he struggles to process the verbal splendor of his Permanent Secretary, the staggering Nigel Hawthorne. Those familiar with Sir Nigel in the heart-tugging Madness of King George may be surprised to find that he can move you to laughter as well as tears, and frankly, Hawthorne has never been so ravishing as he is here.


                
Yes minister is true genius. I wonder how the writers came up with such excellent plots. I could never at any point feel anything overdone, the satire was perfect. Acting: just too good... Paul Eddington with his expressions, Sir Nigel with his dialogs. The comedy is quite subtle in a way that one would never feel at any point to laugh out loud and then think back at that incident and realize the act as being foolish, the only realization is that this is pure genius. I haven't heard a soul who has watched yes minister and said this was boring and in case if it is boring then the person should really grow up and mature before he is again 'exposed' to the series.One of the best works from the English. I suggest that this series will really help one in his personal life as well by realizing the stark reality of the Evils inherent in a human being


                
Attention Monty Python fans, this series if you've never seen it, will make you feel as if you've uncovered a hidden cache of British Comedy Treasure. Absolutely brilliant early 80s sitcom that chronicles the subsurface machinations of high level government. Eddington plays a cabinet minister who is the perfect embodiment of the modern politician. High in ideals, but forever made human by ambition, partisan backbiting, concession making and opinion poll obsession. His antagonist is the Permanent Secretary, Sir Humphrey, played by Hawthorne, who IS Machiavelli in 20th century apparel. Fowlds plays the foil and serves mostly as the tennis net to the two men, and their conflicting goals. The writing just cant be praised enough, and in true British fashion, derives most of the laughs when it dissects, and deftly rearranges the English language. Eddington is incredible as the bumbling minister. I've heard John Cleese say that what makes good comedy is not necessarily the joke, or situation, but how the fingered character reacts to his circumstance. This show illustrates the concept expertly. Eddington produces genuine belly laughs simply from facial contortions and incoherent ejaculations. Think how often that doesn't work and how rarely its even attempted any longer. Hawthorne is good but not as, he sometimes flails with the material and completely hams the comedy. His character is at its best when it deadpans irony. There's a zillion of these shows and in my viewing thus far, I've barely scratched the surface. Yet each I've seen is phenomenal.


                
It's hilarious. The best comedy I've seen so far with amazingly constructed dialogs. The actors have impeccable timing. And how Nigel Hawthrown can say those freaking complex, nonsical yet logically connected sentences is a miracle.You can see that this is an 80s show but lots of the subjects are still HotTopics today. It's amazing that over 20+ years, politics haven't changed that much. Therefore my favorite quote is: "lots of activity ... aiming at achieving absolutely nothing." By the way, the foreign office honor GCMG, stands for -God Calls Me God-, apparently still exists. Doesn't this say it all :-)


                
The three excellent actors, Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds, in those two long running (several if not many years) mini series, are absolutely flabbergasting.The subject is simple. Jim Hacker, a Member of Parliament, becomes minister and later he will become prime minister. Banal. But what is less banal is the encounter of this newly appointment minister and later prime minister with the permanent secretary of his ministry first, Sir Humphrey, and cabinet secretary later when Jim Hacker moves to 10 Downing Street.Sir Humphrey, a knighted civil servant, is the most beautiful exemplar of the civil service functionaries: red tape, corporatism, elitism, systematic maneuvers and manipulations of ministers, prime ministers and other political officials to make them do what they, the civil servants, want them, the ministers and prime ministers, to do on any subject.And the subjects evoked in these numerous episodes of this political saga are quite evocative of corruption and aristocratism if not feudalism, and at the same time marvelously funny. It is true Bernard, the private secretary of Jim Hacker, a civil servant too but with a corrosive sense of black humor, is always there for a side remark that is superbly funny, like when the French President is trying to smuggle a dog into Great Britain in his diplomatic luggage, suitcase, briefcase or whatever. And Bernard to suggest a "doggy bag".At the same time this wit, this humor, this brilliant never ending linguistic, situational and existential irony, sarcasm or fun deals with fundamental problems.First of all the dictatorship of the civil service. The top civil servants are paid more than the ministers and prime ministers they serve and as such, as much as out of a feudal tradition, they are knighted and pretend to really manage the country in any way possible. This red tape defending privileges and rejecting the people into some kind of distant mist is a real problem in any democracy where politicians change but civil servants do not.Then education, real estate speculation, military expenditures and waste, foreign shady business if not plain behind the scene affairs, terrorism, the health service, the press and its passive or active manipulation or being manipulated in all directions possible, the blackmail of the ministers by the civil service or of the civil servants by the ministers, religion, universities, culture and so many other real concrete problems turned into a farce by the civil service and turned into a grotesque episode of political bravery by the politicians.This political satire and these caustic misrepresenting burlesque parodies of real life are a masterpiece in the field and is duly signed BBC. That kind of burlesque is no longer possible anywhere in the world with that finesse, that bright expertise and it is able to shame any other attempt from anywhere in the world because it is absolutely flippant and foolish but on subjects that are hefty and heavy and the moral of the story is not just fun but it is also ethics, ethical behavior and how it is possible to mend that frozen system into some thawing action.There is one limit and apparently only one: the queen and the crown and the royal family, royalty (but of course not royalties) and the monarchy are not supposed even to be evoked in any funny way. The rare mentions of the crown are always to remind us this crown is the standard by which ethics should be measured, the model for all politicians, the norm of all action.Of course the Queen is in no way present, even as a picture in these episodes, and her only appearances is a few times as a stamp on a letter, and no close-up view of it, of course not.Enjoy that marvelous buffoonery that is as light as air and as deep as the sea.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
I'd never seen these shows when they ran, so finding them now was a big surprise and a disappointment too that this quality of humor is apparently no longer available. By the time the series moved onto Yes Prime Minister it was beginning to creak - but even that creak was so much better than the top sitcoms today like Only Fools and Horses.Watching each episode was also an education in politics. And I think good satire should do that - not just amuse but also inform.This is humor that doesn't talk down to the viewer so you have to keep on your toes. Every now and then the writers 'explain' a joke just in case you missed it, but mostly you're expected to get the humor and be up to the ironies without aids.Great performances, GREAT scripts, and a real pleasure to watch.


                
This British series has been a perennial favourite in Canada, where I saw it, due no doubt to the similar Parliamentary form of government.  Nigel Hawthorne, as the consummate slippery civil servant, is wonderful, a perfect foil for the politician on the make played by Paul Eddington.  On of my favorite exchanges involved the Minister berating his Permanent Secretary for some particularly cynical manipulation:  "If you believe that, Humphrey, then when you die, you will go to Hell."  A suitably awful pause, then Humphrey smoothly replies, "Ah, Church of England question."  There never really were any heroes in this series - everyone had a price.  The writers' message seemed to be that contact with politics would always involve touching pitch, and in the words of Falstaff, "this pitch, as ancient authors do report, doth defile."  But the wit and cleverness of this series could make even corruption something to laugh at.


                
In my humble opinion, all things considered, this is one of the most original, consistently well-acted, deftly scripted television series ever conceived. The tenor perfectly matches the (at times) patent idiocy of bureaucracy, and its self-serving purpose, the bane of many a well-meaning politician and social reformist. Eddington performs newly appointed cabinet minister Jim Hacker to the tee, ostensibly appointed for his meek, seemingly compliant approach, his sudden elevation sees him start to consider preposterous fantasies like 'making a difference' and 'representing his constituency', much to the chagrin of his permanent secretary (Hawthorne), assigned to keep the Minister out of trouble. Throughout his initiation, Hacker is bullied and corralled by his 'advisors', the distinguished quintessential manipulator, Sir Humphrey Appleby, himself nurturing the younger, naive adviser Bernard (Fowlds) in the dark art of creating red tape.Highlights include the hospital without patients, but hundreds of administrative staff on the payroll, the nude-badger protest and Hacker's temerity in attempting to make the annual public service honours list dependent upon productivity improvements. Quotable dialogue that is priceless (CMG = call me God, GCMG = God calls me God) and has spawned countless expressions used amongst fans and public servants (in a jocular fashion, of course), still remains some of the best ever written for the small screen.This series was said to have been Prime Minister Thatcher's favourite, and perhaps in spite of her reputed absent sense of humour, her taste in this instance, is faultless. Might not appeal to those who take no interest in political satire, but should entertain those who appreciate an intelligent, sophisticated comedy that is possibly close to flawless. It's follow-up series "Yes Prime Minister", while still sharp, lacks the important dimension of Hacker (and Appleby) positioning himself in the party caucus, a void that is filled by a female adviser, and stiff competition for the once supreme Sir Humphrey.


                
From what I know, this is the best TV show I ever saw. Intelligent, complex for a comedy, extremely funny, and excellent acting obviously. Its a classic show, and I hope we have more like these.It is quite sad that this show has received little attention in north America. It played when I was younger in Canada, but few people noticed. Still, in Grad school in political science in the USA, professors and I were able to expose students to such an intelligent and relatively accessible show. Most students loved it! A must for any student of politics. I strongly recommend this show to everyone with interest in politics.


                
Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister were the wittiest and cleverest sit-coms ever. Sadly, there is simply nothing these days to compare with them. The casting of Paul Eddington, Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds was absolutely brilliant. Whilst Sir Humphrey invariably has the upper hand it is delightful when Jim Hacker occasionally gets the better of him, the best episode being where Sir Humphrey has his wings clipped and is locked out 10 Downing Street. The look on his face when he's forced to try to gain entry via a window and Jim Hacker's comment 'Oh, look there's Humphrey' cracks me up every time I see it. Like Dad's Army it remains one of those series that never dates.


                
I have been watching the box set of all three series. This is a fabulous comedy. Much forgotten in the '100 Best' type programs.James Hacker (Paul Eddington) is the slightly vague and much bumbling Minister for Administrative Affairs (yikes!!). He is torn between self, country, party and government (civil service). His permanent secretary & Civil servant, Sir Humphrey Appleby (Nigel Hawthorne) spends most of his time trying to stop the minister from actually doing any work or implementing policy as it will mean change, redundancies, effort and actual work. He very cleverly uses the system to prevent the minister's new policies and plans with the result that absolutely nothing ever gets done much to Hackers bemusement and frustration.The frightening thing about this program is that, even though it is 25ish years old it still rings absolutely true about how the system of government in Britain (and many others as they are mostly based on the British system) work. The only thing that dates this program are the clothes and cars.If you like cleverly written comedy with subtle asides and jokes then this is for you. If you are interested I politics then this is a fabulous training aid.A fantastic watch that I would recommend to new viewers and those that have long forgotten about the series.


                
Paul Eddington must have wondered whether he had a fairy godmother when he finished the top-rated comedy series of the 70's to walk into...well...the top-rated comedy series of the 80's. Talent will out, that's all I can say.First-class observations of civil service practise and government double-speak, coupled with a stonking cast, made this tale of a newly-elected government minister who is led a merry dance by his Machiavellian chief of staff, the thinking man's comedy of the early Thatcher years.The idea of a Ministry for Administrative Affairs isn't as ridiculous as it sounds, and its remit to cut government expenditure is on practically every party manifesto; but no minister ever had to deal with Sir Humphrey Appleby, who became a by-word for a decade, who sees it as his sworn duty to maintain that paragon of civil service states: the status quo.As with many series, it went on just a tad too long; it's tough, even for the best writers, to come up with red-tape jokes forever - and 'Yes Prime Minister' was definitely a white paper too far - but, for the first 2 years or so, it was a great show: witty, incisive; and, above all, *intelligent*.


                
Yes Minister is probably the most intelligent and well-produced sitcom of all time surpassing even Arrested Development, Archer and Spaced. It will never replace Spaced in my affections but is still laugh out loud funny.Written decades ago it is still relevant topical and fresh. It could have been made last week.Performances are uniformly spot on.I suppose that one might argue that the series has one comparatively weak episode in the whisky priest but even Yes Minister's weak episodes are good. And, lets be honest, even Shakespeare wrote Two Gentlemen of Verona.This series deserves another broadcast so the new generation can discover it.


                
Yes, Minister explained the intricacies about life as a member of parliament. Paul Eddington CBE (The Good Life) is the minister of parliament elected by his district or constituency. His new adviser is played by the brilliant Sir Nigel Hawthorne and Derek Fowlds is also brilliant in his role. The cast and crew did a remarkable job in trying to entertain and yet inform it's audiences all about the politics in their government at the Parliament. Much like a good situation comedy, the show is smart and funny without talking down to the audience. This show explains the importance of voting and taking part in elections. Tim Russert probably loved this show since he loved politics and we miss him so much. It's still a show worth watching for kids and adults. Maybe kids in Briton could enjoy and understand the policies of their own government by watching this show and appreciate their member of parliament more.


                
