I HATED this movie. I hated everything about it.Oh, look at me, I'm an armchair-existentialist. I hate my crummy boring life. I hate my job. I hate my wife. I am such a pathetic loser. Gee, I'm going to lose my job. Oh woe is me! Oh, wait, here's something interesting - a teenage girl! And what's this? Marijuana! Hey great! Now I'm a middle-aged go-nowhere jobless pothead fantasizing about having sex with teenagers. Oh yes, THIS is the life. THIS is the epitome of "BEING ALIVE!" I have truly found the meaning of life.Whoa, check out that piece of garbage! It's like, totally floating in the wind. This is the greatest thing ever. Nevermind man's great achievements - never mind the symphony. Nevermind great architecture. Nevermind medicine and technology. Nevermind invention. Nevermind conquering the land, the sea, the mountains, the valleys, the depths of the oceans, the vasts of space. What's truly wonderful is trash in the wind.You see, TRUE beauty is in mediocrity. Wait.. wait... no that doesn't sound right. Instead, let's call it "simplicity". That's better. Yes, worship the... *ahem* the simplicity of nature. Worship trash, not greatness. Worship drug abuse, not working. Worship laziness and prurient interests, not ambition and tenacity."I guess I could be pretty -expletive- off about what happened to me, but it's hard to stay mad when there's so much beauty in the world." Or, in simpler terms, it's easy to convince yourself of your own self-worth when you place value on common garbage. Why? Because when you say that garbage is beautiful, looking at yourself in comparison isn't so bad. Yay, I feel so much better about myself now that I'm living under this bong-clouded delusion. Apathy doesn't seem so apathetic when you've devalued everything! This was a story about a loser, who KNEW he was a loser, but rather than do anything about it, he instead deluded himself into believing that he was something more BY LOWERING HIS STANDARD OF JUDGMENT. No different than if he were a C student in school that made himself feel better by saying that C's are the same thing as A's. It's nonsense. It's utter nonsense.American Beauty is horrible. It is, without a doubt, one of the single worst stories ever written. You want to know why? You want to know what is so utterly messed up about the principle it espouses? When you place value on garbage, when you find "beauty" in everything, BEAUTY LOSES ITS MEANING. When EVERYTHING is beautiful, NOTHING is. And you know what happens then? Congratulations - you've killed man's sense of values. You've killed his capacity to recognize greatness or to achieve it.If you set up standards of achievement open to all, to the least, to the most inept - you stop the impetus to effort in all men, great or small. You stop all incentive to improvement, to excellence, to perfection.And that's EXACTLY what happened to the "protaganist" (although it makes me want to spit acid to even call him that) in American Beauty. That movie worships the exact thing that it was - trash.
Kevin Spacey is a genius, or at least a veritable magician.  A couple of the folks with whom I saw "American Beauty" said afterwards: "It was great - Spacey was incredible."  His performance, it seems, is enough to have convinced people that they had just watched a decent movie, even though there is little else to recommend the film.  The other significant plus is the advertising campaign - marketing it as "a funny drama" and "a moving comedy" is an ingenious way of disguising the fact that it is neither. Since there are only two or three really good laughs in the piece it isn't really funny enough to be a comedy (but since it's written by someone who used to work on "Cybill", that's hardly a surprise) and since it only gets vaguely dramatic towards the end, it doesn't maintain the atmosphere of a "drama".  But the audience happily accepts this schizophrenic mess because the adverts told them to.  The adverts also told them to "Look closer". Again, this is a tip-top marketing ploy, since it implies hidden depth, significance and meaning, without the content actually being there.  The average audience member is going to think "Wow, that plastic bag blowing around must be really poignant, because this is a DEEP movie."  Heaven forbid that they should actually think for themselves.  Look closer, indeed.What then, of the characters?  Well, what characters?  Every one on display here is little more than a stereotype, from  fortysomething midlife crisis guy, to the uptight career-driven wife, to their moody teenage daughter to the moody teenage boy, to the homophobic soldier who - gasp - turns out to be gay, etc etc etc.  Take the gay couple across the street, for example. They are only around for two or three scenes, and only then to provoke some more bigotry from Lieutenant Colonel Asskicker.  They might as well have been two cardboard cut outs labelled "Gay" for all that they were able to develop.  I know they are only supporting characters, but if you're going to do a movie which tackles the issue of homosexuality, you could at least have some believable homosexual characters in it, rather than 2-D cliches.This is indicative of the whole, ghastly, contrived nature of this film. Characters don't feel like characters because they don't behave in an even remotely plausible manner, they don't behave consistently, and they seem to stumble through from one set-piece to the next.  For example, Spacey getting a job at Happy Burgers; sure, that's amusing, but the whole thing is engineered just so he can catch his wife out, and then it's dropped.  It doesn't fit in with any discernible character arc, but is simply contrived to get a cheap laugh.  What about Ricky Fitts at the beginning?  You've just moved into a new neighbourhood, you sell drugs but you have an incredibly strict father, and you notice your new next door neighbour at a party.  Do you A) introduce yourself, chat to the guy, find out if he's the sort who will report you to the police etc. before making your move or B) march right up and offer the dope to him there and then because it expedites the action? Or how about the daughter's friend towards the end of the movie.  You're 16 years old, you've just had a blazing row with your best friend, and your car is parked outside.  Do you A) run off, leave the house asap, and drive straight home, or B) slink off downstairs and hang around interminably just in case Kevin Spacey shows up to carry out his perverted, sub-Lolita fantasy?  I could go on all day...The direction is, dare I say it, directionless.  Sam Mendes should stick to his so-called risque theatre productions at the Donmar Warehouse.  His debut film, as I have intimated, reeks of incoherence.  In addition to the tonal uncertainty, there is no clear directorial vision.  The only memorable images are borrowed from "Blue Velvet" and "Lolita", the rest of the time it seems to be left to the cast to try to carry the picture, whether through Bening's OTT hyperactivity or Wes Bentley understatement.  When you look at "The Straight Story", or "The Insider", or even "The Sixth Sense", it galls me to think that this has been nominated for Best Direction...That this movie is so highly rated by critics, IMDb users, and Oscar personnel, is a great shame, because ultimately its success is a testament to people's stupidity.  A (substantial) crowd of non-thinking buffoons, easily satisfied by the occasional cheap laugh and a couple of relatively strong performances have been sold a complete lemon.  This film is not deep. There is no coherent philosophical notion of either truth or beauty evident.  A few shots of Ricky Fitts looking sullen and waving his camcorder around do not, I'm afraid, amount to a radical thesis on the nature of the world.  And nothing can get over the contrived, episodic nature of this D-grade screenplay.Someone earlier on this comments page claimed that they could not like anyone who didn't love "American Beauty", for it would mean that they have no soul.  Well babe, by the same token, I will proudly say that anyone who does like this movie can't be my friend, because they clearly have no brain. Look closer everyone, I implore you.  Frankly, "American Pie" is a more profound movie.  Dump this rubbish and go and see "The Insider".  Think for yourself, if you're able...My rating: 3 (/10)
Someone put it best in one of the reviews I read earlier: This movie is exactly the result of people trying to make a so-called art movie and still win the best picture oscar. American Beauty shamelessly trots out every imaginable convention of what an art movie is and then glosses it over with cute shooting, a relatively short run time and face pace. It says virtually nothing about any of the supposedly unusual or profound content that ostensibly is its subject matter. Apparently issues of would-be gravity making cameo apperaances constitutes a profound social comment. It is a great jumble of clichés (spoilers here maybe): The neurotic wife, the homophobic army man (That he turns out to be gay is not of any consequence since anything serious is not given attention in the film, it is a cute afterthought. Though it would be a serious point if this movie had anything to do with reality)The white collar dick with a mid-life crisis, the artist who sees beauty where no one else can, the pretending promiscuous cheerleader. Are there any characters that aren't stock? I cant believe anyone commented that this is in any way realistic. This is not a portrayal of of American life. In reality the teenager with an abusive psychotic homicidal father does not have 40,000$ and cannot conveniently run away to his friends in NYC. The middle-aged man unjustly fired from his job does not conveniently have information he can use to blackmail his bosses for 60,000$ and live happily ever after. Living in a duplex as a teenager is nothing resembling duress; that would be living on less that one U.S. dollar a day as millions of people do. This could easily qualify as propaganda: When you are rich you dont have to worry, your problem is only that you are not looking "beneath the surface" to see the true hedonistic beauty that life is really made of. Well I agree that this beauty does exist. Unfortunately though I am going to burst the bubble of one of the supposedly most profound scenes in the movie: The plastic bag. Look closer, they say, and you will see the beauty in reality. Yes! but this is not reality! Plastic Bags do not blow in circles for 15 minutes. That scene could practically never have occurred in nature; Im sorry I did look closer and it was so obviously being manipulated off camera that it was absurd. That sums up the movie fairly: Look at what we call beauty, we say it is natural but we are really manipulating it. If wind machines (or whatever they are technically called) are really the wind then this movie is really based in reality. Sam Mendes and Alan (whatever his last name is, the writer) are daring the viewer to be as dumb and gullible as they hope they can be. And to my amazement they succeed. If we throw together a whole bunch of artistic clichés and it doesnt make sense to you then you are dumb. Anyone who has a modicum of sanity and any concept of criticism has seen this movie as the charade it is and I stand firmly in their camp. I literally exclaimed out loud (though I was by myself) "What the F**k??!!" at the beginning when Kevin Spacey says "In a way I am already dying (paraphrased)". It is the zenith of self-consciously pseudo-profound inanity.Disclaimer for the inflammatory nature of this post: This is really just intended to be a rant as I am insensed at how many people cant see this movie for what it really is. I am not trying to analyze this movie in a deliberate or cogent way. If any wants me to argue more clearly then email me. And you will get a more thoughtful earful than this.
Now, let me see if I've gotten this straight: "Saving Private Ryan", an epic tale of honor, glory, and sacrifice set against the backdrop of what was possibly the most important single day of the Twentieth Century, was not worthy of the Best Picture Oscar.However, "American Beauty", a movie whose heroes are a middle-aged pedophile who casually endangers the future of his family, and the next-door drug dealer who finds "beauty" in people getting their brains blown out, is.I see."American Beauty" might work as satire if 1.) it weren't telling us something we've KNOWN for fifty years - that the suburbs are not this perfect, "Ozzie and Harriet" world of smiling, white-bread people - and 2.) if the characters depicted in the movie were in any way REALISTIC. Instead, "American Beauty" is a parade of the most tiresome Hollywood cliches of the 1990s. I don't care how pathetic Spacey's and Bening's characters' lives are - would they really be THAT devoid of any redeeming values? Are we supposed to CHEER Spacey as he quits his job, smokes pot, and lusts after seventeen year-old girls, all to the detriment of his young daughter? Are we supposed to laugh at the ex-Marine's idea that the world NEEDS certain rules and standards in order to work? Clearly, we are. These are not characters at all, but ciphers. Indeed, the ex-Marine is one of the most laughable ciphers at all. He is the parody of the Evil Gun-Toting Gay-Bashing Right-Wing Military Nut, taken to its furthest extreme. As columnist John Leo recently put it, "the only thing they forgot to do was to make him a tobacco company chemist and a trustee of a segregated college." And the final revelation that the "gay-basher" is in fact gay himself is the final piece of this Hollywood stereotype; a move meant purely to make sure this character and his world-view, that of the importance of morality and of the necessity of rules in society, is completely discredited.And I know, I know: I'm not reading between the lines. I need to "look closer". Well, I submit that those who glowingly praise this movie are looking TOO closely. It's easier to lose sight of the larger message a movie sends when you examine any one element too closely. And all that the people who made this movie have "proved" is that they live on an entirely different planet from the hard-working, Joe and Jane America they claim to so brilliantly "expose" - the same Joe and Jane America that keeps Hollywood in business.(Ordinarily, I'd rate a movie like "American Beauty" about a "3". But since it was without question both the most offensive AND the most overrated movie of 1999 (move over, "The Phantom Menace"), and since more needs to be done to counterbalance these morons who think it's the next "Citizen Kane", I feel I have no choice but to go with my original gut instinct and give it a big fat "1". For years, I've made it a practice to save every ticket stub from every movie I've seen, regardless of its quality. Nevertheless, my "American Beauty" ticket stub now sits in torn-up shreds at the bottom of the concession-area garbage can. It seemed a fitting gesture toward this Oscar-winning piece of putrescent pap.)
This piece of sitcommy, cliche-ridden claptrap is just smart enough on its surface for the middlebrow Academy to pimp it for a Best Picture Oscar. But anyone with half a brain will see through this tired male fantasy pretty soon. Mendes shows us a Edward Scissorhands-type of suburbia: perfect lawns, identical homes, etc... We are expected to know (since we've seen ES, Ice Storm, Happiness, Serial Mom, etc.) that these people must lead shallow, empty lives - look where they live! And... they do! This is just the first of many obvious themes that we have seen so many times before. And we haven't even reached Spacey's character's midlife crisis yet. (Surprise! He falls in sexual lust with a gorgeous high-school blonde. Sooooo subversive! Look closer, and you'll find even more cliches.) Spacey's wife is, predictably, a self-centered shrew who won't satisfy him sexually but cooks delicious nutritious dinners and sells (surprise) real estate. His daughter is a misfit (wow!) with whom he can't connect. The new kid on the block (of course there is one) is a weird, sensitive (but handsome) loner type (shocker) who (believe it or not) falls for Spacey's moody daughter. Don;t even ask about the gay neighbors. Mendes does nothing but condescend to his characters, his setting, and above all, the audience. Positives: Thora Birch is terrific and lovely; Mena Suvari is breathtakingly beautiful, and the plastic bag sequence is affecting. Pretentious c***.
Pick the themes that are prominent - family, love, loyalty, work, right, wrong.  Now apply the PC police required spin - families are destructive, love has no place, parents are bad, just-do-it is good, morals are bad, drugs are good, military people are fascist gay bashers, everyone cheats, life is hell.  Now use all the worst cliches available.  Now you have a movie that the Academy, critics, and the usual commentators are obliged to praise.  Who could find fault with all this PC pap?This movie deserves few if any of the Oscars it bought with this formula. Compare it with the other nominees - but wait till it is in the dollar theatre.


                
At the end of this film, Kevin Spacey's character talks about the idea of one's life passing before one's eyes at the point of death. If such a phenomena is true, then I fervently pray that, at the moment of my demise, the two-plus hours I sat in the theatre watching this dreadful movie will be omitted by the Great Film Editor in the Sky. I knew as I left the theatre, long before the awards, that this movie would win the Oscar for Best Picture. It's EXACTLY the sort of condescending, self-important tripe that Hollywood likes to honor. Both "The Insider" and "The Sixth Sense" were superior movies. I'm no genius, but I demand that a movie be smarter than I. I knew every plot "twist" five minutes before it happened, only erring on when Lester would be killed, but not by whom. Unbelievably stereotyped characters. Not particularly funny. I guess that because Lester beats off in the shower or lusts after an underage girl, we are supposed to think this movie is worthy of praise. I wonder how many people would praise the movie if Lester had lusted after an underage BOY? The ONLY good scene was the film within the film -- lovely and poetic. But one scene does not a good movie make, let alone a Best Picture. "American Beauty" is nothing more than an extended sitcom (though one that would only be shown on HBO). An utter waste of time. The Hollywood marketing machine has pulled off another cultural coup.


                
***Spoilers ahead**When I first saw this movie I enjoyed it, right up until the last 5 minutes or so.  Could this be any more cliche-ish (new word)?  Oh the "repressed homosexual did it" who didn't see this coming?  Thank goodness they didn't use the other ending where the drug dealin' kid gets arrested, that would have been even less plausible.  The wife is coming home with a gun, motive - none.  What, she wants to leave her husband so she kills him? Please.  The neighbor boy kills him to take his daughter to NYC, motive - none.  They can just walk out the door.  Oh, but the marine finally realizes he's gay so he kills Spacey.  Give me a break.  I can see the studio execs now, sitting around a table convincing themselves this was a good movie, then sending out the cash to the Academy members to convince them.  The movie would have been much better if A) the marine killed himself instead of, or after, killing Spacey.  B) the marine has a breakdown resulting in no deaths. or C) I had stayed home and rented the Usual Suspects instead.  What a waste of Kevin Spacey's ability.
I just saw how highly-rated this movie was on the IMDb top 250 films of all-time (I want to say it's in the top 30). This movie belongs in the bottom 100. However, I did see this movie only once, and nearly every scene was indelibly etched into my memory (I've thankfully forgotten a lot of it by now). That's because most of the scenes (including a misuse of shampoo in the shower) are completely over-the-top. The director should have cut out any dramatic pretenses and went with a Zucker-Abrams-Zucker comedy concept. Kevin Spacey's character is a jerk; he loses his job "unfairly," and immediately turns around and blackmails his boss. Then, he buys a sports car, smokes "100% safe weed," and hates his life as it is, until he re-discovers "puppy love." Good for him? Annette Benning's character is all right, the rest of the characters are stupid, and I forgot Allison Janney was in the movie. Question: in real life, is the "boy next door" who acts like a real creep actually the wisest person in the world who knows "what's it all about?" Oh, he's also the coolest drug dealer in town. Yikes! pass me some G-13. There really are only two good segments: Lester in the drive-up window, and Lester with the R-C car. That's about 3 1/2 minutes worth of movie. Were there plot twists? Maybe, but none of them created a story that I cared about.
This movie shows just how little the Academy knows about film.  It is predictable, derivative, and inane, yet it wins Oscars left and right. Perhaps this "charming" little flick about a middle aged man who calls his daughter's underaged friend and almost seduces the girl is appealing to all those Woody Allens out there, but to me it was just another Hollywood excuse to show young women's breasts on screen (which, of course, means they can now win Oscars).But what really makes the film so deplorable is the insipid script, a plot that is so unbelievable that it forces the Hollywood hacks working on it to create silly situations just so the ending can occur (maybe the plot was written back asswards, which would explain the manipulated dialogue and plot lines that are needed to get to the murder), and over-the-top, cartoonish characterization by all the adult actors involved. The only beauty in this film occurs when the young actors, Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, and Mina Suvari are interacting in a scene. The three have true chemistry, and their actions and emotions are so much less forced than those of Spacey and Annette Benning (who should be embarrassed by her acting in this film, truly).  Perhaps the writing/directing team of Alan Ball/Sam Mendes was more comfortable with adolescence than with adulthood, which is not surprising for Hollywood.I suppose what really ticks me off about this film is that it did win the Oscar, over films that were so much better than itself (Fight Club, Magnolia, Three Kings, Boys Don't Cry), thereby setting the stage for even more insipid junk like itself to inundate our theaters.  Maybe the woeful movies that have been released so far in 2000 is a direct result of the exultation of such tripe by Hollywood and the viewing public.


                
This film is the most over-rated film i have ever seenOK, so people will tell you it is more than what i am about to say, but really, if you think about it, it's not! It's just not!This film is about a guy (Spacey) trying to bed his daughter's best friend (Suvari), while his daughter (Birch)is distracted by the neighbour (Bentley) who his dad (Cooper) thinks is gay with Spacey, even though he is just selling him drugs...while Spacey's wife (Bening) is off having bedroom fun with her biggest business rival! The only good thing about this film is when Spacey!! The man is without a doubt one of the greatest actors of all time - he is at least in the top 10, if not 5! Spacey gave an outstanding performance, which was deserved of a more worthy film! This film is simple at best, and this is because it tries to be too clever!There are many more options to chose from if you are stuck on what to watch next time you are in the local video store and this film catches your eye...i have warned you, watch only at your own risk!A failure!
What Is Everyone Talking About?I saw this film on the recommendation of people whose opinions I trusted. They said it was a masterpiece. I feel like I saw a different movie. American Beauty was one of the biggest turkeys I've ever seen. I very nearly walked out on it, which is something I don't do. I found the plot contrived and predictable and the characters cartoonish. The suburban schlub Dad? The frustrated wife? The brooding teenager? The closeted gay psychopath? These aren't characters, they're cliches. Spacey and Benning were good, as they always are, but no actor can rescue a script this far down in the trash. The scene with the bag blowing in the wind was the single most brainless thing I've ever seen in a movie, except in Z-grade sci fi or horror (and it gives some of those films a run for their money.) This pic would be perfect for MST3K if it weren't so brain-deadeningly dull. I came expecting intelligent, engaging drama. All I got was overwrought, amateurish nonsense.


                
This film suffers from the same problem that much of current pop culture suffers from.  It coasts along, only working as a narrative if you assume all the cliches the film displays to be true.  From the power-driven mother to the closet homosexual, there's nothing here original, interesting, or even vaguely accurate.Beautiful photography can't cover an ugly world view.  Avoid this over-hyped pile of trash.


                
To all the people who say this is the best film of all time...see some more films, you might change your mind. Besides Conrad Hall's great camerawork and an OK performance by Kevin Spacey this film really has nothing going for it. The one thing that bothered me the most was the contempt that the film seems to have towards every one of the female characters. They're portrayed as pathetic, shallow and shrill. And even though it wants to, it says nothing about America. At all. It IS watchable, but because it has higher aspirations and fails miserably at attaining them, it is ultimately worthless.


                
This film was terrible. Not in an Ed Wood way - Spacey and Bening are fine actors, and carry off the risible dialogue with conviction - but in conception and script, and direction. Never has a film so enraged me (for ripping me off) and bored me simultaneously. A friend said, "ah, but it's good to smack Americans." I said, "Ah, but it's too easy, and that's not America, nor anything near it."Ultimately, the film is about an underdeveloped scapegrace, who should sitdown and get some counseling. His wife is a frigid slut, and the daughter is a freak. Now these should make a good film, but it doesn't. It makes a dull, repetitive, uninsightful night. A night at the laundromat is much better than an hour and a half in this mediocre tediumMiss it. You won't regret it.


                
Is is true that we've run out of good movie ideas?  Do we have to start re-cycling?  I guess so, because critics and Academy voters want to name this tripe as "Best Picture".  All previous winners will blush with shame! Sex, drugs, infidelity, murder, masturbation, and rose petals!  Why didn't anyone think of this before?  They have; but they laughed it off!  Kevin Spacey (fun to watch as always, never different as always, but fun to watch)is held forward as an everyman "hero" because he heroically quits his job with a full year's salary as a safety net.  Watch how he bravely gets a low level job at a fast food joint (I wonder if all of the other employees have $60K in their pockets?), starts smoking dope with the kid next door, dreams about jumping a high school cheerleader, tells his wife he's withdrawing from their marriage, and actually tries to listen to his daughter for the first time in a decade!  zzzzzzzz!  Hey, wake me up when he tries it WITHOUT the $60K, tries to salvage his marriage, recognizes the kid next door and the cheerleader as the real dopes, and re-connects with his daughter.  Now THAT will be a good movie!


                
This movie had a huge "Look ma I'm an Artist" splashed over the screen. Where to begin? In no particular order:* The first scene we see is Spacey jerking off in the shower; that is the highlight of the movie. Characters aren't developed, they are changed - sometimes unnecessarily (the ex-marine ....in the end... was it an attempt to shock or to make somebody laugh?)* Spacey realizes that the things he owned ended up owning him; in the light of this revelation he buys a car.* Talk about stereotypes... every teenager is depressed, they all hate or despise their parents, and they are either quite stupid or deep and wise. The ex-marine and his wife would have been quite funny in a lighter movie, but they are treated too seriously here.* The fact that the blonde was a virgin was quite clear from frame zero (again, an attempt to shock with a sudden revelation?)* The garbage moved by the wind is mistaken for art in the States. Let me quote another movie with Annette Bening: "They're so thirsty for it they'll crawl through the desert toward a mirage, and when they discover there's no water, they'll drink the sand."* The witty, caustic dialogue isn't there. There are three or four good oneliners, but nothing to write home about - everything had an already-heard, leftover taste. Academy award for Non Sequitur: "I'll go to the bathroom", uttered by the dumb blonde to push us into the next scene, where Spacey had to be alone.* Career-driven people may be interesting for american moviegoers, but everywhere else we realize that the priorities of those people are messed up, so it's harder for us to feel sad for those poor jerks when they turn forty and suddenly wake up. "Because a man that doesn't spend time with his family, can never be a real man" (now, _that_ was a great movie.)* A note about the soundtrack: anybody playing the piano should use at least three fingers, unless they want to beat the world record for annoying music.To make a long story short: the people around me laughed loudly in the first 10/15 minutes, then began to chuckle as the realization that they had burned 10$ slowly crept over them. After the first hour the theatre was silent, and I began watching the upholstery of the chair in front of me on the basis that it was slightly more interesting than what was going on on the screen. I spent the last thirty minutes listening for the sound of dying brain cells. Later I talked to 10+ people and they all said that this was a lousy movie, except for a girl who said that "she loves everything made by Altman" (yeah, right). I really wonder how this movie made it to the top ten list. Too bad I'm not allowed to give negative marks on the IMDB.


                
"American Beauty" is excessively praised as a great piece of American film, when in reality it isn't even good enough to be a decent rip-off of better films.  Unfortunately, many viewers have fallen for it.  ("Moonspinner55" and "tubist38" have good reviews.  Note that one person who initially praised the film reviewed it again a year later and said, "What was I thinking?")  Mendes wastes some excellent actors in these meatball scenes (for example, Spacey throwing the asparagus...who couldn't do that well?)  A lot of this film is some snappy one-liners or clever scenes strung together with...nothing.  Everything that happens is almost laughably predictable. And the crucial scene, where an empty plastic bag blowing in the wind is supposed to impart some deep meaning on the true nature of existence in the phenomenal world?  Right.  Finally, I must comment on Annette Bening, who is one of the better actresses working today being cast in the role of a cartoon...what a waste.This film is a "1," and should in fact have a turkey symbol next to it. "American Beauty" is the perfect symbol of the decline of the serious American film.  "Ordinary People," "Out of the Blue," and "The Sweet Hereafter" are much better films.


                
I find it hard to believe that anyone would waste good money in making this type of film. I'm ashamed that this movie is out in the world telling all that this is what an American family is like. I have never met nor seen anything that comes close to anything like the terribly dysfunctional mess that was displayed on screen.


                
THIS won Best Picture?!!! THIS film is in the top 250 films on IMDb?!! Has everyone gone insane? I saw it for the first time on cable last night and was thoroughly unimpressed. This film was predictable and boring. Yes, predictable. Anyone who follows politics or popular culture these days can predict how a film character will be portrayed by politically-correct writers, and this film is no exception.Of course, you can see the upside-down world view of Hollywood depicted here: the most notable to me--since I served with the Marines--was the cartoonish depiction of the retired Marine colonel. He keeps a tight reign on his family, orders pop urine tests, and collects Nazi china. Get the joke folks--the military guy sympathizes with Nazis. (insert laugh track) His wife is a non-entity--a statue. Then naturally the kicker----that he's also a closeted homosexual. The depravity shown is not in the brave men who served for this nation, but of the twisted writer who wrote this rubbish.And of course, the most normal and happy people on the block were--you guessed it---the homosexual couple. Yay!!! You too could be happy if you were gay!!! What a bloody joke!I did say above that the script was predictable, and I was right. I just read that the "writer" of this film is "outspokenly gay". Yeahhhh, I think I figured that one out on my own.As a side note, I heard some yahoo say that she only went to this film because there was a girl lying on a bed of roses and apparently was expecting something different. Uhh huh---this is the same type of mouth-breather who voted this in the top 33.Thank God I never paid to see this propaganda.
This trivial movie is a stellar example of what the tasteless American movie going public demands. I guess that we get what we ask for. Although the acting was good the story line and plot were so poor they could not make up for the acting. I cannot believe I lasted through the entire movie.


                
The first time I saw the film , it gave me a feeling of being a pretentious film that `borrows' a little from "The Ice Storm", in its theme of being a film of a dysfunctional family.The worst part about the film is it leads viewers to think that its the insight of the average American Mid-Life crisis.I thought the part about the lame red plastic bag floating was `beautiful' , was only a bad pun at how `Beauty' is perceived to be only visually satisfying , as with most of the shots of young , naked actresses.Teen movies are bad enough but why is an `art' film exploiting Lolita-obsessions ? I thought that the "Ice Storm" was more true-to-life in dealing with the topic of sexual awakening among teens. SPOILER ALERT Its black-comedy premise also presented mixed reactions on why the retired Army Colonel would offer himself to Lester Burnham - was he a wife-battering gay too ? Or was he trying to redeem his son and to seek closure on his overly strict upbringing of him.If a movie doesn't have a specific direction for leading audiences, it will only make a pretentious film and incurring from the movie's title, it is only skin-deep in narrative and beautiful visually.
I've got to hand it to the person who came up with the "Look closer" tag line. It was an absolutely brilliant move - one of the greatest scams perpetrated on a gullible public since the creation of the Ponzi Scheme.Why do I say this? Because the hubbub over this film very much reminds me of "The Emperor's New Clothes", with multitudes saying how wonderful the new clothes look, but no one admitting to seeing nothing, for fear of being regarded as "stupid".And that's exactly what's going on with all the nonsensical critical acclaim for this film. Want proof? Just "look closer" at the comments in this board. Over and over again, people will heap praises on this film. But do you notice something? Their interpretations are never the same! They're all seeing something different. Just like the Emperor's invisible clothes, there are hundreds of reasons given as to why this is a wonderful film, but the only thing consistent about those who praise it is their conviction and attitude that anyone who doesn't see the "beauty" of this film is "dumb".Look closer? WHAT FOR? There's nothing to see! Gee, it feels great to be ignorant.(A note to all those who will be enraged by what I am saying here: Rather than attack me, I want you to tell me EXACTLY why this is such a good film. I will later post all of the many, many interpretations I receive, which will just further prove my point.)


                
This movie grossed an incredible $336 million worldwide, won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1999, and occupies the remarkably lofty position of the ninth best movie ever made on the IMDB Top 250.  And frankly, I can't understand why.  It's a well-made and well-acted movie, but I find the story offensive and irritating in many respects.(1) Setting.  This is a minor point, but the setting is very inconsistently handled.  Obviously the movie was actually filmed in the LA area, but there are references to "those days when it's a minute away from snowing" (which a Southern Californian would obviously not say) and to Jane and Ricky escaping to New York City.  On the other hand, the potential homebuyers complain to Carolyn that the house she is selling was supposed to have a "lagoon" in back.  Well, in the eastern U.S., realtors don't talk about lagoons - that is a very SoCal term.More importantly, I found it incredibly irritating how the Burnhams live in a huge, lavishly decorated, modern home on the exclusive "Robin Hood Trail." This house is worth easily $1 million.  How, exactly, did they afford it, given that Lester has been a technical writer for an advertising magazine (working in a small cubicle) for fourteen years and Carolyn is a struggling realtor who personally cleans the crappy houses she is trying to sell?  And how do the Fittses manage to afford the equally fancy house next door on a Marine colonel's salary?  Only the Jims (the tax attorney and anesthesiologist) belong in this neighborhood.  This phoniness undercuts the story (and anything it might have to "say" about America) from the beginning, in my opinion.(2) Sexism.  There are four female characters - Carolyn, Jane, Angela, and Mrs. Fitts.  Carolyn is portrayed as cold and mean - two qualities that just happen to go along with the fact that she is also ambitious and hard-working.  She also, as we see, does the cooking (and undoubtedly the rest of the housework), but Lester is still dissatisfied with her.  He calls her a "bloodless, money-grubbing freak."  Well, sorry, but I just didn't agree with that.  I thought Carolyn was the most sympathetic character in the movie.  I never understood what Lester was so upset about at the beginning of the story.  Why did he hate Carolyn?  Because she wouldn't have sex with him?  That seemed to be what it boiled down to.  And because her gardening clogs matched the handle on her pruning shears.  Why didn't he admire her for her success as a broker, appreciate her efforts around the house, be supportive of her, instead of falling for a seventeen-year-old girl?  It really bothered me that when he gave examples of the person Carolyn used to be and (in his opinion) should become again, he talked about her faking seizures at frat parties and running to the roof of an apartment building to flash traffic helicopters.  So instead of an attractive, hard-working, responsible woman in her early forties, he wants a sexualized nut case?  That doesn't resonate with me.Then there's Jane.  The first thing we learn about her is that she wants breast enlargement surgery and that she's secretly saved up money to pay for it.  And that's about it.  We learn she hates her parents, although at the start of the movie it's not clear why.  I'm sorry, but in the real world, kids (even teenagers) don't just hate their parents without any reason, and here the reason isn't shown.  We see a photograph from a few years earlier when they were a happy family - so the suggestion, I think, is that the problems started when Carolyn got her real estate license.  I find that a pretty sinister message - "when Mom stops being just a housewife, the American family goes to hell."For Jane as for Carolyn, their male counterparts get the best lines.  It's Ricky and then later Lester who give the movie's thematic speech about there being "so much beauty in the world."  Jane and Carolyn just play off the men.  Jane never really does anything to justify Ricky's fascination with her - it's apparently based solely on her striking and unusual looks.And that brings us to Angela, played by Mena Suvari.  Any movie that portrays a 40-year-old man obsessed with an 18-year-old girl (the friend of his daughter) as a hero has got something wrong with it.  There is no excuse for that.  I don't think it's "normal" for a man that age to have that kind of obsession.  He might notice the attractiveness of such a young woman, but to become obsessed with her is disgusting, in my opinion.  At least when Carolyn had an affair, it was with a man her own age.And what is the one thing we know about Angela as a person (aside from her looks)?  That she wants to be a model.  So of our two young female characters, one wants breast implants and the other wants to be a model. Nice image of women for the future.I don't have space to get into Mrs. Fitts, the other female character, who is like a catatonic version of a Stepford Wife.(3) Homophobia.  Colonel Fitts was a pretty bad character too.  We're supposed to believe that this guy, in his late 40s, has been through an entire career in the Marines without ever facing his homosexuality, even within himself, and that he deals with it by being murderously homophobic, physically and emotionally abusive to his son, and part of some Nazi secret society?  Nice image of gay people too.


                
I enjoyed the sequence at the drive-thru. I also thought Scott Bakula's small performance was pretty good. Outside of that, this was my most painful experience in a theater since "Club Paradise."What was this movie trying to say? Marriage is a bad, arcane, suffocating institution? Adultery, pedophilia and drugs are good and liberating? All Marines are bigoted psychotics who abuse their wives and children, and are all of course closeted homosexuals? Perhaps that is what they think in Hollywood.I was watching this movie with my girlfriend. Towards the end of this interminable nightmare I walked out. I walked back in when she didn't follow. After the movie, I told her that this movie was so critical of every good and decent aspect of American life, that it was a shoo-in for Best Picture. This movie does not entertain, it does not make one think, it just aggravated me. I had never wanted my money back so bad.


                
