Of the 250+ films I've seen and rated on IMDb, only one other (Schindler's List) is as good as American Beauty. A film like this not only entertains while you're in the theater but also drops subtle questions in your head about the nature of human behavior and the gulf between fantasy and reality. After watching this movie, viewers will think long and hard about their own lives as well as the lives of people around them. The movie spells out the social disillusionment phenomenon everyone experiences but can't really grasp.American Beauty reminds us that, like Lester, we really have no idea what we really want. We're not rational creatures as economists assume we are. Our instinct might lead us to perform one action, yet our brains might tell us to perform the complete opposite. We may lust after material belongings, yet how do we know we will still treasure those material belongings once we obtain them? Lester may lust after Angela, yet once he feels her in his hands and finds out the truth about her sexuality, an entirely different feeling comes over him.Ricky Fits, the drug-dealing boy next door, is able to look beyond conventional notions of attractiveness and find beauty in non-promiscuous, solemn girls as well as in plastic bags floating in the wind. When many criticize the movie, they say, "Where's the beauty in a plastic bag?" And that's the point. We live in a world of aesthetic subjectivism. What one person finds attractive, another may find repulsive, yet the urge is there for people to assume aesthetic absolutism. "It's just a plastic bag! How can there be beauty in it?" Well, a human being is just an aggregation of tissues, bones, and blood. How is that attractive? It depends on how you look at it. Reality is shaped by perspective.Some people criticize the Ricky Fits character because he records his life experiences on tape and doesn't actually experience them. But time moves inexorably in one direction. Time cannot be stopped. In a physical sense the past and the future don't exist. We are only conscious in the present. Everything we do, everything we achieve, every bit of happiness we experience -- they are all eventually buried in the past by time. Recording subjective beauty is a means by which one can attempt to salvage beauty from the past into the present because time eventually destroys all beauty. If you don't believe me, walk into a pre-school and then walk into a nursing home. Remember that all the old men and women in the nursing home were once little kids.Another profound element of American Beauty is in the tag line: look closer. An individual's behavior is not independent of his environment. Humans are conformists by nature, and humans will modify their behavior to assimilate into existing social categories. If any individual dares to stray from the category to which he has been assigned, he is shouted down and ostracized. No one can resist the urge to conform, so why bother? Everyone is nice in public, yet on the streets they blare their horns, scream, and swear. Some boys I know pretend to hate American Beauty because on the surface it seems like a "chick flick." They force themselves to watch gory horror movies and show off to others how they can stomach intense violence and excessive sex scenes. In American Beauty, Angela acts like a total slut, as many girls seem to be nowadays. In the end, however, she is not what she makes herself out to be. Colonel Fits tries to act like such a man, yet in the end it's all just a giant facade. Civilization is but one giant movie, and members of society must start acting their parts if they want to belong to this civilization. Otherwise, they're outsiders. Try walking into a job interview without a tie. You'll be thrown out. That is the power of convention.What if I asked you this question: What do you want in life? Most people would say, "happiness." But is happiness worth deluding yourself for? Carolyn Burnham shields herself from sadness by adopting a positive-thinking philosophy, a philosophy of self-affirming mantras and harsh self-discipline. Positive thinking may help you attain your goals, but positive thinking also blinds you from reality. Is it wise or moral to change the channel when you hear about mass starvation in Africa so you can enjoy moments of fleeting happiness from a cheap romance movie? Self-help is just a euphemism for self-deception. All humans need some complex fraud to distract them from the harsh and nihilistic realities of life, whether it's religion, money, or even love.In spite of American Beauty's greatness, there are problems. Characters are stereotypical, but viewers will hardly notice unless they're ultra-critical. Anyway, exaggeration is essential in satire so that certain points are made obvious to viewers. Furthermore, Alan Ball's original screenplay is slightly edited. The ending is more optimistic.Problems aside, Sam Mende's debut movie is one of the greatest I've seen. Not only is it entertaining but it is also filled with interesting ideas. It's an important film for society because there's so much society needs to learn. One boy I knew refused to watch American Beauty because, as he said, "I'm not gonna watch a movie with a name like that!"Look closer.10/10
This film is one of a kind.  After seeing this film last week, I was left with a hole in the pit of my stomach.  It left many questions in my mind, and most of them cannot be answered. In my view, a film that makes me think after I watch it is second-to-none, and this film certainly delivers in that aspect.I was amazed with the vivid imagery in this movie, as well as with the symbolism.  However, what makes this film the best of 1999 is the acting. Kevin Spacey shines as Lester Burnham, and Annette Bening (Carolyn Burnham) isn't far behind.  Supporting cast members such as Wes Bentley (Ricky Fitts), Thora Birch (Jane Burnham), Mena Suvari (Angela Hayes), and Chris Cooper (Col. Frank Fitts) only add to the drama of this film.  I think the most special aspect of this film is how all of the characters intertwine in a way that is believable, yet fantastic at the same time.  I congratulate Sam Mendes for his direction of this film, as well as Alan Ball for writing it.  I don't think it could have been any better.Rated R in the U.S. for strong sexuality, language, drug content, and violence, the film obviously deserves its rating.  However, none of the causes for the R rating are overbearing, and all of them add to the plot-line of this film.  While I don't think that this is a film for children, I would suggest that adults should view it with an open mind.  I believe that the traits which many of the characters in this film have are found in many people around the world. Perhaps that is why this film hits close to home for so many viewers.While billed by some as a "comedy-drama", I don't see anything about this film as funny.  Sure, there are some comedic moments, but by the end, those moments were all but forgotten when faced with the grim reality of the conclusion of the events portrayed in this film.If you want to watch a light-hearted film with some elements of comedy and some elements of drama, don't see American Beauty.  But if you enjoy films that make you think, and are entertained by an excellent cast, excellent directing, and an excellent screenplay, this film should be at the top of your list.My Rating:  10/10


                
I have come to see the movie with a certain prejudice.  Everyone saying that it was so wonderful, so touching, so excited -- I usually tend to go with movies that nobody likes.  Nevertheless, this one was a certain exception.It is a wonderful psychological drama, a satire about the American community and about the American life; dark, painful irony and cynicism in the descriptions of life and characters; deep sarcasm on types of people in the community, habits of behaviour such as "...if you want to succeed, you always have to seem successful..." or "never stop smiling", parasites of the community, and, most importantly, the treatment of people who are "different", who are "freaky" to some extent; and eventually, there is no character in the film that is not odd in its way, although we have to wait for the very ending of the film, to discover this.With very deep and accurate exaggeration, (most of) the characters in the movie demonstrate the worst, the darkest sides of their personality, while still remaining very human, very touching and very involving the observer. Everyone can find a certain similarity with characters and persons who he met in his life, in the characters described in the film.  The tragi-comical events, the little pieces of funny, disturbing irony dripping from almost every episode, lead the observer to exploration of the American Beauty -- the beauty in life, and the way that we fail to find it, for all our life; the way we hide our feelings and emotions, even behind sullen walls of our sepulchre.The acting is truly brilliant, the episodes are built logically, coherently, the dialogues are deep, thrilling, intriguing; every sentence and every word is deeply constructed, containing profound irony and intelligent elements of humors.  The plot is very intelligently built, constructing a true indication of the sad situation of the American society, and an excellent ground for the actors.An amazing movie, strongly recommended.  10/10


                
"American Beauty" is tour de force cinema. Sam Mendes' brilliant debut feature depicts a web of characters who yearn for their own 'American Dream' - yet, in the end, only one character truly attains it.Having seen "Happiness" only recently, I could not help but draw comparisons: both films centre around a microcosm of society in which the people, in their own unique way, all strive to be successful or simply 'happy'. But here the similarities end: the characters in "Happiness" undergo a self-realisation process through which they become increasingly aware of their meaningless existence, and go on to wallow in their own depravity. "Happiness" shows no signs of redemption; whereas in "American Beauty" the audience is offered a sense of hope, of salvation, though the characters must endure a similar fate, or more accurately, they must endure the way of life in which they are trapped.The pivotal character upon which this theme centres, is the father Lester, played impeccably by Kevin Spacey. He is presented to us as a bit of a loser who plays the subjugated figure in the home and at work. He appears resigned to an unhappy life in which he is treated badly by his wife and daughter and his boss at work. Seemingly beyond redemption, Lester transforms from being a loser.Mendes portrays this transformation admirably well: he shows Lester on his 'path to enlightenment' pushed up against a grim background of suburbanite existence. These early scenes are well balanced, forming a steady rhythm of TV commercial-like vignettes which prove very comical, if at times unsettling. As Lester reflects in the film: "My life is like a commercial". And how this rings true: like in "Happiness", all the characters hide underneath this veneer of normality and respectability, yet they are all revealed to be nothing but the opposite: depressed, depraved and desperate.Lester's wife, played by Annette Benning, is the most success-driven character in the story which renders her the most hopeless in the film's tone of moral conviction. "In order to be successful in life one must project the appearance of success" is the maxim she adopts from the 'king' of real estate, Buddy King. It is a phrase which resonates throughout the film: for Benning's pawn, life is all about keeping-up appearances. This is where Lester differs from her: his emancipation is enabled by him discarding the constraints of 'normal life' and following what his heart desires.Lester is the catalyst in this narrative in which the ancillary characters either follow suit (as does his daughter and Ricky) or pay the price (as does his wife and the Colonel). The irony inherent in this film, and it grows with resonance as the film draws to a conclusion, is that the only character who truly becomes free must sacrifice everything in order to achieve it. Yet it is through his sacrifice that he is able to afford the surviving characters a glimpse of hope in life.This film left me gasping for air: its hyper-realism conveys, at the same time, a portrait of the suburban comedy, a jolting-shock of realisation, and a cathartic sense of hope. Mendes depicts a certain people who, to varying degrees, all strive for a certain 'American Dream', yet so few actually attain it. Though whilst one may have difficulty with tagging this film with the 'feel good' label, the beauty of "American Beauty" is that it sits half-way between a desperate cry for help and a reassuring sense of happiness and fulfilment and that is cinema at its best.


                
American Beauty is the greatest movie ever made.If you haven't already, watch American Beauty by yourself and give yourself some time afterwards to think it over. You will never, ever look at life the same way. It does exactly what movies are meant to do - give us a window into ourselves, and American Beauty does that better than any other film has ever done. No word of dialogue is unnecessary, no character exaggerated, everything is perfect...but if you have seen American Beauty you should know that already. Once you look closer at this movie, and see Beauty in every frame, it becomes so much easier to look closer and see Beauty in everything around you. You think I'm waxing poetic? Then you must not have seen the movie. Every character is a part of each of us: the Lester Burnham of change, the Carolyn of uncertainty and failure, the rebellion of Jane, the defeated Barbara, the false control of Angela and the Colonel, and the real control of Ricky. To me Ricky, not Lester, is the center of this story; he somehow controls or sets in motion the heart of Lester's rebirth and downfall. There are several parts of this movie where I lose control every time I see it, and none more so than the paper bag scene. To me that scene is simply the greatest monologue ever written.I listened to the message of American Beauty - look closely and you can find Beauty in anything - and it changed my life. I rose out of a long, deep depression and started out into the world. Sometimes there is so much Beauty in the world, I can't even stand it, and it feels like my heart is going to burst.This is the most beautiful movie I have ever seen.
Probably the best film of 1999. This dark comedy drama marks two fantastic feature film debuts with Alan Ball as writer and Sam Mendes as director (both winning oscars for their sterling efforts).Kevin Spacey plays Lester Burnham, a man on the brink of a mid-life crisis, who suddenly becomes obsessed with one of his teenage daughters friends played by Mena Suvari. His daughter (Thora Birch) is, as Lester tells us; "a typical teenager. Angry, insecure, confused...". And his wife Caroline (Annette Bening) has an obsession of her own, her public appearance.Life starts off on a downer for the Burnhams and their new neighbours the Fitts despite their lives looking good from the outside.As life begins to improve (with most of the main characters finding what they think is love or new relationships) it soon all comes crashing down in the climactic final day.The writing is nothing short of brilliant and made even more amazing by knowing that it comes from a first time feature film screen writer Alan Ball (who had had years of prior experience writing TV sitcoms -  not  that you'd be able to guess from the tone of this film).The directing is on a par with the writing and Sam Mendes manages to get some brilliant performances from the great cast, who are all faultless. No doubt Mendes' theatre directing past played a huge part in directing the actors so well.Another person worthy of a mention is the late director of photography Conrad L. Hall, another one of the five oscar recipients for this film.All the elements in this film gel perfectly together to make one superb masterpiece. Not one person, either cast or crew, steals this film or does anymore than anyone else to make this film what it is. Truly an ensemble effort. 10/10.


                
When I first saw this movie in theaters, I found it to be very funny. When I rented it at home, I found it to be very sad and complex. Looking at it now, I realize that it is surely one of the most extraordinary films ever to come out of Hollywood. To some it may look trite or cliched, or maybe too un-ordinary to be worthy of its praise, but the overall impact of this film is extremely powerful. After you've seen it, you know you've seen something.A few notable elements stand out. The direction is superb; this is visually a superior film, for the director understands the subtle changes in tone. The writing is equally compelling; the story effortlessly interweaves multiple stories to create one amazing movie. The haunting music is also notable. Lastly is the acting. Kevin Spacey has done excellent films before, and he can add this one to the list. He may be a little to witty to suggest the overshadowed character he portrays, but he simply disappears into the role. Annette Bening is also fine; a less strong role, but she is magnificent none the less. As the teenagers, Thora Birch is able to mesmerize us with one intense look; her "typical teenager" role is fleshed out completely. I enjoyed Mena Suvari's character equally. It seemed that she did not receive as much acclaim, but her performance evokes both innocence and experience, and her scenes toward the end give her a depth unlike any other character. And Wes Bentley, as the video-taping boy next door, is easily the most original character. At first he seems a little tense, but, like Spacey, he sinks into the role. His "purpose" in the film, unlike anyone else's, is a mystery, thus making him the most enigmatic person.Most films are able to make a lasting impression on its audience, but never has a movie been known to "move" its viewers as much as this movie. It truly says something about life, no matter how predictable or tacky it appears, this film disturbingly shows us how to appreciate our individual lives, so therefore, when they are over, we each have something to remember.


                
This movie was a joy to watch.  I didn't know what to expect when I came into it.  I had heard the buzz of the acting and the story, etc...but we've all heard that before and had been disappointed, but not so with this one.Kevin Spacey plays this part to a "T".  He is strong when it requires and meek when it is needed.  His emotional rollercoaster ride is a trip to partake in. Annette Bening is marvelous as well.  I think they both should be nominated.The support cast is also spectacular.  Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, and Mena Suvari all give great performances as the troubled "Teenagers" in the film. Of particular mention is Wes Bentley's performance, worthy of a supporting nomination as well.This is a dramatic and funny tale of a man and his life in a state of turmoil and transition.  When he happens to see a beautiful friend of his daughter's at a cheerleading exhibition, he is completely infatuated with her beauty.  Using this as his inspiration, he attempts to change all aspects of his life.  He confronts his marriage, his job, his ego, and his libido.The music in this film is also very well chosen.  There are moments when the music fits so perfectly with the scene that they meld together as one to present a perfect emotion.The plot can get rather involved, but you will follow it endlessly to see where you go.  I was simply involved, hook, line and sinker.See this movie more than once, and skip some of the other movies out now that are dare I say, trash.This should be on the top of many critic's lists this year and it is certainly on top of mine.My Rating (1 - 10):  10


                
What can I say, except that this film really knocked me on my keaster.  I went in to the theater not knowing what to expect, but was pretty sure it would be worth the ticket price.  Boy was I happy when I left.  Not only was it worth the ticket, I paid to see this film two more times.  This film is virtually perfect.  The acting is superb, the story is magnificent, the narrative is brilliant, and the structure of the film is truly groundbreaking (absolutely loved the last 20 minutes).  What really surprised me about this film was how well the cinematography was done.  In a small, character driven film such as this, it is very unusual to have such great cinematography.  With this film, there is something interesting going on in every scene, not many films you can say that about.  In a year where first time directors have made some of the best films, Three Kings, Being John Malkovich, etc...  Sam Mendes seems to have out-done them all.  Though I have yet to see The Green Mile or Magnolia, I find it hard to believe that either film will out-shine American Beauty.  This film should easily win a substantial amount of the Oscars this year.  What's up with all the cirtics awards snubbing it so far?


                
This is by far one of the best, if not THE, movies of the 90's. "American Beauty" stole my vote immediately as I started watching it. The idea and concept of "American Beauty" is just some ordinary people on an ordinary block with ordinary lives.Kevin Spacey plays Lester Burnam, a middle aged married man who has lost some hope in life. He has a job that is degrading, a wife who refuses to show any type of loving emotion towards him, a daughter who practically hates herself, and is judged constantly as a looser. But all of a sudden, he sees his daughter's friend, Angela, and something snaps in him to do something with his life. He quits his job and takes, the dreaded by most Americans, a fast food cook job. He starts working out and doing some illegal substances. Even though this sounds like he is ruining his life, it actually helps him and makes him realize how much he loves "the precious moments in his stupid little life." You have no idea what he is talking about I'm sure, but don't worry, you will some day. Kevin Spacey was by far the best actor in 1999 and deserved this Oscar 100%.Annete Benning plays Carol Burnam, Lester's wife. She is a very fake and unsuccessful real estate agent who cannot get a sale. Her image in life is "in order to be successful, one most project an image of success at all times". You can tell, she is not happy with her marriage and starts to have an affair with the big boss of the real estate company. Again, seems horrible, but it helps her in the end. Annete was unfortunately robbed of an Oscar for this film.The supporting cast: Thora Birtch who plays Janie, Lester and Carol's daughter, is extremely depressed and hates her body and herself. But when she notices a strange boy next door and develops a relationship with him, she realizes how precious life is and starts communicating with her family. Mena Suvari plays Angela, Janie's best friend, Lester's crush, and a girl who is clearly insecure despite her attempts at showing her sexy side to every guy in town. Wes Bentley plays Ricky, the next door neighbor boy who looks at something as simple as a bag being tossed in the wind as something beautiful. Some say that this was a very stupid scene, but I disagree. His dialog was perfect and made us look twice at something so simple. He won most of our hearts despite having somewhat of an arrogant attitude. Wes without a doubt got robbed of a nomination for this movie. Chris Cooper plays Ricky's father, Col. Frank Fits. He is a military Sergent who is very abusive to his wife and son and is an obvious homophobic that turns into an ironic situation in the end. Chris also should've been nominated.The most stunning character actually to me was Allison Janney who played Barbara Fits, Ricky's mom, and Frank's wife. She was so beautiful and perfect. Her scene in the front room with Frank and Ricky, everything is so quite, and she says "I'm sorry, what?". Ricky says "Mom, no one said anything". When Ricky gets kicked out by Frank after a horrible accusation, Ricky says "Mom, I'm leaving". Instead of being like the average mom and trying to stop him or say things will get better, she knows this is best and says "OK. Wear a raincoat". Allison was just amazing and didn't get enough credit for her role.If there could have been nominations for every role in this movie, they were well deserved. This is a terrific movie that should be watched by every adult. It'll make you look again at your life and think. What a great movie.10/10


                
The intention is so clear that everything else falls into place, perfectly. Kevin Spacey's suburban husband and father reminded me of his character in "The Ref" and that could only be a good thing. Annette Bening and her giggle works wonders here. Their marriage is a tabloid version of a "Who's Afraid To Virginia Woolf" Which means very close to someone we know. The biggest surprises in the film. besides the amazing dexterity of Sam Mendes at his first outing behind the camera, are West Bentley. Chris Cooper, Thora Brch and Allison Janney. As I'm writing this 8 years after its first release, the Oscars and the whole hullabaloo, I'm very surprised that West Bentley hasn't become a major star. He is amazing in "American Beauty" the complexities of his character are based on recognizable human stands, the hardest to face up to and I went where he went. Thora Birch is lovely as the object of his attention and the film, I believe, is here to say.


                
And there were a lot of great ones this year. I will also say something even (possibly) bolder--that Kevin Spacey gives the performance of his career. And all us movie geeks know that is saying a LOT, given this man's past roles, and his talent. I used to think he was overrated as an actor. Then I figured OK, I see what all the fuss is about. Now, he's up there with my favorite actors of all time, with James Woods, Steve Buscemi, Robert Deniro...probably in the top 5. I was lucky enough to see a free screening this afternoon and boy, am I glad I had the privilege. In fact, this review might not even be that coherent- it's one of those movies that blows you away so much that you have trouble even putting your feelings into words. The plotline sounds trite when you first describe it (it did to me when I first heard about it), Spacey plays a man who describes himself as a loser, with Annette Bening as his horrible, shrewish, self-absorbed, pathetic b*tch of a wife. His daughter is not all that likeable either, despite the fact that you can understand why she turned out this way, with her as a mother. Just when you think you've met the most dysfunctional family in the world outside of "Happiness", you find out about the family who just moved in next door. At first, the strange son seems like the most messed-up member of their brood, but after you get to meet his ex-military, abusive, homophobic, terrifying father and his withdrawn, sad, headcase mother, you realize he is the most normal member of the household by far. Then, the filmwriters toss in Kevin Spacey's lustful obsession with his daughter's sexkitten cheerleader friend, which trust me, is a lot more fun, entertaining, and amusing than it sounds when you read about it. Soon, he is having the most entertaining, amusing midlife crisis ever seen in the history of cinema. He just doesn't give a ***k about what he does or says anymore, and you only wish you could get away with doing the things he does.I found myself laughing out loud in this movie so many times, most of it horrified, amazed laughter at what is happening and the things that are coming out of the character's mouths, especially Spacey's. He had at least a dozen lines that had every member of the audience in hysterics and actual applause and cheers. I can't say enough good things about this movie. You think, after the first five minutes, that you know how the movie will end. Well, Spacey's opening narrative does give it away, but trust me, the events unfold in a way that you will NEVER see coming. You will swear you can see what a character is going to do next, what violent or self-destructice act they will commit, but you turn out to be wrong.Without getting too pretentious here, the movie lives up to it's theme/tagline of "...look closer". THe characters are not what they seem, up until the end, and even then they surprise you. At least two characters that you are POSITIVE you have figured out, do or say something that turns all your preconceptions of them upside down, while making your jaw drop, and your heart ache. You will leave the movie with a smile, though, and that is maybe what I expected least of all.Words just cannot do this movie justice. See it for yourself.
This is a profound movie that examines ordinary people.  For all their flaws people are basically beautiful and that is one of the many threads of the fabric of this film.  I liked that it was revealed at the start of the film that Lester would soon meet his demise.  And I also liked at the ending, the identity of the person who took his life didn't really matter, just the sadness of the loss of his life.  'Look Closer' was the theme of this movie and Lester even had this motto in his cubical.  Kevin assumed the persona of Lester with a range of acting that is quite worthy of awards.  Bening inhabited Carolyn in much the same way.  Which one of us hasn't experienced the disillusionment of our teenage years, only to later re-experienced it again through our children.  And like Carolyn, who among us has not been intensely disappointed with ourself at some point?  That one scene was amazing, it looked so real that it transcended acting.  And can a movie actually move beyond entertainment by causing more than absorbing discussion, but real change in it's audience?  Perhaps.  But if this is true, then that movie would be American Beauty.  And for those who feel this movie doesn't achieve this lofty accolade.  To them I say, "Never underestimate the power of denial."  A ten, of course.
The first time I heard about this movie I thought it was this movie and about a man with cancer and then read a lot of good things about and then say some trailers and then I saw it. At first I did not like this movie but than say it again on T.V and then loved it ever since. This is one of the most original films I have ever seen. The performances are one of the best and more Oscars should have been handed out. The directing by Sam Mendes is superb and I'm glad that he won the Oscar. Alan Ball wrote one of the best screenplay and story's ever thought and there's a reason why he won the Oscar and most deserving. This is the Best of the 1990's and that decade had a lot of great movies came out( Goodfellas, L.A Confedintil, Pulp Fiction to name a few). This was the first movie that I saw that was perfect and I had to see it over and over so I can just uncover everything that was in this movie. This movie is in my top ten movies of all time and I'm glad that it's rank number 35 and that one of the reason why I joined this because it was the only website people respect my opinions and agreed with me. Keven Spacey gives his best performance and one of the best of time. Spacey brings a great performance for a really deep and is just a great character. Annette Bening does a great and for some reason missed the Oscar. Chris Copper does a great job and didn't get notice that much, also did Wes Bentley, Mena Suvari and thora Birch did a great job and should have more notice. Sam Mendes does a great directing job and is one the best film debut ever. This film was one the best ever made and should be seen by everyone hows looking for great movie or how just want have fun watching a movie.


                
Okay, so I don't think there's much left to be said about this masterpiece. "American Beauty" is one of those rare instant classics, a landmark of the 90's and one of the best debut features ever (which is both a blessing and a curse for a director - let's hope Sam Mendes doesn't end up like Orson Welles).This bittersweet tale of ordinary suburban lives about an average husband (Kevin Spacey), his ambitious wife (Annette Bening), their unhappy only child (Thora Birch), the weirdo next door (Wes Bentley), his severe father (Chris Cooper), his catatonic mother (Allison Janney) and a certain blonde cheerleader (Mena Suvari), reaches a heavenly level of authenticity and poignancy thanks to a witty, pitch-perfect script (by Alan Ball, who would later create the brilliant TV series "Six Feet Under"), a wonderful cast (Spacey and Cooper, especially), Mendes's sensible directing, Conrad L. Hall's beautiful cinematography and Thomas Newman's unforgettable score (which has been copied ad nauseam since then, by the way). "American Beauty" is as thought-provoking and sad as it is, in a weird way, uplifting. To realize the mediocrity in your life; to try to change it or let it be, that's the question. Whichever's your choice, there'll be a high price to pay; thus, no one's a complete hero or villain in this story. Lack of communication, character flaws and hypocrisy all add up to what happens to these people; we feel bad for them, despise them, and root for them, for they all ring so true. That's because they're real, and great writers like Ball have a special talent to expose the good, the bad and the ugly in human nature.My only "problem" with this film is that it came out in 1999 (one of the greatest years for films, ever), just like my all-time favourite, "Magnolia", which was almost completely snubbed by the Academy (which gave "American Beauty" 5 Oscars, including Best Picture and Director). Naturally, I'd have liked "Magnolia" to win, but AB is a more than acceptable replacement since the Academy actually awarded a great film that year. "American Beauty", even without being the best film of its year, still manages to be a masterpiece."It's just a couch!", Lester (Spacey) yells in one scene. "This isn't life, it's just stuff. And it's become more important to you than living. Well, honey, that's just nuts".And isn't he right? ...look closer. 10/10.


                
American Beauty is a "love it" or "hate it" film, and you never know if it has more 'love it' or 'hate it' viewers. Personally, I love it -from the first sight, from the last sight, from the eternal sight. It is my favorite film of the 90s, one of my personal twenty favorites ever. I think that American Beauty is an instant classic, and it will stay that way as long as people watch movies.The film is deep, dark, and tragic. The title is American Beauty but it is more like Universal Sadness. It is not about superheroes - it is about very flawed, tired, and shallow people <U+0096> but just as the tag line says <U+0096> one must look closer.I live in a town like the one in American Beauty too - nice houses, brick, vinyl, neatly cut grass and flowers. "The air is fresh and sweet like a child's kiss". I jog in the mornings or in the evenings and people often sit on their porches or water their lawns or jog just as I do. We always smile at each other and say "Hi, how are you?" I always think to myself - what goes on beyond the closed doors of these people that I see? They could be happy with their families and with their jobs. They do look happy. Or, they may be tired and disappointed with their lives, trying to do something to change it - or just letting the days pass by.Leo Tolstoy opened his novel Anna Karenina with the words, "All happy families are happy in the same way; each unhappy family is unique in its unhappiness". That's why it is much more interesting for me to try and understand each unhappy family <U+0096> why did it happen? The family in American Beauty used to be happy - there is even proof - the photograph with three of them, happy, laughing. Where did it go? When? Why? When was the moment in time when two loving people became strangers and prisoners in their own nice house with the beautiful roses outside? These are the questions I kept thinking about when I saw AB for the first time, and I still can not find the answers. Can something be changed? How? What do you do to wake up from the lethargic dream that your life has become? How do you reach the people who are the closest to you? What the hell do you need a $3000 couch for if you can not make love to your wife on it? What is the purpose of material possessions if they become more important than the smile of your daughter? When did you start to think that giving your children the best toys possible would substitute for a talk, for a sincere and honest interest as to what they really worry about? I did not find American Beauty patronizing and simplistic - it asks difficult questions but does not provide you with any easy answers. I still look for those answers. I don't blame the movie for imperfection of its characters - I know they do exist. We don't like them - but can one be mad when looking in the mirror? I want to add a couple of words about Spacey's character, Lester Burnham (BTW, Spacey may stop acting right now, and he probably should after all the flops he has produced since AB, but he will always be remembered for Lester). Lester could say about himself what another flawed but unforgettable character did 25 years before him: "Well, I tried, didn't I? Goddamnit, at least I did that." Lester Burnham died a happy man; the last words he heard in his life were that his daughter was in love - it meant for him that she could feel, that she was alive because love changes us and makes us better. His last sight was that of a picture where happiness and joy were captured forever. In death, he had at last captured that for which he had longed for the most in life <U+0096> happiness.He died a happy man - not many do.
American Beauty. By title and cover I was expecting some unoriginal romantic comedy, but it turned out I didn't really have a clue as to what was waiting for me. I bought it on coincidence - it was on sale at a supermarket store. I'm grateful for the nature of coincidence.Curiously, I loaded up the opening scene. A girl wanting to kill her father. This was hardly the comedy I was thinking it would be. But what was it then...? The movie goes on and the father - Lester Burnham initiates a voice-over, accounting for his current life or lack there of. In calm honesty he shamelessly confesses the failure he considers himself to be. Furthermore, he condemns and rejects the moral values and norms that he has apparently been living with for very long, as he has come to realize that they don't provide the any joy in his life. This was something that spoke to my mind. It felt very real.This is a movie about rebellion. Rebellion towards your surroundings for having evolved into a character you cannot identify with. For petrifying emotionally and personally inside as a sacrifice to conform into the life you're supposedly living.During Lesters initial voice-over, we're told that Lester will be dead within a year and Lester tells us that, in a way, he feels as though he's already dead.Lester doesn't really become aware of what he's missing until one night, when he's dragged to a sports event by his wife, in order to watch his daughter perform as a cheerleader. During the performance, Lester spots Angela, a high-school friend of his daughter and a beautiful girl. Suddenly, Lester realizes that he's missing something, that he needs something and the following nights he's dreaming about this girl. During these days, a series of incidents wakes up Lester and he radically begins reshaping his character.The movie continues and at the end Lester does die - just like he predicted, but he didn't die as a dead man. He died very alive.This movie had a significant meaning for me in my teenage years searching for identity. It served as inspiration for my character. It's a savoring, yet nutritious meal for anyone hungering for genuine beauty.Everyone here are urging you to look closer at this movie. Don't hesitate. Do it. You won't regret it.
Standout performances from Kevin Spacey and Chris Cooper. Great story. Tragic. Funny. Dark. Twisted characters. Mena Suvari. Yes. Good nudity. Middle American cultural cross-section. Imaginatively filmed. Great pacing. Still holds up 18 years later.Excellent film.


                
This movie is the first one I have written a review for, because it is the one that means the most to me.No word in the English language can give enough praise to do this film justice. I could write a whole book about the significance and meaning of every artistic shot, of every remarkable performance, and every event and still not capture the essence of this movie.The truth is that this is the most complete portrayal of human emotion and interaction I have ever seen. It encompasses every aspect of mankind; from jealousy and intolerance, to romance and happiness. Every single aspect of each scene has a meaning and message, and if your mind is open, then this movie will affect you in so many ways.On a more technical note, this movie is not only superbly written, but executed flawlessly. Kevin Spacey gives the performance of the century, hitting every nuance of his character with grace and style. In a lesser movie, his performance would have been the sole reason to watch. Yet this is not the case. Annette Benning also shines with her portrayal of a troubled housewife that is nothing short of Oscar-worthy. The musical score also stands out as a fantastic attribute of the experience; not overpowering, yet still just as relevant.I could go on and on about the flawless cinematography and lighting effects and such. But I can sum that all up in a different manner: "There is no bad aspect of this film." Everything works together to perfection to provide the most outstanding movie of this age."American Beauty" is quite simply the most significant film of its time. Yet this movie also transcends time to provide an emotional and thought-provoking experience for years to come.


                
So much has been said about this movie that it's hard to think of what else I could add. I wasn't even going to comment on the film for this precise reason, but then I figured I needed to give my favorite film of all time a shout out.To start, I honestly believe that this is one of the true masterpieces of the decade. This is a beautifully crafted movie on absolutely every level but it's the use and exploration of character throughout that makes it truly astonishing. I find each of the characters incredibly fascinating and very rich. The tagline "Look Closer" is spot on because there's always more going on than what you observe on the surface. If I'm ever missing the beauty in my own world, this is a great work of art to remind me that I don't have to look very far.


                
this film is total excellence.  it includes all parts of a whole story  you want to see,  besides going to places where other directors never thought of even touching. this film touches it all and keeps going, all the characters are truly spectacular.  Kevin Spacey deserves nothing less then a oscar nomination for his role.. spectacular as always.. and his best film to date. you have to see this movie.. its a must see this fall and the best of the year!@!!!!!


                
A definite addition to my Ten Best List for 1999,  is AMERICAN BEAUTY which is sure to earn Kevin Spacey, Annette Benning  (robbed in the past for her work in BUGSY and THE AMERICAN PRESIDENT),  and Alan Ball (most original screenplay to come along in awhile), Oscar nominations. It is the story of what suburban life and the pursuit of the American Dream can do to an American Family. But unlike the critic's darling from a few years ago ICE STORM, which left me freezing, this film is genuinely funny and moving at the same time. The ideas projected by director Sam Mendes literally leap off the screen.  Spacey's edgy performance as the ad exec pushed over the brink by the pressures of having to have it all and his passion for "The American Beauty"  he missed when he was young enough to enjoy it, offer a visual feast.  Annette Benning as the Queen of suburbia, Spacey's wife, is  a sort sexy, gorgeous, Martha Stewart gone mad, convinced if she has just one more motivational seminar she will reach nirvana.  She is in a word "wonderful." The boy next door is sort of cross between Timothy Hutton in ORDINARY PEOPLE and Benjamin in THE GRADUATE.  He deals drugs, observes life around him through a video camera and convinces almost everyone that he is the straight arrow next door.  We know immediately, that like everyone else in this movie, he is not as he appears.  AMERICAN BEAUTY peals away, layer by layer, this oh so imperfect world of suburbia and those in denial who live there. If you have already seen NOTTING HILL you NEED to see AMERICAN BEAUTY.


                
My fiancee & I saw this movie at a sneak preview showing in her college. The big lab building was filled with mature college students, and there were those who still haven't grown up yet.  The lights dimmed and the movie started.  It started out with Lester Burnham (played by Kevin Spacey), in a short monologue with an overview of the city they live in.  From that moment until the ending credits rolled, I did not blink, I did not budge...except when I laughed...and BOY did I laugh.  The movie itself was a bit....shall I say..oh...weird.  My fiancee didn't like it too much, cuz it was too weird for her.I thought it was a very serious movie, but with most of the serious scenes, it contains lots of humor.  That's why I thought this movie was very good & original.  It's very very serious, but at the same time, it was hilarious and shocking.Please do NOT take your kids to this movie either (like I saw some parents do in American Pie), it's very BOLD & BRAVE.  It has Kevin Spacey nearly commits statutory rape, it has Spacey masturbating (it actually showed it!), and it had Annette Benning having sex with Peter Gallagher..<very rough hard sex>.  In short, I think Spacey & Benning & Chris Cooper (the Neo-Nazi marine) all deserve oscars for this movie!   As for best picture, as of right now, there's no movie as bold, daring & very well acted like this movie is.  So, American Beauty, you have my votes!


                
What can I say that hasn't already been said?  This movie was one of the funniest yet most disturbing movies I have seen in a long time.  Kevin Spacey gives what may be his best performance  (yes, I thought he was better in this than the Usual Suspects).  The directing was top notch and all the other acting was terrific.  I think this movie paints a good picture as to who we are as people. Not everyone in this world is a perfect, good looking person, and this movie plays on that notion.  Everyone should go see American Beauty.


                
Watching "American Beauty" is like looking into a handful of American lives slowly plunging into moral and emotional devastation. Although these people are gaining a sincerely fulfilling happiness, they are also slowly losing their grip on human value and order. This is not your average social commentary, it has something most satires lack; poignancy. On one hand, this is a scathing examination of the facades and truths that surround a seemingly "perfect" suburban family, displaying what it would be like if everyone's true colours emerged, as they liberate themselves from the painful phoniness that society forces them to live by. One the other hand, "American Beauty" is a thought-provoking and emotionally devastating character study of two families finally achieving joy for the first time in their lives, unaware of the profound impact they are having on themselves and each other, and neglecting the consequences that will inevitably follow. "American Beauty" shines in almost everyway, from it's stunning imagery of beauty fused with violence and tragedy, to it's darkly hilarious script, this is one of those rare films that stay with you for a long time. But the main thing that makes this movie soar are the performances, Kevin Spacey and Anette Benning are simply sensational as the feuding married couple exploring new realms of life,  Wes Bentley, Chris Cooper, Mena Suvari and Thora Birch also showcase excellent performances. A truly remarkable film.


                
