His life sucks, family sucks, society sucks. So...lets just write a story affirming it. Gee thanks. Good acting? Abosulutely. (Thus it gets 3 stars from me) But a film ought to have a point beyond spreading depression. What was I suppose to come away from this movie feeling? "Wow...at least I'm not THAT bad off"? There are plenty of pointless films out there, so no need to bag on this one in particular, but what is pointedly offensive is how "acclaimed" and "revered" this movie was by the critics and industry at large. What gives? You throw great actors at something and it just has to be good? Or was their marketing department just working in overdrive?


                
Ever just wanted to tell you boss where he can shove the job he's given you? Ever wanted to yell at your overly-domesticated wife about her ridiculous artificial life? Ever felt like you can't be buggered with it all you just wanna have fun and "live it up"? Are you a toe-tag liberal with the view that the world is one giant fake, right-wing, consumerist society with not one shred of purity and genuine happiness? Well I suppose this film is for you then! So why don't I give it a 1 out of 10? To tell you the truth, it's because the film is very clever in the way that it goes about fooling people into believing that this is some sort of deep, artistic, multi-layered critique of modern suburban life with strong messages. In reality, it is riddled with cliché and contrivances, with a touch of absurd humor, but interestingly, it is put together well enough to disguise these major pitfalls. The Hollywood establishment fell for it as well and showered it with Oscars and praise. Hollywood has a flair for contrived dramas and this was not exception. Take, for instance, the time frame of the story. During this one mystical two or three month period, every member of the family had enormous life-changing encounters / experiences that seemed to click together with other elements of the film a bit too perfectly. The fact that Benning was having an affair and, business-wise, was jumping into bed with the opposition at the same time that her husband (Spacey) was going through a period of liberation from a supposed prison of disenchantment seemed a little too convenient, wouldn't you say? Around this time, their daughter was going through her first serious relationship which coincided neatly with the disintegration of her parent's marriage. The whole setup of the story was as ludicrously contrived as the sidewalks and nature strips on their street.If that wasn't bad enough, every single last character in this film was as clichéd as they come. Spacey's character was a mid-level exec who finds no meaning in his life or work and does nothing more than has a silly mid-life crisis that is, admittedly, rather humorously scripted in some parts. Then we have Benning who parades all the traits of an unsuccessful, yet ambitious business woman, whose world revolves around matching the cushions with the sofa and pathetic self-motivating tirades. Oh, and of course - despite the fact that she has a moderately stable and semi-functional family, under her strong and happy exterior lies a deeply lost and emotionally unstable individual. Oh please! The daughter has found the man of her dreams and of course, she is going to run away to the big city with him. Lord help us! Take a walk next door and their lies an aggressive, uncompromising, conservative, ex-military father who, of course, is a repressed homosexual. His wife keeps the house in impeccable order and, of course, is sad and lifeless. The son is, of course, rebellious and unpopular, but is full of wisdom and perfect insight. The beautiful girl, the object of Spacey's obsession, is superficially a hard nosed self-superior bitch who, ostensibly, is not afraid to "sleep" her way to the top and low and behold, she turns out to be a virgin with insecurities. Blah blah blah dee dah! Aside from such clichés and stereotypes dripping from the characters, they acting is uneven and some aspects were, ironically, very stereotypically "loud & absurd....& American." Benning's character seemed totally overblown as did the conservative ex-military neighbor. The actor playing his drug dealing son gave once of Hollywood's most wooden performances and that ridiculous, so-called symbolic, try-hard artistic touch of a bloody plastic bag blowing around in the wind was laughable. Combine the acting with the script and overall, the characters were completely overdone.Some of the dialog was actually rather good and various parts were admittedly entertaining. But overall, it is an extremely overrated film and, to borrow the tag line, if you "look closer" you'll see that contrivance and cliché is the secret ingredient here, but overall it lacks style, sophistication, subtlety and most of all, realism. When I look closer, all I think is that some people believe what they see and .. well.. others just tend to see what they believe.
Why has this dreary little piece of suburban angst become such a favorite with so many people? The whole premise is abominable: after losing his job, hen-pecked Kevin Spacey (an actor whose appeal is beyond me) starts buying pot from a high school kid and drooling over his lovely teenage daughter's Lolita-ish friend. What's so hip or revolutionary about working out, listening to classic rock, or smoking pot? Spacey acts like he's in prison (although with his shrewish wife, played by a grating Annette Bening, maybe he is). Then there's the self-hating repressed homosexual Marine Corps colonel, a stereotypical figure played without a shred of subtilty by Chris Cooper. Where's R. Lee Ermey when you need him? Then there's the eponymous "American Beauty." Mena Suvari is no doubt a cute girl, but she's not really beautiful. Thora Birch, the daughter in the film, is far better looking. But there's something creepy about building a whole film around ephebophilia. This is one of the few films I ever bought on DVD that I was unable to watch more than once. I gave it to my cousin for Christmas. Now I have to spend the next twelve months dreading what her payback will be come Yuletide.
Sam Mendes' entire film career has consisted of woefully misguided attempts to dissect the many ills of American culture without remotely understanding them. Perhaps he should spend some time slinging his arrows at Britain's problems before jumping across the pond."American Beauty" is a movie about American suburban malaise set in a version of suburban America that simply doesn't exist. Its characters are either gross and grotesque caricatures or mere vessels for regurgitating Alan Ball's pretentious screenplay, forced to utter lines that never sound like things people would actually say. Kevin Spacey gives the consummate Spacey performance -- one-note snideness delivered in a sardonic monotone -- that he gives every time he's in front of a camera, while poor Annette Bening is unwatchable in a frenzied performance that I have to believe was forced on her by the director, since she's never again been as bad, either before or since. The worst of the film's dialogue is reserved for all of the angst-filled teenagers, and most conspicuously for Wes Bentley, a tortured and philosophic youth who reads a ridiculous soliloquy about the beauty to be found in a plastic bag as if he's reciting Shakespeare.The film has a weird preoccupation with homosexuality that doesn't really fit and makes itself most manifest in the character of Chris Cooper, a closeted ex-serviceman who, true to the film's form, is depicted as a goulish representative of conservative America.What is the point you ask of all this glib satire? Hell if I know.Grade: D


                
This film did not deserve its awards and favourable reviews: if ever there was a case of the emperor having no clothes, this is it.  It was middle-aged male fantasy - no doubt that's why all the (male) critics loved it.  There was the germ of a good movie in it; if they'd cut all the pretentious stuff and instead followed Lester's new career in fast-food catering they could have produced a pretty funny film.  Unfortunately, what they did produce was a college boy's idea of what's "deep" - misunderstood drug-dealer, closet homosexuality, the beauty of plastic bags - and the plastic bag wasn't the sole piece of rubbish.  I really don't like this movie: the director and scriptwriter should be forced to watch the complete oeuvre of Benny Hill as punishment for inflicting on us that "rolling a joint being mistaken for oral sex" scene.  Their Oscars and Golden Globes should be taken away and given to people with better taste - the Farrelly brothers, perhaps.


                
Imagine spending two hours with the most insufferable literary or art school poseurs you can think of - that's what watching American Beauty is like. Strangely, this klunker of a movie won an Academy Award, and lots of aging (and almost entirely male) Baby Boomer critics went ga-ga over it. It's funny viewed as weird family comedy, but still juvenile and pretentious. Like Mendes' other films, it's essentially lifeless, with wooden characters, clunky allegories, and obvious plot devices.Many viewers and critics were taken in by the absurd hype surrounding this movie's supposedly "radical" or "deep" artistic meaning. Unfortunately for them, this meaning was already given to us long ago by far greater films like Easy Rider, The Graduate, Lolita, and others.American Beauty is important historically for one reason: it was about the last time obsequious film critics and the Hollywood hype machine could bamboozle such a large number of film-goers with junk. Hollywood is now in a terminal tailspin as audiences are turning off its bad art and puffed-up "activists" as fast as they can.


                
Uttter garbage. A plastic bag floating in the wind is supposedly some profound, poetic reflection on the beauty of life, oh my poor little God! This film is about beauty, huh? Is this one big ironic joke? I looked closer but I could see no discernible method or meaning through the orgiastic mirage of clichéd to death characters and annoying dialog. No, I declare, there is no beauty here!I can see there is something in this film that will appeal to some people, however I was not the least bit impressed by this tasteless and pathetic excuse for satire. The acting is pretty decent but the characters are all highly irritating and idiotic clichés that represent some of the worst aspects of modern society. Granted It sometimes looks pretty good but the plot is trashy, predictable, nasty and inane, like the plastic bag. I know I will be told to 'look closer' but no thanks. I could take a dump and watch it float around and ponder how it reflects on life instead. I would probably come to the conclusion that it accurately depicts how in cinema s**t always seems to float, especially at the Academy Awards, now isn't that beautiful?Well I understand that American Beauty is supposedly a satire on the plastic image of American suburbia and the petty, 'silly little lives' of it's residents, great, nothing new there. If your going to do satire that does not mean you just throw in every cliché in the book and poke fun at it. This was just PREDICTABLE and unoriginal, I wanted it to be challenging and do something new, but no it just forced us to sit through the ever increasing silliness of Lester's mid life crisis and did not try to challenge any of the issues unless they were easily resolved with a clichéd or ridiculous situation. Wow, so a sad old man is rebelling, are we supposed to feel uplifted by this, are we supposed to be endeared to this 'every man'? OMG he just quit his crappy high paid job, whoopee! Now he's smoking dope, hurray what a hero! Now he is lusting after a teenage girl, man this guy is the best! How original, how fun and 'shocking', this is entertainment at it's best, or so we are lead to believe. This film is sickeningly crude. Crude can be effective as long as it is done right but when your not sure what the film is trying to achieve it's not a good thing, I was not sure if this film was trying to be funny or deadly serious and profound, it was neither in the end, to me anyway. I did at least have some fun playing an unexpected game of 'guess the cliché' every time a new character was introduced, hmmm a geeky teenage boy, let me guess - he smokes dope, hates his parents and looks for poetic meaning in inane things? - correct, hurrah! I just don't understand how/why this silly film is so loved. I mean what were the intentions here? At least other trashy films have clear intentions, but where are American Beauty's?That plastic bag bit is perhaps the most stupid and annoying thing I have ever seen in a film ever. I know this sequence is supposed to illustrate that beauty is in the eye of the beholder etc and this is supposed to relate to the film (somehow) blah, blah, blah but really I don't care, and that dork was just plain shallow, and annoying so it defeated the purpose! The same goes for the whole film really, if the last 10 minutes was some sort of (extremely amateurish) attempt at redemption then it had much the same effect as the bag scene, it was invalidated by everything else around it. Was Lester's sudden moment of clarity (as alcoholics would call it) and the last sequence supposed to be beautiful and poetic? The question I ask is, why make us sit through 2 hours of nonsense without challenging anything of importance and then try to turn it all on it's head and sum it all up in 10 minutes? Is this meant to reflect life itself? If that's the case then fine, but heck was it sloppily written and executed. I assume that it's all about looking for beauty, and the rest of the film concentrated on the crude, rebellious behavior of Lester to try and make us realize that, in the end, there was a person of beauty and emotion trying to break through that petty, immature facade, if we 'look closer', and this idea can be applied to life itself. Even if that is the (yawnsome) case they could have told us much sooner! I don't find it fun to sit for 2 hours and try to look behind some tiresome, poorly conceived clichéd characters and horrendous displays of bad screen writing in search of some humanity and meaning then have it thrown at me in the last 10 minutes, after I had stopped caring. Sorry but this film is just a prime example of poor plot construction and script writing. I was actually left amazed by how little this movie affected me despite so obviously attempting to do something of the sort, I felt nothing (apart from mild anger), perhaps this was the ultimate irony that Mendes and Ball were looking to achieve. They wanted to desensitize me, like society is trying to do. Oh the horror! Anyway, films like this are old news nowadays and like extreme feminism and reality T.V many folk are now finally becoming tired of such trash, this film will be more or less forgotten in 5 years, I bet you! American Beauty is in the eye of the beholder though, but I don't want it in my eyes ever again thank you very much. 2 stars for acting, 1 for cinematography, 0 for everything else = 3 stars.
This is the kind of movie that makes me wonder where IMDBusers' heads are at. Barely well-written enough for a Lifetimemovie of the week, and a lot less plausible. Kevin Spacey hams itup for an hour and a half, and Annette Bening's screeching harpyshould have NOW protesting outside the theaters. Couldn't figureout the appeal of this movie two years ago, and it's even moremystifying now.


                
What an awful film.  There are no characters you can like, or even identify with unless, as apparently its makers expect, you are a dysfunctional chronic depressive who hates his life, spouse, child, sexuality, job, age, parents, and, I guess, credible stories.  This is a badly made quilt of patches, each one composed of the non-story (I'll explain that) of someone so badly messed up that you'll think your most depressed friend should be giving them peer counseling.  And, that's too bad because there are limitless chances to actually do something with characters like these. Instead, each one sort of commences a personal evolution, and hints of humor surround all of these initial bursts out of the gate.  But, then, each one just sort of slows from that first sprint down to a jog, then walk, then kind of aimless amble, producing a non-story, every single time.There is no one you can like, root for, or care about in this movie.  They are all flawed people with easy lives, yet endless anxieties.  None of them tries to deal with their problems, worst of all star Kevin Spacey who deliberately takes a job with "as little responsibility as possible."  Even that potentially funny excursion goes nowhere, as we see almost nothing of his new position (which could have been grist for both the comedy mill, and the social commentary this film wants to be perceived as making, but doesn't.)As a kind of grand joke (but really an insult), the very last line, done in narration, tricks you into thinking this worthless piece of grinding misrepresentation was actually some kind of life-affirming, we-shall-overcome example of the human spirit.  Uh... no, it isn't.  If you want that, see, "The World According to Garp," a thousand-times better movie than this.  The last time I saw this kind of one-liner attempt at putting an audience in an emotional vice to squeeze out a warm feeling was when one of the characters pointlessly says "mazel tov" to a victimized Jewish character in a Broadway production of "Grand Hotel."  The Manhattan audience, as required, went "awww."  But I've warned you this time, so don't fall for it.If you want a slice-of-life movie where things are a little less extreme (read that, "actually believable"), with some fun spots worth laughing at mixed with its philosophies, see "The Wonder Boys."  It's what this movie wishes it were, or should have.  On the other hand, if you are a manic depressive who is never manic, you are going to love "American Beauty."


                
A weak, egocentric, and immature character is put on a pedestal. His blameworthy wills and acts are presented as virtues. The beautiful style of the film is meant to be a sort of justification for such bad taste way of life.A film where everything is beautiful except the putrid corpse inside it.


                
AMERICAN BEAUTY is a shot-list of anecdotes about self-centered people who oftentimes speak in surreal dialog.  This pretentious, poorly structured feature that swept the 2000 Oscars is one of Hollywood's enduring puzzles. How a boring film that has nothing to offer but pretense makes it this far is a complete mystery to me. Its industry popularity and critical acclaim is utterly astounding to me.          No doubt Kevin Spacey is a fine actor, but the 2000 best actor Oscar if there really is one, clearly belonged to Denzel Washington for HURRICANE.		Here, we see visuals that have no real meaning but are conjured for effect that simply deepens the meandering. We hear meaningless dialog that is nothing more than teenage angst.         This hodgepodge is nothing but a mishmash of oddball, misfiring scenes altogether not making a half-baked B-film scenario.  But hey, it takes all kinds of ballplayers to make up a ball game.  Those who enjoy quickly forgotten tongue in cheek films this might be for you.


                
For those of you that think this is the best film you have ever seen, you need to expand your narrow view of the cinematic world. In fact try reading some books, for instance Winesburg Ohio by Sherwood Anderson.The story line in American Beauty was far from original, and the characters were tired stereotypes living the 'American Dream'. The symbols used were trite and obvious, for instance the dead dove (need I explain) and the rose petals on a virgin (they even had to tell you that later). Angela's 'deflowering' that never happened was possibly the most sensitive moment in the film, when Lester realised that she was just a little girl, and that his fantasy was just an outlet for his deep insecurities.The film is about the fear and mystery surrounding death, although I feel it was trying to be about something else, which never really becomes apparent. Our fear and curiosity of death is what draws the audience. But Jane, Lester's daughter, saying that she would like Ricky to kill her father draws the audience into the film on completely false pretences, as we later find that she was 'only joking'. You should never deceive your audience.Kevin Spacey speaks to you at the end of the film, reminding you that you too will die one day - see what I mean? We are fascinated by ourselves and how we will die. Thats why we watch a film like this till the end, to see how he dies, it is almost irrelevant who kills him. The lame plot that surfaces - the fact that several of them want him dead, should have been cut out. It doesn't mean anything.Enough films deconstructing the 'American Dream' thank you. Surely the fact that yet another has been made to such great acclaim is the irony here.


                
Having seen 'American Beauty' only hours ago - I am left wondering what all the fuss is about. The film is pleasant in a passable glory but too much more cannot be said about the quality of the film.Films are about stories and this film is constructed on a predictable and shallow script. The social issues concerned lack any psychological depth and it that way could easily pass for an NBC Today news item.
I like Kevin Spacey (although less so from his arrogant interview on 60 minutes) but at times his portrayal of Lester was irritating.Annette Benning is wonderful but her character never really explored the depths of her psyche. In this sense, she is essentially seen as the cause of Lester's problems and not the other way around (except for the last 10 minutes).If you really want to see a social commentary on suburban life I suggest you see: 'The Ice Storm' or 'All that Heaven Allows'. As for the 'Melrose factor' of bitchiness - go see 'War of the Roses'. Otherwise you could turn to a seven-year old for whatever 'American Beauty' has to offer. Too much hype and a weak script. Overall rating = pleasant.


                
"American Beauty" is better in its execution than in its conception. Ostensibly showing us the seamy underside of suburban life, and despite excellent performances from all its leads, the film instead presents a slightly sophomoric take along the lines of "What's Wrong with My Parents". Clearly, here's a movie imagined as subversive while actually being quite conventional.  This, in simple terms, is why it's the Oscar favorite for best film.The film is not afraid to traffic heavily in tired Hollywood stereotypes: mid-life crisis; the seething frustrations of a middle-aged married couple who have grown apart; the overfriendly gay professional neighbors who present welcome baskets to new neighbors but bicker with each other, all the while staying in great shape through rigorous workouts; the hard-nosed, intolerant military officer.But a lot can be forgiven when the filmmaker's still in his twenties.  The film, obsessed with showing us overlooked beauty in life's simplest things, actually succeeds here and there, and has a lively pace that slows appropriately when needed.  It's also obsessed with sex (and 'adult' enough about it that I was sorry to see so many kids in the cinema).  Still the director, and not the writer, deserves the credit for what's good about "American Beauty".  Despite ample foreshadowing, the Hollywood (not to say "upbeat") ending is quite contrived.


                
The tagline for AMERICAN BEAUTY sums up the whole two hours in two words. Look closer.When we first see the suburb where most of the action takes place, the camera looks to be mounted on a helicopter.  It glides along the tree lined streets.There's one house in particular where most of the action takes place.  From the outside all is normal and nice.  This could be a neighborhood from OZZIE AND HARRIET or FATHER KNOWS BEST.  Look at the family living in the house with the red door.  A man who works in advertising.  His wife who sells real estate.  His beautiful daughter.  Look closer.These people are estranged from each other and, worst of all, from themselves.  At the risk of lapsing into jargon, their authentic selves have long since been abandoned.  Look closer.These are three desperately lonely people.  On the one hand, the movie is hilarious.  There is wild humor here that reminds you of WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF and THE GRADUATE.  But these people are dying inside.The father becomes infatuated with a girl who's in the high school drill team with his daughter.  She's a blonde beauty who's got ambitions of being a model.  She seems tough as nails and ready to do anything to get what she wants.  Look closer.The family next door is even more bizarre.  The father is a homophobic, self-righteous retired military officer.  The mother seems terrified out of her wits and is in a zombie-like state.  Their son is involved with drugs. He keeps reality at a distance by videotaping everything.  He has a hauntingly beautiful tape of a plastic bag being blown by the wind that I could have watched for hours.  When he gets involved with the girl from next door, we're sure that we know what's going to happen next.  Look closer.If the movie has a fault, it's that it's too short.  There are about a dozen characters we'd like to see examined in more depth.Watching this, I marveled at how comparatively normal my own life really is. Teenagers can watch this movie and come away thinking that maybe their parents aren't really all that weird after all :-)An important point to ponder, though.  The characters in this story didn't come to these points in their lives overnight.  Everything that's gone wrong went wrong through a slow process over the years.Every person who sees AMERICAN BEAUTY will come away saying, well, that's not my life.  That was interesting but it couldn't happen in my state, my town, my neighborhood, my house.  Look closer.


                
With Critics clamoring for the season's `worthy' picture you will be hearing much hype about this film and the look and the acting and its freshness. Warning don't get worked up over it because the end experience is as empty as Lester Burnham's life, the one portrayed by Kevin Spacey, who sets forth to fill out the stereotype of the all American WASP father of 9 to 5 is a vacuum.  We have all seen this done better in The Ice Storm and with more originality in Blue Velvet.  Spacey deserves all the praise that will be coming down the pike on his performance here and it is entirely on his shoulders that the film is carried with let downs from Bening and Birch.  Be on the look out for key words like American suburban, middle- class, midlife crisis, and dysfunction along with psychological, sexual, sociological to keep popping up when this film is mentioned.  These themes drive critics wild but Brit. Alan Ball does nothing more with it than take its long history in film, theater and lit and rearrange the parts, a formula for success on Broadway these days so Hollywood is not far behind.  Skip it unfortunately you won't for long escape the vapid raves filled with hyperbole


                
Really slow, monotonous, and at some points...barely watchable. They gave oscars for this?????? Jeez, I have seen better indie shorts than this "spectacular" piece of celluloid. Spacey is ok, but not up to his usual speed and Annette Bening is good. Nevertheless, the story never does anything for me personally and as an upper thirties male I should have related to Spacey's character's frustration. I did not; the movie is a waste of time.


                
This is perhaps the most overrated film of the modern era, that being
the last twelve years, 1989-2000. The film is miscast, with highly
annoying performances from drab players. The set design is terrible,
with only its dark cinematography as a saving grace.    The direction by Sam Mendes is very one note, as is the ludicrous
script by Allan Ball. The usually superb Kevin Spacey is seen here
giving his all in what appears to be a daze of egotistical
self-indulgence, shouting his lines, grimacing for no reason, but
otherwise-and this is the unnerving part-boring you to tears.     Indeed, the whole film leads up to only one thing worth seeing-theend credits. But wait-that's not all! Spread amongst this cinematic
wasteland are a bunch of overly theatrical performances, including a
celebrated turn by the less than impressive Annete Benning.    My major problem with the script is that it is so flippant about
everything, and seems to suggest that such behavior should be adopted
and celebrated. Sorry. Wrong. If this film had its way-well, trust
me...you don't even want to know. So spare yourself the pain of this
embarrassment. Read a book. Get a hobby. Do something-but don't damage
yourself with this drivel-I beg you.


                
A true horror film. Why? Because these monsters are real! This film is a reflection of our society. The reflection is real and greatly magnified. Mirror, mirror on the wall who is the most screwed up of all. `American Beauty' answers such a question quite well and I don' t find it very entertaining. Movies that I like make me think, laugh, cry, or be p***ed off, but this one drains the dopamine out of my nerve centers. Its another depressing movie that Hollywood uses to promote cynicism of the American dream and to stereotype suburbia. The movie portrays middle class as mean spirited, oppressed, unfaithful, fake, hypocritical, gun toten homophobes who would pluck the gold from your molars before the ink dried on your death certificate. Its not by accident that liberal Hollywood depicts in this film a gay couple as the happiest, healthiest, friendliest and most wholesome of the entire neighborhood while attempting to portray a Norman Rockwell lifestyle as a bogus facsimile of an old American fantasy.However,this movie does pack a powerful punch. It has great acting by Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Thora Birch, and Wes Bentley. It has a plot that is very artistically twisted (just like the characters).  It has an ending that surprises the viewer. It also has a smorgasbord of society's issues that many can dip onto their plate and relate to.  Lets see a sample of the main entrees: We have unfaithful spouses, mid life crisis, large portions of depression, freshly stewed low self esteem, and hot off the grill anger. It also has a very delectable side bar of tasty morsels: It serves up closet homosexuals and out of the closet homosexuals, drug addiction, murder, money and power struggles,  hard headed, violent and bigoted military figures, teenage identity crisis. And for dessert: Lets try some 17 year old breast, a woman's feet flying up in the air, sexual fantasies, a man jerking off in the shower and a mild twist of humor for flavoring. Uhmmmm ! Sounds good? Not to this movie watcher. Belch!!  Where are the `Tums'?  I didn't escape in this movie; I was sucked into this movie like a farmer pulled into a corn picker and maimed from the inside out. I see so much pain in this movie and we all grow numb of it. I found the world news more refreshing. What a downer.I gave this movie an anemic 6. It is greatly overrated and I hope not a classic. If it becomes a classic I fear what we have become as a whole. Its another flick that I am amazed at the amount of high scores. Maybe that proves the old saying that misery loves company. I called this a horror movie, but a disaster movie may be a more realistic classification.  It should be called `Erosion'. Erosion of society, the American dream, and family values and gives power to pursuing ones desires first while putting everyone close to you in the shadows. I once watched a movie that reflected a part of America called, `The Grapes of Wrath'. It made me very grateful of where we have come and this one `American Beauty' makes fearful of where we are going.


                
I just can't understand the rave reviews so many people have given. Spacey's acting I liked.  The self-made kid drug dealer character had depth. But this movie seemed to me a movie that should have been an airplane-like absurd comedy except for its dose of exaggerated reality formed from the worst america has to offer.  As a result, somehow this movie becomes 'fine cinema', and according to the academy, the best artistic creation of the year.  Please.Yeah, there was symbolic imagery.  But geez it was all over the place, obvious and shallow.  Oh boy, there's a vase with roses.  Hey, her dress has a rose print to it.  Didn't she prune rose bushes?  Oh my gosh, the front door is red.  They might've well subtitled these scenes in flashing letters saying 'imagery relating to roses ahoy, which could mean passion and love'.To me, a great movie brings out the best in us and/or makes us think. This movie celebrates the destruction of the family and glamorizes kids that sell drugs.


                
If this was the Best Picture of 1999... well then I don't feel bad about missing so many movies. What an incredibly overrated movie!What's good about it? Well, there's some good acting (I'll watch Kevin Spacey in just about anything). The cinematography is nice. But neither is enough reason to watch a movie in my book.The script is full of clichés (dark side of sterile suburbia, empty lives, misunderstood teenagers, etc.). The characters are one-dimensional. There were parts of a good movie in it, but they're buried in everything else. It was also a surprisingly tasteless movie. The show-offy interludes that Spacey's character experiences are initially interesting but then become tiresome. The whole thing suffers from a major case of self-importance.I'm truly mystified by those who feel this is An Important Movie that comments on U.S. society. I'm even more mystified by anyone who finds it humorous. Why it's #2 on the Top 250 list as I write this is beyond me, but that will drop over time.In case you're wondering about my taste, yes, I do enjoy a dramatic movie that makes me think. But I didn't gain any great insight from "American Beauty." At least I didn't pay money to see it, but I still lost two hours that I'll never get back.


                
To put it simple.  I and my wife, really did not enjoy this movie.  I certainly do not see how it is Oscar material.  Kevin Spacey delivered what I see as a normal performance for himself.  I saw the movie as drawn out and intertwined in immoral subplots.  Certainly deserving of an R rating, and unsuitable for anyone under the age of 18.  Yes, the individual acting performances were great, but the overall plot of the movie really was below average.If this movie has to make you think at all about your own life...then certainly you should be thinking about your life and how you are living.I would recommend this movie to anyone that is insecure in any relationship...husband-wife, wife-husband, father-daughter, mother-daughter, parents-friends of your kids, father-son, son-father, neighbor-neighbor, you name it, any relationship....then yes you might want to see this movie, and see exactly how foolish your own life might be.....However if you are very secure in a relationship, any of the above, then you really don't need to see this movie, and it won't make you think at all.......I rate this movie a 3/10


                
Mendes has a tough act to follow after pouring all of his genius into this effort.  Spacey does it again as the prototypical purveyor of the distorted 90's version of the American Dream.  Drawing from his brilliant characters in Glengarry Glen Ross, Midnight..., and Swimming With Sharks, Spacey has cemented his position as the definitive anti-hero of his era.  Annette Bening gets more magnificent with each performance, and the kids in the supporting roles are totally believable.I am surprised that Hollywood decided to honor such an anti-American-dream movie at its Oscar ceremonies (not nearly as important as the Indies these days) but I suppose that even a stopped clock is right twice per day.


                
My wife and I rarely agree on what movies should win or not win Best Picture, but after watching this movie we both had the same thought; "I don't remember the rest of the movies I saw last year being this bad." The only good thing about the movie was Kevin Spacey's performance.  He really deserved the Academy Award for Best Actor.  I need to give the Academy credit for not awarding Annette Bening, but they should have followed that good thought and presented Best Picture to any of the other nominees.


                
Someday, 50 years from now, cinema students will consider this the perfect time capsule for its era. Unrelenting cynicism, well-timed and told, passes for supreme wit.  It represents an era where repeating curse words incessantly was considered the height of creativity, and being "hip" and repetitive was more important than telling a coherent story.  Spacey is great, the other performers are mostly good, but Best Picture?  No. 2 "all-time" (read last 5 year) among IMDB users.  The bulk of these votes must represent users with no historical perspective on what a delightful experience truly good cinema can be.


                
