When I first watched American Beauty, I was in awe. To many, this feeling was mutual. I, like most viewers, felt as if I had just witnessed the ultimate achievement in cinema—a film that actually changed my life. I thought it was the deepest, most profound film ever. I believed the message. I was ready to appreciate all the beauty in the world.Fast forward a few years, my view changed. American Beauty is creepy and pretentious and stomach churningly awkward and so over the top at times that it elicits eye rolls. I don't mean to rip the movie completely. Upon second viewing, I still enjoyed it immensely. It's aware and insightful, even if it's not quite as profound as everyone believed 15 years ago. In any case, American Beauty remains an Oscar worthy movie, in part, because of the flawless acting of Annette Bening and Kevin Spacey, who play two iconic roles even though they're essentially playing clichés, which is a super under-appreciated accomplishment. Seriously, think about it. They play a nuclear suburban couple in an ordinary neighborhood with an ordinary teenage daughter (despite what Ricky thinks about her) and ordinary family issues. Even the greatest sources of conflict in the movie (her affair and his mid-life crisis) are exceedingly ordinary. And still they manage to give extraordinary and lasting performances. Impressive work.All that ordinary really serves as the point of the film. Ricky, the kid who films stuff, sees things that most people consider ordinary and frames them in his mind as "beautiful." To an extent, he has a wonderful, enlightened perspective. Except for when he crosses the threshold into weird. Case and point: "Ricky, why are you filming that dead bird?" "Because it's beautiful." That's an iffy assertion at best, Ricky. I'm all about finding beauty in everyday places, but I find many things a heckuva lot more beautiful than a dead bird. For one, a living bird.American Beauty has a worthwhile message; we've established that. But the message means little if not delivered properly. Thankfully it is.In fact the message delivery is the strength of the film. Its effectiveness lies in its ability to present this family living the American dream, a ubiquitous concept, while exploring it with a deep, multi-perspective approach.It deconstructs the whole concept of the American dream. We see the nuclear family—husband, wife and daughter. They live in a nice house in a beautiful neighborhood. The parents each work good jobs. The daughter attends a nice school. They should all be perfectly happy. Yet<U+0085> As we peel back the layers, we see the flaws. The daughter hates her parents and struggles to fit in at high school. Mom tries and fails to connect with her daughter while she also tries and fails at work. Dad seems to have lost interest in all things aside from lusting after his daughter's teenage friend.They are miserable.This all forces us to ask: this is the American dream? What's so great about this? As the story ultimately winds to its conclusion, it arrives at the restoration of hope in the form of a super weird and creepy character experiencing an epiphany. *NOTE* I'm talking about Lester (Kevin Spacey), not Ricky, even though he is also creepy and weird. I know I hit on this already, but it demands a second mention. Quite frankly Ricky is more than just strange. He's kind of a pompous tool who is largely responsible for taking the movie from profound to "come on dude, it's just a plastic bag" levels of pretentiousness. It almost makes me glad President Snow killed him at the end of The Hunger Games 13 years later.How perfect is that role for him? When you picture Ricky 13 years later, can't you totally imagine him designing the layout of a game in which kids fight to the death? It makes perfect sense to me. He would probably think The Hunger Games are beautiful. *END OF NOTE* Anyway, back to Lester's epiphany.Lester turned his life around, in large part, due to his pursuit of a fantasy. But when he had a chance to live that fantasy, he turned it down. That was his epiphany. His real one, not the one he thought he had after smoking weed with Ricky.No, that night with Angela was the moment of his true breakthrough. He realizes that lusting after his daughter's friend is icky. More than that, he started to see things for what they really were. His fantasy girl was really just an innocent, vulnerable teenager. His daughter was really a special young lady he raised. His wife was really the woman he fell in love with.Being with Angela was not what he really wanted. He had what he wanted all along. Even with his current problems, he chose his reality over his fantasy. He had a wife, a daughter, a great life. Somewhere along the way he just forgot.I could probably ramble for another few thousand words about this movie, I better wrap things up.American Beauty sends a worthy message about appreciating the little things in life, the ones most of us take for granted. Experiencing the movie is like swimming through gorgeous ocean water in the Caribbean. It's wonderful, you just have to navigate through the seaweed of affairs and ignore the gross oil spill doubling as a 40 year old guy fantasizing about banging a high school cheerleader.If you can do that, you will take away something useful from this movie. And you'll have a fun time while you do it.
Black comedy from screenwriter Alan Ball is alternately cynical and satirical as it examines life behind the Red Door in garden-filled suburbia. Unhappily married husband and father fantasizes about his teenage daughter's sexy girlfriend while his uptight real estate agent spouse has an affair with her mentor; meanwhile, their daughter gets to know the troubled youth next door, who has icy, dysfunctional parents so rigid they're like horrible cartoons. Overrated picture is thin--and so preconceived to be shocking that it seems rather embittered (although most audiences were not put off). Conrad Hall's Oscar-winning cinematography is exceptionally handsome and the cast is excellent (especially Kevin Spacey, who gives a slyly intricate Oscar-performance), yet the film is hampered by an over-ambitious third-act, unnecessary bursts of melodramatic nonsense (often with a sexual undercurrent), and smarmy vulgarities. Oscars also went to Sam Mendes for his direction, Ball for his original screenplay, and--incredibly--the film as Best Picture of the year. *** from ****


                
While American Beauty seems to have lost the punch it once had, there are still aspects of the film that hold true. The psychology of the film, through the eyes of each of its characters, is insightful and intriguing. There are aspects of each character that are relatable: the desire to live, to be seen and understood, to succeed, to be desired, and so on.The story, as told by a now dead Lester (Kevin Spacey), explores the mundane, and the natural desire to escape it, be something more and break free from the expectations of society. Spacey has lost all passion in his life. He feels smothered by his job, his family, and whatever few other aspects remain of his life after those.His passion is reignited by Angela, his daughter's school friend; a girl half his age. This new vigor sets him on a new path in which he starts working out, smoking pot, quits his cushy job for one at a fast food joint, buys a flashy new car, and stops caring what everyone else thinks about him in general.He observes in the beginning of the film that his wife is no longer happy. You can see this, not only in the way she interacts with Lester, but with her daughter and neighbors, and the way she prioritizes her job and possessions over relationships. She, like Lester, seems stuck in a societal hole that she feels trapped within. Her supposed salvation comes in the form of her work rival, with whom she has a passionate affair. She loves, she loses, she falls back into her hole. Her big moment in this film, in my opinion, came in the final scenes, where we make a very realistic discovery. Although the passion had gone out in their relationship, and although she was looking for love in other places, in the end, she still loved Lester in her way, which makes his death all the more tragic. Then, we have Chris Cooper, who plays Colonel Fits. Fits spends the film in a state of aggression due to his repressed sexuality. Society has told him his whole life that what he feels in this regard is wrong, and so his guilt displays itself in his anger and disconnect with those to whom ought to be closest. Because his arc is never completed, his story ends violently as he sinks back into his repressed and 'acceptable' state. Cooper gives one of the best performances in the movie, second only to Spacey. You can actually feel the struggle raging inside him throughout the film, making his actions at the end terrible but heartbreaking at the same time.Finally, Angela is the last compelling character in the film. Although I don't personally identify with all aspects of the character, she is the most relatable in terms of the three kids. She feels things the way normal people do. She wants to be special, seen, and desired. As she said in the film, the worst thing to be, in her eyes, is ordinary.Jane and Ricky on the other hand, the demographic with whom I'm supposed to relate, are incredibly weak characters. Throughout the film, I found them pretentious and annoying. This is especially disheartening, because, as a whole, all the characters in this film are after the same thing: self-actualization and fulfillment. The reason I find this annoying is because the character who has supposedly achieved these goals is the most pretentious and emotionless character in the film... to the point where I'm almost suspicious that he may be a serial killer. I'm afraid that if the daughter does end up running off with him, that she may never be found again. Just putting that out there.That being said, the rest of the film was captivating. The way the director told the story of emotional transformation through the color red was beautiful. I love the subtle but powerful details of this choice. The red door, the red car, how the characters wear red when pursuing their passion, blood splattered across the bleach white room. All in all, I can only recommend this film. Yes the subject matter and zeitgeist is a little dated now, but the emotional and psychological content is still pertinent almost 20 years later. 7/10
I can not compare this movie to anything I have ever seen before. Well written and superbly directed. The acting was so good it made limit pushing activities look some what normal. Kevin Spacey is fantastic as the man trapped in a miserable life. Annette Bening is so real as the work obsessed wife with no time for her husband. Thora Birch is pedestrian as the daughter lacking self confidence. Talk about a show stopper; Mena Suvari plays the flirtatious tart with zest. She can make any man go to the garage and start pumping iron.A man making haphazard choices in trying to recover his life is not so much out of the norm. True this is a sad look at a  family that is set on self destruction. Sometimes it takes witnessing the likes of this to help you realize that your own problems are very small in comparison. Fantasy situations are part of real life. This movie will rank among the great ones.Also in the cast are: Wes Bentley, Peter Gallagher and Scott Bakula.


                
Could this "Little" Film be more Overrated. It's Doubtful. Living up to Best Picture/Director, etc, of the Year is quite a lot of Reputation to Bare. But here it is. A Liberal Wet Dream that is not very Clever or Insightful but does have a Teenage-Middle-Age/Class-American Dream-Angst going for it and all done Beautifully.The Acting is very strong all around and it has a Smooth Pacing, the Shallow Writing tackles some Touchy Subjects with a Bitten Tongue-in-the-Cheek, but to say that this is Great Stuff, Profound, New, or much more than Breezy Satire is Saying more than it Deserves.There are Semi-Predictable Twists and it wears practically all of its Pretensions and Points Boldly, like one of those Self-Made T-Shirts. For all of its Accolades can Anyone actually say that they haven't seen this so many times before, so much as to have become Clichés. So no, this is just another take on the same old thing and rather well done at that. But, come on, take a deep breath, and Stop and smell the Roses. Yea...they smell the same here as they did before.


                
Hadn't seen the film for three or four years until I watched it again last night. A thread in the discussion board wondering whether the film isn't over-rated got me responding and eventually I decided to post here instead. It's difficult to see where American Beauty doesn't quite mesh, as it's blessed with brilliant performers like Cooper and Bening supporting a brave piece of work by Kevin Spacey, who puts his golden voice to work with autumnal beauty as well as truly inventive notes of sarcasm.We've seen a lot of movies since this one using elements of magic realism, particularly the serendipity of gathering together unlikely plot and character threads,surprisingly triumphant again this year with Crash (2005), which to my mind didn't accomplish it half so well as Magnolia(2000) or the much earlier Altman opus, Short Cuts (1993). It's a difficult trick to manage without seeming contrived, and to me, here, it fails.Partly it annoyed me because I felt some of the story arcs were merely limned into form, with me expected to fill in the rest of, well, the cliché. For example, imagine how dull an extensive treatment of Cooper's latent homosexuality and his son's repressive nature would be; no, we wouldn't wish Sam Mendes to have developed this further, the point being that we'd feel that way because we've seen it all before - here Mendes doesn't have anything to add to that facet of the narrative. Apply the same test to the father/daughter, husband/wife, Humbert/Lolita, midlife crisis angsts and we are left wondering what at all is fresh about the movie? And while I'm complaining about sketchiness I find myself paradoxically lamenting the overt preachiness of the script, the achilles heel of virtually all American studio Serious Films, which are never satisfied when an idea is simply felt and understood, but must rather be stated like a polemic or with all the moral certitude of a lawyer's jury summation. Watch this film and then Capote (2005)for contrast - the motifs thread their way ever so lightly through the latter, subtly suggesting, challenging, provoking, drawing us further into the mysteries of complex natures rather than staking them out like the sectioned specimens of von Hagens Body Worlds exhibit. Is the comparison fair when American Beauty is on one level at least a satire? I think so, when Mendes' ultimate intent is to teach us something profound about our modern life.A single case of the false notes that are struck, the telegraphing to the audience: Lester finds his nymphet, Angela, weeping in a corner, and comforts her with his restored virility and self-assurance. His conquest complete, he begins to undress her when she blurts out the inevitable, predictable fact of her virginity. Now, Lester has been shown to be an intelligent, re-invigorated and thus keenly observant man. Yet the fact that she lay beneath him visibly trembling and almost squirming with a look of terror in her eyes for upwards of thirty seconds seems to have escaped him completely. Why? For the simple cinematic necessity that the viewer discover it first, to render his shock, the crushing of his randy hopes and his quick restoration in himself of a fatherly humanity all the more compelling. This is all very nice, but it ain't truth.I still like the film. You can't beat Spacey's poetic narration and his commitment to the role. There's Bening's face-smacking melt-down and heroically regained composure - and a tangible wistfulness pervading the whole, gorgeously, emblematically captured as Ricky and Jane watch his film of the grocery bag caught in a courtyard eddy.It's memorable for its defining moments, and that's still saying a lot, and bests much of whatever else people are forced to watch in the narrow-casting of today's Cineplex.
This film took a long time to win me over. As a collector of movies featuring pretty actresses, I am used to watching flicks that aren't even remotely in the award-winning classes. As for Oscars, I'm more riding on the backs of oxcarts. So, I was kinda bemused by the prospect of an actual real genuine honest-to-goodness Oscar winner. But, you know what? I didn't experience it as anything better than my usual fare. Well, some time after midway I experienced some more character involvement, and, by the time Lester had Angela there in his arms, oh that was a poignant scene, that music "old man lying by the side of the road, with the lorries going by" so beautiful, such ambiance, that was a wonderful scene......but getting lyrical about a scene that is so deep into the movie while I sat here for a long, long time thinking "nothing really special"... Don't get me wrong. There's just been a helluva hullabaloo and I expected something stellar.All I'm saying is that it is quite far from being so perfect as most people enthuse. Even the iconic rose petal scenes aren't as wondrous as I expected them to be after seeing so many magazine pics. For me the very best scene was Mena Suvari's squirrel-cute face, the close-up in the movie in the kitchen scene with the refrigerator, the one that fills the screen. (The one in the trailer is cute too, but not in the movie)I think most of the positive response simply comes from the main character speaking to the people out there. So it is perhaps not so much the movie itself, but the emotional catharsis it evokes...That. And Mena Suvari!


                
In the movie American Beauty Lester Burnham is played by Kevin Spacey and is unhappy with his life. His wife Carolyn is played by Annette Bening is controlling and seems to run the house. Their daughter Jane is played by Thora Burch and she meets the new neighbor Ricky Fits played by Wes Bently. Lester decides to take control of his life and does what he wants to find his happiness.The theme of the movie American Beauty is standing up for yourself. Everyone can change their life if they want. same as Lester did he started doing what he wants and finally became happy. Although a person loves their family they do not have to be treated like that.Through out the movie there were motifs up until Lester found true happiness. Lester keeps trying different things to find happiness then at the end of the movie he finds true happiness where he would least expect it.The movie overall was good, it may have started a little slow for me as far as action however it was overall good and I would recommend other people to watch it was well.


                
Alright, it is one of those movies that you don't really understand well because it is one of those that leaves you with an open ending and at your own to conclude the reflections of your inside more than anything else. One thing I can guarantee you is that you won't get bored. The story is entertaining with all the elements necessary; great actors Spacey and Benning, beautiful girls, and a story that is pretty much yours or one of your neighbors/friends/acquaintances.So, the story you know quite well. The name of the lead character is Lester so you can guess the mood. He is leading the ordinary life of our everyday and this is why exactly the movie is so scary. The movie is trying to show us that though our life is simple and predictable because of the routine surrounding, it can lead us to many complications and ends in a very tragic way like Lester's. Look at your life, as boring as it is currently, can't you see that you can guess the rest of your days easily? Doesn't it scare you? That's why sometimes you need to add some dangerous elements to it like having feelings to your daughter's best friend, smoking drugs, or any other destructive activity. Living is truly an art or even a science that you need to learn to know how to live right.


                
I remember when this movie came out, it got acknowledgment from nearly all of my friends as an amazing movie, and then went on to win Best Picture. Due to some twist of fate I didn't see it until a few months ago, and I think that helps to give my opinion a more unbiased light; I'm not caught up in the rush.I watched this movie with my best friend, and I'll be honest, we thought it was hilarious. Both of us thoroughly enjoyed Kevin Spacey and his very acerbic realism, because we felt he was the only realistic character, and had been stuck in the middle of a crazy, neurotic world where he was the only one looking at the world through the eyes of sardonic humor and intelligence. Let me explain.*SPOILERS*The scene wherein Kevin Spacey ruins his wife's first impression with someone she thoroughly admires, The King (of real estate), is absolutely hilarious. It really shows how much he doesn't belong in what is otherwise, a boring and predictable soap opera.The scene wherein the neighbor's son is showing Thora Birch a video of a plastic bag, and claiming it holds such life and beauty, is hilarious. That he focuses on this inanimate bag in a gust of wind for SO LONG is very funny; it isn't deep, it isn't meaningful, it is a PLASTIC BAG! I really hope that wasn't supposed to be serious, because I felt that it implied how little people understood about what life was. If he spent this much time admiring a plastic bag, he wouldn't have ever found his way home.The scene wherein Kevin Spacey pictures Mena Suvari dancing alone for him is hilarious. Such artistry is given to a scene that implies pedophilia; the true humor is in the obvious fact that she had no idea what he was thinking. Reminiscent of the scene in Pulp Fiction where Lucius Wallace pictures Tarantino's wife as black just because he is.*END SPOILERS*I couldn't fathom how people thought this movie was anything more than a sardonic comedy about Kevin Spacey being a character, obviously out of place, in a soap opera drama. He is what brings life to this movie, and he casts a more unrealistic and silly light over some of the other bizarre and ultimately pointless events.Don't think that this is a BAD movie... but just consider that, in my opinion, it isn't deep at all. But for what it is, it's very, very enjoyable. 7/10
This is one way very dark comedy, but it too reassembles normal everyday life so that its giving many things to think about. Still i think in many coutries speaking of "normal living" its day out of hand or knife fight in drunk, thats more acceptable as normal what happens, than if you have on same street living gay´s fake familys and military patriots. So, this movie won 5 oscars but infact its more not like it says it is. I discribe this movie is like man and woman glued together,very same but still millions miles away from themselves and added the whole life and all other peoples there too. There are some universal thigns it raises but many i dont see so familiar. But hey, after all its American beauty. ;-)) Worth of watching I give it 7/10


                
excellent movie.  didn't quite live up to my high expectations though.  i guess that's the problem with watching movies that you've heard a lot of rave reviews about.  i seem to enjoy movies more when i go in not expecting much of anything.  American Beauty is definitely a "good" movie.  but it didn't exactly move me or touch me to the depth of my souls as some other movies have done.  all the characters were well cast.  (especially plain Jane, the intense looking weirdo guy, Mena Suvari, Kevin Spacey).  there was also no point in the movie when i was bored or wondering what the hell was going on.  this is also a very straightforward movie where whatever happens is pretty clear ... i recommend this movie highly.  although it's not one of my personal favorites, it was enjoyable and definitely worth viewing.


                
First off, the idea of sounding the Death Gong for suburbia had been done perfectly a year earlier by Todd Solondz's "Happiness". No one else could improve his ideas. "Donnie Darko" had to incorporate Time Travel and a demonic rabbit to take Todd's ideas further.Secondly, all of the characters in "American Beauty" are horrible cardboard cut-outs of human beings. And that WASN'T intentional. It was just bad writing. A self-loathing homophobic ex-military character? How is that not a stereotype? Hey, Allen Ball, how long did it take you to come up with that one? Or the career minded mother who has NO redeaming qualities? Mena Suvari's character was the only one with any substance, but she looks like a martian and I can't buy into the idea that Lester is really attacted to her or what she stands for.Thirdly, the heavy hand of the director or author's voice manifests in the character who constantly carries around a CAMERA and NEVER MAKES A MISTAKE. That is a poorly conceived and executed idea. It's like they think their audience is dumb and needs to be spoon fed principles of symbolism. I can picture the process of creating that character. I bet Mr. Ball and Mr. Mendes thought it was a great idea. That's a huge part of the problem.There is a principle in writing called "Killing Your Baby". If you have an idea you think is good, the only way you can be sure is if you dismantle the idea. If you can dismantle it, and the idea retains its goodness, then the idea is good. In the dismantling process, you can find the problems in the idea and fix them.Some of the problems with Ricky Fitts are a little obvious, like the fact that he is a dramatic character who is unfaltering and without any tangible conflict. Oooh, he hates his ex-military disciplinarian father. Ooooh. It's just another two-dimensional aspect. A truer conflict would be if he resented the homophobia and disciplinarianism but also loved his father very, very much.If anything, American Beauty shows that you can take a horrible script, give to talented actors, dress it up with slow fades, pans, and tracking shots, top it off with a great soundtrack, and fool millions of Americans into thinking it is a great work of art. Really what you have is a pretentious, heavy handed, and dumbed down soap opera quality flick. At least the title has some irony.btrDave Hendrick


                
American Beauty is for Hollywood family film standards an extremely good movie.The story is surprising and very much black comedy.Kevin Spacey rules as a dull mainstream American who turns into a man full of life who buys a red cadillac and smokes wiet.The ending is pretty shocking because you don't expect it at all.The Oscars for best picture,best director and for best actor are well deserved.Spacey shows that he is a great actor,something we already saw in Se7en and in the instant classic the Usual Suspects.All films with a surprising and shocking ending,by the way.Sam Mendes directs his first picture with great power and proved in Road to Perdition that he will be a big name in Hollywood in the future.The music-score is also very good and deserved an oscar.10/10


                
While reading other users comments on this film it was hard to comprehend the difference in opinions. For one I was reading was stating that it was utter sap, and a note to that user well done for plagiarizing what Lisa said in The Simpsons, and others claiming it was an outstanding example of modern cinema. Although I have no problem with different people adding their opinion I would like to think that they would have the decency to back them up.Now getting to my opinion, I was blown away when I first watched American Beauty, mainly because it was a refreshing and not just another piece of cliched Hollywood. This film wasn't just good it was above that and in a league with the real greats like The Godfather, Fargo and dare I say it - Citizen Kane. The reason for this film being such a triumph is due to all the aspects combining exquisitly to make a near flawless film. These being the acting, a superb collection of actors featuring the likes of Kevin Spacey (on top form), Annette Bening (also on top form) and supported by the likes of Thora Birch, Wes Bently and Mena Suvari. The movement of the camera is a homage to the director and cinematography and the script is an accomplishment rarely seen since the late 80's. I just hope that Hollywood continue to support Sam Mendes and that we are priveleged to see another piece of his work in the near future that is on par with American Beauty.Grade: A


                
The visually stunning debut film of director Sam Mendes came in a year when films looked like they were produced off the back of a Hollywood truck.  In the midst of all the awful films, American Beauty, a good film, seemed to be the savior both of Dreamworks and Hollywood.  I think this was why the film received so much attention...simply because all the other films released were terrible.  But next to the likes of Michael Mann's "The Insider" and Norman Jewison's "The Hurricane," American Beauty's cast of anti-heroes falls short.Alright, enough about me complaining, now I'll say why.  Mendes and Conrad Hall (cinematographer) seemed to have an infatuation with the color red and its ties to passion-hatred-and just about every emotion associated with the heated color.  But instead of letting this hue subtly infect the audience and the film as well, they seemd to use it as a bat; hitting the audience over the head with its symbolism and screaming, "IT'S SYMBOLIC! DO YOU GET IT! IT'S SYMBOLIC!"  This relentless pelting removed me from the film and made me angry with it because I was not allowed to view the film on my own terms.  I was told where and when to look at certain things (I will remain vague so that I will not reveal any plot to those who still wish to view the movie) and then told what to think about them.  My other problem with the film is the antihero.  A useful tool in films like Nolan's "Memento" and Aldrich's "Kiss Me Deadly," the antihero is supposed to be an average person who does some bad things to try to do good and manages to draw sympathy from the audience.  However, because of all the truly awful deeds committed by the characters in American Beauty, I had no sympathy for any of them. **************Spoilers coming...you have the jist of my feelings...do NOT read of you don't want spoilers******************* When Kevin Spacey's character, Lester Burnahm, ends up dead I did not care.  I wanted him dead because he was sexually obsessed with a young teen.  And his wife cheats on him, so when she feels miserable, I dont feel for her either.  Every character has some major flaw like this:  whore, drug-dealer, raging depressive, homophobe.  Because I could not connect to any character and simply did not care what happened to them on top of being told what to think about nearly every scene, I refuse to praise this film as everyone else does.One more quick note:  I must say that this is still a good film.  It is not a great film.I would also recommend:Road to Perdition (a much better collaboration with Mendes and Hall); Muholland Drive;  Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain;  Forrest Gump
Maybe if I hadn't heard so many accolades for this one, I could have enjoyed it more. It was a good movie, but not a great movie. At least not for me. The performances and story were both good..... but then, much of it was predictable for me.


                
Now, several months after I first saw "American Beauty" is prompted to thinking about it again, not so much by the Oscar hoopla, but rather by a comment made recently by esteemed screenwriter William Goldman, during an interview on Charlie Rose - he said that the only real difference between "The Ice Storm" and "American Beauty" is that the latter is a financial hit, while the former was not.What is the element that seperates these two, essentially similar films, equally well-made films, that accounts for the disparity at the Box-Office? Mr. Goldman would say simply that people wanted to see "American Beauty" and did not want to see "The Ice Storm" - though (and he knows this) it goes a little deeper than that.Both are keen studies of suburban inertia, the key difference is that "The Ice Storm" is a hermetically sealed one, it does not seek to engage the audience in a way that "American Beauty" does, it is a tightly focussed character study.  "American Beauty" engages us from the get go, with the "Sunset Boulevard"-esque voice over delivered right to us.  More precisely than that, "American Beauty" speaks to something universal in all of us - we ALL believe that we see beauty in a place that no one else does, it alone is OUR beauty, because we have taken the time to look closer.(When I told this to a friend he pointed out that it had nothing to do with the above point, but that people would rather see Mena Suvari seducing Kevin Spacey, than Christina Ricci seducing little boys in bathrooms).


                
I saw American Beauty this weekend after hearing nothing but praise from my friends. I was disappointed. It was good but flawed. Poor pacing, predictability and the general message that slammed into you the whole time weakend what could have been a great movie. I think that other than good script and great actors this movie is nothing very special.My rating 7/10


                
For one of the most critically acclaimed movies of all time, I was surprised at how predictable it was.  Usually whenever I watch a Kevin Spacey movie, I am totally perplexed until the movie ends, and then I have to see it over again to understand it as a whole. Spacey is fantastic in this dark comedy, the scene where he finally has a conversation at the dinner table with his family is incredible.  He is able to get your full attention and you are pulled into his character for a few wonderful brief moments.  Acting like that is rare, especially when you notice how passive his character is... This movie is wonderfully written, directed and acted, even Annette Benning is tolerable and entertaining in this timeless gem.


                
This is a sweet and thoughtful movie and though I was not as affected by it as Sixth Sense, it is a tragedy that is touching and sad.  Kevin Spacey is great as the lead and makes his character very sympathetic and admirable. Annette Bening is also very good as the mother and the scenes of her breaking down were done well. I was one of the few who have never seen "Ordinary People", but will now as I suspect these two movies play off a similiar theme.The daughter and Ricky were somewhat lacking, but the strength of Kevin's and Annette's acting carry the movie. Kevin should enter the class of modern day greats with Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep.Enjoyed the movie and feel it was worth the price to see, will not suffer in presentation when it goes to home video.No one is ordinary and God bless (help) those that think they are.


                
I couldn't wait to see this movie (huge Kevin Spacey fan) and it just did not live up to the hype.  My brother actually fell asleep half way through and missed the last hour or so, which was really the best part.I was watching it saying, "There's Sex, Lies and Videotape!" "There's Lolita!"  The story has just been done before.But kudos to the actors and director who took one of the lamest storylines I've seen in a long time and making it look and sound good.  The last 20 minutes were mesmerising.


                
No doubt: American Beauty is a wonderful movie. However, for me, it remained a very American comedy-like movie. It didn't make such a big impression as the reviews and critics promised me. There is too much 'explanation' in the movie, the characters are too flat, Annette Bening is too hysterical to be taken seriously. Also I hated this American wisdom thing: "enjoy the small things in life". For me the movie contained numerous details that made the film unrealistic and predictable the same time.  I also had the feeling that the script was kind of censored.


                
Well, according to the posters, the tag line for this film is/was "look closer..." Unfortunately, this film makes it's "meaning" so obvious that you really don't need to. Everything is clearly laid out, and any confusion is swept away by Lester's closing monologue which approaches cliche ("you don't know what I'm talking about... but you will"). This film really isn't as "deep" as everyone says it is. The themes dealt with are standard ones (overwork, materialism, teen agnst, etc.) and are unfortunately rather stereotyped. That said, I must admit that I really enjoyed the cinematography/acting/etc. This film is definately worth seeing, but does not, by any means, deserve the honor of "Best Film Ever".


                
Loved the dialog, loved the acting, loved the look - hated the ending.  What was that?  I'd go so far as to say that I didn't like the film because of the ending.  I didn't understand it - I didn't want to understand it.  It ruined the experience for me.  I much prefered  "The Sixth Sense"  though the film made less of an impact getting to the end, the finish packed such a wild punch that it left me with an awe that lingers still.  I would take "The Sixth Sense" over American Beauty as best film any day.


                
