Transcendent. A marvel of a film. There are an astonishing number of themes that are each explored and strongly supported by the cinematography, and that makes this film different each time you watch it. I chose to recognize authenticity and redemption as the central themes, especially considering the 'look closer' tagline. The smart and subtle uses of color support several themes, but are also subliminally subversive. The cinematography in American Beauty and the myriad goals it accomplishes are nothing short of genius and quite nearly mind control. Mendes' direction here is a staple of self-control and fearlessness in Hollywood. Spacey's performance was shockingly powerful and resonant. Everything just works, even the mishaps. My only caveat: with so many themes, it feels as though they are wrestling for attention. I felt forced to focus on the satirical aspect of the film, which becomes lacking. It's not that the film is beyond comprehension, rather the themes begin to contradict one another, producing a sort of unwanted chaotic element that is detrimental to the greater lessons to be learned. But the achievements in American Beauty cannot be ignored. You can spend days watching this film, trying to wrap your head around the beautiful meaning of life that it presents you with. But it's for you to determine what that meaning is. Top 500 film. 8/10 — <U+FFFC>watching American Beauty.
American Beauty shows the contrast between the two faces of America.American Beauty extends the idea that nothing is ever perfect. It is set in a small suburb; it shows the contrast between American the beautiful and America the violent. American Beauty shows this idea with Jane Burnham. At the begging of the film she is unhappy with her body while she is looking at best augmentation on the Internet before school. Jane's appearance is a dark gloomy feel, but as the film progresses and Jane has a relationship Ricky Fits. Jane becomes progressively better looking and more appealing to the audience. She becomes an almost natural beauty in the film much more so than Angela who everyone thinks is a goddess. The real message of the movie is that there is no such thing as beauty, but everyone espiers to be beautiful. In the very begging of the film there is a shot of a rose. As you might know a rose looks beautiful but it does have thorns beneath it just like all of the characters in American Beauty they all have something to hide.American Beauty shows the shady underside of suburban life, or having a mysterious neighbor and a not so perfect marriage. It gets the message across that nothing is ever perfect and there is no such thing as beauty.


                
American Beauty (DreamWorks, 2000, USA), Sam Mendes's directorial debut. It's a dark comedy centered around Lester Burnham (Kevin Spacey), a middle-aged turd who lost the zest for life, but sets out to get his mojo back in his last year alive.Dissatisfied with his real estate broker wife Carolyn (Annette Bening) and emo teen daughter Jane (Thora Birch), Lester's lost until he eavesdrops and hears Jane's BFF Angela (Mena Suvari) claim she'd totally do him if he just got buff.Carolyn is also lost. She's a snooty workaholic, captive to material things and her ideal of success. Her desperation for this success is probably the main thing keeping it at bay. She can hardly contain her frustration when people don't buy the house she's selling.Jane is a cheerleader who falls in love with a voyeuristic loner Ricky Fits (Wes Bentley). Ricky just moved in next door with his abusive, dementedly homophobic, "order and discipline" Marine Colonel dad (Chris Cooper), and his mom (Allison Janney), a meek, horribly unloved, perhaps dim-witted woman.The married characters are set up so far apart from each other, it's hard to believe they ever got along. At one point, Lester even asks Carolyn "what changed?" Most of the time nobody listens, in the last dinner table scene Lester breaks the asparagus against the wall and deadpans "honey, please don't interrupt me." Lester and Carolyn are both jerks, and still I was tricked into liking them anyway, Spacey and Bening have that kind of skill.Carolyn and Lester's relationship is where the commentary about materialism takes place. Carolyn Burnham actually gets the short end of the stick here. She's really trying to uphold her standards. Her problem with Lester is his apathy, he's stopped believing in any rules and standards. Lester talks a lot about being owned by stuff, but Carolyn's views aren't expressed very well. She comes across as a prude scold until her affair with real estate rival Buddy "the King" Kane (Peter Gallagher), just about the only good thing that happens to her in the whole movie. Only then do we get to see that she can have fun too ("yes, your majesty!").Some reviewers have stated that Lester's "this is just stuff" speech is invalidated because he trades in his sedan for a red sports car. I'm not sure. I doubt he'd allow the thought of messing up the upholstery stop him from getting it on in the car. But he clings to the beer and decides to argue. His point is right, don't let possessions stop you from living a little. Regardless, Lester should just shut up and move his wife somewhere she wants to do it. Instead he yells at her, now they're both unsatisfied.Lester is an emotional roller coaster, starting out desperate, loathsome and contemptuous. He meets Angela and gets pathetically horny and sycophantic. He's angry at the world, vengeful and vindictive. Lester gets smug and rebellious, reverting to adolescence. He's completely self-centered during this journey. His silly rose petal fantasies invigorate him, but still all he does is anger people, smoke weed and flip burgers.At the climax, he sees Angela for what she is and he understands who he needs to be. His lust for this girl transforms into a lust for life. He asks about others with genuine concern. He makes Angela a sandwich, asks about his daughter. Spacey's transformation is night and day. His arc represents the idea that death and wisdom go together. The smile Lester gives when he learns his daughter's happy and in love might've sealed the Oscar for him.Colonel and Mrs. Fits don't talk. Mendes will show them right next to each other on the sofa but a world apart. Colonel Fits pours his energy into watching Ricky, who's dealing drugs right under his nose. The Colonel has a hair-trigger temper, showing a lack of the discipline he tries to beat into Ricky. It'll cause you to wonder how this guy made it so far up the chain of command, colonels report to generals. So many problems come from this guy's prying and spying.Mrs. Fits maintains an empty glare, with big old sad eyes. She's subservient, and her needs have been neglected for years. She probably just wonders what can she do for her husband's love? I doubt she says more than 20 words the entire movie, but they reveal her defective selflessness and her feeling of unworthiness.A lot's been made about the stereotypical characters and plot line. The writer (Alan Ball) and director were apparently aware these roles are almost like caricatures and the actors play along. Almost everyone is over the top delusional until a moment of truth, which gives clearer insights into the characters. The only people who don't seem delusional are Ricky and Jane, but Ricky's riffs on beauty are a little sentimental, and his response to seeing Lester at the end just seems disconnected from reality. Then again nobody's reaction in that last scene makes any sense.We're told to "Look Closer," to see through the facades people desperately uphold. Sam Mendes directs with impeccable framing and staging of his shots, especially when he introduces the characters. Mendes artfully shows us the trouble with the people and relationships being portrayed. These portraits feature still or very slowly moving shots that allow characters' postures and expressions to reveal some truth.Mendes clues us in to the tensions between facade and reality. Granted, the two Jims and the real estate "king" aren't exactly multilayered, so some stereotypes aren't subverted or redeemed. These characters are justifiable because they're necessary and instrumental in helping us to know the core characters. American Beauty is not concerned with kind, well adjusted, virtuous people. Lacking minorities, it provides flavor by showing middle class people faking it alone, together. It's a very good movie with a clear viewpoint. Go see it.
The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was a very weird movie. The experience quickly faded off, although I that boy-who- records's character intrigued me a little. Yesterday, I chose to give this movie another watch and I couldn't emphasize enough how drastically my opinion has changed. The second watch helped me form a better view about this. And if it is anything to go by, I believe it is one hell of an anti- establishment movie. Almost all the characters are, although seemingly "normal", are living pathetic lives- all except the boy- who-shoots. It is revealed later on why he is way ahead of all other characters in terms of appreciation of "beauty" as he calls it. The film showcases a drastic transformation in the lives of every character. The facades come crumbling down. All the tightly- knitted culturedness, normalcy's, belief-systems come apart as characters discover how pathetic all their lives are. The younger generation is more open to changes, the elders- the more they resist change- the more frustrated they become. Meanwhile it is revealed that the most straight-jacketed (in terms of conservative notions like homosexuality, marriage, discipline) is a secret admirer of fascism and the most sorrowful character. Slowly, as all the characters let go and accept their natural feelings, instincts, desires- sometimes bordering on scandalous- they feel better, relaxed, happier. All but one is transformed. The film describes how heavy orthodox beliefs can get, how they have the power of consuming people's lives, harming people. The film, for me, is an acute critique of all means of classifying things into binaries. It endorses a more tolerant view of life and portrays the insidious nature of judgments. I loved it and would watch it again, soon.
There is a motto which too often is over used by many which goes "It's What Every Man Dream's of." The film American beauty is one such basis for that foundation. In this story Kevin Spacey plays Lester Burnham who is a burned out magazine salesman and after fourteen years, suffers a a mid-life crises. With his bosses planning to down-size him, his wife and daughter abandoning him and his future becoming mundane, Lester feels he is stuck in a dead-end life with nowhere to go but down. However, into this spiraling, bleak existence enters, youthful. teenage Ricky Fits, a next door neighbor who teaches him that life does not have to be taken so seriously. To add imagination to this idea he is further captivated and sexually tempted by beautiful Angela Hayes (Mena Suvari) who encourages his admiring, lustful stares and fertile day-dreams, creating a Lolita like romance. However, situations in his life cause Lester to become unaware of the murderous dangers arising from his neighbors, adulterous wife and patristic daughter, so much so, that what he sees as freedom, others consider destructive family threats. The film, with it's rich dreamlike sequences is destined for Classic status and that which we consider dreams are the primary ingredients for this awesome movie. ****


                
American Beauty was a huge success upon release(especially critically) and its easy to see why. American Beauty doesn't trailblaze a path into hitherto untouched cinematic territory, but its presentation of vivid characters in interesting situations makes the story seem fresh. In part because it's not a complete downer and in part because it doesn't cheat the audience, American Beauty is emotionally satisfying. There's a sense of poignancy at the end, but also the feeling that we have been on an incredible trip through the lives and souls of three perfectly-realized characters. In a year that boasts few truly memorable motion pictures, Mendes can stake a claim alongside the likes of Kubrick and Egoyan as one whose cinematic vision both challenges and entertains.


                
'American Beauty (2000)' is an odd blend of comedy and drama which come together to successfully compliment each other and make the whole experience more impactful. It's film which isn't afraid to get dark and cynical but which also has a real optimistic heart and positive outlook at its core. It's an experience that will stay with you long after the credits roll. The fantastic screenplay mixes with the amazing acting to create a seamless sort of 'imagined realism' that allows for a true cinematic reflection of real life. The haunting ending is both truly tragic and strangely happy all at once. Oddly, the juxtaposition of these elements works brilliantly, allowing the final moments to be almost truly transcendent. 8/10


                
American Beauty gives a deep insight into the lives of Americans on a different levels. And more importantly it emphasises with God's beauty that is all pervasive around us while we are blinded owing to materialistic aspirations.A typical American family of Burnham's consisting of Lester (Kevin Spacey), Carolynn (Annette) and their daughter Jane (Thora Birch). Marriage is superfluous. Daughter is confused teenager who falls in love with neighbour Ricky (Wes). The pro-sake life of Lester suddenly gets spiced up when he falls head-over-heels over his daughter's friend Angels (Mena Suvari) and re-discovers his passion for life, a reason for existence and more importantly his identity.All the character's parts are well-etched out. The portrayal of Lester's re-kindling his energy is portrayed effectively, as subtle and as convincingly as one falls in first love.And narrative voice-over words of Kevin Spacey are extremely spiritual yet convincing. The movie did not register well the first time I watched it. However last week when it was aired on telly, and could see the subtle messages the movie is interlaced with.


                
The main focus that was taught about "American Beauty" was that it was "Reality vs. Appearance". I think that the entire movie was scene though a lens. It was obvious that Ricky taped everything and saw everything in his video camera; but the rest of the movie was seen and talked by a dead narrator. This is related to everyday life for some people and it showed a story through experience. I also strongly agree that Angela is a symbol in the movie, and she represents Lester's old wife, and the way his wife used to be. He fantasizes about Angela, and whenever he thinks about her there are always roses in the scene. Lester sees how Carolyn used to be through the representation of Angela. There is definitely a comparison of these two women throughout the film.


                
1999 was a really good year for filmmaking. Many amazing hit movies were released that year, The Sixth Sense, The Matrix, Toy Story 2. Some movies released that year, people didn't like too much, but now it has a cult following, Fight club (one of my all time favorites), Eyes Wide Shut, The Mummy. And, there are movies released that year that many might say overrated, The Blair Witch Project, and the movie I'll be talking about today, American Beauty. This movie won best picture at the 2000 academy awards, and I found that out before watching the film. Throughout watching American Beauty, I kept wondering to myself, HOW DID THIS MOVIE GET BEST PICTURE WTFFFF. Well, I guess the academy awards in 2000 just thought that a movie like American Beauty is outstanding. As you can tell, I'm not a particularly huge fan of this movie. I'm not saying it's a bad movie, because it's not, but I don't think this movie is a masterpiece as some people have said. Let's start off with my biggest issue with the movie, the mood and tone of the movie just didn't sit right with the plot. The plot is considered creepy and weird, but the movie is a drama-comedy. Weird and drama-comedy don't mesh together very well, as presented in this movie. It's like trying to get 2 of the same poles on 2 magnets to attract to each other, IT DOESN'T WORK. I also didn't like a lot of Kevin Spacey's narration in this movie. It kind of spoils things that happens later in the movie, and I didn't like that. This isn't a con, but the scene where Ricky Fitts shows Lester's daughter the video of the flying bag was so unintentionally funny. The first time I watched the movie with my cousin, we laughed our asses off so hard. It was superbly unintentionally funny, I loved it. I'm glad that scene exists because it's so funny and memorable. Now, let's get into the pros of this movie. I'm really glad that this movie won best original screenplay at the academy, because the screenplay is really damn good. The information we need to know in this movie is presented so creatively, it blows my mind. If you watched the first Lessons On The Screenplay video on this movie, it goes over the creative methods used in the screenplay, and it is really nuts what Alan Ball did with this screenplay. The first dinner table scene in this movie is so memorable not just because it was intense, but because we learned just enough about these characters in a few exchanges of dialogue. The acting was phenomenal, especially Kevin Spacey's performance. I also like how the movie doesn't answer its questions that are brought up, because we the audience can have our own interpretation about what happens next. I think this is a really well made film. If the movie just got its tone and mood aligned with the plot, it could've been way better. 8/10
This is another freeing film, similar to fight club in a lot of ways thematically. The only draw backs are the public image of Spacey has been (fairly or not) smeared at the time of writing this, & "True Beauty" would have been a better title - or anything that doesnt shove our Americaness in everyone's face all the time. But that is a minor point. And loving art - not the artist - Spacey is amazing! The whole cast is. It is a film that can change your life, reminding us of the power we have & the choices we make each and every day to stay w/i the system. It is worth seeing for that alone. Inspiring film for if you are feeling caught in a rut.


                
Lovely character all,passion drama with love about a game this movie
Kevin Spacey plays Lester Burnham and narrates throughout this film about an average American family that is anything but normal. Thora Birch who plays the daughter of Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening is self absorbed and tries desperately to be anything but normal or accepted.Kevin's attraction to Thora's high school girl-friend Mena Suvari makes every male nervous because as a male, I can relate to the childhood crushes that can take place. Kevin who is in a loveless marriage is attracted to Mena because she is the forbidden fruit.Thora is turned on by the next door abused son of a Marine Col. Frank Fits played by Chris Cooper. Wes Bentley plays Ricky Fits the tortured son who will not fight back against his abusive father. Wes and Thora make a perfect match.Annette Bening's character, Carolyn Burnham is frustrated in her marriage and falls into an affair with another leading real estate salesman Buddy Kane played by Peter Gallagher.The ending of this movie seems to me like many of Kevin Spacey's films, unpredictable. His films are worth the time to watch and own. Enjoy.
This film is without a doubt a classic. It has won a whopping 88 awards, including, but not limited to five Oscars, one Grammy and 3 Golden Globes. It has been mentioned and spoofed in dozens of other movies, shows, cartoons and whatnot. Some might even consider it a cult film. But does the movie really live up to its reputation?Let's start with the MAIN CHARACTERS. American Beauty centers around the typical American-dream-family Burnham, living in the suburbs of an unnamed, typical American city. Lester Burnham (Kevin Spacey), the father of the family, is the main character and narrator of this movie. He is a 42 year old advertising agent, moaning about his boring, dull life. His wife Carolyn Burnham (Annette Bening) is an unsuccessful realtor, unhappy with her unused potential. And their 16-year-old daughter Jane (Thora Birch) coping with typical teenager problems like being embarrassed about her nerdy parents or uncertainty of life.As for the PLOT, Lester himself narrates his last days of his life post mortem, claiming he will be dead soon. In the beginning he is a self-proclaimed loser without any joy or excitement in his life. But this is about to change when he meets Janes friend Angela (Mena Suvari) and immediately has the hots for her. After overhearing a conversation between Angela and Jane, where Angela tells Jane her feelings about Lester ("cute, but should work out a little"), he is getting more self confident and starts changing his lifestyle by working out, buying a new car and smoking pot he buys from the boy next door. Meanwhile, Jane builds a relationship with this particular boy named Ricky Fits (Wes Bentley), who is filming her secretly through the bedroom window. Though Ricky is technically a voyeur, Jane starts to like him, because he is so different as he can see beauty in random things. And she happens to like people as different as she is, so these two end up being a couple.In the meantime Carolyn begins an affair with a business rival, Buddy Kane (Peter Gallagher) to satisfy her sexual needs. Few scenes later Kane breaks up with her again due to the expensive divorce he would have to pay for.Eventually, Colonel Frank Fits (Chris Cooper), Rickys father, suspects his son of having a relationship with Lester, because in one of his videos of Jane he captured Lester working out without wearing any clothes. Thinking Lester is homosexual, Frank kisses Lester, who of course rebuffs him, revealing the Colonel himself is homosexual.After that Lester and Angela finally come together and are about to get it on, when Angela confesses she is still a virgin. Lester doesn't seem to like this and instead wants to have a chat with her now about their personal problems. When Angela leaves for the bathroom, Lester gets shot from behind, while Carolyn is coming home, Jane and Ricky are upstairs in Janes room and Angela was in the bathroom. As it turns out, the Colonel was the one who murdered Lester, because he didn't fulfill the Colonel's homo-erotic desires. After his death, Lester recaps what happened in his life, coming to the conclusion, that it is hard to be mad, when there is so much beauty in the world.This covers the plot. But is it a good movie? Well, as bland as the story might look at first glance, it has actually some clever ideas. This movie deals with the problem a man can have in a midlife crisis, the American dream and homophobia, so there might be one or two lessons one could learn. But my problem is the credibility of this movie. There are just some unbelievable and unrealistic scenes that, I think, would never happen in real life. To tell just two of them. I just can't believe Jane falls in love with Ricky. Think about it, he was harassing her by filming her without her permission, day and night. That whole "there is so much beauty in something." stuff is just a cheap excuse. And the second problem I have is why do Lester and Angela even come together? I mean, Lester is playing with pedophilia here, and Angela even likes it. It's just weird.All in all, the movie is decent, it has it's illogical moments, but also smart, deep ones. Some might consider it funny, tragic, gross or boring. I think it is okay. And judging by the success the movie had many people have liked it.
As many many people might expect according to the heading, my criticism could deal with a popular, successful man called Lester Burnham in his mid-forties, who takes care of his family living in a typical single family house in a residential suburban area in America. But this is not true.Lester realizes all of a sudden that he is trapped in routine and boredom and thus decides to change that. He quits his job, sells his car to purchase the car he dreamed of as an adolescent. Besides he restarts to smoke pot which he gets hold of from Ricky, his daughter's future boyfriend. Meanwhile he is having erotic daydreams about his daughter's friend Angela. His wife Carolyn cannot voice anything but a good deal of misunderstanding when observing the changes he undergoes. But she changes as well; she is frustrated and starts an affair with a fellow real estate agent which helps her cope with Lester's metamorphosis. So far so good. Mendes succeeds in adding hilarious dialogues supported by well chosen field sizes that make us feel with Lester. Lester modifies his views of life in a way which seems to be childish and immature. But above all he teaches a little lesson in life: to rediscover beauty in trivial things and to be grateful of enjoyable moments in life. This makes him a likable character even though he must pay a high price.


                
This film's tagline implores you to "look closer". And to truly appreciate the film you must do exactly that. Is anything really as it seems? Is anyone really who they outwardly appear to be? So many characters in the film, and really the story itself, have layers upon layers to them. As the story plays itself out we peel those layers away one by one and eventually we get to the truth and to the heart of who these characters really are. And we see that in many cases the signs were there all along if only we knew to look for them. Look closer.American Beauty centers around Lester Burnham, a middle-aged man with a job he hates, a wife who ignores him and a 16-year old daughter who thinks he is pretty much the biggest loser to ever walk the earth. Under these circumstances it is not particularly surprising that as we meet him Lester is about to go though a midlife crisis of staggering proportions. Part of the story's genius is that Lester, in his role as the film's narrator, immediately tells us how his story will end. Tucking this bit of information away in the back of your mind gives you an entirely different perspective as you watch the story play itself out. Throughout the story's many twists and turns you can't help but wonder how what you are seeing in any given moment will help lead to the conclusion you know is coming. And when that end comes, inevitable though it may be, it still manages to produce quite the shock in the manner in which it arrives. And then the film is over and you are left to piece it all together in your mind. It's a wonderfully crafted story and the fact that it was a first-time director in Sam Mendes who was able to piece it all together so well is rather astonishing.Kevin Spacey is undeniably brilliant in playing the part of Lester. He makes us feel Lester's frustrations, his longings, and allows us to really enjoy Lester's rare little moments of triumph. When first we see him Lester is so beaten down that it would take something truly amazing to jolt him back to life. Unfortunately for Lester that jolt comes in the rather inappropriate form of his daughter's friend who he lusts after and obsesses over from the moment he first lays eyes on her. Of course this 40-something year old man's obsession with a teenage girl is wildly inappropriate. But it's hard not to sympathize with Lester anyway as his newfound infatuation shakes him out of his rut and allows him to finally start living again.As Lester's story plays itself out Spacey is ably supported by a wonderful cast all around him. Annette Bening plays his rather cold, career-obsessed wife Carolyn. Carolyn is a woman not immune to the occasional moment of freaking out and at times there's the sense Bening is going a little bit over the top but she's mostly fine. It is three young performers who really shine. Thora Birch plays Lester's daughter Jane and imbues the character with the profound sense of disappointment she feels in her father and in the general state of her life. It's a very mature performance from a very young performer. As Angela, the object of Lester's misguided affections, Mena Suvari has a smaller part to play than Birch but she is very good as well. We know Lester's looking closely at Angela. You should too because there may be plenty hidden under the surface there. And Wes Bentley is a revelation in playing the Burnhams' young neighbor Ricky. After seeing him here one would have expected Bentley to go on to do many great things after this film. That hasn't quite panned out but in this film Bentley gives a wonderfully nuanced, emotional performance. There's one more important role and that belongs to Chris Cooper playing Ricky's father. Here again, look closer. This film is the story of Lester Burnham but there are so many other wonderfully developed characters as well. The film has a fascinating story to tell and that story is crafted rather ingeniously. It's a story you can't help but appreciate and one which you may be turning over in your mind long after the final credits roll. Look closer. And enjoy.


                
It was a good movie that showed a lot about what life usually is (miserable) and how sometimes just not giving a s*** can fix it for you.  Kevin Spacey is awesome in this movie, he makes it what it is, perfect casting, with anyone else as Spacey's character this movie isnt nearly as good.  I liked it, it was good, but it was far from great.  Mena Suvari is hot.


                
Spoiler Alert! I watched American Beauty for the first time last night, and I had mixed feelings about it. I was disgusted with the movie, but at the same time deeply moved. I hated the movie, but also liked it at the same time. It's very hard to describe how I really feel about the movie. One thing about American Beauty is sure. It is thought-provoking and disturbing. Sam Mendes was bold to create a movie that defied the moralistic messages and "happy endings" usually found in the best movies such as the Shawshank Redemption.In my opinion, I believe American Beauty is a satirical movie that depicts the personal problems that can wreck an American family in our society. The thing that baffles me the most is how so many people on this site have said that the characters in American Beauty are all characters we can identify with. Are you kidding me? Sam Mendes never meant for these characters to act as the most ridiculous, base people that can exist in our society. We SHOULD NOT be able to identify ourselves with these pathetic characters.Look at Lester for example (Kevin Spacey). He represents a father who has absolutely no responsibility or direction in his life. He is a father who lives a life of debauchery and pleasure (shown by sexual passion toward Angela). He is a father who shouldn't even be called a "father" since he dosen't care a tad bit about his wife or daughter. Next, we have Karolyn (Annete Benning).Karolyn represents those people who have no stability in their lives. These are the people who are too systematic, materialistic (shown by the "Don't spill you beer on this $4000 couch" incident), and shallow at the same time. She is too obsessed with success and the American Dream, that anything less will surely depress her.Let's analyze Angela (Mena Suvari) next shall we? Angela, a prideful cheerleader, represents those people who are excessively obsessed with self-image, self-worth, and significance. She's only friends with Jane because she can feel good about herself (since she's "supposedly" prettier and more sexualy active than Jane is"). She rants on about her potential to be a model and even lies about her "active sexuality" in order to build herself up.Haha, finally comes the Kernel (or Rikki's dad, played by Chris Cooper). The Kernel represents those people who are unreasonably stubborn and act as "CONTROL FREAKS." These people like Rikki's dad only see things their own way and they dictate other people's lives. In fact, the Kernel is so freakin oppresive that he shows no love to his wife, and later, we find out that he's gay (not surprising why).Like I said, I do not know how people on this site say that they can identify themselves with Kevin Spacey's character, Lester, or Mena Suvari's shallow chracter, Angela. For Heaven's sake, you're not supposed to be! Man, if you can relate to them, I'm kind of concerned about you. These are farcical characters that we're supposed to laugh at while we watch the movie.Keep in mind, that I haven't talked about all the characters. There are two characters (Thora Birch's role, Jane....and Wes Bently's role, Rikki) whom I respect very much. I respect Jane because she grows up so much in this movie. In the beginning of the movie, she also cares too much about self-image and always depends on her shallow friend, Angela for advise, but as the movie progresses, she learns that self-worth cannot be found by what society tells us that it can be found in (sex, popularity, drugs, money). I feel sorry for Jane since she has horrible, pathetic parents and she has every right to criticize them, because they don't give a d*mn about her. Fortunately, Jane does meet someone she whom she can relate to (Wes Bentley) and we hope they can live happy lives.The most significant character in my opinion is Wes Bentley as Rikki, a son of a repressive father. Rikki is not a perfect character (he lies, does and sell drugs) but he has true emotions and sees beauty in things that most people don't. He fully appreciate's God's creation while everyone else is ignorant to it. He finds beauty in simple things, a dead bird, a floating plastic bag, and even Jane (whom most people do not find beautiful). I believe Jane and Rikki are the two real and focal characters in this movie.While everyone else is mentally breaking down, these two chracters have self-worth and composure. They have something to hope about. I think too many people take this movie to far and misinterpret it. This is not a movie shwoing us the truth and realities of American families (if it did, we would be feeling insulted). Instead, it's a satirical movie that pokes fun at people who we would hope not to be like (I sure do hope you people think the same too!).What a weird and disturbing movie, but at the same time, a beautiful movie....   man, this one is a fun movie to talk about.A good, but not brilliant movie (movies like Godfather, Shawshank Redemption, and the Green Mile surpass this one). I give this one 8 out of 10 stars.
Great script! This film features an amazing work in designing every single character, and they all fall together pretty good in their "double personality" common ground. Very good directing as well, and an ultra-beautiful Thora Birch playing the most positive role in this worth-seeing-movie. It was worth the 5 Oscars it won, for it's one of the few very good films of the nineties. This story has the quality to tell a lot of true things about people's behavior and their relationships in today's society. Watch it!


                
AMERICAN BEAUTY is one of the greatest films I've ever seen, and also one of my favorites.This is the story of Lester Burnham (Spacey), who is feeling 'dead already'; Carolyn Burnham (Bening), Lester's power-hungry Real Estate worker wife; and Jane Burnham (Birch), their rebellious & insecure daughter, who spends her time with her best friend Angela (Suvari) and the mysterious kid-next-door, Ricky Fitts (Bentley).  When Lester meets Angela, he develops a sudden lust for her, and decides to change himself, and he turns his life around - but turns everyone else's down in the process.AMERICAN BEAUTY is truly an American beauty.  This film is simply magnificent, and something about still dazzles me.  The music (by Thomas Newman) is perfect, the cast and writing is flawless, and all the elements fit perfectly together to create this film.This film is simply spectacular.  You must see this film. ********8.4


                
American Beauty is a film of real substance with performances right out of the top draw. Kevin Spacey and Annette Benning play the couple who's marriage ended years ago in love if not in writing. The idea of the film is to show you that, people are very good at hiding their true feelings. We the audience are told that Spacey's character is going through a mid-life crisis, yet by the end of the film you feel he is the most sane character there. Superb performance by Spacey and a career best by Mena Suvari as the "Lolita" like object of Spacey's desire. Benning is also fantastic, if a little over hammy at times. The script is brilliant and it is brought to life by the powerful cast. A top notch film that is worth repeat viewing.


                
All things considered, it is rather astounding that "American Beauty" has attained the status it has. The story is hardly original, constructed as it is from every tired stereotype about the middle-class, middle age and middle America; the materialistic, self-destructive wife for whom the American Dream has become a psychotic delusion, mid-life crisis man, who assumes the way to regain his vitality is to flirt with teenage girls, smoke pot and drive a firebird, the borderline pervert kid next door who is really just a passionate misunderstood artist, and rebellious, sulky teenage daughter.Many scenes are lifted from the bottom of the movie plot stock barrel; the dead man narrating his story from the grave, the wet dream of the girl in the bath ("I was hoping you would join me..."), the suddenly predatory office worker who threatens his boss with exposure, the snarky one-liner upon catching someone in flagrante delicto, etc, etc.So, how, after all of this, does this film manage to seem so compellingly, wildly original?The answer, I think, lies not with its story but with its execution. The gorgeous, ethereal cinamatography by Conrad Hall, the wonderful precussive score by Thomas Newman, the wildly orginal editing, and above all the stunning performances by its top-calibre cast.Kevin Spacey is brilliant here, creating a character that is both believable and yet incredibly charismatic. As his wife, Annette Bening finally redeems herself for every performance she's given since "The Grifters." Her portrayal of a hysterical corrupted soul is both terrifying and sympathetic. Thora Birch seems ready to take the mantle from Martha Plympton and Christina Ricci as cinema's pet crucible of female adolescent angst.The beauty of "American Beauty" is that it manages to turn a stale and reheated story into a meditation on the nature of life and death. That in a way is a far more profound achievement than turning a discarded plastic bag into a symbol of the purity of nature.


                
I saw this film last night and I'm still feeling the atmosphere tonight. Not many films can sustain that much thought.I think the reason this film has had a rave reception in the US is because it holds up a mirror to America's concept of itself and says "This is what you think you are, but here is what is really happening".The whole rose (a major image throughout the film) is displayed at the start, perfect and beautiful, and then one by one the petals are stripped away and allowed to fall.  We watch the petals falling and see where they land, until finally nothing is left but the stalk, with thorns.Performances are startling.  Kevin Spacey is at his warmest and most inviting.   This man is a warm bath with Radox after a long cold journey. Annette Bening is allowed free rein for all those glimpses of her force we have been tantalised by in other roles.We came home talking about many possible "what happens next" scenarios. More like this please.


                
Don't get me wrong here, I really enjoyed the movie, and is a fan of Kevin Spacey since "The usual suspects" and "LA confidential", I didn't dislike him in this movie either. But "Best film of the year"??? "Best film ever"??? That's imho misunderstandings as good as they come.I gave it an 8 when I rated it, and for me that says it is a very good movie that, you will probably want to see again some day, but certainly not anywhere on my top 10's.I think that in some way the characters were a little cliché, Revolting husband, Bored suburban wife, Outsider, Strict father, Prom queen and so on...And the whole thing with Kevin Spacey revolting at his office immediately got me associating with the guy in "Office space", that is hypnotized into not caring at all about his career or life. Not really a ripoff, but...Summary: Nice enough movie, but not at all deserving the place as no:2 on IMDb's top 250.


                
American Beauty is a well-written and enjoyable film, but it's strange how most of it's major flaws seem to have escaped the critics' attention. Because the film has gathered so much appraisal, I'd like to comment on it's drawbacks.First of all, American Beauty's way of treating it's themes is somewhat over-emphasizing and clichéed. I agree with James Berardinelli that the voiceover is completely unnecessary. This is not a children's tale, so we don't need to hear the moral when the story ends. It's far better if we figure it out ourselves. Also, the character played by Wes Bentley (the teenage boy next door) is used in a way which is very typical of American films. He's the wise outsider who sees through everyone and knows everything (see Magnolia for better use of this cliché), and when he says things like "there's so much beauty in the world I can't take it" or "you're not really beautiful, you're ugly" he very much serves the same purpose as the voiceover: to tell the less intelligent viewer what's going on in this film.Secondly, although the actors do excellent work most of time, they do tend overact; this most evident in the scenes between Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening. This exaggeration is clearly deliberate and though it works most of the time, some scenes just seem to be fishing for cheap laughs.I might have liked American Beauty more, had I not seen two recent films with similar concepts: Todd Solondz' Happiness (1998) and Ang Lee's The Ice Storm (1997). Happiness deals with the same themes as American Beauty (the pursuit of happiness amongst middle-aged, middle-class people), but is more insightful and far more daring. The Ice Storm, on the other hand, has a surprisingly similar structure to American Beauty(the two neighboring suburban families, and the relationships between the adults and the teenagers), but it's approach to the subject matter is more subtle and less preachy. For these reasons, both Happiness and The Ice Storm deserve four stars (out of four) and American Beauty only three.


                
