"Castle in the Sky" is an animation movie in which we watch a young boy and a young girl with a magic crystal who are trying to protect themselves but also the crystal from pirates and foreign agents. They are also trying very hard to find a legendary floating castle something that is really difficult to succeed but they are not giving up their tries.In general I like animation movies and when I watch an animation movie which made by the master Hayao Miyazaki then I have to say that I loved it. The direction which made from Hayao Miyazaki of course was as I expected perfect and I also liked it very much. This movie I can compare it only with another movies that made by Hayao Miyazaki and these are: "Spirited Away", "My Neighbor Totoro" and of course "Howl's Moving Castle" in which I found some things in common.Lastly I have to say that "Castle in the Sky" is not a simple animation movie which you would think when you first see it, it's something extremely different than this. It's a lesson for life in general and at the same time especially for each person separately, this is something that makes this movie special. In this the most important reason was that this movie made by Hayao Miyazaki who has the gift to give us many things that we could not think before watching this movie.


                
Hayao Miyazaki's second feature film, and his first one to be widely acclaimed both commercially and critically (though his debut - Nausicaa AKA Warriors of the Wind is considered by many fans his best), 'Tenku no Shiro Rapyuta' AKA 'Castle in the Sky' may seem childish and simplistic when compared to his more recent masterpieces like 'Kiki's Delivery Service', 'Mononoke-hime' and 'Spirited Away', but in 1986 it was years ahead of its time and it was one of the milestones of modern anime. It's important to remember that 'Castle in the Sky' was made two years before the revolutionary 'Akira', and while it's not provocative and controversial like the aforementioned masterpiece, the lead characters are all mainly basic manga hero / heroine / villain type characters, and the story is quite predictable and obvious (at least in today's standards), Miyazaki's designs and animation work are of standards never seen before. While the story and humor are a bit silly and outdated at times, the movie is still very entertaining and very enjoyable - if not as breathtaking as 'Spirited Away'. And if you'll allow yourself to see the beauty of the frames themselves and ignore the low-budget coloring and animation and the identical twin faces - at this point Miyazaki is still faithful to his roots and to the agreed standards of Japanese cartooning - you'll see Miyazaki's genius shine through as well as it does on 'Spirited Away' and Mononoke. While 'Castle in the Sky', being a sci-fi adventure and very suitable for children, fits in more neatly with classic anime than anything else he had done since, his motifs and principles still show and play an important part. To say much more would be to ruin the movie, so I'll kindly shut up. Suffice to say that I'm giving it only nine stars because if I gave it ten I couldn't go any higher for 'Spirited Away' and 'Princess Mononoke'. And that would be a crime.As in most anime movies, I recommend watching the Japanese version with the English subtitles, even if you don't speak a word of Japanese - the English overdubs just don't tend to be very good, and in this case it's just horrendous. You might want to watch it in the English version once, though, just for the laughs, and for the star-filled cast (the English dub was only recorded following the success of 'Spirited Away', as it was for 'Kiki's Delivery Service') - Anna Paquin and James Van Der Beek (Yeah, the Dawson guy!) fill the lead roles, Mark Hamill (Luke Skywalker from 'Star Wars', in case you don't know!) plays the villain, and other roles are filled by Andy Dick, Tres MacNeille (The Simpsons, Rugrats, Animaniacs...), Michael McShane (Friar Tuck from Kevin Costner's Robin Hood travesty) and Mandy Patinkin (Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya...) Good for a laugh, or a few laughs really. But watch the Japanese one first.


                
This film is a great deal of fun, though the depth of thought behind it does not match that of others by the same director. My primary comment, though, is how very poor Anna Paquin was as the voice of Sheeta. Her accent varied from American to British to New Zealandic and back again with no apparent rhyme or reason. A very bizarre experience. She also seemed to play her character with little of the backbone that the lovely girl the movie portrays actually displayed. Otherwise, a must-see for Japanese animation fans! (And I hope everyone has already seen "My Neighbor Totoro"! A truly great movie in every respect!)


                
I was so excited about this film after reading all the glowing reviews, but it was a real disappointment. It's one of Miyazaki's earlier works, and that may explain it, but I just couldn't enjoy this film even though I really wanted to. I know it sounds funny to say, but it was simply just too "cartoony". The beginning of the film is pure magic and for the first 15 minutes or so, I was engrossed in the story and looking forward to the rest of the film. But soon after that, it degraded to almost Saturday-morning cartoon levels of predictability, relying on exaggerated and typical villains and supporting characters. If you liked this at all, you owe it to yourself to check out more of Miyazaki's films. He is a true artist and is capable of much better than this.


                
Ah, I remember first seeing this on Toonami. Month of Miyazaki was the best thing they ever did. Every Saturday, me, my sister, and mother would all sit together and have a great time. Except for Valley of the Wind, which we missed. :P Castle in the Sky is a perfectly fine movie, one that can be enjoyed by child and adult alike. Its adorable, adventurous, and, as usual for Ghibli, beautiful. The scenes on Laputa itself are among the best in Ghibli's filmography, in terms of gorgeous animation and background (IMHO).I find myself giving many Ghibli films 7/10s. I'm not sure that's accurate. They are wonderful, with animation quality that's rarely matched. But they're not all brilliant in writing, or even have strong characters. Yet I don't feel they're missing something. They're good as they are. If you think Castle in the Sky is your kind of movie, it'll certainly please you.


                
I don't have anything against animated films per se, it's just that I don't find them as engaging as a live screen performance. At some point I tend to lose focus and then it becomes a bit of a chore to finish the story. Like all the Miyazaki films I've seen, this is well drawn and colorful and given to plenty of action, with the creative premise of an etherium crystal at the heart of the story. Beyond that it was a good guys versus bad guys type of story that didn't fully engage this viewer. That's not meant to be a negative in terms of recommending the film to anyone else, it's just that animated films fail to move me for the most part. This one was not an exception.
Like many Americans, I was first introduced to the works of Hayao Miyazaki when I saw "Spirited Away." I fell in love with the film and have seen it many times. Now I am on a search to see every film by Miyazaki. One of his earlier works is "Castle in the Sky." Although it's still enjoyable, it's not as good as "Spirited Away" (though comparing this or any film to his 2002 masterpiece is perhaps unfair).A young boy named Pazu (James Van Der Beek) is working in a mine late one night, when he sees a girl fall slowly from the sky. When she wakes up the next morning, she introduces herself as Sheeta (Anna Paquin). But Sheeta has a secret, and before he knows it, Pazu is pulled into an adventure that will lead him into danger with pirates, the army and a lost floating city.Going into a film by Hayao Miyazaki means you can expect one thing: a sense of wonder and magic. Many filmmakers have tried, but no one can create a sense of magic and awe like Miyazaki. Watching a film by Miyazaki is like experiencing a fantastic dream from your childhood.Because the film is animated, dubbing the film does not pose much of a problem because it is next to impossible to determine whether or not the lip movements match up to the words. It also helps that the translated dialogue is well-written and voiced by talented actors. The voice acting is varied. James Van Der Beek fares best. He brings an irresistible enthusiasm and excitement to the role of Pazu that is perfect for the character. Anna Paquin is nearly as good as Sheeta. She's frightened by the events going on around her, but she knows what she has to do. Mark Hamill is unrecognizable as the evil Muska. He's dangerous and wants something from Sheeta, and will do anything to get it. The other voices are bad. Cloris Leachman is awful as Dola. Leachman may have won an Oscar for "The Last Picture Show," but she's annoying as the pirate leader. Leachman gives the character an obnoxious squawk that's nearly always monotonous. It's so bad it nearly ruins the film! Jim Cummings is an effective voice-over actor, but he's miscast as the general.I would definitely recommend seeing "Castle in the Sky." I'll probably end up buying it myself. But even though it's not as good as "Spirited Away," it's still pretty good.


                
Castle in the Sky is exactly what you'd expect from a Miyazaki film. It features a bizarre storyline with surreal characters and beautiful animation. It's easy to get caught up in this world of flying cities and sky pirates and suspend your disbelief. It's a simple and magical story.


                
3/27/18. In a word - an animation classic. If you love animated movies, then this one is a must-see. Directed by Japan's greatest animation director - Miyazaki.


                
I had avoided watching 'Castle in the Sky' for many years. I was aware of Miyazaki's exemplary track record, and have enjoyed several of his films to date. However, I was aware that many of his earlier films were geared toward younger audiences. That, combined with the marketing materials (even before Disney got their hands on it) showed nothing of some of the more exciting elements of the story. All I knew was about young boy who met a young girl who 'fell from the sky', and that the film involved some kind of 'Castle in the Sky'. Sounds like a whole lot of ho-hum "let's put on a kiddie show" type stuff.Luckily, I was pleasantly surprised. The story deftly blends magic and technology in an early industrial culture. Yes, the orphan boy, Pazu does meet the orphan girl Sheeta when she fell from the sky - but the reason she fell was no mystical fairy tale reason - she was hanging off the side of an airship, being pursued by pirates, secret agents and the military! Thus begins a rousing chase, and a search for the ultimate weapon - Laputa, an island (not just a castle) floating in the sky.There's action and adventure aplenty. And the film should be of particular interest to the steampunk crowd as it's an early anime influence on the genre. There are a few things you have to overlook, such as attempts at humor both scripted, and ad libbed by the English cast, which fall flat, an annoyingly repetitive musical score, and the inevitable moralizing that gets pretty thick at the end of most anime features. But it's worth putting up with that stuff for the fun ride. Be sure to skip the John Lassiter intro which adds nothing to the proceedings.


                
My other half's a huge Miyazaki fan, so I've seen most of his films, but found that they got very samey after the first few I'd seen (and I suspect you can watch them in any order and get the same impression). Laputa, however, restored my interest. It is, of course, lovely to look at, as ever showing that 2D animation is different but not inferior to its CGI sibling. The story is classic Miyazaki (innocence, nature and kids vs badness, science and grown ups) but is much better than most (well, much better than Porco Rosso anyway) and it has flying pirates! What's not to like? If you enjoyed Howl's or Spirited Away, then definitely see this. If you've seen some Miyazaki and didn't like it, give this a try anyway - it has flying pirates!


                
I like Miyazaki movies and this one is no exception. However, after a few animations like this, the theme of innocent romance and youthful courage defeating the corrupt power of government and military alike start getting old.The story: in an alternate world resembling very much the world in Howl's Moving Castle, only a lot more airborne, there is a legend of a floating island where riches and enormous power can be found, named Laputa. Of course, people start looking for it, for various reasons, resulting in a massive conflict of interest. In the end, being human, young and alive is far more important than being powerful and technologically advanced, therefore the child queen of Laputa utters the word of destruction and everything blows away. Everybody good lives, everybody bad dies.In the end the animation is great, but I expected that, so is the music and the basic storyline, however the moral got lost somehow between the obviously Japanese fear of technological disaster and characters of unreasonable courage and moral strength. I never expected Miyazaki to be realistic, but at least I wanted the movie to be unpredictable. It is full of clichés.Maybe the overall resemblance to Atlantis: The Lost Empire also made me fear a Disney contamination of Japanese anime, but in the end, both movies have the same audience, so why not be more like each other?
Castle in the sky is undoubtedly a Hayao Miyazaki film. After seeing it for the first time I'm glad to say that it doesn't disappoint. On the contrary, you get your time's worth, which means (as to what Miyazaki's films are concern), that is nothing less than excellent! Produced early in his cinematic career, Castle in the Sky anticipates many of the trade marks in his later movies, with strong (but young) female characters, forced to grow up due to external circumstances, helped out by very interesting (and some times lovable) supporting characters. And of course, flying machines (lots of it!!). Never the less, Miyazaki had already got his theatrical debut two years earlier, with Nausicãa, which was narratively speaking, a dress rehearsal for Princess Mononoke, his magnum opus. Castle in the Sky is set a bit a part from these two, with a soft action packed first 30 minutes, resembling his TV series Conan, and his directed episodes of Meitantei Holmes. In here we are introduced to Sheeta, a girl who literally falls from the sky, only to be found by Pazu, a young boy working in a little countryside mining town. Intrigued by her amnesia and suspecting a connection between her and the mysterious flying city of Laputa, Pazu is set on helping her find out where she came from, whilst escaping the army and a gang of air pirates. As the movie progresses, the plot gets heavier and much more interesting, revealing Myiazaki at his best. The sound track is very reminiscent of Spirited Away, (or vice versa, as Castle in the sky was produced first), and much like its director, Joe Hisaishi _the composer_ starts with a very light score, that gets more complex and beautifully fitting as the plot goes forward! A note to the English dubbing, with a good interpretation from the two lead stars, although Anna Paquin's Sheeta has a very thick accent (which the actress still had at that point in her career), and a heads up for Mark Hamil as Muska, making up for a delightfully yet devilish villain! Don't miss this one people!


                
Saw this on SBS TV here in Australia the other week, where it was titled "Laputa: Castle in the sky". I had enabled subtitles and I think SBS provided their own for that, which, as usual, was of very good quality.Just looked up "Laputa" on Wikipedia and it confirms what I suspected...the floating island of this tale is taken from the classic Jonathan Swift novel "Gulliver's travels", which was published in the early to mid 1700s.Anyway, this is an engaging Japanese fairytale, which features an English speaking voice-cast. It's suitable for young children, I think, but it does run at just over two hours in length, so it may be too long for some, though not for an adult like me.The story concerns two children who seek to find a legendary floating island which has a castle on it. The children are not the only ones looking for this island. They have pirates, the army and spies looking for the island too, and looking to capture the children (Sheeta, the girl, voiced by Anna Paquin, and Pazu, the boy, voiced by James Van Der Beek) in order to help them find it.The graphics are magnificent...sort of photo-realistic at times, especially the scenes of stonework lit by torch-light, or the pretty scenes of bright, sunny days, with white clouds, or mist.Recommended.


                
Hayao Miyazaki has been getting a lot of praise recently as a result of the American release of his excellent 'Mononoke-Hime' and his somewhat less than excellent 'Spirited Away'. Castle in the Sky fits in between the two in terms of quality, but adds to the feeling that I got when the credits of 'Spirited Away' rolled that Hayao Miyazaki doesn't deserve such high praise as he's getting. Don't get me wrong, this certainly isn't a bad film (neither is Spirited Away), but it's hardly the work of a great master either. The substance on offer isn't much more than what you'd find in a Saturday morning cartoon, and the film takes itself way too seriously for an animated feature. Too much of the film is spent on characters delivering reams of heartfelt dialogue and it comes across as contrived and more than a little bit silly. However, this is matched by Miyazaki's inventiveness and attention to detail, which keeps the film away from the low end of the rating scale.With this film, Miyazaki has created his own world for his character's to inhabit, and that is always going to garner praise for the auteur. The story follows a young girl that has a crystal that has the power to show the owner the way to a mythical and powerful city in the sky. After escaping from various evildoers that want the crystal for their own reasons, she finds herself on the run with a young boy that also wants to find the lost city. This creativity is both a help and a hindrance to the story. On the one hand it allows Miyazaki creative freedom over what goes on, and he makes best use of that on many occasions. However, on the other hand, because the world isn't a complete whole - it leaves many questions unanswered, and after an hour or so of being bombarded with goings on that don't make much sense; the film gets more than a little bit tiresome. The film follows the classic adventure structure, which is nice as it makes for an entertaining ride. Castle in the Sky also has a nice musical score, which fits the tone of the film excellently.This film certainly isn't bad, but it's not great either and I suspect that more than a little of it's praise has come of a result of the popularity of Miyazaki's later works and the fact that Japanese things are very much in fashion of late. However, if anime is your bag, you'll find lots to like here.


                
Altogether, Castle in the Sky (1986) is a steampunk, sky fantasy film with rich mythology in it. It has excellent art, great music, beautiful hand-drawn animation with plenty of locations that standout such as the aetherium mine/cave, steam powered town, and certainly, all the locations in the floating island Laputa itself.Indeed, this film scores high in the story and artistic department but there are not much creative outfits, mostly simple designs for most of the characters. There are also plenty of things that don't make sense. A child building and operating an airship? He must be a prodigy. Gun shots cutting off ponytails and did not leave the child deaf or affected in any way? She must be really strong. I guess these are acceptable for 1980s films but well, good, creative stuffs usually don't make sense!Nonetheless, the film is sweet, interesting and comedic at times, keeps me glued to the screen. It is also super delightful to see those yellow fox-squirrel from Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984) again, they are so adorable!
At his best, Miyazaki makes me indescribably happy with wonder. That's why I love his movies. I consider movies like My Neighbor Totoro and Spirited Away to be, in essence, bottled happiness.But as with most great artists, different people will appreciate different things. One of Miyazaki's most popular films, Princess Mononoke, is my least favorite, because it's more about violence and drama than mystery and ethereal splendor.Castle in the Sky falls more in the Mononoke action adventure category, and as that, it's a pretty good move, exciting, well paced and visually imaginative and generally fun. I was less excited by this movie than others by Miyazaki,and that might be because it is very actiony, with lots of shooting and things blowing up, and that's not what I love by Miyazaki. But it might be something else.I started watching this movie with my girlfriend late at night, and for the first hour I thought it was terrific. But we got sleepy, and didn't watch the rest of the movie for a few days. Which means the problem might not be anything more than a loss of dramatic momentum owing to my seeing the movie broken up. Or it could be that the second hour really is weaker. I don't know. I did see this movie once before, and it didn't stick with me the way other Miyazaki films have, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't have liked it better this time had I seen it in a single sitting.In other words, you can't put too much stock in this review, except to the extent that I can stand by my belief that this is an enjoyable movie. I just can't say if I would have enjoyed it more in different circumstances.


                
As I was about to write this, I decided to re-read my review of Miyazaki's HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE (2004) - which I watched earlier this year - and I realized that what I had said about that film pretty much applies to this one as well, even if there's practically a 20-year gap between them (I guess the inference here is that this celebrated animator's style hasn't developed all that much in the interim, which is not necessarily a bad thing).To quote myself, then: "a great showcase of the Japanese master's visionary genius; however, it also features his typical faults - to me, at least - of presenting an over-ambitious (and overly weird) plot line which, due to its excessive length, tends to overstay its welcome and ends up in being an overwhelming (if not necessarily memorable) visual experience! As usual, the detail is immaculate and the scale of the whole thing impressive". Granted, the plot of LAPUTA isn't nearly as involved as some of Miyazaki's later work, though this is still far from a kiddie film - particularly in its climactic set-piece, where all parties concerned (the children, the sky pirates - whose hard exterior mellows gradually to reveal an essential softness underneath - and the army - whose leader, too, isn't what he seems to be) converge on the titular flying citadel, each having their own goal. It's evident, therefore, that characterization is not at all one-dimensional (though Miyazaki dispenses with anthropomorphism this time around) - while the robotic guardians of the island castle are strikingly designed, as well as suitably imposing; the score (by frequent Miyazaki collaborator Joe Hisaishi), too, emerges as a definite asset.To tie in with how I began this review, then, I believe that it's been my over-exposure to Anime on Italian TV as a kid which has diluted the overall impact that such feature-length efforts (and Miyazaki's films in particular) seem to have - pretty much unanimously - on audiences from other parts of the world...


                
