This is a really interesting movie that bears some resemblance to another great Miyazaki film, KIKI'S DELIVERY SERVICE. Like KIKI, the action takes place on some Earth-like world--so much like Earth but different because it had the weirdest flying machines and sky pirates! It was also rather reminiscent of the Dreamcast video game, The Skies of Arcadia. and the X-Box's Crimson Skies. Strange but also pretty intriguing--that's for sure. For fans of airplanes and vintage aviation, this is an especially appealing film.Well, in this world of sky pirates and bizarre flying machines comes the rumor of a floating castle in the sky. And, of course, our intrepid heroes are bent on finding it and unlocking its secrets.The film has amazing animation, a unique style and is very engaging. While kids will enjoy it immensely, unlike some Miyazaki films, I really think that in some cases adults might like this even more than kids. Good stuff well worth a look.


                
This movie is Fantastic and breathe taking at the same time. Castle in the Sky is one of my 5 top personal favorites of Miyazaki's films.The best thing about this movie is that it's taken place in a world containing Aircraft machines of all kinds. This film shows how Miyazaki likes flying machines. It's an old anime film, but it's very well animated for an old movie.The animation, story, background, characters, and voice talents are all great. It's a blend of Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Sci-fi, Comedy, and Drama all in one. The voice overs for the English version is very amusing, Mark Hamil is excellent with his role as the main villain Col. Musca. Jim Cumming(Famous Voice actor) plays a General, not a common role but he's just great with the part.The entire movie is all great from beginning to the end. Many of Miyazaki's films don't often have a good vs. bad related story. This movie how ever is like one of his only ones containing an actually villain, and this movie's villain is a cool one too.I give it 8/10, I recommend buying or renting the movie. It's suitable for Ages 8 and up.


                
"Laputa" is an engaging film that really illustrates how an animated feature should be done. As always, the imaginative Hayao Miyazaki is on track with a perfect mixture of adventure, love, bravery, and so much more. You'll really fall in love with the characters, the storyline, the scenery. Beautifully animated and well thought out, this film will be enjoyed by many for a long time to come.Highly recommended.


                
The first of the official Ghibli films, Laputa is most similar to its predecessor Nausicaa, but whereas Nausicaa was a SF epic, this is more of an action comedy-adventure with a fairly weak SF premise.For the first half hour of the movie I thought I was going to love it. Once again you find yourself in awe of Miyazaki's attention to detail, and his ability to conjure up an imaginary world in meticulous, beautiful perfection. The animation, though still not in the league of the later Ghibli films, is a little better than in Nausicaa.I mentioned in my review of Nausicaa that one character is drawn in a more 'Lupinesque' anime style. Here there are a whole bunch of them: the pirates. They provide the comic element in the film, though quite why it needs a comic element I'm not sure. There was nothing funny about Nausicaa, and I think it was better off for it. Still. having said that, Dola, the pirate leader, is easily the most memorable character in the film (even if she's basically a female Long John Silver. Don't be surprised if you're reminded of 'Treasure Planet' at times) and is well voiced by Cloris Leachman in the American dub.The English voice cast acquit themselves well for the most part, actually. However something started going pear-shaped for me about this movie by about the halfway mark. I think the best way that I could describe it is that the characters get swallowed up by the vast scope of the story. I'll come back to that later.There is so much to admire about Laputa, and so many people obviously love it, that I almost feel mean for only giving it 8 out of 10, but for me the operative word here is 'admire'. It was more impressive than personally affecting, and at over two hours it just started to drag.The crucial thing for me was this: I really found that I didn't care much about any of the characters. Disney would have taken the care to develop the characters, make you really fall for them, rather than leave them as relatively two-dimensional pieces to be moved around while you gawked at the amazing vistas in the movie. Even that would have been tolerable if there was some hard SF in the story to make up for it, but it was basically a lot of gobledegook about Princesses and magic crystals. That's where Laputa falls down as far as I'm concerned, and that's what holds it back from being a potential 10 out of 10 movie. Having said that, it must be admitted that Miyazaki was leagues ahead of Disney in general in 1986, when you consider that their movie of the same year was the pretty dire 'Great Mouse Detective'.Laputa is a good film in some ways an amazing film, and you should definitely see it, but I do feel it's over-rated. I definitely prefer the earlier 'Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind'.BTW, if you manage to watch them in chronological order, watch for the fox-squirrel from Nausicaa popping up briefly in Laputa.


                
I must admit that at first I was a bit disappointed by "Castle in theSky"; I had ridiculously high expectations for it(that kinda happenswhen you wait for something for a long time) and I was letdown by theEnglish dub- it's just too annoyingly loose, even though the voiceacting is good. However, since I've watched it a few more times(inJapanese with subtitles) I have come to love it just as much asMiyazaki's other movies. There are just so many great things about it:the animation, the gorgeous score, the weird robots, the devoted,innocent love that exists between Pazu and Sheeta etc. So, even thoughthe English dub isn't as up to snuff as the ones for "Princess Mononoke"or "Kiki's Delivery Service", that really doesn't matter too much; youcan always watch the subs and as I have mentioned in other comments: Thelanguage of Miyazaki is universal. I highly recommend "Castle in theSky"


                
Castle In The Sky produces more wonder and perhaps more excitement than any other film directed by Hayao Miyazaki. It's not his best film, but it's a wonderful early Studio Ghibli effort. Industrial Age Europe was obviously an inspiration on the world of the film. There are elements of the fantastic, like the sky castle itself. The castle was part of a utopia created by an advanced civilization through technology. Miyazaki's animation style presents this world vividly and wonderfully. There is some truly breathtaking scenery. Compared to today's anime, especially by Ghibli, the animation of Castle In The Sky looks crude. This is hardly a distraction though. Until Akira (1988) there were very few big budget anime films. There was also a lack of good talent. What raises Castle In The Sky above average is its design and creativity. It helped that Joe Hisaishi composed an effective score that sounds enchanting in the film. Sheeta, a girl, is the heroine of the story. She meets Pazu, a boy who quickly becomes her best friend. They're good, courageous children. For a Miyazaki film there is a surprisingly large amount of action, producing much excitement. The children are almost always on the move. Sheeta's levistone pendant represents advanced technology, something that saves her again and again. The story isn't very original, but there's still a lot to like here. I highly recommend seeing Castle In The Sky. It's a film that one can treasure.


                
Had the chance to see "Castle in the Sky" - Tenku no shiro Rapyuta is excellent animation and one of the stronger entries for the Miyazaki productions. It has as usual excellent color and motion in the classic anime style. Especially enjoyed the flight to the castle and the early discoveries of the garden with the robot gardeners with grass growing on them. The pirates made good sidekicks; one thing I noticed was we were never really shown the bad guy/relative falling or dying - I guess it was assumed. I rate this anime right on par with Naussica....Tottoro will always be my favorite followed by Spirited Away. This one is not far behind though. Looking forward to seeing the remaining Miyazaki films I haven't seen.
1985 was the year Studio Ghibli was formed by legends Hayao Miyazaki, Isao Takahata, Toshio Suzuki and Yasuyoshi Tokuma. A year later, they released their first ever feature length film, Laputa: Castle in the Sky (or just Castle in the Sky internationally). The film went on to garnish critical acclaim and a huge cult following amongst fans of Miyazaki's work. Needless to say, based on my love and appreciation for this man's work, I deem it as one of his best.The general story follows the adventures of a young boy named Pazu and a girl named Sheeta who possesses a mysterious stone with the ability of levitation. In addition to keeping the crystal away from military agents, they embark on a quest to search for a legendary floating castle called Laputa. With that said, Pazu and Sheeta make an adorable couple of friends, as their chemistry with each other is very sweet but also heart wrenching given what circumstances come about to them. Both are determined to find this lost castle to rediscover its lost beauty, and it's really nice how they develop within the pirates they meet.Speaking of said pirates, Dola's gang may seem antagonistic at first, but they're actually a genuinely entertaining and bittersweet gang, as they mold into one of the funniest family duos ever displayed in film. As for the real antagonist Colonel Muska, he is extremely hellbent on recovering Laputa for his own selfish and diabolical reasons, and therein lies possibly the film's biggest theme of all. You can use whatever weapons and machinery to get your way, but no matter what, love and nature are what matter most and taking them for granted does more harm than good.In addition, the setting that emulates 19th century Europe really gives the film a strange albeit wonderful contrast between the prosperous town Pazu is from to the much more spectacular castle altogether. Even for their first ever feature, the animation really is astonishing, especially the usage of aircraft and clouds breaking up. The moments where the characters are in the air make one feel the sense of high open space, and the atmosphere around really makes one's jaw drop. It's great when the world building can sometimes steal the show from the actual cast.If there are criticisms I do have, it's that while Dola's sons are entertaining in their own regard, the whole sub arch with them falling in love with Sheeta is rather pointless. It doesn't show up again after a couple of scenes and it actually gives a somewhat creepy feel to the movie. Also, while the Disney English dub is by no means bad, there is a little too much dialogue sprinkled throughout. It doesn't help that there are points that should be silent that are filled with annoying banter and out of place comedy. I'm yet to see the original dub, but I hope it's much better.Overall, Castle in the Sky remains as the kickstarter to what would eventually become the most beloved Japanese animation studio of all time. The characters are extremely lovable and worth rooting for, the animation is nothing short of gorgeous, and the themes of prospering through nature over political action and violence are just as relevant today as they were back then. If you are yet to see this film, definitely give it a watch to see where the studio that brought us Totoro, Spirited Away and Princess Kaguya originally blossomed. It's an experience for the whole family, and one that I'm happy to rewatch after so many years.


                
"Castle in the Sky" is the eighth Hayao Miyazaki I discover and discover is the word, because despite the patterns you start noticing from one film to another, each one carries a mark of uniqueness like a sacred crystal amulet of its own.And the more I see his work, the more routinely (I must confess) my amazement grows. I don't even watch them in chronological order and it doesn't affect my judgments, "Nausicaa" looked more accomplished than "Porco Rosso" or "Kiki" and while not being as sophisticated as "Mono-noke", "Ponyo" hit a more sensitive chord. Now, what can I say about "Castle in the Sky" without being taken in a maze of hackneyed and boring superlatives? Let me think a little<U+0085>Well, I'll borrow a compliment Roger Ebert made about Wes Anderson, which I think applies perfectly for Myazaki: the Japanese master's mind would be a wonderful place to visit, it seems that even animated frames are too limited, too small a space to carry all the expansive range of ideas that can flourish out of his imagination. "A Castle in the Sky" is only his third animated feature and yet it is so close to an unprecedented level of animated perfection even on the field of storytelling, it is so rich your own mind can lose track. I guess I could have said the same about "Nausicaa", you've got to wonder how he managed to outdo himself one film after another, and he hadn't made "My Neighbor Totoro" yet. Still, I can see in "Totoro" or even "Kiki Delivery Service", a desire to get back to a simpler story-line, and not to my displeasure because this is the kind of plot I enjoy more in Miyazaki. "Castle in the Sky" is nothing short of a masterpiece but I have a soft spot for his character-driven movies. Miyazaki is never as hypnotic and impressive when his frames are more in states of contemplation, as if they were in an awe of their own material. Of course, action is outstanding, and Miyazaki had already demonstrated that he mastered the sky as the background to thrilling fights and chases, showcasing a level of dedication that only Disney movies can compete with (barely) but Miyazaki, the spiritual man, the poet, is so capable of transcending the limits of action that some parts from "Castle in the Sky" are too unsurprising especially since they came after "Nausicaa". To be fair though, there's more to enjoy than a series of chases in the air starting with the heroine. I loved the way the character of Sheeta didn't duplicate the "Nausicaa" model, she's not a fighter but a simple girl who hides a secret, symbolized by a mysterious amulet.And even the revelation about her regal ancestry doesn't turn her into some kick-ass heroine. Miyazaki doesn't insult his audience's intelligence, while Nausicaa had her skills from the start, Sheeta is really caught in a coming-of-age narrative. The second character Pazu, a boy working in a mine factory, is eager to follow her, embodying the adventurous spirit of childhood (he's like Fio in "Porco Rosso" and Tombo In "Kiki") but his lack of experience makes him commit some blatant mistakes in judgment, he's just a kid after all. As a matter of fact, even the big bad pirates from the start are only kids when confronted to their bossy and experienced mother Dola, who's like a mixture between Ma Baker, Agnes Skinner, Grandma Addams and Captain Hook. I loved all the peripheral characters... from those who brought up the comedic element the film would have severely lacked to Uncle Pomme who provided the obligatory Miyazaki moment of meditation of the virtues we should all treasure from Earth. Miyazaki has covered the sky, the sea and the earth, he's indeed the most environmentalist director ever and "Castle in the Sky" combines the idea of earth with the spiritual elevation through the castle of Laputa, a legendary city whose name was borrowed from Gulliver's Travel and that used to rule over the world and incarnate the boundless ambition of men. The antagonist, Prince Muska wants to take a hold of the amulet to be the Earth new ruler. He's helped by a whole army and a giant robot who reveals the first inspiration of Miyazaki, French masterpiece "The King and the Mockingbird", which could have been called "Castle in the Sky".The film belongs to the complex realm of Miyazaki's stories, with so many layers you've got to keep yourself pretty focused to enjoy it. In fact, it's perhaps the one flaw I can concede to this particular film, it requires a certain conscience of the inspiration, understanding before enjoyment, and two hours of such deep and rich writing might be too difficult for younger audiences. I'm not implying that this is a film aimed for children as it provides a sweet and a nice friendship story between a boy and a girl so it would be a shame if children missed that story. Miyazaki has always been an expert when it came to concoct mixtures of mature and inspiring material. This time, the film flies in many directions before we can identify the main plot line, and there are a few disorienting changes of tone. It's all visually rich and entertaining but I didn't feel as engaged as in the previous movies, if not the best Miyazaki, it was probably the one with the best potential. Which might explain why there's another Miyazaki named "Howl's Moving Castle".


                
I quite enjoyed watching the film, the graphics were beautiful and the music score was really uplifting for an 80's film!I found the movie had great action like the train scene where Sheeta and Pazu were being chased by their formal enemies which were the pirates. The film even had good humour with the pirate boys admiring Sheeta. I honestly thought she wasn't attractive but if they thought she was, I'll leave them to it haha. Although I have to admit, herself and Pazu were such a cute couple! I wish they both actually kissed instead of leaving the scene already in the end!I was surprised that Mark Hamil aka Luke Skywalker and Jim Cummings aka Dr Eggman from SatAm (Sonic the hedgehog series) were involved in this anime movie. I thought Jim Cummings sounded like John Goodman seriously?! He is so talented with his voice!I'm glad I saw the film so I'm giving it 8/10
The first anime produced & released under the banner of Studio Ghibli, Castle in the Sky (also known as Laputa: Castle in the Sky) is an elegantly crafted, smart narrated & nicely composed adventure which brings us the tale of a young girl in possession of a mysterious crystal who, after ending up in the care of a young boy, embark on a journey with him to find the mythic floating castle of Laputa while they're being pursued by pirates, army & secret agents working for the government who desire the very same thing.Written & directed by Hayao Miyazaki, the film is infused with this renowned filmmaker's trademarks & thematic elements plus is effectively paced from start to finish. The animation is wonderful to look at, the characters are worthy of our attention, the voice actors have done a fine job in bringing their given roles to life, the camera-work is pretty fluid & the minimalistic use of score works like an enchantment. Also, the floating castle of Laputa is a sight to behold & its meticulous detailing only evokes more admiration for the effort that went into its creation.On an overall scale, Castle in the Sky is the feature film which commenced the legacy of now- legendary Studio Ghibli on a considerably high note and although it isn't one of Miyazaki's finest films in my opinion but its uplifting story & quality narration is impressive enough to make sure that its viewers are entertained & intrigued throughout its runtime. A powerhouse of creativity & imagination, Castle in the Sky is an awe-inspiring work from a master storyteller that promises an enriching cinematic experience & delivers it effortlessly. Positively recommended.


                
Are there many films that are as flat out exciting, enjoyable, well designed and well-structured as Laputa: Castle in the Sky? In essence, the piece is a B-movie but it's one of those B-movies which happens to throw a dart in generally the right direction only to end up nailing the shot with aplomb. When these sorts of ideas and approaches come off, there is little which doesn't work and Hayao Miyazaki's 1986 animation is one of these: an absolute joy of comedy; fantasy and adventure toying with switching allegiances and imagination in design. I'm a firm believer that animation often works best when it's working with things insurmountable to being ordinarily filmed; a medium which, when applied to cinema, brings to life worlds and people and objects otherwise impossible to create without the need for computer generated imagery to intersperse with the live action. Laputa: Castle in the Sky is one of those films, a project which allows for its creators to just go nuts, although within reason - to do so knowing that they will not be hampered by the potential for effects to overrun creativity and immersion into a fictitious world. There are, of course, instances whereby animated films have tackled "adult" issues (ranging from true to life warfare to the toppling of self-possessed alcoholism and grief) in the form of "Waltz with Bashir"; Franco-Iranian effort "Persepolis" through to "Who Framed Roger Rabbit", and have done so rather well, but they were always preoccupied with bringing a visual flourish to worlds that already existed and the period detail (1980's Vienna, Lebanon and 1940's Los Angeles) additionally helped in elevating them above self-indulgent, vacant of substance, spectacle driven pieces. But these are few and far between, and it's not like the Japanese are immune to droll, often unwatchable, animations which blind you with faux-nostalgia and that terrible quasi-sense of magic and merriment abound in pieces such as "Only Yesterday" and "My Neighbour Totoro", where not an awful lot is happening bar the repetition of steps which had already been taken more rigidly and more enjoyably. Laputa: Castle in the Sky is about a chase and an adventure involving a young, 'farm'-like locale dwelling boy who's propelled into the stratospheres of action, romance and danger. It is, of course, pure escapism but it is charming and it remembers to get the little things right. Opening in an airship flying high in the air above what is later revealed to be the ground below of an alternate Japan on an alternate planet Earth set some time ago, insect-like looking sky bandits invade the affluent surroundings of the vessel in pursuit for a necklace that a young girl surrounded in suited bodyguards is in close contact to. She is Sheeta, a depressed young girl who doesn't feel like eating but is, for some, reason in the company of this small army of men of whom each possess firearms. Amidst the chaos, Sheeta knocks out one of the men guarding her and it's revealed she was, in fact, so fond of their protection that she drops out of the window to fall to what appears to be certain death. Nay, for the item attacked to her necklace has steadied her fall and allowed her to land softly on the grounds below.What she falls into is a rural stretch of land where the young Pazu works, a minor who does the hours and lives simply only to have this Sheeta and her amazing possession come upon his world. Cocksure and boisterous, he is not deterred from maintaining his whipper-snapper attitude in spite of a peer chastising him for something. With Sheeta, Pazu, who's a sort of epitome of the working class man in boy form, embark on this adventure with the elements from before chasing them as they strive to uncover the secrets of the necklace whose purpose is to lead them to the eponymous kingdom in the sky: Laputa. The film's setting, stuck somewhere between the industrial age and a futuristic Utopia wherein rocket propelled jet skis are designed within an inch of their lives, but when a motorcar shows up can only induce reactions of "You don't see those very often(!)", allows perfectly for a rounded; neo-fantastical locale wherein grounded and recognisable characters and attitudes may exist hand in hand with escapist content.One looks past the film's tendency to depict its lead as an all-conquering, all saving epitome of leftist industrial liberalism – a character whose decision to aid an outsider arriving unexpectedly in a locale alien to them (although familiar and functioning to the lead) very much leads them to a higher and more spiritual plateau of adventure and discovery. Moreover, and where the idea that factory floor/steel mill/coal mine (delete as appropriate) dwelling leftists can vanquish enemies and embrace this new found intruder is inherent, one should look past apparent 'pro' annotations to what waves of Left-induced immigration spins on those already occupying the land, and instead focus on the fact Laputa: Caslte in the Sky is more of a cracking, gratifying action film with a lot of amusing second unit material that works a whole lot more than it should.


                
This is the second Miyazaki film I have ever seen and it was a experience I will never forget. I am so grateful that my friend forced me to watch my first anime film (which was Spirited Away) because it got me so addicted that I had to see as many of Miyazaki's films as I possibly could. After Spirited Away I came across Castle in the sky and as I said, it will probably be one of the most memorable experiences of my life. This film captivates you in a way you could never imagine. The way Miyazaki makes his films is like he knows what fascinates everyone. The voice acting in this film is amazing and it makes you feel very connected to the characters and their emotions. Miyazaki's films taught me to do things I wouldn't normally want to do because if you don't, you could be missing out on something amazing. I was taught this because I had absolute no interest in anything anime except for Pokemon, but as I said my friend got me to finally sit down and watch some of Miyazaki's films and to this day I am in their debt as they showed me what real magic is. I recommend EVERYONE to see Castle in the sky, even if you are not a animation fan. I promise that you will be happy that you did. Not only will you witness beautiful drawings and an amazing story, but you will feel like anything in life is possible more then ever. This is only ONE of Miyazaki's MANY beautiful films, so please check them all out as you will be making your heart and soul more happy then you could possibly imagine!!10 STARS OUT OF 10!!!


                
This Japanese animation from the creative mind of Hayao Miyazaki is an action-packed adventure. It seems to take place in a version of the early 1900s where aviation technology is very common. Miyazaki's imagination offers us an amazing adventure, with enormous air ships, sky pirates on insectlike speeders, giant robots, courageous characters, some breathtaking scenery, and an ancient floating kingdom.A young girl is being chased by a clan of treasure-seeking pirates as well as government military forces. The girl, in possession of a mysterious stone that holds the secrets of an advanced civilization, meets a heroic young boy who risks everything to protect her. Action waits around every corner. Each sequence seems to open a new gateway of wonder.A great animated adventure. There is some violence, but it should still be a great movie for kids


                
I should perhaps begin by saying that this film was my introduction to Miyazaki, although his reputation preceded him. Even in this early directorial effort there is a sense of a genuine artist at work."Castle in the Sky" centers on the pursuit of a young girl whose crystal necklace holds the power to guide the way to Laputa, a mystical castle afloat in the clouds. After initially escaping her would-be captors she is befriended by a young boy. Together they join forces to escape the clutches of pirates and the military, each of whom have their own motives for locating Laputa.The story is refreshingly imaginative and is thankfully devoid of Disney's usual blatant moralizing. I should note that it was the Disney release that I watched, replete with English dubbing. The voice cast didn't seem extremely well-chosen but it wasn't that bad overall. A bigger distraction was the score, which I was unsurprised to learn was greatly expanded at Disney's request. Not only does it insert music where none was needed, it seemed to me to be too prominent in the overall audio mix.However, these are fairly minor quibbles which will easily be overshadowed as you become wrapped up in the story (and the wonderful visuals). It certainly made me anxious to see more from Studio Ghibli.


                
The art direction is this movie is superb, it really brings the Castle in the Sky straight out of Gulliver's Travels and onto the movie screen. The bittersweet robots that inhabit and protect the garden may even end up being some of your favorite anime characters, not because they are amusing, but because of the care and dedication that they exude whenever you see them. Laputa revolves around a boy named Pazu and the girl that floats unceremoniously down from the sky into his life, Sheeta, and how they save Laputa and the world from corruption. An all-around solid anime movie with classic Ghibli humor and spirit, definitely recommended.


                
When I was a kid, Disney advertised Castle in the Sky to be released to video while me and my family was watching Summer of the Monkeys. Too bad Disney never released it until 2003. That's when my two younger sisters watched it and they encouraged me to watch it with them, I was around 14 to 15 at this time.I was a little reluctant at first since I had no idea who Miyazaki was and I was not an anime fan like I am now. I had nothing to do so I decided to watch it. From beginning to end, the film kept me glued to the screen. The film was made in 1986 and it still seems timeless, the animation was quite impressive and score was very moving. The suspenseful moments such as; Muska chasing Sheeta, the Dola gang attacking Goliath; the military airship, and Pazu Rescuing Sheeta were very compelling story lines.I found myself loving the film as much as my sisters and now one my favorite films that we now have on DVD. This film holds a strong message of Good and Evil. When someone such as Muska wants misuse power and eventually faces dire consequences, Muska represents evil. Sheeta knows that her aetherium chrystal may be too much for her to handle, so she tries use it only when she's in trouble, so she represents good.
"Laputa: Castle in the Sky" is a 1986 feature length animation by Japanese master director Hayao Miyazaki. The film opens with an exciting battle on-board a bulbous airship, in which a band of bumbling sky-pirates attempt to apprehend Sheeta, a little girl who possesses a stone with remarkable powers. Assisting Sheeta is Pazu, a resourceful kid who lives in a ramshackled mining community.Miyazaki's plot's frequently sound silly on paper. On screen, though, they're brimming with neat little details and passages. "Laputa's" packed with one cool sequence after the next, some interesting airship designs and several action sequences guaranteed to make live-action directors jealous (James Cameron, Brad Bird and Spielberg are self-professed Miyazaki fan-boys). And as is typical of Miyazaki, the film boasts another enchanting score by composer Joe Hisaishi, alternates between kinetic moments and poetic, Ozu-like postcard images, and is positively in love with aircrafts, flying and wide open skies. The film's eco-sermon is also less heavy-handed than some of Miyazaki's other works; here an ancient civilisation collapses when it symbolically loses all ties and connections with the natural world, a lesson which a new militaristic superpower fails to learn.Miyazaki directed "Nausicca of the Valley of the Winds" in 1984. Like that film, "Laputa" takes place in a steam-punk world which mixes high and low technology. This is a contrast to most science fiction animes, which take place in dystopian, cyberpunk futures. Of course Miyazaki is as anti-militaristic and techno-wary as his contemporaries (Satoshi Kon, Isao Takahata, Katsuhiro Otomo, Mamoru Oshii etc), but he's also far less pessimistic and far more romantic. They're about steel and concrete. He's a wood and chlorophyll guy. Miyazaki's steam-punk approach also tends to result in a number of unusual machines, many of which are evocative of Albert Robida, a French artist who was popular in the late 1880s."Laputa" is arguably the only film in Miyzaki's oeuvre with a conventional villain. His other films tend to have no clear distinctions between the "bad guys" and "good guys". At its best, the film conveys an incredible sense of place, with leafy cloud cities, subterranean mining towns (Laputa's mirror image), and turbulent skies which buffet flimsy airships. Unfortunately, after a strong first three acts, the film degenerates into clichés, with conventional light shows, damsels in distress and a obligatory "temple collapse" sequence (ancient temples always collapse RIGHT AFTER they've been rediscovered). Still, it's one of Miyazaki's coolest adventures.8.9/10 – The similarly themed, though cyberpunk, "Akira" would be released 2 years later. See "Nausicca of the Valley of the Winds" and "Only Yesterday".
In this film, Castle in the Sky, all the heroes were forced into hiding after the government refused to pay for wrongful legal claims brought against the super heroes of this film. Also, there are many in jokes that the casual viewer might not get, but that made it enjoyable for comic book fans. This the island scenes look as if they could have been inspired by many of the series produced by Gerry Anderson of the 1960's (eg. the Thunderbirds and Captain Scarlet).Another thing that made this film unique was its look. If you notice, the city where the story takes place looks like a fairly modern metropolis. However, if you look at the cars in the film, most of them look as if they would have been more at home in the mid to late 1960's. Also, the way that many of the characters were dressed also could have put them in that time.However, the thing that I really loved about this film was the fact that even though it was geared primarily to children, it was dark enough in theme to appeal to adults. In fact, there are a couple of scenes that you wouldn't normally associate with a film geared towards children.This film is definitely a classic of animation and once again Pixar shows why they are the masters of computer animation.
I remember liking this more than Nausicaa of the valley of the winds at an age when that tone of story was too serious for me. Laputa, whose title seems to have affected its release in the U.S. to avoid confusion to its wide Hispanic audiences, has the cartoonish knack of the director's debut production Conan. In fact, Pazu has the thick bones and immortal vitality of Conan--who jumped off a thousand stories carrying his girl in his arms and landed on his feet, then started running. This makes him the most animated and pleasing character to watch. The techie fans of Nausica may be disappointed by the flying bugs and the retro technology through out Laputa--the only exception may be the robot. Unlike Princess Mononoke and Valley of the Winds, the theme in Laputa is not directly connected to environmentalism. If it has a theme at all it's anti-warfare. The importance of living naturally--this is related with the flying castle, is dismissably shortly discussed, and not really followed through. Overall, I now regard the piece as being at an intersection between feel-good and corny.


                
Hayao Miyaxaki's Laputa Castle in the Sky has not only one of the best plots in the studio ghibi collection, bit some of the best background art I have seen. The only dissapointment of this film is the englisb dub. It is terrible and truly ruins the film experiance as a whole. Please watch it in tbe original japanese.


                
A young girl(Sheeta – that sounds like a crass term for the crapper, but OK; and grown men leer at her... ew), a boy that is her peer, pirates(quirky, as are most of the characters in this... also, it's a mother and a dozen sons of hers... someone needs to start saying no), the government and the military are all seeking the legendary city in the sky Laputa(the whore... man, Miyazaki just had no luck with names in this). This takes off right away(you won't know exactly what's going on from the start... and it doesn't answer every question, or maybe it's how little I know about Eastern culture), and keeps to a quite fast pace, making the two hours fly by. It's got an epic scope, and the adventure is exciting, with several chases. Atmosphere is built effectively, and what happens has an impact. The designs are creative and imaginative, there are unforgettable details, and the animation is fantastic. This is very silly and the humor is over the top. The DVD comes with alternative angle storyboards for the whole thing, 11 minutes of Studio Ghibli trailers, 5 minutes of the opening and ending sans text, 4 minutes of trailers and 2 and a half minutes of artwork. I recommend this to fans of animé. 8/10


                
