Luther throws every detective show cliche at the screen, with added over the top acting, sloppy writing, cringeworthy dialogue, editing that is all over the place, and irritatingly ignoring every known police protocol. Having just finished watching Happy Valley I couldn't believe the massive drop in quality evident with Luther. So disappointed.


                
Seasons 1-4 are fantastic. Season 5 was a bad reach. So silly..... however I still recommend folks watch the first 4. Great stuff. I am not sure if they changed writers, directors, whatever they did it was so cookie cutter in 5.


                
Just completed Season 5 and what a stinker this show is. For a detective story there is a complete lack of criminal deduction. Luther finds facts without any logical connection, no explanation to the viewer. Ruth Wilson is badly cast as the femme fatal. She has all the looks of the local church organist. George Cornelius, the master criminal, could be put away in 5 minutes as he incriminates himself at every turn (mobile phone evidence doesn't exist in Luther). It quite simply does not add up. Some good performances but the epitome of bad script writing.


                
Two episodes in, and I've had quite enough. Here we have yet another bastard child/retread of Silence of the Lambs and its countless offspring, with all the shopworn motifs piled atop each other...the super-duper-brilliant serial killer (why do so many people find this ludicrous fantasy so captivating?), the rogue cop whose unorthodox methods always work, the personal drama based on the cop's loved one being menaced, the criminal behind bars who can nonetheless make terrible things happen in the outside world, and everything absurdly overblown, self-important and pretentious. Familiar, tired, completely predictable. Please, no more.


                
What went wrong? Series 1 to 4 was superb television but the fifth outing was just appalling in every way. If you're a fan l
of Luther then steer clear of this mess of a series.


                
I've just suffered through season 5, and i hope this was Luther's last outing. The faults of this show are numerous, indeed. Let me list a few:1. The pretentious title track and other music is absolutely awful.2. Idris Elba has got ONE facial expression.3. Everyone mumbles, which may not be a bad thing considering the totally implausible dialogue...4. Almost every scene is dark and dreary, but at the same time washed-out and free of contrast. Very poor image quality.5. Ruth Wilson is the most obnoxious actor ever, playing the most obnoxious character ever.6. The serial killers all seem to be omnipotent geniuses. Way too contrived!7. Why does a well-paid police inspector live in such dreary, dirty apartments?8. Why does he drive a 25-year old beat-up Volvo? In one scene the car has padded head restraints, in the next they are gone, and so on.9. Why does he only own one shirt, one coat and one tie? He must stink...10. Why does the gangster king pin drive around in a 19 year old Jag, worth about 2000 pounds? And why does he surround himself with idiots?The list goes on, ad infinitum...


                
British Crime Drama shows are really intriguing to watch. With such panache and nail-biting plots. 'Luther' does that, but only at the start.It opens with Ruth Wilson in a murder scene, where her parents are dead, and she's charged with the crime. Although she's shown as a very brilliant, narcissistic woman, as the series goes on, the plot goes sideways. I mean, there is not much of a connection with the random crimes that are committed, which Luther, played by Idris Elba. So, the main plot is not about her brilliance at all. Ans yes, its about Luther, how he bullies people, brilliantly diagnoses crime scenes, and has a bad married life. All of which I don't bother minding. What I do mind is, When his wife is killed and he's framed. By is colleague.This is completely absurd and unnecessary,I mean, what the hell. First of all, all of a sudden his colleague is going on about committing crimes and now frames him. Why in the name of God ? Couldn't you just stick to normal story lines and work your way around like normal Cops do ?This show gets so twisted, it reflects how bad the human mind can think. And how worse the writers minds are. Just for the sake of a bloody twist, you've ruined a good storyline.This is a really waste of a good storyline. When it becomes really and completely absurd, is when you know, this just isn't worth it anymore. I won't say don't watch it. All I'm saying is, if you do, you'll be very surprised and then you'll just want to throw the remote in the writers' head for such absurdity!
