After three seasons and amidst rumors about a feature film it is the right time to summarize the impressions about Luther.The main character is a police officer skillfully moving in the gray area of what is allowed by the law. With his street smarts he succeeds in outsmarting everyone, friend and foe alike.However, the second season is colored in darker tones, including gore and borderline horror. The third season keeps the tone yet the script takes a turn toward straight-to-DVD level and is mostly not worth mentioning. This was a surprising development, since i've assumed that Idris Elba as associate producer had his say about it. Or so i hoped.Overall, the most interesting character is Alice Morgan played by Ruth Wilson, but even she was unable to save the day...


                
I started watching this series because of the high ratings here. The first season was not bad. The most interesting character by far is Alice Morgan. The disregard by Luther for any semblance of proper police procedure is very annoying, but there was enough else going for it that I could put that aside. I rate season 1 at 7.Season 2 wasn't as good, but it wasn't terrible so I kept watching. The leaps of brilliance displayed by Luther kept getting more and more unrealistic and were getting harder to tolerate. I rate season 2 at 5.Season 3 started out silly and just kept getting more and more unbelievable. I only made it a little ways into the 4th episode before I'd had enough and just nuked it. I rate season 3 at 2.I really don't understand how they could continue after season 3, but apparently they did another 2 seasons. Go figure.


                
Pretty ridiculous when you pay attention and think about what real police would do. The whole overarching serial killer thing is just too make believe. A DCI talks repeatedly to a serial killer over a cell phone who speaks about she can and has done and there is no recording? Silly. The actions of the police supervisors is just silly. Give U.K. police a bit more credit will you? Want a good serial killer series check out The Fall. Much better done. But Elba is a great actor. Just wish he had better stuff to work with.


                
Why cant he just put the girl in jail already???the Threats, she pra tically admuts what shes done everytime she speaks to luther. Not to mention, ig he does get a threat on his wife from her, why wouldn't he send backup towatch over her house?? Its getting ridiculous and those are just the small annoyances! Ughhjhh whats with the rave reviews?? I will drudge on but if it doesnt get better ill have to bury luther, like a serial killer


                
I liked Elba and Wilson in other shows, so I was looking forward to seeing them in LUTHER, but this show is so violent it's disgusting. I've seen Law & Order, SVU, Bones, The Wire, you name it, but I can't take this one. All the gory details, the disfigured dog, the killings, the blood.. the details are too gory and the crimes too grotesque. Every episode you get a new mass murderer - or two! Too grotesque and unrealistic. The characters are rather cliché as well - the unorthodox tormented detective who is smarter than everyone, the likable psychopath Alice (she kills and disfigures her dog but we're somehow supposed to like her?). It's a sort of a comic book reality.I really wanted to like this show, but I don't.
After enjoying La Mante, and being a bit disappointed but interested in the first season of Marcella, I landed on Luther. I like Idris Elba but I found him surprisingly not relatable as Luther; which I believe to be a writing problem more than an acting issue. I want to like the characters and care. But it's clear by the end of the first episode that Luther will always be right and somehow end up on top.


                
The show has run out of steam and hopefully the 5th has been its last season. Please keep Alice where it has been at the end of the final episode and please do not resuscitate her again. Bringing her back to life was supposed to add the energy to the series but instead gulped it out of it making episodes diabolically boring and predictable. The mercurial Luther who never sits at the table to dwell at least for a moment is tweaking every time hen he is at at the wheel and he is there most of time. And yes, he inexplicably always finds himself at a right spot. DC Halliday - she is the only one who would be genuinely missed.


                
The show is aha - OK? Elba is top! at the beginning you will have the impression that it is similar to Sherlock - but it is not. There are some director or script righter small "glitch's" like doors that can be open but after 1 sec. the are open , or he stay in a van for 3 hours and then in 2 mint. he brakes the wire grid wall?? are opened , he doesn't get shoot because ???only the script righter now's so it is a little bet annoying.
