I love watching shows where black actors are in lead roles and was excited when I came across Luther on Netflix. Luther is your typical bad detective/cop show; the genius detective whose able to always be one step ahead of the criminals. For the most part, I enjoyed Luther. I think that Neil Cross does an excellent job creating scenes that are not predictable and keeping them exciting. Although I liked Luther, the show has many drawbacks that were hard for me to look past. There is very little (if any) character development with our protagonist Luther. We never find out why he is a crooked cop or anything outside of his life away from his job; it's always Luther solving case after case. We also never find out any back story to any of the other main characters on the show, which I found a bit odd. Overall, the show doesn't have any likable characters. The show's main characters also don't seem to be incorporated into the show that well. A character from one season will not appear in the next, and there is no explanation for where that character went or if they are coming back. Also, main characters will die, and to me, it felt like there was no real reason for their character to die. ****Spoilers below***After watching all 18 episodes, just about every character that John Luther cares about dies. They die so much that it becomes cliché as if the writer doesn't know what to do next, so he just kills off a character to make John Luther angry.Each season/episode felt like one in the same. Luther solving a case with a deranged killer and Luther having to protect and rescue some woman. Season 1: Luther tries to protect and rescue his ex-wife ZoeSeason 2: Luther tries to protect and rescue this teen girl, JennySeason 3: Luther tries to protect and save his new girlfriend, MarySeason 4: Luther tries to avenge Alice Morgan's death Another pet peeve of mine throughout the series was how stupid the victims of these serial killers were. They were all laughably stupid, as in anyone with common sense would escape from these criminals. 80% of the episodes happen when the killer just knocks on their door, and the woman opens it and lets them in. Most people look out the peephole first before just answering the door blindly. I found it interesting that all of the serial killers in this series were men; more specifically men, killing and torturing women. That whole scenario feels like lazy, cliché writing. (Let's have a man kill a woman because they're easy to overpower and kill!). It would have been more intriguing if the killers were people you wouldn't suspect like teens, children or women. The show also promotes the idea that women are incapable of saving themselves and they need to be rescued by a man (John Luther). Luther isn't a bad show. It has its moments of suspense and great acting. Feel free to binge watch it on Netflix if you can suspend your disbelief.
As a viewer, you have rights. No one reads you your rights at the start of each show but, trust me, you have them anyway. One of those rights is that you don't NEED to read the reviews to enjoy a show; and, if you do, you certainly don't need to read them extra carefully. But this show is an exception. If you do choose to read the reviews -- including the mainstream reviews which IMDb so graciously provides -- you will notice recurring references to "escapist entertainment" and other terms to that effect. WHAT'S THAT ABOUT? Well, let us toddle off to the first or pilot episode and have a closer look, shall we?? At one of the key or defining moments in this story, Luther, convinced that the proof of his "theory" lies in the cremation vase containing the ashes of Alice's parents' dead dog, breaks into her flat, opens the vase and - PRESTO -- indeed finds pieces of a Glock pistol inside the vase. He is so excited about this that, even though he has no intention of actually arresting her, even though the search is illegal, he confronts Alice deliberately and shows her the find. Now the good news is that this behavior sets the tone for the entire series and is very useful to the viewer. The bad news is that it is nonsense. Standard procedure at crematoriums is to fill the vases by hand in order to bypass bits of unburnt bone which, logic dictates, might be somewhat upsetting to relatives. So for the writers to presume that actual pieces of the mechanism of a gun would be nonchalantly passed on to the next of kin is (are you ahead of me?) escapist and fanciful. If you can overlook that flaw -- Sherlock Holmes this is not! -- it's an engaging show, part of the "new breed" of shows where the hero has some sort of off-putting character trait (Doc Martin, House) and an extension of the theme introduced in Silence of the Lambs where it is entirely normal and proper to consult known sociopaths to gain insight on other crimes. Good show, yes. Great show, I am frankly not sure.
Season 5 is awful. Hard to pinpoint what went wrong but the story is clichéd and the cerebral nature of the show diminished. 1-4 was fantastic but it has been so long since the last season aired that I can barely remember what happened and this certainly tarnishes the enjoyment. I had to pause halfway through S5E02 to read the wiki and re-aquaint myself with the plot.


                
Season one.I've seen it before, with an extra dash of Tabasco sauce.It's derivative of a lot of cop dramas in the past. The bombshell killer/friend is lifted directly from a Law and Order device (which I guessed before the quick reveal in the first episode). And his wife dilemma is xerox'd from countless others.If I didn't know better I'd think that London is a hotbed of psychos and serial killers. I didn't buy the close proximity of it all.And the ruthless bad guy American in episode 5? I get it. We have too many bad guys UK actors, why not return the favor. But the US has apparently hired all the UK actors? What's wrong with US actors?But some good turns on old elements.Luther allowing the child molester to fall was interesting. The vamp killer was done well and she was pretty to look at. Swallowing the diamonds was good. Killing the wife was interesting. But having the "friend" turn on a dime and be complicit with the robbery was sketchy. Interesting but I don't think psychologically sound. Or not done well enough. Apparently UK crime figures are way too remorseful. Grow a pair, UK criminals. It was way too convenient that Luther guessed where the diamonds would be. And that the "friend" had a video camera in the locker. And the internal affairs guy figured it out. And I guessed beforehand that it was a trap of the "friend" at the end. And if it was that easy to track the wife's lover's phone, why couldn't they track Luther's phone when he was on the lam?But well acted. I guess that's why so many US actors are on the unemployment line due to UK talent. And shot well. I did sit through all six episodes of season one. And would probably watch season two if I ran across it.ADDENDUMSeason 2. More of the same. Clever detective that may be more clever than realistically possible. Why did the psycho girl from the first season give herself up so easily? And, like in season one, too many crazy people even for a city the size of London.
Well firstly, part of my critic is based on whether a show holds my attention. The translation meaning, whether I'm on my phone playing candy crush during an episode. I am currently on a very high level. In part, due to watching this show. Although the acting is quite good, the premise for the show is a tired one, that offers no real originality. Dark, bruiting, anti hero cop. Check. Questionable methods. Check. Rational and logical partner, who counters the hot headed and reckless main character. Check. Do I really need to elaborate? Secondly, with the exception of Ruth Wilsons character, Alice Morgan, most of the female characters are stupid and/or boring. Female victims, hiding in closets rather than dialing 999 or running out the door. Female cops, who rather than drawing their own conclusions, blindly follow idiot male cops who want to take Luther down by "any means necessary". The motive being to try to catch the "dirty" cop. I hope the irony is not lost the writers of this show. Lastly, this is an entertaining show, but not one I'd recommend binge watching, since all the episodes start to become formulaic and less interesting by the end of season two and as you start into season 3. This show was a huge disappointment and grotesquely over rated. Not entirely surprising, when audiences are given the smallest amount of intelligent dialog that they would flock to it. However there are much better European cop drama/thrillers out there. Broadchurch, Happy Valley, Sherlock or The Bridge (Danish version) just to name a few.
Luther is one of the best crime shows on TV in the recent years ! I watched it as I wanted to see a pure detective show (something like Sherlock) and was a tad disappointed at first . The disappointment went away later as I progressed through the series.I liked it for the depth of character building , music, pace and of course the superlative acting of the main protagonist Luther and Alice Morgan. If u are looking for a credible and convincing detection logic, I am afraid, u would have to look elsewhere. Most of the crime in the 2 seasons is actually solved through detailed background checks which so often bring up uncanny clues or discoveries leading to the the criminal. Also, the action is not entirely convincing. In more than one episodes, we see Luther pick the criminal out of a crowd just by looking at him ! To build Luther's character, the director had to go back to his personal life (both present and past) very often.While this really helps and Idris Elba stand out in his larger than life image thus created, the same attempt fails when he has to face realistic action sequences.He remains portrayed as a "SuperHero" in the end for the action sequences, while a regular "lost" cop always on the edge for the rest of the story. If only they had tied up all the strings properly, I would have given it a 9/10.


                
Loved all the seasons beside season 5. Was rather disappointed after watching season 5


                
Really like the show and its characters, but I can't understand over half of what they are saying! I don't think it's a sound problem, I think the directors and actors need to take responsibilty for producing CLARITY in the delivery of the dialog. Not louder, just more clear. A little more will provide a LOT MORE in the dramatic telling of the most critical part....THE STORY!!!


                
Luther follows a near-genius detective named John Luther who solves cases with his group of lesser-genius detective workmates. The first season didn't leave me with an amazing impression, especially the pilot. It sets up a character as this scared, anxious person who had just witnessed a horrible crime. You can see the shift in the minds of the writers when they decided to make this character both completely different in personality and also a major character. Unfortunately, these same writers forgot to go back and change the character in previous scenes. While she does become one of the most intriguing characters in the show, her transition just didn't work. As for the rest of the season, it really doesn't take off until the fourth episode. The rest of the cases are good, but not nearly as engaging as when the writers decided to write stories for some of the criminals. They become more humanized and as a result, more interesting characters. Furthermore, Idris Elba becomes a better and better actor as the season progresses. Due to his problems with anger, he creates some heavily effective scenes that left me in total awe, ultimately putting this series in a place where it should be noticed. The last two episodes use a conflict where, while it's clear that a certain actor wanted out of the series, was still interesting and set up a good next season. Season two is when the show really started to take off. Each case had not one but two episodes dedicated to it, making for much better, more engaging and developed cases where panic and tension actually have a chance to build. Unfortunately during this season Luther's character loses his anger, which while I didn't notice it at the time, I wish it had stayed. It would have added an interesting layer to his character that could have created more really good scenes and personal struggles. There is one case involving dice that is good but a little goofy, especially for a series as dark as this one. The third season is good. In terms of quality, it's very similar to season two so there really isn't anything new to say about that. The fourth season was just bad. Season three wrapped up the series really nicely, but someone decided to cash in on one last season. There is only one case, and there could have been so much to it that was simply cut short for the sake of the show's formula, which had become 2 episodes per case. This single case could and should have gone on much longer. Furthermore, the series tried to bring in more subplots to fill Luther's agenda like in previous seasons, but none of them had the same effect as the previous ones because of how absurd and forced they kind of were. The season even tried to replace one of the show's chief characters with a lesser version of her previous counterpart. The show made some awful choices, and as much as I'd love for the show to come up with a great final season to save itself, I'd prefer it just stay done. Better safe than sorry. One thing I loved about every season was how incredibly dark and ballsy it was. It didn't stray away from the nitty-gritty, and instead molded itself into a twisted crime thriller where most every case was made all the more riveting because of the atmosphere. Furthermore, it wasn't scared to pull some moves that would be frowned upon in a lot of other television series. It steps over that line on several occasions, trusting that it's audience will appreciate it's willingness to show a different side of entertainment. Also I really liked most of the characters. The ones you aren't supposed to like are, expectantly, unlikable, but still mostly interesting. Overall I really enjoyed most of Luther. Yes, it most definitely has it's flaws, but as a whole it's a solid show. In the end I would recommend this series.


                
Try to saw the very first episode many times and doesn't connect. Now that I'm watched can say it's a good show, but it's a little bit slower than other (the killing, for example) .


                
Great acting, gripping action and twisty plots make this a thrill. The ham-fisted over-direction is a shame, and sometimes you really have to suspend your disbelief at the utter stupidity of the police, such as in the last episode of series 1. Amazingly for someone from London, Saskia Reeves's accent meanders through Eastenders, Australia and Birmingham. It's sad, as apart from that she does quite a reasonable job, though for me she was the weakest element in the show.A particularly fantastic part of the show is the relationship between Luther and Alice, his sometime confidant and sidekick. This gives originality to what could have been another gritty, London-based, by- the-books cop show.From series 3 the over-editing calms down and the show really comes into its own. For me, it was truly terrifying in parts, certainly much scarier than any horror film I can remember seeing in the last few years.


                
In general this show is great, really enjoyed it. But too often i couldn't believe how characters acted/reacted or how the police worked.
You bring the girlfriend of a probably murdered guy to his house where the murderer (her husband) is still around and don't keep an eye on her and hold her back when she's going upstairs where she will find her lovers corpse (which makes her grab the weapon, a hammer and kill the husband right in front of lots of police officers)?
A guy is jumping on several cars, dropping his motorcycle on the floor in an entrance, attacking several people in a car in the middle of a traffic jam and in all cases, noone really cares? noone even takes a video with his smart phone or anything like that or calls for help?
there is obviosly some danger in your house/someone hunts you and you hide in the closet while you could flee to the outside or you manage to leave the house but instead of running away you hide in the next building?
you are hunted by some dangerous people who know your hiding place and you decide to go to your mums house and stay there (allthough these guys know where she lives)? 
you know you are hunted but open the front door without peeking through the door Viewer?.
you confronct heavily armed dangerous people without a gun?
And of course very often Luther could have tried to explain things or tell people about a Situation and he didn't even when it got himself into more trouble or false accusations.
and more and more and more...
I'm still on the first season, and i haven't written many reviews. 
Ghe character of Ruth is just plainly absurd. It's like she is a psychic. 
Unbearable to watch, I'm watching it for the saks of passing this weekend.


                
There is a lot of good and bad in this series. I've watched almost two seasons now. This contains spoilers from season 1, 2 and 3.In the first season I kinda disliked Luther's character with all the anger management issues. Then the whole thing with Luther's ex-wife Zoe, it was a bit messy and could've been written better. I was disappointed with the Ian Reed situation. I think it was a good and interesting plot twist but fell flat for me with the accidental killing of Zoe, which to me was sloppy and boring way for her to go. Then they just shot off Ian too. I didn't like that either. I did enjoy Ruth Wilson playing Alice. I think there was good ideas but they weren't using them to the full potential. It felt like there were lots of juicy things that could've been really captivating but ended up dull. And Luther seems a bit too brilliant, solving everything in five minutes. I like when you don't get to see the killers in the first scene and they keep you in suspense.Well in second season, the start was a bit all over the place. I didn't quite get what had happened after Alice shot Ian. I think the relationship between Alice and Luther is a big bonus in this series and I was disappointed when Alice left. Was hoping to see at least a proper kiss scene with Luther and her.. Then the whole Jenny thing. How old is she supposed to be? She is wearing bright blue eyeshadow and the clothes were childish too. At first I was hoping there would be something between Luther and her but then again with how she was dressed I wasn't sure if she was playing like a teenager and Luther was only a father figure. I wasn't paying attention in this series from time to time, only because it was a bit boring to me. I might have missed some key elements.And now I read a spoiler that they kill off Ripley too. So yeah, it could be that I won't be watching seasons 3, 4 or 5.
Let me say first and foremost, the acting in this series is phenomenal. I don't think they chose a single actor that didn't do their job supremely well. That said, I found this series to be a bit exhausting, with a convoluted plot that moves at lightning speed. I eventually started to call this show Luther Ex Machina, because he is the answer to EVERY problem. It's impressive just how much he can accomplish. I also found it strange how quickly the characters could heal from various wounds. One minute they've been shot in the leg, or they have been in a situation that should land them in the hospital for quite a while, the next they are loping along as if nothing ever happened. Furthermore, I'm still trying to figure out how the plot twist in the first episode was possible. In summation: this show can be enjoyable to watch, but the events are highly unlikely. The cast ultimately makes the show. I would watch again just for them.


                
Are they kidding? All that windup for a 'new' season and it's two episodes? They better be the two greatest episodes in TV history. Oh well. We'll in any case old depressed angry Luther appears to be retired or fired and living in Dover but the cops still think he's a dirty cop but he's called back to work again on the sly to catch a cannibal who intentionally leaves obvious clues. Yes, a cannibal. Let's see how all TWO episodes play out. There's a parallel story involving Alice from prior seasons which takes up most of the first episode with guess will turn into a vengeance tale.On a technical note, the camera-work and sound is 10 years out of date. Shakeycam? 360 degree orbits around a character, washed out colors, loud muddy sound, more shakeycam, more extreme closeups.I really am not optimistic but I'm hopeful.


                
