It is almost hard too put into words how bad this movie was: The plot was virtually nonexistent , Most of the acting (bar Hardy and Theoren) was absolutely diabolical ,The script was like a ten year old wrote it, And Oh My God what was with that guy and the flaming guitar???Before you assume that I hate action films and that I am only giving this movie a bad review because I hate action films. Your wrong. Action is my favorite movie genre , and I was so excited to see this movie , but during the film I actually found myself checking my watch every five or ten minutes because it dragged on for so long , and for what ? Absolutely nothing.This is probably one of the worst action films I have ever seen in my entire life and I do not recommend it too anybody. The only really good thing about this movie was the visual effects , which where great.Final verdict : 3/10
OK this movie is so bad ! I don't know how the rating is so high... In the movie they just play hide and seek.Don't listen to any of the critics who say it is a masterpiece. This is not better than Aliens, Terminator 2, Die Hard, Predator, and even The Matrix. The most positive thing that I can say is the first half hour was so so, I was hoping it would get better, but the movie dies after that. Each character is underdeveloped and a waste, all of the actors are wasted. The special effects are good, but not much else. It just misses the mark on what I expected to be a "Mad This is one of the most overrated action films that I've seen in years, this will never stand the test of time like the ones mentioned before, it will be forgotten years later.
This is a desert world where they pump thousands of gallons of water out of giant pipes, basically the most inefficient delivery system possible, so that the vast majority of it is lost and soaks uselessly into the ground.This is a world where heroes get their hands on weapons and fire rounds into the ground for no apparent reason, despite the fact that in such a world every single bullet would be immensely valuable. It's a world with seemingly no food and yet the ability to feed hundreds or thousands of people who power everything through muscle.this is a world where the technology is so limited that they have to use human beings on giant hamster wheels for power, and yet they are able to determine random people's blood types and rig up complicated blood transfusion systems. This is a world where a woman falls in love with some random ass pasty white guy for absolutely no apparent reason other than that he's there. Towards the end of the movie one of the women makes a statement "I thought he wasn't crazy, anymore," despite the fact that no one in that group could have any idea of Max's history, mental state, or the scene that had just taken place inside his head. There is ZERO reason for her to make that statement, and yet she made it. The feminist metaphor is so cartoonish that the women might as well have walked around with signs around their neck reading "feminist metaphor."Oh, and gasoline/diesel is extremely hard to come by in your world? Hey, no problem, fuel a giant freaking truck for no other purpose than to act as a mobile stage for an electric guitarist and a bunch of drummers...you know, because in a world where resources are rare, you've got all the fuel in the world to do such a thing. This movie is great so long as you don't think. It moves very fast, with lots of explosions and inexplicable visuals, so you could conceivably watch the whole thing without ever stopping to think about how most of it makes no goddamn sense. This is, indeed, what must have happened. I can think of no other reason how people could watch this and call it "smart." Things move so fast that you never get to know any of the characters in any meaningful way. Max is the stereotypical "psychologically scarred loner." Gibson was able to give that character depth in past movies, partly due to his acting but also partly due to the fact that the movies stopped to breathe long enough at times to get to know him. The writing is terrible. Throwing in some feminism doesn't change that. I am completely dumbfounded at the enthusiastic response to this mindless stream of dreck.
I felt like loosing 2 hours from my life and I felt at last the movie ended. Continuous story less madness without any motive and irritating to the fullest. Furiosa is handicapped and drives a big modified truck or war vehicle. Illogical foolish movie making. Don't watch it unless you want to loose your money. And Mad max is a funny goat who shows style in all kind of fools around. Only thing to see are the cars ... The movie starts with Mad max running and remembering his kids or wife who are lucky that they died and did not have to bear this pain that we as a crowd had to bear while watching the same. The music will burn your head.The actions are repetitive.Girlfriends will leave if you take her to this movie.


                
As a big fan of installments 1 and 2 of the Mad Max films, I was keen to see the latest offering. I went with low expectations, which were confirmed and didn't change through the film. It did not seem to have much of a story line, other than the never ending car chase across the desert.For me, it was really Charlize Theron's movie, with Tom Hardy co-staring as Max. It was a flat performance that I was glad to see the end of.It was good to see a scattering of Australian actors in the cast and some of the old cars. Unfortunately not enough of the Ford coupe made famous in movies 1 and 2.The car chases were well done, and I've read that there was very little CGI used which makes them all the more impressive. Good photography, let down by the script.


                
A game cinematic or a visual show, but not a good movie, like a very long movie trailer with lots of explosions and action ... and then more explosions, fighting and action ... you can feel like watching somebody playing a 2 hour arcade video-game.There's no Max anywhere, the plot and the story are too basic but, who needs more this days? It looks that you can't make a good movie that make people use their brains 1%.Even classic action movies had twists and keep you interested in the story, but even a new Mad Max movie has to be so basic.People is used to this kind of 'movies' and see them as normal, sadly. Go and watch a car crash show alive and you will have a better time.


                
I went to this movie with my daughter, 15, and we both walked out of there convinced this is one of the worse movies we'd seen in years. Save your money and go see anything else...Given the disparity of years, culture, values, etc. it is a bit surprising that one of us didn't like this movie, even just a little. In fact, the only reason this doesn't get a zero stars is that, well, there is no zeros available and some of the cars were kinda cool. Everything else, the crappy predicable acting, the crappy predictable storyline, the crappy predictable and sophmoronic writing, was crappy, predictable, and sometimes sophmoronic (yes, I did just make that word up). This is a movie that suffered from too much money (140 million budget I read elsewhere, they must have used it on the cars) too much ambition (I also read that one of the ambitions was to make it more feminist a la the Vagina Dialogues writer(s)) and too little imagination. Halfway through I started rooting for the bad guys as they seemed the only hope for ending this thing.So the problem this film had was mundaneness. I didn't think Hardy's character was heroic or very interesting so I didn't care much about his fate. I thought Theron's character was supposed to be dark except that she only seemed to be broken, maybe as much as Hardy's. This left the movie without a real lead, which is OK if there is an ensemble cast with multiple story lines...but this wasn't that, it was just one long car chase into the dessert and then turn around and go back. Making the bad guys a bunch of weak suicidal wannabe Vikings didn't add a lot dimension to the plot either. And turning their leaders into caricatures might have appealed to the anti-tough crowd that likes to make tough guys kinda clownish and seriously flawed but it didn't help the storyline much. Oh wait, what storyline? So if you have extra money that you want to donate to an unworthy cause, buy a ticket and send a message that this is good enough to pay for. If your AC is out and you need a cool place to hide and this is the only thing playing, spend a couple of hours in the back where you can catch a few zzzzzzzzs. The Avengers show was so full that we couldn't find two seats together so we went to this instead where there was plenty of room. That makes it our fault for not getting to the theatre earlier and lesson learned. Nobody should go through that kind of thing twice.
This must be worst attempt at doing a remake ever. No character definition, no plot explanation, nothing. I don;t get me started on the dialogue. Not only did it not help in establishing plot, characters etc. but the actors should all go back to acting school and learn how to pronounce their words.All this movie is, is a showcase of prop designers who looked at who could come up with the weirdest post apocalyptic vehicle design. Oh and don't forget the pyrotechnics. Without these two elements the movie would have scored zero.To the director, writer and producer, next time, please watch the original movies to understand who and what Max actually is.This was the biggest waste of 2 hours of my life. To this day I still don't know what the producers tried to achieve with this. They failed completely and insulted the legacy of Mad Max.
Initially, I didn't want to see this movie, but it got such rave reviews, I changed my mind. I saw Thunderdome 30 years ago, and I was unimpressed; perhaps that underlies the problem. This is a movie for those who know and love the genre.I don't know anything about the back story. It takes place in a post-apocalyptic dystopia where water has become so precious that you resent it. The population of survivors have all evolved to a point of no longer needing hydration.Cars and trucks are vital, however, and it's important when driving really fast to have a blind guitarist play heavy metal music from a flame throwing instrument while chasing other cars.At the start of the movie, the main character, Furiosa, is tasked to drive to another city to steal gasoline. Half way there, she suddenly turns east, because she wants to take five girls to a green place she once saw as a child. There is a chase, and a sandstorm, after which the five girls find it imperative to wash themselves off in the middle of the desert with a whole bunch of water. The guy with a rake for a face resents this and points a gun at them.There is a fight, and suddenly the bald crazy guy who is chained to to the other guy giving him blood, suddenly switches sides because he sees a pretty girl with red hair.More fast driving, getting stuck, and then unstuck, and then realizing that a motorcycle actually can ride for a 160 days without refuelling, but then instead deciding to go back to exactly where the movie started, again, as fast as they left, with more explosions and fast driving.Then the main character appears to be mortally wounded, so the Blood Bag offers the most cathartic and poignant dialogue of the entire movie when he says "My name is Max". Seriously. Luckily, post-apocalyptic survivors have also developed kick ass immune systems, as whole blood transfusions with dirty needles and used tubing apparently don't cause fatal sepsis, but instead return you to life.What the actual .... I have no idea what this movie was about or was supposed to be about. There is absolutely no story, or character development. The film presupposes, and actually requires, that you are familiar with the previous films despite the fact that the last one was 30 years ago, and some of us may not have seen it.I wanted to like this film. I just can't. Currently, it's rated #23 on the all time list, and I just can't let that stand without a review.
i am just old enough to remember the original mad max films perhaps I remember them through rose tinted specs but the latest copy pales in comparison it is a 2hr car chase with explosions (if that's what you want to see then go see this film) for me I considered leaving the cinema there is very little in character back story there is very little explanation of anything like why are people spraying their mouths silver before they die, in one scene the villain of the film can't walk unaided then later he can shout a speech and drive a monster truck and tom hardy puts on a stupid voice trying to sound more tough it was 2 hours I won't get back one saving grace is the effects were quite good
i went into this viewing all excited, thinking it was a remake of the original mad max, which i love. i also really like tom hardy and charlize theron box. i was crushed when i realized it's a remake/spin off of the road warrior, which i dislike almost as much as i detest beyond thunderdome. but, i wanted to give it a chance, hoping they would redeem the original sequel. uh, no. they took all the cheesiest elements of the original road warrior and put them on steroids, dumbed down the dialog, amped up the special effects, spat out the worst script i've seen in years, put them all in a cocktail shaker, and let fly. i love, love, love a good action flick but this movie is pure drivel and not saved by all the stunts in the world thrown together.if you actually LIKE the original road warrior, you might enjoy this. i liked road warrior when it came out; i was about 18 or 19, and in the 80's it seemed pretty cool. i cannot watch it anymore though. at least road warrior had national flavor, and it was somewhat innovative for its time. for me, watching this spin off was like being forced to eat cardboard when i was looking forward to a great steak. tom hardy turns his normally stoic but palpable screen presence into a painfully wooden caricature of himself. charlize, who is incredibly talented, is mostly wasted.
This is all my own opinion and it will contain spoilers. Since last week my brother (older than me) has been nagging about how much he would like to see the film. The trailer itself as a video ad did not get any attention and got skipped as soon as possible, I knew it was not worth it yet we eventually went to see it as we did not have anything else to do. From playing around with umbilical cords of a dead woman and (a now dead) baby, to the creepy deformed talking pile of flesh that I think was supposed to resemble a child yet had a beard, this f**k-fest had it all. Using 150 million dollars to show what the world would be like without water seems rather excessive. Not only that, how about we add every single dumb idea that comes into mind and call it a film, including killing grannies, shooting bullets at the eyes of grannies, having a human as a "blood bank" connected to the driver of the car, and my personal favorite, driving over a pregnant woman, then slicing the woman open to check if the baby is "all right". Don't get me wrong, the scenery was wonderful, especially the canyons, but all of it is completely destroyed by the modernization of a film that had none of the "brilliant" ideas that were described earlier. The cast have also made a significant change in the good way as they played their role perfectly, but that was not enough to cover up the tornado of horrible, horrible ideas thrown into the film. In general, this film is a typical Hollywood production with a completely ruined sense of entertainment and if no one is going to say it, it will only get worse. By all means, if you want to throw your money into a puddle (hah, get it?) go see the film. If you actually value your time, go and spend some time researching actual problems about droughts and everything, instead of wasting it watching people getting trampled over by cars.
The trilogy was amazing and Thunderdome was a masterpiece compared to this one. Nothing in it is memorable, characters are not developed at all, they just exist. The universe is stale and absurdly useless. Defies logic in a numbing manner. Mostly action. Low quality one. And what a shocker: certain secondary good characters die in stupid ways. Felt like they had more depth than the main ones. Hardy was on crack vacation. Charlize has faded and I do not want to see her again. There is also a forced scene of emotional garbage when the music tried to make the viewer (more like targeting retarded audience) feel some empathy. It achieved the exact opposite. Apathy. Boredom. Disgust. Insult. Thankfully, it partially erased this moment with the next action moments. Or did it? By the end of it you wish you did not waste so much life time on this film. Explosions and sand and some driving and... I already forgot. If you want to see Max then remember Mel Gibson in any or all those three performances. Otherwise you do not miss a thing. Trust me, the promo is all you'll ever need.


                
I liked Mad Max 1, I loved Mad Max 2, Mad Max 3 left me cold and Mad Max Fury Road was just an amalgamation of all previous versions. High speed crazy looking vehicles all chasing the truck that Max is driving. I would have thought that George Miller would have come up up with a different approach after so many years, but alas it was not to be. I give the action sequences and cinematography top marks, also the make up department that can make someone as beautiful as Charlize Theron look so ordinary. I have to write a few more words to comply with the 10 line rule that IMDb has issued. I'll try this now. No, still not enough. One more thing I'd like to say is, that to me Mel Gibson will always be the real Mad Max.


                
Max is minus in this film and gets outplayed easily by Charlize Theron and I guess the director was so glad to have her that she's by far the most interesting character of this action only flick. The story only serves to connect the action sequences which are abundant but after a while you sort of get numb to everything that is displayed before your eyes. This becomes even more clear when they turn around and do the whole thing over again stretching the film even longer and adding absolutely nothing. It had some interesting ideas but all of that never gets of the ground and the realness is lost because the genuine gritty Australian actors of the first 3 installments are replaced by Americans who seem to have no connection with the dystopian desert they're living in. Also the rough straight up violence is changed to a Chinese circus version making everything feel really choreographed and there for fake so you don't feel the tension that was done so well in the original trilogy. The CGI dust storm was the point I should have hit the stop button but I was somewhat hoping things would get better when Hardy gets freed from the mouthpiece stuck to his face,but sadly it didn't.Theron brings some weight to this but the other characters are so laughable which made it all just some what painful to watch. I simply can not understand that a director who made these masterpieces before now goes out in this way and kills his own creation. I strongly suggest his next film should be a parody titled, mad Maxine: blurry road. Which is the road the writers were on when they wrote this abomination.
Let's make another Mad Max movie. Tom Hardy - hardly credible as Max, but that's not bad when you recap the movie: "one damn long and hell of a boring chase". There is absolutely no reasonable plot whatsoever. The characters are uninteresting.Average score of 8.4 is mockery for every good movie there is rated less than that and mockery for all those that are rated only slightly better.Sure there is the characteristic Mad Max franchise visual theme. Dark post-apocalyptic world. OK, we already have seen this over and over again and again. What's the catch? This movie and it's rating really shows how degenerate people have become. This is like watching ice fishing as a sport.


                
Throughout the entirety of this movie I was bewildered to find that I had been lied to. Despite all the explosions, car chases, and fight scenes to the death, Max never got mad. He gets captured by bandits, scoffs quietly. He gets tied to the front of a car heading into a fiery-tornado death storm, coughs a little bit. Gets shot at and flaming guitars get flung his way, still nothing. This man has the temperament of a 90 year old in a rec league shuffleboard match. Why go to the trouble of casting Bane?! They were better off casting Mr. Bean!
This movie is simply not a movie... it's a music video without the music. Big images of impossible landscapes, characters that are caricatures without an inch of depth. I left the theater after an hour. The street outside was more interesting.It didn't start well: I tire of the superhero-type with eyes that can see behind his back and the sensory equipment of a feline. Then it got worse, the impossible landscapes that looked so good in Avatar or Star Wars seem completely out of place in the post-apocalyptic world of Mad Max. I mean Mad Max, the Road Warrior! That felt real, a world with people fighting for petrol and survival! Mad Max : Fury Road is way off the reality chart. Whoever came up with the world must have come straight out the video game industry. The visual effects are unbelievable (literally): they look fake. Some scenes inside the truck look so off that it's impossible to get caught by the story (or its absence in this occurrence). If you want to see an impossible crazy movie with no story at all but depth of characters try Jan Kounen's Dobermann. At least the characters are interesting. Well... here stops the bashing. Spending more time on it would be an either greater waste of the time I've spent on this movie. Cheers and good luck watching it if you do.Did anybody else found the dude with the electric guitar completely out of place?


                
The only reason it gets 2 stars is for the visual effects - and I very nearly deducted another point for the waste of $150m on them...The whole movie is pointless action - no plot or story line, acting is barely passable although to be fair they weren't given much to work with, ridiculous waste of resources that are supposedly scarce (think Waterworld), pointless violence and continual unrealistic feats make this one of the biggest flops of all time given the budget.This movies adds nothing to the original trilogy, in fact even the worst of those movies - Thunderdome - had 10 times the charm of this tripe.Watch if all you like is constant visual effects and car chases, if not steer well clear and watch one of the originals instead


                
It's a lot of action, I can assure you that. But the movie and the character of MadMax are nothing near the level of the old movies. The actual story line is thin (to be nice about it) and the whole setup is all about effects and shots. The movie is entertaining, but also a one timer. I wouldn't wanna see it again. At some point you realize what the story is about, but still you are wondering if things are even remotely logic or convenient to fill up the time. The cars are like the old MadMax movies but for me the comparison ends. For me the movie was a huge disappointment and I'm writing this review because I can't believe people giving a 10 for this movie or even higher then 6 for that matter. Especially when you saw the old movies and have even a harder time believing those scores...... If you want to see a entertaining movie, please go ahead and watch. If you are looking for a really good movie, you better skip this..


                
Where to start? Two hours of special effects, bad acting, no story, driving in the desert. The End. The movie (can we really call it that?)as nothing to offer, is boring and just a opportunity so sell tickets to IMAX and 3D and big screen TV's. The story, what story? there is none, really no exaggeration. Vehicles driving in the desert occupy about 80% of the two hours, the rest is even horse, at least when they are driving they don't speak. But at least it could have nice driving battles, but no, some vehicles are fast as hell and catch the good guys very fast, other times they are in the horizon and never get close, then they get some turbo and catch them, and then can't overtake them. What the hell. Sometimes bad guys shoot at everything, others just passively watch. Really, this is a complete car wreck. Just another sequel massacre. TV shows are getting better and better, movies are getting worse and worse. Explosions, special effects and nothing else.


                
Typical Hollywood big budget trash. I found nothing to like about this movie. I was hoping that making a Mad Max film without the great emoter, Mel Gibson, would be an improvement. I was wrong... really wrong. This movie is not worth losing 2 hours of your life to watch. There was more ham in the acting than you'll find in New York deli. Some scenes did seem to be inspired by the all-time great post apocalypse movie "A Boy and His Dog." By inspired I mean damn near plagiarized. The movie tries to make up for it's lack of depth with over the top special effects. This is so typical of Hollywood efforts. If you want to watch a great post apocalypse movie, then watch the classic "A Boy and His Dog" instead.


                
It's difficult to believe how bad this movie was. We're talking beyond Matrix Revolutions level of bad here. Some nice cinematography cannot save a movie that lacks any degree of character development, and a story line that centers around one big dull car chase (yes, the story is literally a big dull car chase scene). Explosions and gunfire fill the screen, and for the first five minutes it seems like a great way to start the movie... but then it keeps going, and going... before any break is taken, you've sat through a full half hour of generic car chase scene. And the movie continues like that until the end. Again, throughout this chase, there is no meaningful dialogue between the characters (not the mention the jarring Australian to American accent), there is nothing. This movie is junk, this is Mild Max.


                
Warning. "Stupid Spoiler ahead." Really? I rented this piece of crap for six bucks but at least it was better than The Force Mistaken! Barely.The only way this movie could have been worse is if Adam Driver was cast as the lead villain and JJ Abrams directed.The story or lack thereof was brutal. Just sucked. There's hardly any dialogue in the movie. Shoot em up, blow stuff up is all. Charlize Theron has one arm or hand. Grody.They fight the crazies of Fury Road until they reach who cares where and magically there's a bunch of fresh water waiting for them in an otherwise post apocalyptic wasteland.Watching familiar titles with these crappy directors and horrible story lines has convinced me that I should stop wasting money on them. Even Ridley Scott is turning out crap nowadays.
Even there are some quite interesting action scenes this movie didn't worth the title MadMax at all. I have watched the first two sequels soo many years ago and i do believe that they are superior to this. The movie was boring and without a meaning. Without a purpose. With far from logical reality scenes it represented a big nothing to the real MadMax and his purpose: Survival. This film is produced with raw brutality in mind and everything comes second. It really failed to make me wonder what comes next. The protagonist is such a common like the man next door lacking every character's aspect that previous movies introduced. My 12 year boy didn't want to watch it. Fail! Sorry.


                
