Whilst the landscape and population are interesting, the film lacks any real story as such. Max (Tom Hardy) has the charisma and depth of a mouldy pair of underpants. Charlize Theron has one arm for some reason which is never really justified, although it does add something to her character which would have been put to better use with Max. The main villain, Immortan Joe is on of the better characters, albeit a rehashed version of Bane with Don Kings hair. He seemingly has two sons, one who is very small and disabled and the other who is a giant beast of a man. Yet again this is something the film makes no attempt to explain, which is a shame as it would add to the very thin plot.The vehicle design is outstanding and credit must be given to the engineers who put them together, assuming they aren't all CGI.To summarise the film they spend 50% of the runtime escaping the main villain and his henchmen only to turn back in the opposite direction to finish where they started.
George Miller has proved you don't need to actually make a movie in order to make money making movies. You see, movies typically have certain key features, such as: a plot, dialogue, and character development (all of which are absent here). And is George Miller now just Frank Miller with a different hat?Anyone who was "satisfied" by this mindless smash-em-up dystopian mess should be ashamed and go do their homework on some ozploitaion, you know the kind of movies that inspired Quentin Tarantino to make Death Proof, a far more satisfying car movie. And let me be clear, without exaggeration, that Mad Max: Fury Road has the hands-down dumbest scenes I've ever seen in a movie, the ones where we see the large "music" truck with the drummers and the idiotic electric guitar player who inexplicably joins the soundtrack with solos and flames.Hands-down, dumbest. Ever. Worse than Jar-Jar.We really only get a half-movie, because the first half is stuff driving one way, then they turn around and do everything again in the opposite direction, leading to an ending so triumphant that all it lacked was a golden unicorn shooting rainbows out of its flaming ass. It is surely not a great feminist statement worthy of men's rights haterade.The climactic line: "I'm Max." And then Tom Hardy nods approval, as if to reassure himself that he is an actor and really can memorize such inane dialogue.I don't care if the action scenes looked cool. The movie is just plain stupid, so stupid it makes me want to huff some silver spray paint and go to Valhalla.
Lets make one thing clear there is no way to say this movie was great.From the first second you are put right into a hostile environment where without any argument a man gets attacked. It stays unclear why (because it stays unclear why the half living needs its blood. that half living seems fine without it the rest of the film.) Though that isn't why i grade this movie so extremely low. The thing is that there is nothing more to the film than chasing each other till some key figure dies. Every moment i was watching for something new and impressive. Butt even the guitar/drum car was not loud enough to be that. The bomb sticks are immensely overrated and multiple armies can't take out one single truck loaded with water. There I named another point of annoyance the amount of water they keep with them in a car chase. Who takes a truck full of water to a chase? They could at least have dumped some to be a bit lighter.So there is now way you can call this a good movie. It was a boring slow and monotonous action movie that does not deserve a rating above 4 stars. It's a shame that even todays critics call this a good movie.
This Mad Max is supremely surreal/Dali, absolutely fascinating even. This one, like the first 3 films, we get to suspend disbelief as the movie projects, thrusting us into the post-apocalyptic world, with anthropological and sociological elements we could believe it. Don't get me wrong, this movie is the best of the series, the unforgivable. Mad Max and The Road Warrior were convincing in it's tribalism, brutality and uncompromising violence I'm sure is true is burned into my survivalist memory. I'm not a hater, but massive dune buggies, rock playing mutants and an oxygen breathing madman? No way. Miller, you messed up bad. What happened to Max, a "shell of a man" who hasn't quite lost his humanity, only long forgotten and buried it. In this way this movie pisses me off, in the same way "The Phantom Menace" did. And yet, 9 out of 10. MILLER, you'r awesome!!!


                
I grew up with Mad Max, and The Road Warrior, and I apologize for Thunderdome. I was 13 when it came out, so I was clearly a target demographic. But that one was to save the kids, and now we're saving the chicks.Yes, I heard all the uproar when it came out, and it concerned me. I also remember watching the previews with an arched eyebrow, and ALL of those fears came true. The flamethrower guitar is ridiculous and pointless. Just dumb. Mounting your blood-donor to the front of your car, and then using nitro? Seriously? Hogtie him, and throw him in the back-seat, or the trunk. Isn't it important that you keep him alive if he is giving you a constant blood transfusion? But, it looks cooler if you strap him to the hood, and don't put any eye protection on. It's just a desert. No rocks, or dust or anything.Every single time a woman bit it, there was a stop in action to reflect on the loss. EACH time. When the preggo chick fell, it affected EVERY cast member in the movie. It was TRAGIC to lose a woman, but dudes were getting offed a mile a minute. And their clothes stayed amazingly pure and white throughout the movie. Every male in the movie is either horribly flawed and evil, or exists to serve the women. Max and the kid are the only "good" ones. At the end, the benevolent women turn on the water for everyone. ... In, what has got to be, the WORST water-distribution system in existence. I'd like to believe that Joe was actually rationing a limited supply of water, and now these silly binks have just made the world's largest mud puddle for a week.This movie did not remind me of the first two, at all. Yeah, they had the double-barreled shotgun with the dead shell. Whoopie. Did that one-armed chick, really hold a guy by his leg for a couple of minutes, while crushing a speeding car between her rig and another? Mmmkay. He weighs, what? 200 pounds? And she's going to one-arm it, with her robot arm that is strapped on? Wow.I am VERY glad that I refused to see this in the theaters. This is not something that I would have liked to contribute to. Thanks BitTorrent, because I would have been IRRITATED to have paid for this crap. I did notice that the commercials for it stopped pretty much as soon as it came out. That usually means it's all promotion hype, and that usually means a mediocre experience at best. I was so bored and uninterested at times, I put it on pause and went and did other things. I was never glued to my couch, and I felt that I was struggling to finish it.Craptastic. On ... just about every level. Should have been titled: Mad Max - Chopped & Screwed.https://youtu.be/6sk5IuIjr1E?t=50
First of all I must say that I've had the pleasure to see the first 3 "Mad Max" movies. I know that this "Mad Max - Fury Road" was not meant to be neither a prequel nor a sequel of the original ones, so I write this review with that in mind. Summarizing my opinion, this movie was dreadful. So bad, that I couldn't believe it was the same movie that got me so psyched when I saw the trailer last year. It's a non stop of crazy cars, explosions and cgi supported stunts that will definitely please those that like cars and action movies, but whose plot makes no sense at all. Now I could be here telling you about the visions that Max has from beginning until the end, which lacks explaining, or about the fact that they begin a journey from A to B just to find out they must return to A, but if they had stayed there all along the movie would be 7 minutes long, or even to the fact that they meet a bunch of women that live in the middle of nowhere, but surprisingly one of them was waiting barenaked on top of an electric pole, waiting for whoever would ever turn there, if it took 5 minutes or 200 years!... Instead I'll only complaint that apart from the fast driving and explosion filled footage, this has no story at all. The quest begins with a purpose, but that purpose is faulty and Max's character is relutant to join any group but quickly changes his mind... he's rogue, but he's nice... Furiosa is a powerful woman but is eager to accept that man she knows nothing of, to join their getaway posse... It's all so senseless that almost made me cry! Build some hot rods, add some blasts, create some funky looking characters and forget any story, because we have a movie! Oh, and could someone tell me what the f... are some guys doing playing drums and a guitar that shoots fire in the middle of a high speed pursuit? I mean, I know it's badass, but come on.....
I am not going to go into this movie much as anyone who takes this movie seriously with that ridiculous car with the guitarist and speakers needs to go and watch the far superior original.The action sequences are OK but is there a plot other than chase chase chase chase? The original bad guys were mean, the bad guys in this play guitars. This film also provides one of the worst villains ever.Mad Max was all about the car too. We got 1 and 3/4 of movie before his car was destroyed and it did not get even five minutes in this movie. I really do not know how this movie is rated so highly on here. I've lost £20 and two hours of my life. I have had enough of remakes but this movie would have been a lot better following the original
Like many 1 star rate reviews, I just don't understand why people speak so highly of this movie? Yes, good action movie; but nothing more than any Hollywood commercial movie that with no depth at all.*spoiler. I was really amazed at the first one and half hour. Some of the pictures are weird yet making me feel beauty and tranquility until....does the director really had to end the movie with a happy ending to re-ensure me that this is a Hollywood movie??? I am fine with the movie. It is good, honestly. I just cannot bear people hurray for a superficial story of several heroes/heroin save people from the hell. How does that have any meaning in depth?*spoiler. It is so funny that reviews suggested this movie is showing feminism, really? Feminism by showing those super model yet weak, subordinating wives. Firuosa is a great character without these burdens. But maybe, maybe this is really feminism for the Hollywood industry. Huh. And Nux had to make up his mind to search a life by falling in love with one of the wives? So people cannot find the meaning of life by themselves? You just have to add cliché to a movie which could taking about a greater journey?
Well, no. I really don't get all the excitement regarding this movie. It begins rather pretentious with the inner turmoils of max, but that's the deep part. What follows is a few great ideas wasted in a bad script. I like great action. I like steam punk/metal rigged/vehicle based stuff, the mad max premise, the society after the destroyed world, the weirdo things like the guitar rig...but not in this concoction.Make a choice, then go for that. The action is great, but the rest falls flat, like the characters. Max isn't the lead character and feels like a stupid ox. The development of his character isn't there to support his actions later on. Furiosa is the main character and has some spirit. The evil guy is just that. And the boy is to recognizable as that guy that plays it, what's his name...The action in this movie is great, the chase intense, but that all stops when they get to the mothers...oh my, from then on the scriptwriters must have thought 'well, let's put some emotion in here'. And that is the failure, I think. They wanted action, story and emotional development/attachment. The last failed miserably, the story is hidden somewhere beneath rubble and the action doesn't hold because of the first fail. Sadly.So, great ideas, nice pictures, but bad execution.


                
Explosion after deafening explosion, like sitting too close to the speakers at a concert. Some cool visuals and battle tactics but that's it on the good side.Disappointed in this result. While the original was spare in dialog also it was able to convey mood, emotion and a sense of the characters.The hero here has his face covered for the first third of the picture and makes it difficult to connect with him.Had been looking forward to this. This picture will not stand the test of time. Cant recommend you see it but will give them some points for the attempt.


                
So for one this movie was crap. zero character development, terrible dialogue and just plain boring at times.Comparable to war of the worlds with Tom Cruise the entire movie is just a long car chase and at the end it's just kind of over with no real ending. To sum it up, car chase, 2 min break, car chase, 2 min break, car chase, repeat. BORING.The only reason it is not a 1 star is because I didn't feel it deserved to be lumped into the same group as the worst movies out there because it did have some good qualities. For instance the setting was beautiful.And the chicks were pretty hot but super spoiler..The hottest one dies right away so its like whats the point after that..All in all if your 12 and you like stupid weapons, metal, hot chicks, no hint of substance and cheesy explosions this movie is for you.If not you will be easily bored. watch the first half and you've pretty much seen the second.
I feel like I am the only person on planet earth who didn't like Fury Road. It is basically a movie about a guy making a U-turn. I'll admit, the visuals are great but I've seen most of George Miller's films and he has an eye, but just because the movie looks pretty doesn't make it a good movie. It needs a real story. This is a 2 hour car chase and it gets boring after 30 minutes because it is literally the same crap over and over again. In a way, the action is wasted on the film because it has nothing but action. I can't be the only person who thinks this! WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU PEOPLE? This isn't art! Stop pretending to be film snobs for like 5 minutes and just go with what your gut tells you about the film. Just because most of the film critics are calling this a highbrow art house film doesn't mean you have to go against your better judgement and pretend to like this piece of waste. 90% of the critics are paid off. Even the ones on youtube. Think for yourself, people will respect you more.
When you make a remake you should not do it completely differently. This isn't Madmax, its something different and something new. The sad part is that they simply use a classic to sell it.Even worse, instead of saving money and make it simpler, they overdone it.More effect, more crazyness, overdoing everything and everyall. Just Pump in Effects, Pump in more and crazy ideas.BUT never ever think about writing a smart script or get good acting.And thats the hole Problem nowadays. Movies today are too much of action, too much of effects, to much of dumping money but they are empty. They have no soul, so they become irrelevant, yet even boring despite massive spectacular action scenes which seem to never end.This movie is the best example for that.


                
An incessant car chase movie written by people who obviously have no understanding of vehicles, engines, physics, or anything related to entertainment. They weren't even talented enough to write much dialog to offer up any trace of a story (there's very little speaking, and complete sentences are downright rare). I can't believe this mess gets any good reviews at all, let alone the amazingly high IMDb ratings it enjoys. The only place I can see it belonging is Saturday afternoon on the SyFy channel, along with all their other dreadful ultra-low budget crap. Hollywood seems to have entered an age where the quality of a screenplay no longer matters. Endless special (or not-so-special in this case) effects are supposed to substitute for an engaging story and characters with depth. I mourn the loss of creativity -- it must be very depressing to work in the film industry.


                
How is this "movie" even mentioned together with the word "Oscars". At first, I thought it was just the movie goers who went crazy and failed to see the true mess that this movie truly was. But now I'm being told that this movie is nominated for 10 Oscars? Is the Academy trying to insult viewers as stupid action-scene consumers who don't seek any depth in a movie. This one page script has no depth at all and consists of just two scenes. A bunch of vehicles going from location A to location B while fighting each other. You know what happens when they get to location B? They decide to go back to location A immediately. And so the second half of the movie starts, which is again just a bunch of vehicles moving in the same direction while fighting each other. Am I the only one who sees this movie as the insulting action-packed thing that it is? Did I miss something in this movie? How is it nominated for best director, even further best picture? It's not Max that is mad it's the committee and the viewers. But on the other hand, I do give my respects to the producer who managed to make 375.8 million USD out of this crap. If you can sell this man, I would go into any business with you even if it is just selling pieces of wood. You are a genius man.
I enjoy a lot Mad Max 2 and i was willing to see the new one. Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron are great actors and everything pointed to be more than right. It shouldn't be difficult.However this film is more or the same commercial trash: effects, explosions and many violence. I regret for spending money in it, it doesn't worth it at all. The film is a big deception, Mad Max has a secondary role and he is just a silly beast, meanwhile Furiosa is the main character, she is fine but nobody goes to the cinema looking for her. And the models that don't contribute anything...There is no script, plot or characters, but accelerated scenes, explosions and noise. Our life is too fast and noisy to add more. Why the accelerated scenes? like in the old movies?The purpose of this film seems to make us dumber. I feel pity for the complicity of the critics. Money rules, but bad cinema is bad always. I feel very sorry, it could have been something good. It wasn't difficult. But it follows the same guidelines than the other stupid and commercial films.Don't spend money or time in this failure. Humans are born intelligent for something better than this.


                
As a fan of the series I had high hopes for this film but I've left the theater disappointed. It can be best summed up as someone saying "the last act of the road warrior was so great so let's make that into a whole film". They've done that and as a result we get a film that's really lacking a story, is too busy and doesn't make sense.I think most of its problems are down to being made to appeal to focus groups rather than being a true mad max film. The UK rating for it is a 15 and it shows. The few times it attempts to do something gruesome or violent it's always out of the scene and to compensate for the lack of blood the explosions are over the top and add to the busy and distracting feel.All the theatrics, flaming guitar, pole vaulting guys give you a lot to look at but when you actually think about what is happening there's very little actually going on and you're left wondering why are there so many cars simply driving for no reason other than to follow the handful of cars actually doing something? What is the point to the guy playing random rubbish on his guitar other than to serve as a distraction on the screen?I like Tom Hardy but in the film he has very little to say for having so much screen time and often it feels more like he's doing his impression of a lawn ornament rather than being mad max. Charlize Theron is barely any better. You could easily take both of their characters out and very little would change about the film.Without spoiling it I feel there are few wtf moments that at least border on being major plot holes if not actually being plot holes.It's a great film if you've never realized there were other mad max films or you thought it would be great if they made a mad max film you could take your children (older children that is) to.If you're a fan of the series, there's not much here for you. Even Beyond thunderdome had more substance than this film and even with its awful bits with the children it still holds up better than Fury road.Even the title, Fury road feels wrong as no one ever feels *that* angry let along furious.


                
Some people would say that I have no good taste for a masterpiece of art. I must agree with this: good sound, photography and... nothing else... OK, beautiful girls in distress. I heard direction? Come on, if I were the director, the first thing I would have done: ask for another script.This is like a bad joke compared with the strength and the whole package of the first Mad Max movie; even with some deficit in the performance of the villains in that movie, and much less FX. By the way, Max has no charisma in this new film.They tried scare us with this new post-apocalyptic world? A funny guy playing the guitar in a truck? That was funny, really funny (at some moment I thought that Duffy or Bugs Bunny could be playing a mandolin next to him). By far, I am still more scared with the raw cruelty and reality of the vision in the first movie of Mad Max, because is more near about how will look the world in the future for a lot of us.What happened to Miller?
I'm wondering if people giving this film high marks have somehow watched the original Mad Max and thought that was the film they were reviewing....Seriously if you want to watch a film with little dialogue, dreadful acting and a storyline written by an eight year old then this is the film for you.If however you want to watch Mad Max I suggest you stick to the original one for a more coherent storyline, a tad more dialogue and a bit of a plot to the movie, something sadly missing from "Fury Road".The only bright spot to this entire film (and what made me watch this dross to the end) was the regular appearance of the delectable Zoe Kravits wearing a delightful little number.


                
Mad Max: Fury Road currently has an IMDb score of 8.2 stars, and a Rotten Tomatoes score of 97%. It was in the running last night for a Golden Globe award for Best Picture, but it didn't win. The fact that it didn't win was no surprise; the fact that it was even nominated was a huge surprise. If you read actual user reviews, including this one, you will see that a great many people thought this movie was awful. The film's only redeeming quality was the cinematography, which I will admit was gorgeous. Beyond that, there was nothing to keep my interest. I actually purchased the movie when it became available for digital download, and I couldn't get past 1 hour mark, and I tried three different times.I liked the original Mad Max movie, but it wasn't my favorite dystopian film. I like Tom Hardy, Charlize Theron, and Nocholas Hoult, but that doesn't really matter here. I like dystopian action / adventure, and chase scenes, still doesn't matter. There was just no way for me to suspend my disbelief enough to get into this story. There really wasn't much of a story, and what little there was was, was entirely too stupid and disjointed to believe, even in a movie. Maybe I could have tolerated more than one hour if there was no dialogue at all. It was just too damn nonsensical and stupid.


                
Anyone who loved this movie is immature. Period. If you skip through this movie and watch only 30 seconds out of every 10 minutes you will get the whole plot (there is none...) and you will get to see some of the cool special effects. This movie is a total waste of good actors. There are no scenes in this movie which require a talented actor, and there really isn't any dialogue worth mentioning. The dystopian society is not fleshed out or explored at all. Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior is a far more intriguing and exciting movie, with a better lead (I love Tom Hardy but this movie could have starred anyone with the same effect), better villains, and waaaaaayyyyy better stunts.3/10 stars, for good visual effects and some decent action scenes (although in a movie this FAKE you can't really get excited for action scenes since you know it's all CGI and BS)
Was that even a movie? It seemed to be one long action sequence. I wasn't even 100% sure who Max was until the end of the movie when he says "My name is Max". Who was the actor? I have never seen or heard of him before. He seemed just another scruffy male lead with a Brit accent that they stick in these films either because all the old standard actors are too played out or won't lower themselves to these nonsensical remakes of classics that should be left as they are. If this is a great movie, then film is dead. Clearly, this is some new genre of entertainment. An art form ? I don't know... I don't think so.... More like pointless nonsense... I wanted to get up and leave but I kept hoping it would turn into a movie. The kid, Nub, was the best part of the film and he was far from fully developed. In fact the 2 high points of the film were where Max brought him the boot and where Nux sacrificed himself for the girls... As for Furiousa ... Lame ...Why? Why even bother with her? What was her motivation again? Who was she? Sure I enjoyed the little homages to the original, the music box the boomerang, otherwise it had zero relation to The Road Warrior. And let me get this straight: he's out in the wasteland surviving unsurvivable situations 6 times over and yet he finds a bunch of hot runway models in the desert who would have been WAY safer staying where they were ...and where exactly was Fury Road ? I never saw a road of any kind. What was the refinery in the distance that resembled Oz ... Dumb dumb dumb ... Dreck the whole mess ...


                
This movie has a good story with interesting characters, but the director (or the producers?) has chosen to follow the "micheal bay style", and to remove dialogues, story and character development to create a movie that is a 2 hours action sequence full of digital video effects and explosions..."The People eater", "The bullet farmer", Rictus are character that with a few lines could be really interesting.Also the story and the dynamics of the citadel could be deepened a bit, to give some more depth to the movie...If you like brainless action movies maybe this is the best movie you can see these days.


                
Well the hype machine was running on pure nitro for this one. One long road chase. No real story. Characters had no real character and the actors looked bored/embarrassed to be there. None of the charm of the original. This was a pitiful excuse of a remake of Road Warrior, although the film makers deny this. If you want to watch roaring cars driving through the desert whilst assorted petrol bombs and bullets fly by, then you're going to enjoy this. If you're looking for something with a bit more substance, then you'll have more luck sticking to your hot dog, because that will have much more than this film contained. I really thought this film was going to be a let down, but I made the mistake of believing the extraordinary high score on IMDb was an indication that I may be wrong. On seeing the film I now know I should have stuck with my initial feelings.


                
Noisy, flashy, jazzy, inescapably visceral and ultimately vacuous. George Miller more or less remade his own Mad Max 2 thirty-five years later with zillions of dollars bigger budget and nought heart. There is not a single original idea which is not from the early Mad Maxes. Nothing makes sense even within the rules of its own universe, where insects are the only source of protein but orthodontistry is state of the art. Tom Hardy is reliable as ever and Charlize Theron is magnificent. But even they can't save this ickily camp two- hour long car crash, which is destined to bring in more gold than an overworked Midas.


                
