I'm not completely sure what I was expecting from Fury Road, but it was more than this. This is the latest example of Hollywood rehashing a successful and good movie franchise solely for profit. It's mindless, repetitive action sequences melded between horrible acting and overused clichés.One of the allures of this series is seeing the outlandish road vehicles that are used, and in this the movie mostly delivers. You have the high-powered Warrior Rig driven by Furiosa. There's battle vehicles equipped with spikes, rigs with counter-balanced poles for launching warriors into other vehicles, and there's even a vehicle equipped with large bass drums and a stack of speakers that would make KISS jealous with a psychotic guitarist wailing away for our musical enjoyment. And of course, each vehicle comes equipped with more explosive arsenal than a battle ship. And it's put to good use.However, once you get past the eye candy, you realize there's nothing else to it. The story is weak. The characters are weaker. And the acting is the worst. The movie never drew me in. Not even close. Whenever the movie 'tried' to add depth and be dramatic, it was painful and embarrassing to watch. The scene where Furiosa reacts to finding out her birth home is gone by taking off her prosthetic arm and dropping down to her knees may be the worst movie scene I've ever watched. And it says something when the most interesting character is Nux, a relentless slave/warrior who actually has a mind of his own and decides to help Max and Furiosa in their quest. Of course, one of Immortan Joe's wives falls for him, representing one of the many poorly executed clichés this movie is riddled with.I can watch a superficial action movie and enjoy it for what it is, to a point. This one, however, is just generally so poorly executed that it leaves a lot to be desired. I didn't hate it, but I have absolutely no desire to see it again.
if you wanna go and see this movie, please expect nothing but frustrating, dazing, predictable outcome action, and then just when you think the movie is ending you get an extra 30-45 minutes of the same action same explosions, same cars and faces doing the same thing they did during the whole first half of the movie. Do not expect any engaging drama or any plot of any kind, but here's the story: post apocalypse, no water (yet there are hundreds of people alive and working), no fuel (yet they all have it in their vehicles), women escaping – women returning back the same day. What a plot! Visually it was stunning, but that's all you get.
I was so amped for Mad Max after seeing the average review was high... WTF? Is it mob mentality or is it crafty advertising because this movie was not good... No character arcs except for Nux and his was so contrived and abrupt that it shouldn't count... the basic story was very lame... the plot was goofy... all the 2D character villains with their bizarre mutations (the hovering baby-man? This movie had shades of Total Recall)... 12 year old boys should like this movie ... When Furiosa walked sadly into the desert and took off her robot arm that was very poorly done... I wanted to scoff out loud but I didn't because I was in a theater... but I'm sure many there would have appreciated it... I see in the user review section that there are a significant number of equally bad reviews... thank you to those intelligent members of the IMDb community for the support... so I don't think I'm insane as Mad Max too for not liking a popular movie... I'll investigate the user reviews here more closely next time so I don't get burned again... I still hope to see some awesome Furiosa cosplayers in the future so that adds a few stars.
Before watching this movie I had quite some expectations, because of the high rating and the positive reviews that I read. After seeing it myself I can say I am very very disappointed. What has happened with Hollywood? This is a film with non-stop action and a story that could be thought of be a 5 year old.there are quite some roles that add nothing to the story. Like a crazy guy playing a guitar with flames, and the son of the leader which has about 3 lines and does not deliver on any of them. Then there is this interesting endless gasoline, which only seems to run out for the cliff keepers on bikes, since they seem to need an extra tank desperately. The rest of all the vehicles seem to be able to travel the whole movie without any refills, quite odd.I think it is always nice to see Rosie in a movie (ex Victoria Secret model) she just looks amazing, but the way she suddenly dies after not to long does not grip me either. Then there is Tom Hardy, I've seen better work from him, but I think it is mainly because he does not get the right tools to work with in this film, if he would have a better story he might perform better.I still gave 4 stars because I don't want don't burn down Tom Hardy completely and the graphics I must say, they are very nicely done.This is such a typical Hollywood story that I don't understand why people liked it this much. I mean is this really what most film are going to be like? A ridiculous story with nice graphics..Would be nice if Hollywood takes a closer look at how Christopher Nolan makes his movies, he creates things that want to make you go to the cinema. This movie only want to make me watch more TV shows instead of movies..
This isn't a Mad Max film, it's a road trip film that focuses heavily on Charlize Theron's character, Furiousa. "Mad Max" appears, essentially, as a tag along side character. He does nothing "mad", risqué or extreme and has little more than 5 lines throughout the first two third's of the film. You could literally replace the character of "Mad Max" with any other supporting actor and it would not change the film. In fact, this film feels as though it was intended to be a Mad Max styled film called "Furious Furiousa" and they wanted to cash in on the franchise and avoid being accused of ripping off actual Mad Max films,What this is is a piece of pro feminism garbage and one, like most, that completely misses the point of what gender equality is really about. All male characters, arguably with the exception of the 2 defectors, are portrayed as violent, oppressive warmongers, all clan leaders and all "warriors" are male and violent.The women are the oppressed baby makers and between them, Theron and a rag tag female only clan of pensioners, it's only them who can bring about justice and save the planet.Strong female characters are fine, and this worked for the first hour or so until they really forced the feminist angle. A strong female (or male, black, Asian, gay... for that matter) character should not be noticeable. A film with a solid minority lead stands out as great film making not because they use a minority, but because the minority character works without you consciously noticing it. Alien, Tomb Raider, Flight Plan, Silence of the Lambs, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Kill Bill, The Wizard of Oz.... all fantastic films without forcing gender bias on the audience. No one watches Rush Hour and thinks "hey, where's the white guy!?".But this film doesn't just lose points for that. No, on the film itself, it is competently shot, crisp, sharp and well produced. However, the CGI can look clearly false (this could be intentional) and there is little to absolute zero character development - I could name maybe 4 characters and 2 of those were because I looked up the cast listing whilst watching.As a whole, the film comes across as a two hour car chase finale. Very little happens outside of the vehicle and this leads to a monotonous viewing experience with a less than impressive final act.I watch many films time and again; I would not watch Mad Max Fury Road again.


                
One can only assume the title of this review is accurate, because the notion that this film warrants an 8.2 out of 10 score is utterly laughable. According to IMDb voters, this film is better than Sicario... Let's just digest that for a moment....So Liboresque rigging of votes aside, there's lots of action, but no real story and some of the theatrics by the baddies (like the flaming guitar thing) are just awful and pointless. There's nothing more to say really - it doesn't get any better as the film goes on...Those giving it anything above 5 either work for Hollywood or are mentally defunct.Avoid.. avoid.. avoid..


                
This movie reminds me of a line from Annie Hall, when Woody Allen says how much he hates doing comedy for college students--they are all high on marijuana and laugh at anything. The endless hype of reviews for this movie are very similar. The movie uses the same pathetic formula that most sequels do. Take the good edgy stuff from the original and massively exaggerate it. And this is supposed to be a better movie? It happened with Alien. The original movie thrived on the idea of one relentlessly hostile indestructible enemy and superb dramatic acting.. Sequels had them being blown up like paper mache Godzillas. What made the original Road Warrior so effective was how stark and raw everything was, so primitive. In Fury Road they seem to have developed elaborate technology for building elaborate domains. I thought they were in a battle of survival for the last drop of gasoline. The raw horror of the original has been replaced by endless gruesome special effects. The entire movie is just one stupid chase. So so overrated.
I am unsure where the rave reviews for this movie are coming from, certainly the film does not deserve its current position in the IMDb top 250.The film supposedly takes place between Mad Max 2 and 3, immediately robbing the audience of any sense of jeopardy for Mad Max.There isn't much of a plot ( and some sources claim that the film didn't even have a script ), just a long desert chase which gets repetitive very quickly.We are given a new actor in the role of Max Rockatansky, Tom Hardy. Sadly, Hardy is less than stellar in the charisma department, and his performance is ineffectual. In addition the film sidelines Max in order to showcase other characters and reduces him to an ineffectual character on the rare occasions when he is given something to do.Charlize Theron is Furiosa, the real star of the movie. Her performance is better but, despite a cascade of social media claims to the contrary, the idea of a warrior woman is an old and tired one even for the Mad Max franchise.The film is mainly a seemingly interminable drive through the desert. Pacing is terrible and I wasn't engaged by the characters.the saving grace is the cinematography, which is beautiful, but not enough to redeem the film as a whole.


                
The first thing to note about the film is that "Mad Max" is almost a spectator in his own film. Practically everyone else gets more action and importance.I realize watching a Mad Max movie for the plot is like going to a strip club for the fine dining, but.....these idjits didn't even try. We're gonna to run away, and then realize there's nowhere to run to, and then come back. Thats the whole plot of the movie.Two hours of car chase and explosions for one sentence of plot. And its a retarded sentence; the entire premise of this world is that everything is FUBAR; no water, no food, no gas, no nuthin. Not that anyone seems interested in fighting for any of these missing resources. Nope, they just want to run across the desert for 6 months, hoping to stumble across a paradise no one else has found. riiiiight :roll: Then there was the standard Hollywood made up religion; atheists who cant comprehend the faithful mindset try to reproduce half-remembered stories "but with a twist". It fails as always, proving the lack of imagination, empathy, or even basic consideration of their fellow man that plagues the cesspool that is the entertainment industry.Sure, the colors are pretty. The action is almost on par with the other Mad Max movies, made over 3 decades ago. Which just shows how little an accomplishment that is. They managed to seed the movie with endless "inside" jokes that anyone who's seen the first trilogy would see, but only a very select sense of humor would find "funny"; mostly it was just sad and pathetic. I wanted to see what this movie could do, not be repeatedly reminded of how ineptly it compared to the originals.To call Max and Furioso one-dimensional would be generous, and they, sadly, are the most fleshed-out characters in the whole film. Everyone else is just the make-up department being given actors and told to create freaks. *yawn* There's 3 "reality" shows on sci-fi where complete amateurs do a better job to win an internship.Theron is continuing her trend of terrible roles that fail to use her proved abilities. The male lead (who was so irrelevant to the film that I didn't even bother to learn his name) spoke mostly in grunts. Honestly, I cared more about Nox, the "red shirt" sidekick than I did about Max.Then there's the bunch of girls in bed sheets that we're supposed to believe is some kind of "grrl empowerment" according to the latest feminazi BS. Stupid pretty sluts good only for sex slaves running away while a big strong man protects them. Gee, how could I miss the "grrl power" message there? For all the BS about "great music", especially guitar guy, what little I could actually hear was simplistic riffs; Jimi Hendrix it ain't. Heck, Guitar Hero on difficult, it ain't. The only really impressive part was that when the dude hit the whammy bar, it shot flames; thats on the Pyro crew, not the musician.And then, worst of all, the "Circ de Sole" pole stunts that were supposed to be a fight scene. That was sad, lame and pathetic. And then, when you start to look into the actual physics? Braindead f&%ktards should be beaten for that bit.The bottom line is that I pirated this, and I still paid more than it was worth.


                
If you are thinking about seeing this movie because of the high rating, let me save you some time by passing on this film. Unless you enjoy very long car chases with no story, this is not for you. This mindless action flick is barely entertaining and didn't even seem like a mad max film. I like action films, but this was so repetitive and ridiculous(made me laugh at times because of this). I didn't care about any of the characters because we don't know anything about them. The whole premise got me as well, what happened to gas being precious and valuable. They seem to have unlimited gas throughout the movie, never needing to fill up. If you enjoy movies WITHOUT a plot, this is the film for you.


                
This is not a bad movie, but it wasn't great. I'm gonna give the movie 4 out of 10 because (get ready) I yawned more times than I care to count. It was completely dull, oh boy was it dull. I mean I loved the first Mad Max and the second Mad Max, because they were gritty, merciless and crazy. Fury Road is gritty, merciless, crazy and adventurous. The adventurous part really turned me off. I didn't feel any excitement or arousal or anything for that matter. It just didn't get me excited. Because of the adventurous feel, it felt lighthearted instead of tight and fast. Also it had too many concepts, making the movie feel rushed. Also unfinished, concepts are unfinished leading to I feel it is rushed.It had interesting themes like survival (like all Mad Max movies), tyranny, fuel crisis, water crisis, existential crisis but the themes seem more like excuses to set out the thin plot (all Mad Max movies have thin plots, that makes them great. Except this one), we never got that deep into the themes like we did with Mad Max and The Road Warrior. They just seem to me they were thrown in to fill the gaps, because of the lack of sense of exploring the themes (but of course the survival theme and tyranny theme is explored, but it can't be said the same about the rest of the themes). But that's just me.It had some humorous parts, but they did not make me laugh. Also, although I like Tom Hardy, I didn't think of him as Mad Max. I didn't find him convincing as Max. Hugh-Keays Byrne was great as Immortan Joe, but his presence in the movie wasn't enough to make me think this wasn't a boring movie. I felt that the rest of the actors were over-acting, but I might be wrong but I just didn't find them convincing. I mostly found the one-liners annoying, I would have preferred no one-liners at all and just stares. What's with the way Max is portrayed? We know he is mad and he is haunted by his past but it was annoying with those flashbacks and the way he had to be manic. This one was left better for the viewers imagination. Also the problem I have with it is it is too comfortable to watch, it just runs too smoothly. It never really got tense or mad as in Mad Max.I don't care how crazy it is, it did not feel like a Mad Max movie, it felt like a Disney movie although it looked like a Mad Max movie. I've been looking forward to this movie since last summer, because it was Mad Max. Except it isn't. The stunts were great, but it had some awful CGI-effects and it was easy to tell what was done for real and what wasn't done for real, considering the budget the CGI effects could have been better (But anyway, it was the director's intention). The beauty of the first two Mad Max movies were no CGI, it was all stunt and practical effects. That made them awesome. This one is one long bore. One big dull, harmless action movie and we have more on the way. I can assure you I'm not gonna watch the future "Mad Max" movies, so you don't have to read reviews like this one. I also don't want to see this movie again because it is boring.


                
Well, I just had to see this one. After seeing it snag 6 Technical Oscars (costume and production design, make-up, editing, sound, sound mixing), I figured, "Wow, this must be really good." It did beat out Star Wars: The Force Awakens in a couple of those categories after all. So of course my first step was to IMDb it and see what the general consensus was, and I was never more... confused. The first thing I saw was a 90 Metacritic score, and the second was a B-line of 1 star ratings coupled with brutal reviews from users. Hmm... Alright. Now I never saw the original Mad Max films (shame on me, I know). Going into this movie completely blind, I just didn't get it. Yeah, lots of action right from the get go, but it took forever to even know what was going on. Post-apocalyptic world. Guy gets visions of a haunted past, gets kidnapped, OK, old guy villain with a messed up face, thousands of followers, obsessed with breeding, tyrannical, got it. That's the first 5 minutes, then characters in cars (more like dune buggies and a tank) leave, go rogue, get chased by the bad guys just mentioned, meet up with the main character through a series of events and dozens of people commence to die in the next hour and 45 minutes of the film during what seems to be just an endless car chase that winds up ending in the exact same place it started. Wait, I get it, the people that like this movie also like NASCAR. That had to be it since I fell asleep about the same amount of times during this movie as I do during a NASCAR race on the rare occasion it's actually on my TV. However, anything being discussed during all of this action between characters was just meaningless as by this point after a good amount of intense car-chasing action and explosions were just thrown in my face, I just didn't care about any of these characters. Was the action pretty sweet to watch? Actually, yes. Everything looked cool, but that's not enough. I'd say 2 maybe 3 of those 6 Oscars were actually deserved. 4/10 for good action and looking cool, "meh" acting, but not much else earning points. Also big points taken away for being more recognized by the Academy than Star Wars this year.
I'm a huge fan of Mad Max and The Road Warrior. There is a believability in those two films. This is way over the top, way too predictable and way too tired. Max now fights like Matt Damon in Bourne Identity which is something new. And now we have CGI added in the mix which takes away the "Organic" feel of it don't you think?Organic, not a term I like to use but frankly, the first two films did feel that way. This is way too much, way too long and over the top. Also, there aren't too many characters to love here and that's a problem.Lastly, this all seems meaningless and stupid. Go back where you came from after trying so hard to escape? It just all seems so dull and tiresome.


                
Did I watch the same movie as everyone else?some reviewers on this must be getting paid because this was the worst most over hyped movie I've seen this year there was absolutely no storyline or character development and Tom hardy isn't even the lead Charlize Theron is!she has more screen time and lines than hardy,hardy's talent was wasted on this movie he literally had about 20 lines in the whole movie.the action scenes were good and thats the only reason i gave it four stars but that's the whole movie one explosion after another i got really bored bye it in the end there's only so many times you can watch a car or truck explode.save your money wish I did


                
I recently read a review by a guy who saw the movie 6 times,yes,6 times!!! The movie lacks in all major aspects of film making, including cinematography, dialogue, plot, character development, and originality. Please allow me to highlight several of the largest failures of the film:<U+0095>Character development: The film contains exactly zero (0) character development, leading you to not give a s#$@ who lives and who dies because you don't know who they are in the first place. It simply starts immediately with an extended action scene and continues to jump from action scene to action scene without giving the characters personalities or even a legitimate cause. <U+0095>Dialogue: As noted above, the film doesn't allow for any character development; however, what's more is that the film lacks any dialogue of substance at all. The characters might say 250 words in total, although that is being generous. The dialogue that does exist is short and choppy with out-of-place camera shots and cheesy dramatic music that implies the audience should be caring about a certain character that they aren't familiar with (see above). <U+0095>Plot: Along with the lack of character development and dialogue, the plot is non-existent for the first 30 minutes of the movie, and the audience is left wondering what the hell is going on. After the initial cluelessness, the audience is left to cling to a plot that is weaker than limp spaghetti and less substantial than empty space, and it's got more holes than the novel. All in all, this movie is a pathetic excuse to try and turn a combination of a monster truck race and a demolition derby into a Hollywood event. From the opening car chase to the closing credits, the audience is left feeling dazed, confused, and the initial excitement - bored from seeing the same chase/fight scene over and over and over again. The movie is predictable, unoriginal, and lacks any kind of depth. In conclusion, I hope that you will save yourself the $ and 2 hours of your life and not see this abomination of a movie. Personally, I would rather be dragged naked over a cactus with my mouth over the tailpipe of a greyhound bus than sit through that again.


                
This is the modern interpretation of a hit-movie from a few decades ago when this sort of post-apocalyptic movies had their peak. Despite the presence of South African pearl Charlize Theron, the movie remains what it has always been - a B or even C movie with unconvincing and extremely poor characters. The dialogs are old fashioned, the look of the secondary and supernumerary characters is awful and the director's work is at the expected low level. The movie raises a bunch of questions, but gives answers to a very few of them. Tom Hardy is doing his best in the character of Max trying not to say a word until the end of the movie, but even his stoicism can not save the day. This is the deja-vu of an old and having lived his days movie, a tragical attempt to resurrect a long dead subject and the past glory of his creator.


                
On an objective level, both critics and fans don't seem to know what a good movie is anymore. "Mad Max: Fury Road" may be filled with nearly two hours of breathtaking non-stop action sequences and a couple of great special effects, settings or locations and some solid camera and light techniques in the few calmer moments. The problem is that there is literally nothing more than this in this reboot of another legendary series. There are no real intrigues going on and creativity is literally non- existent. There are almost no dialogues and the few that are there are quite weak. There are no surprising elements or twists and therefor no tension whatsoever in the whole flick. The plot is so shallow that even the increasingly bad "Fast and Furious" feel like intellectual masterpieces if compared to this laughable excuse of a story. One gets introduced to an epic number of characters but none of them has any real depth. The biggest problem is the uncharismatic main actor Tom Hardy and his shallow character that doesn't create any antipathy or sympathy among viewers. I rarely cared less about a leading character in any movie than here. Another problem are the numerous villains that aren't fleshed out either. It feels as if the characters of the bad guys were randomly borrowed from some of the trashiest action flicks of the seventies and eighties. Sometimes, they appear pretty much out of nowhere and die as randomly a few minutes later. The only actress who did a decent job and managed to add some depth to its character is Academy Award winner Charlize Theron. I feel sad for her to be acting in such a disastrous movie.Even two hours of non-stop action end up feeling boring and stretched if there are no truly stunning scenes or any degree of virtuosity in the high amount of exaggerated explosions and endless gunfights. Even as a homage to the original series or a worthless movie to switch your brains off and have some fun, this movie has nearly no merits. Apart of the few objective positive elements which are basically due to the impertinent budget and some obvious inspirations from the original cult movies and which barely justify my extremely generous rating, this film is extremely overrated and not recommendable for anyone.


                
As per usual when a big blockbuster comes out, some hype part of its viewers scream this is the new ultimate masterpiece that is so good they don't understand why a new religion based on it shouldn't be started immediately.Do not get fooled : George Miller has only done what was needed to make his movie ultra popular and in this, he has succeeded. But as a movie in whole, he fails and delivers a quite lame production.I'm not a big fan of the original Mad Max series. The 1st had its moments, the Thunderdome was a failure, but The Road Warrior was an excellent movie. I watched it again some months ago to show it to my 18 year old daughter and was still amazed by the quality of its production, its story, its multi-dimensional characters and its outrageous violence in relation to the era it was released. Foremost, it had a feel of reality that made its post-apocalyptic world totally believable ( the canned dog food scene, the fight for gasoline, the bad guys, the vehicles, etc... ).Fury Road tries hard to revive this atmosphere... and fails.Where Mel Gibson ( and others ) delivered a complex character, chaotic and selfish, Tom Hardy delivers nothing at all, as for the other characters that have only a few lines in stock. Thus, as it has been much said by other reviewers, it's hard to connect with them and in the end, we don't care if they live or die.Where The Road Warrior provided a sense of reality in its everyday world, in Fury Road, the Gothic designs bring only stupidity and make things laughable ( in a world where everything is scarce, who would build a car with 2 decks one on top of the other, or who would be idiot enough to build a vehicle whose only purpose is to convey a mad metal guitarist and drummers ? ).In ANY world, who would be stupid enough to warn anybody that being addicted to water is dangerous ? Must we remind Fury Road's villain that without water, even the baddest guy would die in a matter of 36 hours max ? What is left of Fury Road is the usual blockbuster parade : action, explosions, more action and more explosions. In that, the movies achieves what it was aimed for : mindless violence for the masses.As for me, I got bored after the first 30 minutes and while I kept going, and despite a honorable realization and editing, I couldn't get back into the movie and waited for it to end as soon as possible.Conclusion : watch to be able to say you've seen it ( and then have enough matter at hand to criticize it ), but when it's time to watch it again, stick to the Road Warrior.
Caution spoiler alert!!! Headed down to see it first day I love Charlize Theron and Tom hardy and mad max.. All start with the good points. Good action,set design, costumes,hot rod type mad max cars and trucks welded and stacked together. I can't over state how great this movie looks. And the guitar player with the flame thrower on the front of the truck its amazing.. So it looked cool but it was like a Ferrari with a go cart motor.. I was immediately stuck by the lack of dialog and back story. There is very little talking/story.. I love action movies lots and lots of them.. but at least give me a reason to care about the people in the film. Just a couple minutes would be great but there's no story. Trucks drive go boom!! It's a one trick pony. Charlize made me care for her more then anyone but just in skill of acting not story.. It's all graphics which I love but nothing else. So turn of your brain off and you may like it. It seams like hype and not much more to me.. P.S. The artists that did the graphics are amazing in every way..


                
THE ROAD WARRIOR is easily the finest of the quartet; MAD MAX: FURY ROAD is the worst. The reason: THE ROAD WARRIOR delved- however briefly- into the CHARACTER of Max the Mad; FURY ROAD deals more with high-octane, pedal-to-the-metal fx. Max himself is literally little more than a hood ornament for the first part of the film. (Is this supposed to be the same character from the first three films...?) His derring-do is undercut by the very CGI that saves him- at least THE ROAD WARRIOR (like, say, George Romero's KNIGHTRIDERS) featured some truly stunning stuntwork; in FURY ROAD there's never any doubt that he'll pull through (as long as programmers at computer terminals have got his back, anyway). When the action abruptly stops, the movie comes to a screeching halt. There simply isn't anything in the way of STORY to keep it interesting. For hardcore video gamers only.
This movie had everything going for it, but where is the soul of it? It's beautifully filmed, very cinematic, the action is not too shabby, cool explosions, great cast of actors, insane "univers" etc... But to be honest, I just don't feel it...Tom Hardy is using his Bane character again, wearing a weird face mask and using a weird voice again...Charlize Theron isn't really performing great in this either, a bit boring to be honest...That zombie-boy, I can't remember his name, not a great cast for this movie...That big bald guy, the evil "Valhalla-crazy" boss' right hand, is overacting like crazy - and he's just too visual in the scenes he's in...The Whole "woman-power-reunion-scene" in the desert, seems like a bad play where everyone is thinking more about where to stand on the stage than about what they are suppose to portrait...The list could go on...To sum it up, a great movie potential wasted!Give an Oscar to the film-crew, it's a beautiful and very cinematic film!The director, fire him and kick him out of Hollywood...This movie is hyped, so they will still make their money. Shame on them!
I was informed by my scholarly wife that this movie was analyzed/praise for its feminist themes. If that was the case it would explain the warped critical acclaim it received for any that did have anything to do with the visual appeal and sound of the movie. It is a beautiful looking film a la 300 in a different way. Neither of these visually stunning films are appealing as dramas. If they were to promote a film with a "female/feminist" led tone it should have been Inside Out. All the major characters in that film were female had depth and you cared about them. That is not the case in this film. And all the critics that gave this film such rave reviews did a major disservice to their readers. Batman vs Superman was decent compared to this and that movie sub-par at best. So much of this film does not make sense. From the rolling rock concert in the middle of a life and death battle to the motivation of the characters once their initial plan goes. I wonder how many fans who actually like compelling stories with their action felt the sound have said "Witness-Me" as the walked into the cinema to see this beautiful but shallow disaster.


                
I'm really hoping someone can enlighten me as to how this film scored over a 4.0, never mind 8.2. I found it repetitive, pointless and generally quite boring.I was a fan of the original Mad Max movies in the 80s; but I have no idea what the writers and directors were trying to bring across with this 'Fury Road' instalment. I just wish they hadn't bothered.I appreciate the ethos, genre and 'feel' of what the whole film is about; I just think it could have been done in 20-minutes, thus saving themselves a load of money - and the viewers from having to watch the same action scenes over and over again... not to mention a very shallow and weak storyline which just seemed to get lost anyway amidst the sand and OTT mayhem.I'm not saying Mad Max Fury Road is a bad (like unwatchable) movie; I just found that after 20 minutes, any originality, storyline and excitement had vanished - to the point where I felt I was on my own road to despair.With the amount of hype the film has created, no doubt it will certainly be watched; but having a score of 8.2 - oh please. I'm giving this one a '4' - just... Never to be seen again.


                
If you're a fan of pure non-stop action flickers then you'd probably enjoy this one! It only comes up to breath a few times throughout the entire movie. It is a god awful film due to the incredibly thin storyline. I had no emotional attachment to ANY of the characters, and wasn't fully clued into what was actually happening to be honest with you. To give it some credit, 90% of the stunts were genuine and the lack of CGI made the visuals, at times fairly impressive. Action junkies will enjoy the vast amount of explosions, enough there to entertain a 10 year old me for sure. Granted, I haven't seen the previous Mad Max movies and it wasn't a remake, it was following the previous storyline. But I'm guessing for at least a few of the people that haven't watched the prequel it was a bit like watching a sequel to a movie you've never seen. (Not having a clue what is happening)Overall, it was a very poor film. Easy to see why it did well in visuals, sound and wardrobe but also just as easy to see why it wasn't nominated for best picture.


                
I really don't get it why people loved it so much. sure It was not bad or something but it was just another movie with predictable conversations, tons or explosions and.....cars. There are like 50 or so movies like that this year.Maybe I am just stupid I don't understand how genius this move movies like that every year. And now it's nominated for an Oscar?! For this???? Or maybe a lot of people have lost their mind. Like seriously that is just an average Hollywood moneymaker and nothing more. If you are bringing attention to that you should and for other clichés like Transformers, the new Ice cube movie, Fast and furious and a lot more. And the actor weren't so great, I wasn't really impressed from a single quote or from a expressed emotion. Only action and action and action. That's it. I just don't get it.Thank you for reading.


                
