What to say about a movie like this one? It's easy. If you expect a difficult dramatic story then you are not going to like it. But if you expect an action movie about a whole lot of modified vehicles trying to take over a big modified truck in the middle of nowhere, with creepy looking humans, then you are going to love it. And that's what I was going to expect. I like movies like this one where you just relax and let the action come to you. Not all the time but sometimes I do enjoy a movie like Mad Max. The amateurs of steam punk will also like this one because almost everybody in this movie is strangely looking. The filming itself was good, the script is like I said what it is. It should not have been difficult to write that script. The actors all did their job like they should. Charlize Theron and Tom Hardy are the main characters and they are good actors. Nice action movie if you are into stuff like that, otherwise just pass on this movie and watch something else.


                
I'm not the biggest fan of the Mad Max trilogy, but i love the films, and despite being the least liked, thunderdome is my favourite. Despite of its flaws, to me its the most complex and the one that comes out more as a film and has all the things that makes a film, more importantly the story. So when the trailers for Fury Road came out, i was super hyped, and it was definitely one of my most hyped films to see in 2015, i couldn't stop thinking what Miller would do with 150 million and the trailers made it look like an epic non stop action film with classic visuals, just pure insane action like no other film. Then critics and audiences acclaimed it to the point of being an instant classic and is now an Oscar contender!, then the Score came out and i loved it so much i couldn't stop listening and it made my expectations even higher, so i went to IMAX with my expectations at an all time high and saw it....And i was so disappointed! I couldn't stop thinking what was i missing since everyone loves it. Sure the visuals are insanely good, the stunts are breathtaking, the score is a killer, the performances are great, it has originality to spare, the production design is an Oscar winner, its so inventive, i mean the cars are insane and the costumes are brilliant, but all the rest pales in comparison.I never went expecting a complex story or even much dialogue, but i was surprised that there was no story, and no dialogue, to the point i was a little bit bored one time or two. I couldn't stop thinking how this could be an Oscar contender with no story or dialogue, and how was the film moving along. But this wasn't my biggest disappointment at all, it was the action, because i really went for the action. And it was just OK, sure it was very realistic and all, but the production videos were a lot more realistic and exciting, the film had a mad look that was cool but takes a lot of the realism and excitement and feels weird.I didn't like the choreography, it was just so simple and had a weird rhythm, there were parts where nothing happened, i couldn't find a single piece of action that i truly liked or was excited. Just things happening. And most of the problem was the edition, that mad look. Also Mad Max felt like a secondary character, just going along, that wouldn't be a problem if furiosa was a great character, but she wasn't, i couldn't relate to any character, because they had no story, no dialogue, they were just insane people with great looks, doing insane things.Overall, i can't feel nothing but disappointment, and sure the technical parts are almost perfect, the cinematography, the sound, the production design, the visuals are insanely good, but all the rest pales in comparison, no story, nothing i could relate to, not even the action that is so blunt and simplistic, even with its real stunts and all. This is the weakest of all Mad Max films. This film is hugely overrated, and its another one i cant share the same opinion the world has, but since everyone loves it so much, i must be the problem, I'm not saying the film isn't good, i just cant agree with everyone, i just cant see what makes it so great. This was one of the most strangest experiences at the movies i ever had.


                
(Flash Review)They used GraveDigger the monster truck in this!! It would have been fun to be part of the vehicle design team as they were all wild, mean and powerful looking. This movie kept the vibe and atmosphere of the originals, dirty, grimy, gross and vast in landscape, to paint a picture of an evil overlord who enslaves people and withholds water in a hopeless desert land. During an escape attempt, Max encounters a few women and they begin to team up to escape the wasteland in hopes of reaching the women's homeland. Like many in this movie series, the plot felt thin and a vague and barely enough to contain the wild and spectacular car chase battles. This movie did not disappoint with its pure action which was well- choreographed, elaborate, full of dirt, blood, sweat and fire; a lot to visually digest on the screen. I wish this story had better character engagement or reward for watching as by the end I just felt dirty and that I needed a bath.
There's an issue of sorts among Australian (and to an extent New Zealand) males about what masculinity is, what is means to be 'tough', 'resilient', 'fearless' etc in these post-colonial countries, and the complex can't be more feverishly illustrated than in "Mad Max: Fury Road".Also, I can't help but feel that the overwhelmingly positive newspaper reviews are more a reaction to the long-held discrimination of sexism in the US, as they insist over and over again that the film is 'brilliant', 'unforgettable', and 'must-see cinema', essentially because there's a bald-headed female warrior on the run from a tribe of barbarians, trying to protect females from a clan of deformed, repulsive mutants and skinhead freaks with guns.Although, yes, that is a noble reason to retool an action franchise, it was also done in the mid 80s by Sigourney Weaver in Aliens (back when the original Mad Max trilogy was circulating in video rental stores), and actually the chief antagonist in Fury Road notably resembles the Predator from 1987 if you squint a little.So whats all the fuss about? Not sure really - MM:FR has a sense of black comedy to the essentially threatening undertones of the film, and some thoroughly awesome cinematography and production design regarding the vehicles, but it's essentially just a chase movie, and there's only so many ways you can frame a punch to the head, a wild leap from a moving vehicle or a screaming car crash until you realize the entire movies about trigger happy machismo (or whatever the femme equivalent of machismo is) and dangerously shot stunts - the film doesn't have any notable dialogue or character development at all.Apparently, if this is the new 'gold standard' for hard boiled action escapism, I have to say that it's a much better film in 2D than 3D; also DVD versions of the release appear to have one or two gross details removed, not that it detracts from the non-stop tension and ambitious prop design throughout.


                
OK, I went into this movie because of the crazy high rating of the movie and the "masterpiece" reviews, but it turned out to be far from any piece a master would craft. Was the crew paying critics to leave good reviews? This whole "tricked by IMDb rating and checking out a movie" leads me now to distrust the ratings here altogether for new launches.There are many good things in this movie and these are things like action sequences, makeup, vehicles, stunts, acting. But after 10 minutes of watching this gasoline/adrenaline junkie trip you are asking yourself "what is this all for, this does not make any sense", which is the main issue I have with this movie and I am simply perplexed about so many "critics" overlook this obvious issue. This is far from a masterpiece as it does not ask or answer any questions which are somewhat related to real life. The first sentence you will hear in this movie will be the whole story element. After that you get just one action sequence after another with minor pauses. And last but not least, why is Max even in this movie because he just does some minor jobs and the real hero here is Imperator Furiosa. This should be the name of the movie, by the way.This movie does not justify the high rating it has been given now.


                
OK, so again I've felt compelled to do a review as I can't understand why so many are giving this a 10/10 rating.. The movie was stunning to look at, but something was missing for me, I guess that's what you get from a movie that's as fast paced as this one.. Cant really give much away in terms as spoilers as nothing much really happened.. There was a chase, for two hours, lot's of explosions, no real suspense, no twists, no character development.. they defeat their pursuers and get to where they're going and the movie ends.Go see if if you want something stunning to look at, but if you need some brain candy I'd maybe give it a miss..
The first big problem with mad max is that Tom Hardy really is not a star, he has very little charisma, he is no Mel Gibson, next the character as written and portrayed is a bumbling, shuffling fool. The first 20 minutes he is a captive, so does not do anything, Mad max of old would never have been in this position. the film is one long repetitive, action chase sequence, all done quite well but by the end you are just numbed. The supporting cast especially Charlize Theron are all excellent,in fact she is more Mad Max than him, for stretches of the film Max is almost an extra or a supporting character. Hardy never conveys any emotion or depth, most of the time he looks confused, at the start when he tries to escape, its filmed like a keystone cops comedy from the silent era. A loud overloaded but not with the right contents big big disappointment . Yet again most critics have become blind fan boys.
Before watching Mad Max, i had the sense of excitement due to the uproar surrounding it. The first 15 or so minutes were energetic and intriguing to say the least, unfortunately, there after, all expectations were not reached. Yes, for an action film the intensity was constant, graphics incredible and scenery immaculate, leading me to understand that those who love action genre must have been quaking in their chairs. However, i don't wish to be demeaning, but for those of you who are rating this above a 9 scale must have never watched a truly incredible film. We grow no connection with either Furiosa and Max. Tom Hardy, one of my favorite actors, was given very little to do, speaking about 10 lines overall. Having achieved a connection with the audience in most of his other films such as lawless and Batman, makes me believe that it must have been George Millers fault that we don't grow this link with him. The wives of Immortan Joe begin to annoy me, resulting in little sympathy and Nux, well, hes just there. The People Eater and The Bullet Farmer appear from no where and have no relevancy and the guitarist was painfully embarrassing, almost making me squint every time he came on screen. I am not saying this is a horrific film, it isn't, but please, for goodness sake, IMDb users, do not rate this a 9 or 10!
There's always been something a bit... quirky... about George Miller's film making sensibilities. Call it "Australian" if you will or perhaps it's just a comic book feel but from my admittedly American perspective, all the "Mad Max" series felt a bit different than the traditional uber-violent, slick high-action popcorn flicks. The "Die Hards," "Terminators," and so on.This has been its - and Miller's - big strengths. He's got a feel for a strange back story and somewhat absurdist characterization and a deranged aesthetic that drew me to the Mad Max series originally."The Road Warrior" was undoubtedly the high point of this series. Though always a lone-wolf anti-hero, Mel Gibson's Max was far more interesting and likable and the central action set pieces brilliantly and tightly executed. Miller was at the top of his game back then. "Fury Road" has given Miller a much wider brush to execute the strange and quirky sensibility and that feels like its key fault to me. It's the "too much budget" syndrome and it's afflicted many a movie that was great precisely because it didn't have a massive budget. 30+ years and $150M+ to spend hasn't exactly been kind to this series.Tom Hardy is scarcely registering a pulse as Max. Does he utter more than 12 barely intelligible words throughout the film? In a film with "Mad Max" in the title I can hardly tell that Mad Max was even there. He could have been replaced by almost any other character in the movie. Nicholas Hoult's Nux - a vastly more interesting character - for example. Or Charlize Theron's Imperator Furiousa, who may have more screen time than Tom Hardy. Over-the-top violence and excess is a trademark of this series. To not go in expecting this is absurd. The problem is that the violence feels like an intentionally garish suit that Miller has put on. The absurd audio-visual assault of the first 5-10 minutes of the film, for example, feels precisely this way. What's Miller going for here? What part of the plot and story is he trying to lay out and advance, exactly? Nothing, really, I'd argue. It's there purely to prepare your mind for the ensuing craziness, sort of like a shock treatment.I was very excited when I first saw the "Fury Road" trailers. YES! Another Mad Max movie, finally. But Miller over-sold his story and vision in the end. He had way, way too much money to spend. I would have bought it more if he and Hardy hadn't decided to make Max this very distant, almost mute character. Max is NOT a traditional hero, to be sure, but he has a moral center most of us can attach to. I won't say this center was entirely lost here but I felt little emotion toward Max at the end. That likability was there throughout the series - from the first Mad Max to the Road Warrior to Thunderdome. It's sadly missing here.


                
This film has an 8.5 currently which it in no way deserves considering the lack of any kind of original or interesting storyline.Yes there is loads of action, it is beautifully shot and everything you could want from a post apocalyptic, desert survivor scenario as far as they way it looks. I'm sure it cost a load of money.But what was great about the original, low budget films was the angst of Max torn between the good and evil within himself; Hardy is a great actor but we don't see much of his talent and what we do see is too sketchy to really get a feel for his character. Theron is great too but once again there is really not much going on. The other guy is quite good and the rest mediocre at best - with such stock, stereotypical characters they did not have much to work with.So, if you would like to see a two hour car crash set in an apocalyptic, spaghetti western future without the cowboys this if the film for you; if you want something to think about, don't bother.


                
If you love the original trilogy, you should love this. All but the character of Mad Max is brilliant.If you love action movies, you will love this.If you don't enjoy action movies, don't bother.I felt as though not enough was done with the titular character. Either they found out too late Tom was a bad choice, or they just didn't bother with Max. Tom had a few lines and grunts, then didn't speak the rest of the movie. There wasn't any explanation to what was going on with him. The effort was put into Charlize and Nicholas' characters. These two shared most of the screen time.Overall very enjoyable, just disappointing in some ways.


                
Well, it has certainly been a real long time between drinks for the Mad Max franchise, and I must that that this latest release – or should I use the term 'power up' (the term director George Miller used to describe this latest reincarnation) – pretty much gives every Mad Max fan what they would have wanted. There is probably only one thing that anybody familiar with the original movies would expect, and that is basically massive car chase in some really hotted up post-apocalyptic vehicles. Okay, the original didn't actually have anything along those lines, but when you get to the second and third movies that is what you end up in the climax.It seems that this time Miller has pretty much ditched the plot – well, there actually is a plot, but you don't go to a Mad Max film for a detailed and absorbing plot – simply for the car chase. Basically the movie has Max captured by a group known as the Warboys and when one of their drivers, Furiousa suddenly changes directions and heads off into the desert, they all grab their vehicles and go chasing after it. So, for about a third of the movie we have this massive car chase, during which Max escapes and joins Furiousa. They then manage to outrun the Warboys and reach their destination, only to discover that there is basically nothing there, so they decide to turn around to go back, which, due to the Warboys still chasing them, results in the rest of the movie being a massive car chase. As I suggested, this isn't some ordinary Hollywood car-chase, this is a Mad Max car chase where you have all of these hotted up cars that look like works of post-apocalyptic art in and of themselves.The funny thing about this film is that there are a number of posts about how this film seems to emasculate men. Okay, I didn't actually read them but I thought that it was quite amusing to see criticisms of this kind laid against the film. Still, it doesn't seem to have affected its earnings all that much, or the reviews. In fact most of the reviews that I have read use words along the lines of 'insane'. Okay, the thin strand called a plot that holds this film together is about how the renegade Furiousa is helping the wives of the Warboy boss escape his harem, and Furiousa's former tribe was a tribe of women, who after being reunited turn and declare war against the Warboys. Despite that I would hardly suggest that this plot serves to emasculate men (unless of course those men who are complaining of this have problems with their masculinity). We need to remember that this is the world of Mad Max where the strong rule and the weak are turned to slaves. What Max does is that he overturns this order and gives power back to the weak.Mad Max is also a world of shattered dreams. Like the previous film Beyond Thunder Dome the characters have this dream of reaching a green and verdant land – a paradise, but this paradise does not exist. In the end it turns out that the only paradise of any meaning is already being ruled by the gangs. As such it comes down to a wrestle where the strong fight the strong, it is just that one of the belligerents, Mad Max, is using his strength to empower the weak.It is also interesting that Miller has created a much more psychological aspect to Max's character, something which we never saw in the previous films. Max, as we discover, is forever haunted by the death of his wife and family, having been killed by gangs during the time when civilisation was in the process of collapsing. Now he is just a road warrior that travels the desert, reluctantly helping those in need. While he is a loner, he knows how to fight and he shows his enemies no mercy. However, just like the lone ranger that his character represents, at the end of the film, he turns and walks back into the desert.
Unfortunately the main part of Mad Max is absent. There is no main male character. There is no Mad Max in this picture. And the necessary component is really missing.I remember Mel Gibson eyes speaking of his character madness. I remember quite a few quotes from the original series. I will forget the most of the Fury Road very soon.The rest of the characters is denied good development either. Original series was about characters. The scripts were about characters.That said, I must explain why I gave this part such a high vote (7). The action part of the movie is really great. In a perversive way it is like Monster Track madness feat Cirque Du Soleil. Sometimes script gets in the way of this exemplary road action. But don't worry. It doesn't take much time.


                
In an age where Hollywood blockbusters look very similar, where a major US city gets destroyed in almost every film, I understand why Fury Road is a breath of fresh air. It looks unique. The art design and costumes are fantastic. It totally deserves the Oscars it won.However, the story and characters merely serve as a vehicle for action sequences. That's cool if you just like action, but come on, lets not act like it's a masterpiece. It's an action packed thrill ride, but nothing more. The dialogue is clunky and even the action gets repetitive. There isn't much depth to any of the characters, except maybe Nux who has the most character development in the whole story.In anticipation of this film I watched Mad Max: Road Warrior for the first time and I couldn't help but think about how much better it is. In terms of scale it is a much smaller film, but it is gritty and tense. The world is brutal and a can of dog food is the best meal a man can expect. In Fury Road people use water, gas, and bullets like they're infinite. The rules of the world don't make sense. It's inconsistent and it constantly breaks my immersion.Tom Hardy is poorly cast and poorly written as Max. Say what you want about how crazy Gibson is, but he can convey more in one look than all of Hardy's grunts in FR combined.Theron is good as Furiosa but her character is underdeveloped. She has no arc. She just is. She suffers from being too perfect. She has no flaws. Every bullet she fires is a headshot. It's boring.Immortan Joe looks cool, but he's hardly as intimidating or interesting as The Humungus.One of the biggest things that was praised about the film were the "practical effects" but that is all undermined by having Max survive a fatal CGI car crash in the sand-storm scene. He doesn't even get a cut. All tension goes out the window after that part.Fury Road is loud, fast, and in your face but it's compensating for a lack of interesting story and characters. It is the cinematic equivalent of dangling a shiny object in front of a cat. Sometimes that's all a film needs to be, but lets not pretend it's the best film ever. The praise this film received almost makes me think the bar for good films has been lowered.
As I previously said in my Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior review, my expectations were set pretty high for Mad Max: Fury Road due to all of the praise surrounding it, and I would definitely say these expectations were met. This is probably one of the better recent action flicks, and it reminded me of movies like Speed where the action literally could not stop. While in my opinion it wasn't better than The Road Warrior this film was still very fun, and felt like it could proudly stand on its own, away from the trilogy.The film follows Max and Furiosa as they try to steal a tanker from an evil dictator and bring his wives to a fantasy-like green place that Furiosa was born in. Unlike the more attached to civilization environments from the original trilogy, Fury Road replaces them with a barren wasteland of dust. I liked this choice for the movie because it makes the audience feel like there is no hope left at all, a theme the film seemed to be going for. To me this film was much more impressive on a technical level than anything else. While I was worried that the use of CGI would damage the film, I was glad to see that it wasn't over used, and when it was used, it was used very well. The lighting and color scheme was also great as the movie changed from the the bright orange day time to the light teal blue nighttime. While teal and orange is defiantly not an original color palette (look up teal and orange movie posters) I thought it was used very well in this film.To me Mad Max: Fury Road did not feel like a Mad Max film, it felt like a post-apocalyptic action movie that was heavily inspired by the trilogy. They changed the character, the landscape, and the plot structure, and while this wasn't a bad choice, it made me leave the theater thinking I didn't just watch a Mad Max movie.All in all, even though it had its flaws, the movie didn't take itself too seriously and was simply fun. Watch the trailer, and if you think it looks like fun, then you will like the movie. Also if you liked this film, I would definitely recommend The Road Warrior because in my opinion it is much better. Mad Max: Fury Road was a lot of fun, and the best action movie yet this year.


                
I saw this movie twice for the first time it was awesome. As an action movie it works great. I don't know if anything I have seen in this movie makes any sense but the setting is crazy enough that you don't need to bother asking why they are doing what they are doing.How ever as a Mad Max movie, and thats where the !!SPOILERS!! start, I'm not quiet sure what to think about it. First of all its basically the 2nd Mad Max minus much of its story. The Interceptor gets wasted, some people with an alternative lifestyle try to flee from some kind of Humungus kind of guy on a huge truck, lots of things get blown up and max decides to go its own way. I liked the idea that the people in the Citadel are separated into castes like the Warboys or the Mothers but I it could have gone deeper and shown some more.I also wonder how the Bulletfarmers and the Gastown Boys are related to all that, they just unite their force at some point and chase the tanker so there really should have been a tad more background story to fully understand that. I'd say a 7 is appropriate because the chase in this setting is just fun and the 2 hours feel really really short but as a Mad Max movie I'd say its somewhere behind Beyond Thunderdome in terms of atmosphere it also does not feel as dark and hopeless. They don't seem to suffer from any kind of shortage like in Road Warrior where the lack of fuel is all present. The differences in the story is that in one movie they flee from forces from the outside and in the other one they escape and try not to brought back. Both movies got a super sized villain but the originals Humungus was more suitable plus his sidekick Wez was more badass an Inmortan's whole crew combined. tl:dr Great nonstop action that should be watched without thinking to much about the other Mad Max movies. If they added that his family had been killed (they didn't right?) it would perfectly work for its own.
The action is spectacular! The cinematography is gorgeous!But, the characters are too flat. That mainly is the fault of the writing. Plus, Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron are pretty subdued throughout. I know that Mel Gibson has had his problems. But, his electric presence would have been better than what Hardy does. It's one of those things where, it doesn't matter if Max is supposed to be two decades younger than Gibson is now, they should have still had Gibson in the lead.It becomes tough to care about most of the characters, for the most part, except for Nicholas Hoult as Nux, one of the villain's drivers. He, at least, has a story to tell, and it is more interesting than everyone else's.The villain is Immortan Joe, played by no one other than Hugh Keays-Byrne. Don't recognize him with the whole mask and getup here? He was the lead villain in the original "Mad Max." Yes, The Toecutter himself! It's super cool that he's back as another villain here, but he's unrecognizable, which cuts down the impact.The film score is by Tom Holkenborg, a.k.a. Junkie XL. He does have some good moments here, especially some ethereal synth-driven moments, along with percussion-driven ones. But, the rest of it is fairly straight-forward action-movie stuff. Of course, probably nothing could come close to Brian May's first two "Mad Max" scores!There are many fun touches here and there, mainly the guitar player guy, whose sole assignment is to play power chords while chained to the front of a massive vehicle that is basically a mammoth speaker stack!Meanwhile, except for the main compound where the vast society lives, lorded over by Immortan Joe, there is little world building, even with a budget over 10 times what "Thunderdome" cost, and over 30 times what the far-superior "Road Warrior" cost.Even though George Miller proves he is a much better director than whipper-snappers a third his age, the story is a bit too thin, and the characters don't have the emotional punch they could have had.******* (7 Out of 10 Stars)


                
Last time I felt really misguided by IMDb was Dark Knight. OK, Heath Ledger's Joker was good, action was decent but that movie was really NOT one of the 10 movies of popular cinema. anyway, the third movie Dark Knight Rises didn't surprise me after all, it was really really bad.And we had Road Warrior. This movie was something else. There's no other post-apocalyptic movie like it - even no action like it. Mel Gibson / George Miller had a really unique and flawless chemistry there, the movie really freaked me out when I was a kid (aaah 80's!). Third Mad Max was a kind of joke near it, so I didn't even bother to watch it.So when I heard Mad Max is back I was really excited and waited for this movie for so long. And when I saw the perfect reviews and hype on IMDb, I thought OK,this will be epic.Umm, yes it's not bad, no no it's really good - as an action flick. It's way better than soo overrated Dark Knight movies. It's better than zillions of action movies... but this is nowhere near Road Warrior. Tom Hardy is NOT Mad Max. If this movie has some other name - as "The Fury of Post-Apocalyptic Desert People" or "What A Lovely Day" I would give higher vote. But it uses Max's name... and it's not an easy name to use.


                
If ever a movie deserved to be called "action filled" this is it. I would guestimate well over 90% of it's length is action. It begins with a 45 minute (I timed it) action scene and never really lets up after that. The slow moments are like slowing from 60 to 30.There's the one mandatory scene of exposition, reveals, and tad of emotion, but it's relatively brief. And little if any romance or even much sexual tension.Action, action, action with nary a moment of drama.But, good special effects, great stunt men and women (if they weren't CG), good music, good cinematography, good editing, and good use of music.I preferred the original (I'm 66 so of course I did) precisely because it DIDN'T have the production values of this one which are fully Hollywood. It somehow made it eerie in a way I liked. More of a feeling of "the lone hero" a la Eastwood than this one.Somewhere there's a thread complaining that this movie is "obviously" feministic propaganda.Good grief. Let's be clear. This is a MOVIE. It has no message, no deeper meaning, and isn't the least bit feministic. (We have both hero and heroine (who has a more than passing similarity to Sigourney Weaver's Alien roles. Even the haircut.Overall enjoyable but boring unless you're rather young. It's OK to see, just keep your expectations solely limited to action.GregR


                
The initial Mad Max movies were crazy and odd enough, but they had a solid plot with character dynamism and a lot of lines, but the one in question is a constant and rough chasing, with vague characters performed by celebrities (Hardy, Theron, Hoult - all distinct actors otherwise), model-type ladies (performing doubtful roles as heavily pregnant women handling heavy machinery and "kicking butt"), and "unseen" actors (faces with warpaint/masks). True, there are some silent and pensive scenes in the middle, but they seem out of context, as a pause for audience to catch breath before uproar starts again. Just back and forth on the same deserted landscape, with even explosions and shots not influencing some characters' exterior.The only personage I liked somehow was Nux (skilfully performed by Nicholas Hoult), but his change of sides remained mystery to me... All in all, the movie is like a protracted Manowar video or a road movie inside out, but the conceptual element regards visuality only. The rest is rather mediocre, at times annoying, meaning that visual effects might be a supporting component of plot only (e.g. Tarantino's movies), not the substitution of activities / logic of events.


                
I thought Mad Max was suppose to be the main character in a Mad Max film. This film focused on Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) and her struggles to find her home land a little more than it did Mad Max (Tom Hardy), in my opinion, not that I'm complaining because it's still a great film. This film is set in an apocalyptic era, of course, which causes it to be a breeding ground for a lot of action and to me that's what made this film so great. Almost from beginning to end there's enough nonstop action to keep any action film fan satisfied. The story line that involves the two main characters were simple but the action completely made up for that. Overall it's a good film, not what I expected it to be but still good.


                
This is a decent movie set in the MAD MAX universe, but is definitely not as gritty and good as the original two movies (the third movie wasn't so great). It suffers from the same problem the third movie suffered from: too "big budget" and too much "flare".


                
Everyone seems to be giving this review either one star or ten. Come on people! The plot of this movie is just OK and really does not explain itself very well. The dialog was also hard to follow at times, including some occasional Australian slang dialog that I had never heard before. If you want to understand it better, watch the movie on DVD with it set for dialog for those who are hard of seeing and hearing. Anyway, there is a lot lacking in the plot and characters, and the baby birth scene was sort of uncalled for in my view. And what happened to the baby???? I thought the Mad Max character was especially dull. BUT, this movie is the best I have ever seen as far as futuristic battle scenes go. It is Crazy, off the wall, creative, amazing, totally intense. AMAZING road battle scenes. WOW!


                
OK, being an avid fan of the predecessor of the Mad Max original series, I thought "oh, what a lovely day"; a new Mad Max! This film was up to scratch, Tom Hardy played a very good road warrior (but not as good as Mel Gibson but don't tell him that) a few minor things that my friends and I picked up on was the scene where they are trying to winch the truck and the lead actress (Charlize Theron) started trying to push it as if it was going to help. Another thing was that it had way too many guns, in the first film there was one shotgun; in the second one there was two guns, a shotgun and a pistol. Stick to the purpose of it being an apocalyptic bare landscape and only have a couple guns. I mean come on, that scene where the guy used two ak-47 and two ump-45's to spray bullets at the protagonists. Be real, they would conserve ammunition.In conclusion, think that it was a good film, more of a run and gun than a storyline film but it was good and I would recommend it.
I got a chance to watch this for free, and was a little curious anyway. The first part of the film was fast and chaotic; it didn't seem very promising. Tom Hardy seemed hardly worthy of following up Mel Gibson's legendary portrayal of futuristic hero Mad Max. But I decided to pull through.The film may seem pretty simple and straightforward, and in a way it is, but it is was also quite entertaining and there were a lot of little (and big) things going on. Hardy turned out to be an okay successor to Gibson, and Charlize Theron was even more than okay. The rest of the cast played a great variety of characters, of whom the leaders and Nux (Nicholas Hoult - it took me a while to recognize this 'boy') impressed me most. And those models weren't hard to look at, at all.The biggest fun of the film is in, you'll not be surprised, the action sequences on and around the 'war rig'. The guitar player, the motorcyclists, explosions, and what not, the list is seemingly endless. And then there are some pretty atmospheric intermissions, for a good deep breath, before it all starts up again.I'm still very much in favour of the first Mad Max film as the best of the series, but this one was more than doable.A good 7 out of 10.
