I was left speechless when this finished. It can be hard to describe  indeed.... but I'll go for it...  Sheer madness that isn't sullied by bad acting or laughable lines. A  blockbuster that is gritty and doesn't have a sense of humour that  could be equated to a fluffy kitten. No 'lets all hug' sentimental BS.  This is seriously a movie I thought I'd never see: a CGI-filled  blockbuster that I flat out loved. The stunts are so much fun, the FX  so great, it is the first movie I have seen where I have thoroughly  enjoyed all this type of stuff - probably because the cinematography  for once doesn't suffer cos of it. It is all incredibly shot.  The action is so brutal and appropriately high-octane. I thought to  myself more than once, 'I think I am loving this more than Terminator  2' but other than that, there wasn't time to think. It kicked off fast  and barely stopped, and the lulls were amplified by the insanity  preceding them. Plus it is a dark film, which made it even better. I  many people do an Aussie accent even close to well, was Hardy actually  trying for that? Either way, he didn't talk much so it didn't really  matter. This is more Theron's movie than Hardy's, he doesn't say much  and does next to nothing for the first third or so. Theron's Furiosa is  more of the hero is the story, if there were to be a hero in such a  grisly and dark world.  I don't even like this type of movie but the execution is  everything. I'm gonna go see this again, soon. 4.5/5


                
Even at the beginning, there's no hint MAD MAX: FURY ROAD is going to a stop. Right at the very start, the engines are already rewing, gathering furious fires of vengeance and redemption, and before the audience could snap out of the sheer moments of brutal grittiness and exhilarating high-octane drama, they are surely already held hostage within the confines of a post-apocalyptic world, where everything is horrendously scarce. Not that it's a bad thing, no it's not. I tell you, this is like being hurled into the space in a roller-coaster ride. It's dangerous, but it's also thrilling. Witnessing this dystopic world and all its hellish drama unfold might make you grope for seatbelt under your seat.The film shares Max Rockatansky's (Tom Hardy) adventures. Max is an ex highway patrolman. He's been haunted by the past, by family he never saved. He meets the Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) who is being pursued by the dictatorial Wasteland leader "Joe". Furiosa reaches for Max for help in keeping the 'Five Wives'—women she brought with her—into safety, as Joe's deranged breed of warriors called The War Boys, that are barely humans, are raging across the desert to capture them. This pursuit throws the unlikely partners into the whalloping dangers of bloody escape, suddenly sending them into a game of survival.After a rip-roaring opening chase sequence, Max is held captive in the Citadel, the city where the ruthlessly totalitarian leader "Joe" is ruling over. The grotesquely brutal lord maintains tight grip of every valuable resouces across the land. This brings the entire populace crippling under his control. As for Max, he becomes merely a blood bag for Nux (Nick Hoult) one of Joe's War Boys, who is a fatal devout to the cause of their fascist leader, who has promised them the glory of getting into Valhalla, the promised land.Everything in this cinematic behemoth screams grandeur, even the feverish chase, even the dark erubescents spurred from the ruthless violence. Miller has molded a world where darkness is an escape from the stream of clichés and retreads, surging into the cinemas, today. It's a visual feast, but surprisingly, with sense. It's explosive in every unimaginable ways, but it's not devoid of a human story, which in this case, is propelled by stellar performances from incredible actors on the movie's payroll. Tom Hardy is utterly capable as the main hero, but the emotional spine of the narrative mostly runs on Theron's character. At some point, there would be a sense that Max isn't the only one playing under the spotlight, as it gets evident Furiosa is equally as massive as his role is. Hardy here is singularly stunning, playing his role with utmost credibility as he is required. His mission transcends past his emotional torments and he's never pulled himself free from the ghosts if his past. Same can be said with Furiosa, who is not only running from Joe because she wants to get herself free from his cut throat grip, but also to bring every woman into safety, back to freedom where they belong.Much of the movie is spent with furious speed chases that goes from end to end of Joe's subjugated land, while also taking surprising twists and turns along the way. It's like it doesn't know how to stop, and if it does, that's surely only to allow us breathe and catch up with the next electrifying action setpiece. There's an enigmatic style Miller has employed to provide distinctions in his fantasy world, and it keeps the momentum in tack, if not ever progressing. The tone of the movie, all those vividly dark colors, that magically shifts from something to another, imparts a drowning experience, only it's enjoying and looks festive to the eyes. This makes every eye-squashing spectacles take mammoth forms of visual extravaganza, turning all those burning combustions, metal blasts, and endless pursuits, from mere technical marvels into a hair-raising escapade.Amid these sanity-grabbing action sequences, though, is an emotional streak that keeps Max and Furiousa's humanity alive. This prompts them to survival, into carrying out their similar humane causes, clinging tightly to their only mission even if they get hurled into the barbaric hostilities of their dystopian society. This turns the movie into something visceral, cathartic in some ways that probably only a small fraction of the audience could understand. It will not be enough to merit this achievement with merely a splurge of superlatives. This needs to be experienced, felt, and forever cherished. MAD MAX: FURY ROAD, ignites eternal fire, and it will keep burning through the stretches of cinematic history.
Overall Rating: 4.5 stars Cinematic value: 4.5 stars Big questions value: 4 stars Family value: 2 stars (This film has a mature rating due to the violence, take this into consideration before viewing)We have not seen Max Rockastansky (Tom Hardy) on movie screens in 30 years. This is a welcome return to Max and the crazy, post-apocalyptic world of George Miller (Mad Max, Babe). Max lives an existence of sheer survival. As a former police officer and family man, he is now a tortured shell of the man of justice he used to be and merely wants to survive. After being captured by the leading cult forces of this futuristic wasteland, he finds himself in the middle of a pursuit of Furiosa (Charlize Theron) and the wives of the masked Immortan Joe (Hugh Keyes-Byrne). Max becomes the pivotal force to assist in Furiosa's escape and redemption. Mad Max: Fury Road becomes a race for life, redemption and hope. Shot in the barren desert of Namibia, the fight for life becomes an adrenaline charged chess match that in making the wrong move will cost you your life. No summary can do the action justice, except to say to is a new visual standard that needs to be experienced. Mad Max: Fury Road is a lesson in conveying depth with minimal dialogue. George Miller delivers a masters class in story telling and stunt driven effects that successfully convey back story, cultural nuance and the justification of these desperate acts of disobedience and violence. Even as the fourth outing for this character, we are given a fresh storyline and wealth of new characters for a new generation. It is not necessary to see the original films to enjoy this chapter in Max's adventures, but it might be worth going back to watch the first two films in this anthology. The cast is captivating and effective in their roles, but they have to take a back seat to the energetic stunt work and effects. This world seems to be a maniacal and messy existence, but becomes an enjoyable, orchestrated primal experience. Who would have thought that through the Mad Max franchise Miller would be able to convey his cinematic brilliance and deliver this visceral masterpiece. Not to dismiss the acting, Hardy is brilliant as the tortured lead character and delivering a believable portrait of his desire to survive the present while mentally enduring his past. He is given minimal dialogue, but is able to become the heart of this post-apocalyptic tale. Interestingly, Hardy is not the primary lead in the film that bears his name. Charlie Theron's shining portrayal of Furiosa is the literal and figurative driver of the film. She manages to redefine feminine heroism for film makers. She has strength, purpose and a sacrificial depth that presses the story beyond a mindless chase scene. In a genre that tends to victimise or sexualise the female leads, Miller portrays a strong female led without any unnecessary feminist underpinnings. In masking her natural beauty, Theron is allowed to develop her strengths and vulnerabilities without making a political statement. Both Hardy and Theron are supported by an excellent supporting cast that moves this experience from a mere adrenaline rush to a story of fighting for your right to live, seeing that sacrifice is part of freedom and ultimately for the hope for redemption. On many levels, Miller seems to realise that action without reason loses its purpose. In adding a spiritual component to Mad Max: Fury Road he allows for a narrative depth in the script. Immortan Joe (Hugh Keays-Byrne) is the cult leader in this dark, twisted world. His character delivers a dark and demented message of the need for effective leadership and that leaders need to provide people with purpose for their sacrifice, even if it is misplaced. This story shows that there is basic need for something beyond our material needs that gives society drive and direction. Also, the flower on this desert wasteland is hope. Even the jaded heart of Max is turned and assists in getting those under his charge to their promised land and in giving them hope in the bleakest of moments. This is an essential cinematic vehicle when placed against the backdrop of the depravity of mankind. Miller manages to capture this element and allows for the story to consider the realities of mankind's history and future. If the film does have a weakness, it would be in the conclusion. In all that they desire to achieve and find through this film maker's journey, the finality has an empty satisfaction. After watching a film like Mad Max : Fury Road it might be worth reading through Revelation. Fortunately, with the God of the Bible there is more we can hope for in the future.Reel Dialogue: What are some of the bigger questions to consider from this film? 1. Where is real hope found? (Deuteronomy 31:6, Romans 5:2-5) 2. Can we find true redemption? (Psalm 111:9, 1 Corinthians 1:30) 3. Can we exist without others? (Proverbs 18:1, 1 Corinthians 12:14)Written by Russell Matthews based on a five star rating system @ Russelling Reviews #russellingreviews #madmaxfuryroad


                
Mad Max Fury Road is a stunningly beautiful and highly charged kinetic thrill ride. It is brilliantly filmed with amazing, and well suited bombastic soundtrack. The star of the film is its direction by George Miller, showing generation MTV how to direct moving action without getting lost in its mayhem. Almost every shot is moving, similar to a James Cameron action sequence. As mentioned before the film has not got much of a plot other then a giant chase. The first half of the film is great and the second half starts to loose steam due to what has come before it. Chalize Theron is great and adds presence to the film, it is one of her best performances. Tom Hardy gives a solid performance but I found his performance somewhat lacking, he does not have much to work with and is limited to a handful of dialogue, I preferred Mel Gibson's Max. The film suffers when it eventually slows down in pace, but when it is going full throttle there are not many films that can complete with it. Is it an action classic? as a chase film , yes I would say it is, along with set design and stunt work involved But the lack of any real story and small plot holes stop me giving this film a 10, not much is explained in the film. The ending seems sudden and could of done with some more depth to it, especially the Max character. It is still a wonderful and refreshingly directed film to add to the Mad Max Cannon of films.


                
The Action genre has always been mixed, ranging from trashy profit- searching rubbish to thrilling, adrenaline fuelling epics (see Terminator 2 and Aliens).Mad Max: Fury Road thankfully fits into the latter category, but it is fundamentally and wonderfully different. Out goes the usual CGI, explained back story and lack of enough good characters, and in comes a truly insane thrill ride, that somehow manages to make 2 hours of following a truck one of the most enjoyable things to watch in recent times.Let's go over the one thing that I disliked about this film (and honestly, dislike is a fairly strong word in this case): The exposition. Or rather, lack of it. The extreme pace of the film results in details seemingly whistling by, meaning it can leave you wondering whats going on. But then again, the actual story foundations for the film are so small that really, it doesn't matter that everything isn't explained. So long as we know the names of the characters and where they're heading to next, nothing else really matters.What it chooses to focus on is an excellent cast, lovely cinematography and wondrous, wondrous carnage. Practical effects take the lead role here, with amazing vehicles, well timed explosions and constant tension and thrill. The benefits of this are best seen with the big crashes and the huge fuel tanker explosion towards the end of the film; it ends up looking stunning. The Polecats really make the most of this, adding an extra layer of danger while cementing the realism that the film thrives off of.I also particularly loved the sheer attention to detail; every car is different and exceptionally well designed. Sound work is equally amazing, with the soundtrack being entwined with vast array of engine noises, explosions and, in the case of the Doof Wagon (which I'm now calling one of the coolest things I've ever seen in a movie, ever), live rock music. Performances from the cast are excellent. Tom Hardy's Max is very much the usual gritty, rock solid hero that Gibson portrayed all those years ago. Charlize Theron's Furiosa (isn't that just the best name you've ever heard?) really stands out for me, balancing out Hardy's character with a strong and bold performance. And for once, it's a female action hero who hasn't been raised or taught by other men - she's a real self empowered super lady. Nicholas Hoult's character is also a personal favorite, while the Brides and the Many Mothers created an ensemble of female characters that don't get wasted like they so often do in other action flicks. Everyone gives an enthusiastic performance, and it only adds to the quality of them film.There's plenty more to praise here, but I'll highlight some of my personal favorite aspects from the film: The make-up and costume departments did an incredible job here, giving us a massive range of extras that really diversify the entire film. There are plenty of great names and phrases used in the film, including "Bloodbag", "Immortan Joe", "The Organic Mechanic" and "The Bullet Farmer". The film seemed to obey the laws of physics for the most part, and was especially good at ridding any infinite-ammo guns or strangely enough, unnecessary explosions.In conclusion, I can't say anything that is inherently negative about Fury Road. It's fresh, bold and so well made that you can't help but be enthralled by its insanity. On the face of it, it's nothing more than a overly long car chase, and yet it isn't. It adds just enough complexity right where it's needed - the characters, vehicles and action. Combined with the great array of characters, sheer attention to detail and wonderful cinematography, it's actually unusually diverse, and its humane undertones only help to differ it from normal action films. And in that respect, it's one of the best films in recent history.
Mad Max: Fury Road is a non-stop concerto of clanking iron, broken bones and splattering blood while fire squirts from all cylinders. It's absolutely glorious. As far as sci-fi world goes, director George Miller creates a remorseless realm with every bit of nastiness present. The two leading actors Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron are utterly convincing, so much so audience would believe they are actual occupants of the unapologetic post-apocalyptic world.Max (Tom Hardy) is a survivor in a barren wasteland. He's about to cross path with totalitarian clan War Boys led by a dictator. As luck would have it he meets with Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) as situation escalates rapidly and they must fight for their survival. Tom Hardy looks physically menacing and exhausted by the burden he carries on the desolate landscape. He is more of an anti-hero who prioritizes his safety in the expense of his morality.Charlize Theron is utterly splendid. With short hair and one arm, she still manages to look beautiful and presentably strong. She seems cold yet also rigidly determines to her cause, this is a real rendition of a powerful female character, not a model shoehorned into the wilderness. Nicholas Hoult as Nux, one of the War Boys is a chameleon. His character might have the most development as a lowly peon who gradually discovers the true nature of his clan.Production value is exceptionally well done. From vehicles, make-up and even prosthetic limbs, all of them look as though they have wear and tear from the dusty world. Strange contraptions and weapons are aplenty, explosive spears are thrown with reckless abandon as large tank mounted with electric guitar rumbles in the background. It's brazenly unworldly and over-the-top spectacle. There is no such thing as too much here.Visual is all shades of tangerine. The vistas look dry and dirty yet still can be lively or solemn as the filter regularly changes. The soundtracks blast rock, metal and techno vibe with each scene. It truly doesn't let up, riding the momentum from start to finish, though it's not just mindless explosion. Its characters are identifiable, audience would be fascinated and cheer for them between each explosions.Never a murky world ridden with death and destruction seems so irresistibly invitingly. As the characters ride through the carnage, the film is an achievement in action and destruction.


                
If you hate awe inspiring action sequences, little dialog, and post apocalyptic salvation movies you should watch this. You will. If you love those cinematic styling already then you should watch this. You will even more. See it in 3D, it is the type of experience that develops in it's own world with it's own identity separate from the previous installments and in plain enough terms for anyone to relate to. The inevitable visions, actors placed in the right situations, and ability to be long enough to tell the perfect time line but not grow stale make it a trip worth taking. Take it. There are no pointless moments or dead space, it utilizes every second to fill your quivering eyes with dazzle.


                
Mad Max Fury Road follows a determined man named Max Rockatansky to wander the post-apocalyptic wasteland alone, Max surely joins Furiosa, a fugitive imperator, and her band who are all trying to escape a savage warlord and are trying to get to a safe haven. I really can't describe how in awe I was with this film, I was extremely impressed. The stunts, the makeup, the action & the camera shots were all so dead-on and did not fail to impress. One thing that kinda upsets me is that when the film ended and everyone was walking out, I overheard things like "that was garbage" or "what a piece of sh*t film", that really angered me a little because I know that a lot was put into this film and they think they can do better? Unbelievable. Anyway, this didn't dissatisfy me at all and let's talk about why it did! Even though this is supposed to be a action film, they added some slow moments just to emphasize more character and fondness toward each person which was fantastic. George Miller did such a satisfactory job with that. The action, don't let me forget about the action, this is what made the film so much more engaging to watch and I mean that with each insane character given, it made the action more fun and insane to watch. The score was unbelievable, I'll just leave it at that because you know, it was! Tom Hardy had some pretty big shoes to fill but yet he knocked it right out of the park with given so little dialogue to say, he still manages to be a complete badass. Same goes for Charlize Theron, she played such a cool character with some great sympathy for herself and the people shes protecting and yet she does have some sweet skills and the prosthetic arm was a nice touch. Also for Nicholas Hoult, he plays such a basket case that will do anything to impress Immortan Joe and yet, he starts to become a very likable character. I swear, the makeup in this was was so spot-on that I really believed that these were actually mental people and also I thought that half of the people in this looked like albinos which added more effect to the mental aspect of them. The camera angles in this were flawless it was unbelievable even with so much going on at the same time, George really managed to get a lot of what we had to see, wait, I mean we needed to see! Hugh Keays- Byrne did such a menacing job as Immortan Joe, he played the role as such a character that doesn't let anything get in his way and always gets what he wants but yet so insane. Yes, there was a lot of disturbing images in this that can probably make you gag a little, it's truly a sight for sore eyes of what I had to see in this but hey, we're talking about a Mad Max film here. The costume design was very odd as well which looked so deserted and worn that them fit so well each character. My favorite part of the film would have to be the beginning scene, George proved he really knows how to work a camera and really made the atmosphere of the situation Max was faced with, more exciting and intoxicating! Overall, I might of exaggerated in this review but who cares, it was worth it and I mean't every word of it and this film might possibly be a modern day masterpiece! With a 2 hour runtime, this film really seems to go by fast but yet who's worried about that when you're distracted by such insanity. Please guys, go see this action packed, pulse pounding & off the wall thrill ride to Fury Road with the Mad Man himself!


                
When talking about remarkable action movies, a few titles come to mind. Movies like Die Hard, Terminator: Judgment Day, The Matrix and The Dark Knight are great examples of it. And if you're into this kind of film, congratulations. You've just won another golden ticket to the chocolate factory.Mad Max: Fury Road opens this summer as one of the best movies I have seen in the past decade. I have recently re watched the first three movies of the franchise to dive into this world once again. After I was done with it, I came to the same realization that I did a few years back. I did not like them at all. And as a consequence, I had no hope for this one. In my mind, it was going to be as mediocre as the others. Fortunately, I couldn't be more wrong. After three decades trying, George Miller has finally got it. That post-apocalyptic world he created 36 years ago is bigger, better and crazier than ever.If you are looking for a word to describe Fury Road, insane it is. It is visually stunning and packed with exhilarating action scenes. The execution is so impressive that you get yourself smiling in the middle of a gory scene. You can feel the effort and passion put into making this movie through the silver screen. The actors job in constructing the characters is so effective that you dive into this world almost instantaneously. Props to Hardy and Hoult who conducted their characters with talent, each one in their own crazy way. But specially to Theron for creating such an extraordinary and strong female character. Furiosa is simply amazing.Hard to be pleased by this kind of movie, I was blown away. It has been a while since I walked out from a movie theater with this amount of satisfaction. Fury Road can be disgusting and beautiful at the same time. It is unique. It has reached and stepped on the same ground as some of our beloved blockbusters from the past. But not only this, it has marked itself as a milestone in the action film history.


                
I see a lot of negative reviews for this movie popping up. People complaining that there is a lack of story and character development, and too much action.... too much action? Really? Have these people never seen a Mad Max movie before? How is that a bad thing in a Mad Max movie? Fury Road feels like an 80's action movie, with a preposterously large budget, and it is GLORIOUS. This movie was an epic ride. So many awesome set pieces, incredible car designs, twisted and bizarre costumes and characters, and a lot of really strong warrior women as well.I've also heard it said that this movie contains a lot of feminism. Strong female characters that kick butt, is not feminism people! There's no anti-men message here. Just a cast which is dominated by more women than men. And about time for a change! Charlize Theron is my new favorite actress after this (it used to be Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hamilton). She really takes the spotlight, and that is about the only criticism I can think of with this movie. It's not so much about Mad Max, but about road warriors in general, and specifically Theron's character. I didn't think Tom Hardy was quite as good as Mad Max as Mel Gibson was, but he wasn't terrible. He just didn't lend enough presence to his character in this movie. Which may be a hard thing to do when the movie does not focus on Max.Special mention should also be given to all the side characters. The villains are enjoyably menacing, especially Hugh Keays-Byrne as Immortan Joe, John Howard as the People Eater, Richard Carter as the Bullet Farmer, and I also loved Melissa Jaffer as the leader of a gang of elderly motor ladies.Go see this movie if you like Mad Max!


                
WOW. My initial reaction. Absolutely incredible. This was a blast from the past and a brand new experience all at the same time, and I LOVED every second of it! From beginning to end this is a visceral and vicious film that any action film fan will enjoy. In a post-apocalyptic world where oil is the desire of Immortan Joe (evil comes to life from Hugh Keays-Byrne), but water holds the real power, Max (embodied perfectly by Tom Hardy) and Furiosa (exquisitely played by Charlize Theron) must team up to escape. Nux (a surprising performance by Nicholas Hoult) is a great addition to the team.If you enjoy action movies, this is right up your alley. This is the best action movie of the year, if not the decade. It could even be the best action movie of all time. It was fun, nuanced, and amazing. You think in seeing an action film, the character development won't be there, but George Miller brings you into the world perfectly and allows characters to say only the things, which are absolutely needed to tell the story. In an interview Tom Hardy was quoted saying that "you can fit all my dialogue on one page." Initially I scoffed at this statement, but after seeing the film I can't argue with it. It's a rare moment when it's funny because it's true. He has so few lines that his time on screen heavily depends on his actual acting ability and he doesn't disappoint.Not only is the acting on all accounts fantastic (Charlize Theron brings it home, once again), but the way this was filmed blows my mind. Every stunt was done in real time and was not CGI. This might not sound that impressive, but once you see the film, you will go insane trying to think of all the planning, money, and skill that went into every single shot, stunt, or intense moment of the film.Throughout the movie I was cheering, laughing, and clapping, probably to the dismay of others in the theater, but I was so invested and involved in the story that I didn't care. Many others were doing the same. It was that much fun. But more often than that, I found myself staring in awe of some of the incredible, beautifully composed shots during this action-packed adventure. The poster above is a part of the opening shot of the film and it pulls you into the world, both literally and figuratively.One last note, I think this has been the absolute best use of 3D that I've ever seen. Mad Max: Fury Road proves that 3D can still be exciting and add to a storyline as opposed to just being a flash in the pan (*cough-cough* Avatar) Never forget the importance of water in this world, or (Mad) Max Rockatansky will find you and make you regret your incompetence.If you like action films, GO SEE MAD MAX: FURY ROAD NOW!


                
This starts of very quickly with little ceremony and gets straight into the action; and this is an Action film with a capital 'A'. The expected Mad Max components are there; raiders, apocalyptic locations, cross bows etc; but the film is essentially one massive car chase.But I wouldn't let that put you off. The action is constant and relentless. The clever use of minimal CGI means everything looks fantastic.It stays true to the Mad Max theme with an element of cheesiness which is vital for this kind of movie to stay brutal but stop it getting too dark.There are strange contraptions, men on poles, mutated cliché characters preserved from the old world. The vehicles are wacky, interesting and varied. I personally loved what can only be described as the worlds most improbable morale boosting device? The only two gripes I have is the cgi for the flash backs is very poor along with the obligatory 3d scenes of steering wheels hurtling out the screen (they are even more annoying when you choose to watch in 2d). And the story is a little insulated. You are either in the big rig or chasing the big rig - I would have liked to see a dash more of the ruined world.But there is an awful lot to love about this. Some may find it a little simplistic, some a little too camp. But I think it would have been difficult to win all hearts and minds with this one.


                
I will be quite simple with that, this is a rather simple movie after all. I'm not a fan of all of the superhero genre, people ask me why- and no it's not that I don't like it because it's a comic book at all, but it's just that the films tend to be just CGI filled, and lack any interesting atmosphere. I won't even talk about characters here.So, unlike those films, Mad Max: Fury Road does it all right, instead of CGI-filled action sequences we have ACTUAL stunts, this obviously, whether if consciously or unconsciously make the action look far better, also, unlike all those other modern action movies, we actually KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENING, it's not just focusing on character each time and basically confusing us and not showing the entire battlefield so it may have the feel it is an actual fight- sequence, no, this film actually makes us know constantly what's on our back, sides and front.Of course I need to also address the unique post-apocalyptic atmosphere in this film, the music also fits rather perfectly. The ways those apocalyptic people fight with strange gadgets on top of their vehicles is also very entertaining to watch.So, I would definitely recommend this film, it is no Citizen Kane, I mean it isn't something deep- nor it should be, in fact I would say this is what a summer blockbuster should be- it may be not very philosophical or heart warming, but it is very entertaining and a lot of fun- and even memorable! Something we barely hear about in today's action films.So go watch it, recommended! 9/10.


                
After watching Fury Road I can safely conclude that not only will the film be welcomed by a majority of people craving a good action- packed popcorn flick, this new movie will effectively change the action-adventure game for the better.The story begins with Max (Hardy) being chased by a group of crazed goons across the desert in his signature Interceptor car. The vehicle crashes spectacularly and he's immediately captured. We're introduced to a host of characters warped by the landscape and made crazy by their circumstance. Immortan Joe (Keays-Byrne) sits atop of the social spectra. A violent, disfigured dictator who has hijacked not only the world's most needed resource, water, but the world's most precious: the future. He has taken the most beautiful brides among his dirt-pile civilization and forces them into a harem where he rapes them to birth a normal, untarnished heir. That is until Furiosa (Theron) a trusted marauder takes the harem and escapes in her war rig with a mission to take them to "the green place". With war parties in fast pursuit, Max is forced to be a feral warrior's "blood bag" until fate allows him the chance for escape and possible redemption from the thoughts that haunt him.After a fifteen minute setup the entire movie boils down to one, big, long, explosive, exciting, pulse-pounding chase through the desert. Each action set-piece is a master's course in chaotic beauty and mayhem. Lest you think you've seen it all, watch the first extended chase between the war rig and the war parties...then wait another five minutes, because the expectations you just set for yourself will be blown to smithereens. George Miller decided to film in the otherworldly desert of Namibia instead of the Australian outback. The hues of the rock and sands of Namibia make for some austere beauty and intensifies the desperation of the world of Mad Max. No longer are their paved roads, only basins of flat unforgiving dirt remain. Trekked by those most craven and those most crazed.Through all the absurd chaos, characters emerge. Not through dialogue or long-winded explanations but through action. Everyone we meet is stripped to their essence and pitted against each other. The number one goal for our beleaguered protagonists? Survival; it's that simple. Max in particular has quite a complex character arc given the movie's structure. He is reintroduced in our psyche as a man who once had a moral compass now reduced to an animal; wild and instinctual. He lost those he loved most and is haunted by their memories. By the end of the movie his purpose is molded beyond simply survival. His resourcefulness and pragmatism follows a logical train that ends with Max becoming a restorer of hope. A rebirth of the dark anti-hero we once loved and all with little to no dialogue.Now a game-changing movie like this is not without its controversy. Men's Rights Activists have been crying foul ever since this movie's been released, claiming the movie is feminist propaganda masquerading as a shoot-em-up. Noted chauvinist blogger and blatherskite Aaron Clarey even initiated a boycott over it's perceived "feminist agenda". "men in America and around the world are going to be duped by explosions, fire tornadoes, and desert raiders into seeing what is guaranteed to be nothing more than feminist propaganda, while at the same time being insulted AND tricked into viewing a piece of American culture ruined and rewritten right in front of their very eyes."With as much respect as I can give people with rudimentary understanding of discrimination; knock it off. Having physically and emotionally strong female characters is not propaganda. Nor is making an enemy out of a thoroughly disgusting human who in no way represents the male gender or the patriarchy as it exists today. If anything the warped society that exists in Fury Road is an exaggerated view of patriarchy therefore categorizing the political elements of Mad Max as satire. Even to claim the film has a feminist agenda of any kind is suspect. Not all feminists believe the same thing but a majority believe portraying women in media in the mold of a traditional male sans male genitalia, is not the best way to empower women. Not to discount Theron's performance but her Furiosa does fit that bill.My only real complaint is less about the movie and more about Hollywood's insistence that 3D is the way to go. Dazzling sequences of real stunt driving and explosions that would put the Fast and Furious franchise to shame are interrupted by obvious frames where 3D is injected for the sake of being injected. In one, almost delirious moment of climax, we see obvious computer generated twisted metal synchronized to look like a jack-in-the-box. It was distracting flaw but not a fatal flaw.Mad Max: Fury Road is not just a spectacular action film; its an action film that truly raises the bar. Those who have never seen the original films won't be lost nor will they be disappointed. Through frenetic editing, solid, smooth camera work, strong acting, brawny, metal-meets-muscle action sequences and minimalist story, every action movie the foreseeable future is going to wish it was Mad Max.http://www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com


                
Who hasn't watched any of the Mad Max movies, he can be ashamed of himself, because those are one of the most lovable action pieces of all time. I've been waiting for this movie for a long time, and what motivated me even more for this movie is the lack of good quality action movies in these modern times.Movie starts in medias res. There we have Max, who is in the middle of a conflict between a gang and Furiosa, and there we have our plot for 2.5 thirds of this masterpiece. George Miller describes this post-apocalyptic world just as I have imagined it, everything is dry, there is lack of water, and carelessness of people for its nature got people to a conflict between themselves.Tom Hardy gives an alpha-male, bad-ass looking performance that reminded me of one in Lawless, where he didn't need a lot of words to speak but he was charismatic. Props to Hardy, but Furiousa steals the show for me. On many moments it seemed to me, but it actually is, that she was the main character of the movie. She is that character that we can relate to. She is that character that we feel for, and that is where Charlize Theron did a great job in.Picture of this whole movie is amazing. It is all executed very well, and to think that there is very little amount of green screen gives an enormous plus to the movie. Action doesn't stop, it is all paced, and just when you think that action stopped, it is just so audience can take a moment of rest just so it can take a adrenaline rush few seconds later.I have absolutely nothing else to add, I have enjoyed this film very much, and I hope that many directors will look up on George Millers style of shooting a movie, which is not just a fun way to take, but also very interesting and attractive. This movie excels in every way possible, it has interesting plot, lovable characters, and memorable action. It is a must-see modern masterpiece.


                
Do not go into this movie with the thought that this is going to be a direct follow on from the last Mad Max movie. It's not. It's nothing like it, but it's been 30 years since the last Mad Max was released - so what do you expect? In saying that - I thought this movie was fantastic! The new and improved Mad Max uses everything that modern day technology allows. It is a visual masterpiece! To the people saying it lacked storyline and was just constant action... Have you seen a Mad Max film before? They're all a bit like that. Even though I said that the new Mad Max is nothing like the old, it helps to have a bit of a knowledge on the old Mad Max storyline, because truthfully; the storyline doesn't give you much of an introduction, it just expects you to know why & what's going on in the world from the storyline of the last ones.The action, the stunts, the cars, the rigs, the weapons, the sets - they're all amazing. If nothing else - see this movie for the pure visual playground. I personally hated the first Mad Max movies. Mostly because (through no fault of their own) the time it was filmed (watching 80s movies now is cringeworthy), the lack of funding for good props and effects, and (probably because it was the start of his career) Mel Gibson's terrible acting ability. So I really didn't expect to like this movie all too much, but because of the advertisements I thought I'd give it a go because it looked visually interesting and it had a 100000% better cast. Tom Hardy is a great Max! The war boys are fantastic too. Furiousa is amazing and the wives are all quite wonderful actresses. So that alone improved this movie.For those concerned that this is a "feminist" movie like some other reviews have stated.. That is such bullsh*t. There are strong male and female characters. And in a world ruled by men where women are nothing but baby makers - of course they've got to stand up for themselves. Someone's got to. Just because it wasn't a man swooping in to save them from the castle doesn't mean it's a "feminist" movie. And in saying that - Max and the war boy help save the women too. So I really can't understand where all this "feminist" finger pointing is coming from. Overall - go see it! If you haven't seen the old Mad Max's - just do a little bit of a read up as to the storyline of the apocalyptic setting and war for fuel. It will help you grasp the storyline. If you have seen the old Mad Max's - don't expect this to be like the old ones. They had a ton more funding and tried to make this as epic as possible (and succeeded) - something I'm sure they would have loved to do with the first Mad Max's but didn't have access to the funds or technology. This movie is a fun, visual masterpiece, leaves you on the edge of your seat once or twice and overall is a great film!


                
Mad Max: Fury Road, the newest from George Miller was a film i never had much interest in. I haven't really seen the others in the franchise (i say haven't really because i have seen about half of the original) but to be honest it isn't really nesscessary. Im not sure if this is a prequel or sequel but whatever it is doesn't really matter as this is quite possibly the action film of the year and has some of the best action sequences of the decade in fact.If i were to explain plot here it would seem very thin because in terms of plot there isn't a huge deal of it, although this isn't really a bad thing. It follows Max as played by Tom Hardy who does do a great job following the footsteps of Mel Gibson, as well as rebel Furiosa played by Charlize Theron at the top of her game. The two go on a journey to i guess restore order to the post-apocalyptic world we are introduced to from the start of the film. Everybody in this film does a really good job, Tom Hardy's Australian accent wasn't the best i have heard but he doesn't say a great deal, most of the dialogue does come from Theron's Furiosa and she really adds a moral contrast to his performance and they play well of each other, in fact this as much her film as it is Hardy's which i was worried about being called "Mad Max" and all, but it doesn't bring the film down by a single notch.Now earlier on i mentioned that the film's plot isn't a very strong one. The reason this isn't a problem? Because the film is pretty much one huge action set piece. From the beginning to the very end the action does not stop. It is very much a road movie, but not a stereotypical road trip movie, it is a road movie where cars explode at every given moment and blood is splattered around with no remorse. I found out 80% of the films effects are practical and this does not surprise me at all because i had an extremely hard job pinpointing what is CGI and what isn't (with the exception of the prosthetic arm used by Theron's character). The real stand out for me was Nicolas Hult as Nux who is a character that you never know whether he is a villain or not. At first he seems insane, like our villain Immortal Joe (not the Toecutter), but you do get to know him and you do in fact feel for his character and even have sympathy for him and want him to succeed at points.By the end of the film, all the non stop action sequences that are thrown at us might seem too much, but they really aren't. Tom Hardy is as badass if not more than Mel Gibson (like i said though, i haven't seem all the Mad Max films) and Charlize Theron with the rest of the supporting cast do this film justice. You hear a lot about long overdue sequels spoiling what was once a great franchise but Fury Road just improves it. I hope that Jurrassic World and even Terminator Genysis can take a leaf out of this film's book. Mad Max:Fury Road deserves all the praise it is getting and is definitely one to get on blu-ray. See this film and you will have a Lovely Day as Nux would say. Plus, the flamethrower guitar dude was awesome, look out for him.


                
I've seen the overstuffed toybox of my childhood pillaged for cinematic "inspiration" so many times now that the prospect rarely offends or entices me. Star Trek, Star Wars, every cruddy horror movie ever to have graced a rented VHS tape. Take it all, you greedy bastards. Melt my cherished memories down for pocket change, see if I care. After the heartbreaking artistic faceplant that was Ridley Scott's misbegotten Prometheus, I'd pretty much given up on these sorts of refried treats. O, me of little faith! If anyone can tool up a bloody-knuckle, road-raging death machine out of junked parts, it's George 'Mad Max' Miller. Fresh from the theater, I feel like an overstressed carburetor into which some baldhead lunatic just spat a mouthful of pure nitro. The pitiless desert sun is blazing nova bright above, and it's a lovely, lovely day indeed. I caught Fury Road in 3-D, which was cool...mostly because I now get to go back and see it without the unnecessary dimensional enhancement. And again gaze vacantly into that stupendous vortex of crazy-ass, nonstop, man-machine mayhem like the sweaty, crack-brained adolescent I once was (and of course always will be). I don't know that I've EVER in my screen-staring LIFE seen a vehicular action flick half so relentlessly thrilling. And certainly not this side of The Road Warrior. The bug-splattered, silver-glossed, ear-to-ear grin Miller & Co. smacked across my idiot mug in the film's opening moments is still fixed in place several hours later. Turns out mom was right: my face is stuck this way.One minor quibble: Fury Road would be improved significantly were some sensible soul simply to take a small red pen to each scripted instance of the words "hope" and "redemption". For a filmmaker whose visual storytelling has received such widespread praise, Miller sure lays on the thematic underlining with a hefty trowel. Some may accept Max and Furiosa's portentous small talk as appropriate to the tale's mythic ambitions. Me, I just found it kind of annoying, with the clunky sentimentalism tipping stoic gravitas into po-faced camp.But why fret over details? I mean, somebody who worked on this once- in-a-lifetime nightmare monsterpiece gets a screen credit for "Wheels and Skulls". How many other movies can you say that about?


                
Holy ****!This was a pure joy to watch. It was entertaining from beginning to end with it's craziness and I think this movie just set a new milestone in the action movie-genre. Unbelievable stunts, cool cars, great sound and image quality, great wide shots (not in your face, shaky shots) and a great soundtrack.Tom Hardy had really big shoes to fill after Mel Gibson but I think he succeed big time. The big star in this movie however was Furiosa (played by Charlize Theron). I think we must go back to Alien and Ripley to find an equally bad ass woman character.10/10


                
A non-stop adrenaline rush featuring cars, explosions, bullets, and the most badass woman in movie history. George Miller returns after three decades to Mad Max to deliver a masterpiece of mayhem and destruction, while also creating a rare action movie that refuses to sexualize women, and instead brings them to the forefront of the action, as Charlize Theron stars as Furiosa, a rebel from an oppressive regime who kicks ass like no other, while also being a very emotionally grounded and empathetic character. Tom Hardy takes on Mel Gibson's mantle as Max fantastically, showing the will to survive despite the impossible odds. Nicholas Hoult and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley also give considerable depth to the movie, proving it not to be a mindless barrage of explosions. The visuals consist almost entirely of practical effects, with minimal animation to provide a real experience that resonates with the viewer at an instinctual level, and excites to the very core.


                
When director George Miller created Mad Max back in 1979, he couldn't have foreseen the impact the micro-budget film would've had on the action genre. Not only did it launch Mel Gibson into an A- list star, it's gritty, post-apocalyptic style set a precedent for action movies and had a major influence on many directors for the next two decades. Two sequels arrived in the years following and then nothing. The series ended. Rumours have persisted since 2000 of another sequel but it wasn't until 2011 when the same director, Miller decided it was time to raise the bar once again and got to work on Mad Max 4. The wait has been worth it. Replacing Gibson with British actor Tom Hardy, Fury Road begins with a voice over "My name is Max, the world is fire and blood. It's harder to know who was more crazy, me or everyone else." We then launch straight into a chase scene over the desert plains of a post- apocalyptic desert where Max is captured by a group of cannibals. Elsewhere we are introduced to Furiosa (a pumped up Charlize Theron) who has been tasked by local gang leader Immotan Joe with driving an armoured rig full of now-scarce water across land in exchange for gasoline. Instead she rebels and heads for her homeland along with freeing Max and Immortan Joe's five wives, two of which are pregnant. And then all hell breaks loose! What follows is simply a breathtaking display of action cinema. From here on, Fury Road is effectively one long chase as Immortan Joe's enormous army of lunatics pursue Furiosa across the endless desert. The film slows down briefly to introduce Furiosa's relatives, but the pursuit swiftly continues. The action is simply relentless as supped up cars, motorbikes, trucks and tankers crash, flip and explode as they attempt to halt the rig with stuntmen literally flying everywhere. The stunts are simply astonishing, all the more so that Miller insisted that the majority of the action be filmed practically without the reliance on CGI – how no one was killed in the making of the movie is all the more astonishing. Director Miller, now 70, is at the top of his game and handles the action brilliantly. The locations are suitably apocalyptic (filmed on location in Namibia) and suit the movie perfectly. The plot itself is simple and, although you don't get much in the way of characterisation, it really doesn't matter. There are enough glimpses of Max's past to fill in the gaps for anyone who hasn't seen the original movies. Hardy is a fitting replacement for Gibson and does a fine job as Max, however the real standout is Theron – shaved head and as far from the gorgeous blonde we know so well, she plays the role of Furiosa amazingly. Not only does Mad Max: Fury Road raise the bar for action movies, it smashes the bar entirely. Sit back, switch your brain off and you'll have a blast!


                
Guys it's simple, Mad Max Fury Road is a masterpiece! Not only does this movie have great action, it has amazing characters, dialog and heart. This movie features great FX that are all practical. About 90% of the explosions and action are all practical and makes you enjoy the movie much more. The movie is set in a post apocalyptic world and it does a good job at setting a dark tone and world. You really feel the characters motivation because of the world the movie is set in. The cinematography is also fantastic. There is no shaky cam, it's all marvelously shot. The acting is perfect. Tom Hardy as Mad Max was perfect. In fact I think he was better then Mel Gibson. The villain and characters are great also. Obviously you have Max, but the stand out characters are the villain, and the character named Furiosia. Some of the best action includes these characters. In the end Mad Max Fury road is a high octane, action joyride. It has great characters, acting, story, setting and of course brilliant action! This is definitely one of the best movies of the year!


                
what made mad max strong is the cinematography and the complexity of it's action mechanics. all of crushing car ware real, i even cant get it how the hell miller design all those cars crushing up and down. also the stunts were real. decent people nowadays, whose usually watching CGI style movies, will never understand how hard the stunt actions in this movie were. for examples : when a biker cross the war rig below it, between the wheel. when a bikers jumping off the ground up and down. when people climbing on the long rod on the car (i forget the name). it was all real. for *beep* sake those were all hard work in to do my mind. beside the actions, the cinematography and art-direction were no sh*t. miller was capable of shoting the packs of war cars with beauty and tense. he chose set decoration in the desert, which really match for the theme itself (runaways with strong lead females). the other thing that makes me amaze was the scene in the night (where they met old friends granma). miller using a freaking beauty of lighting and camera shot. using a pure candle style in the darkness of desert. seriously, if we compare this to saving private ryan. this movie stand a chance to compete in it's actions. but from the storyline, saving private ryan is much better, and of course more realistic to watch. mark my words, if saving private ryan is a movie which made in this generation, it will be a *beep* disaster, because people nowadays, have really bad taste of movie. only CGI that they thing cool.


                
Mad Max: Fury Road... WOW. It shook me, it thrilled me, it took me to Valhalla.This movie gives the people what they want. And what they want is something they have never seen before. A high octane romp filled with violence that is both exquisite and remarkable.I was so enthralled by the movie I could barely reflect on my experience whilst walking out of the cinema. I have never seen a plot be stitched so masterfully into the blood lust and fury.My only qualm is that I wanted more Tom Hardy! He did great, but the strong silent hero could have had more lines.Go and see this movie and see it on the biggest 3D screen you can find!


                
Washes out all the stank left over from these subversive ricer douchebag-custom car cliques the fast furious movies have spawned. That. Is. All.On a side note, I don't know how George Miller was able to get away with half of the stuff he got away with in this movie, but he really pushes the envelope as far as the ultra violence goes. The only gripe I DO have about this movie is how relentless it is. It does not let you breathe from one excellently crafted action sequence to the other. I would've left this review at the first sentence but too bad IMDb has a 10 line criteria.


                
