WARNING: FULL OF SPOILERS.Every single person in the world seem to love this movie, but I don't. I don't enjoy watching a guy killing everyone just cause he's a socially inept psycho, the never ending punching, alright, I got it, that's what the Mafia is all about, I already knew it. The deep-inside-good guy who in the end regrets about it all and sells out his partners. Terrific, I didn't see that coming from miles away. Oh, right, and before that, he cheated on his wife with prostitutes. How original is that? Even when it tries to be funny this movie fails miserably. From the great reviews it has achieved, I can see the world thinks it's amazingly original. Well I guess I'm missing it, and I'm happy I do. I want a plot, something that justifies all the blood, not just the "he made me angry". Hahaha, am I supposed to applause and enjoy, right? Yeah, Pesci's character is great, sure. Too bad he got murdered, isn't it?. That's the only part of the movie I've really enjoyed, actually. I would've loved to see him die with even more pain. That would've been great. I'll give the movie 2/10, just because they did shut that annoying dude up anyway. That adds one point. Martin Scorsese is the most overrated director ever, period.
Many people think Scorsese is a great director because he is a skilled craftsman who produces a clear realization of his own weirdly fractured vision. Given the reverence with which some people treat his work, any criticism may be viewed as sacrilege. However, this film is filled with wooden, cartoon characterizations of real people. They do very ugly things to each other, but without any understanding of their motivations.The movie drags on far too long thanks to countless scenes that should have been shortened or cut (e.g., the endlessly long prison kitchen scene). The transitions between different phases of the movie are abrupt and without explanation. For instance, the transition to drug addiction and trafficking comes out of nowhere when the main character pulls pills out of his pocket and swallows them on his way to jail in a limousine. No drug use is shown or even hinted at prior to that scene.While the movie certainly progresses over time, and there is definitely plot development, the cardboard characters don't really change, and every scene seems like a repeat of something we just saw. Unlike "The Godfather," to which this film is sometimes compared because they both depict the "inner workings" of the East Coast Mafia, there is no deeper insight into any part of the human condition, and only the shallowest revelations about why the Mafia even exists. The only thing we are given -- explained in clumsy narration at the end of the movie -- is that all the participants are drawn to each other because they enjoy a sense of belonging: of being "good fellas." While the irony between that explanation and the extended depiction of these beautifully bonded people eating their own is certainly acknowledged, in the end none of it really makes sense, and we are reminded of that too-frequently quoted Shakespeare line:It is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury Signifying nothingMacbeth was clearly talking about Goodfellas.


                
Why should anyone care about any of the characters in this movie? Not one seemed to have any redeeming virtues at all, beyond a certain amount of initiative to make something of themselves, by any means fair or foul. That they all came to squalid ends was good, but watching it happen seemed like pointless voyeurism.


                
This is easily my all time favorite movie. The pacing is electric and the acting is fantastic. The mix of dark dark humor, drama and action is fantastic. Everyone always talks about Pesci's great performance and rightfully so, but DeNiro gives the second best performance of his career (after Raging Bull) in this movie. Understated but fantastic. Ray Liotta is also excellent, although somewhat overshadowed by Pesci and DeNiro. The last 25 minutes of the movie where Liotta's character is trying to unload guns on his "Pittsburgh connection" and get a cocaine shipment out the door all while preparing a large Italian meal for his whole family is amazing. Many people tell me that I am nuts for liking this movie because it glorifies the mafia life, but I think it does just the opposite. If you have not seen this movie, rent it immediately.
I would have given a 1 star but for the tremendous performance by all the cast in the movie. I fail to understand how can anyone ever give a very high rating to this movie?. There is effectively NO PLOT. No sense of direction in the story- line. The only time I was really happy was when the movie ended and I had a huge sigh of relief !.What you have is effectively a bunch of crooks and thugs who believe that they could become "Great" and have a sense of Greatness by indiscriminately stealing, killing, lying - and who do these "Goodfellas" target - Yes the innocents. Why don't these Goodfellas target the people who really need to be targeted?. Ah yes, that needs guts..Anyway the movie is essentially a waste of time.
