Spoilers herein.Competent filmmakers are rare -- there is no doubt that Scorsese is competent and should be celebrated on that score alone.But his films are empty. They take you into a gangsterland (even `Temptation,' even `Innocence') and snap along until they end and then you leave. But you leave with nothing, and I expect more from a competent filmmaker.The problem -- I speculate -- is the degree to which Scorsese is locked in the Italian tradition of storytelling and its 60's incarnation in neo-realistic films. This is a matter of performance, where the force of the story is all in the force of the storyteller. The performer here is Scorsese. His screen persona is epitomized in the Pesci character: driving, driving the group by pressing on. By speaking over others. By showing the threat of violence.There's power here. It grabs your attention like Pesci grabs that of the fellas. I can see Scorsese constantly saying to himself that he'd be nuts to live any other way. But aside from some storytelling mechanics, there are no ideas here, no ambiguities, no interesting characters, no plot maturity, no symmetries, nothing to wonder about and discuss on your way home.But we should salute some of the decisions. Scorsese chooses to frame the film as a story told by the Liotta character. (He plays an Irishman, but looks and acts Italian.) Narrative voiceovers. A clever framing device with us locked in the car at midway through and mirrored in the beginning. The end with Liotta looking directly and speaking into the camera and shooting us.And the camera. Much has been said of the camera. The long, tracking shots, especially the much-copied entrance through the kitchen. The pullback-zoom toward the end when Liotta and DeNiro meet. The occasional corner ceiling shot. Normally I would love this, especially since it is in the framework of a consistent notion of the eye. What bothers me is what that eye is: it is dependent on the characters. The characters drive this movie and pull the camera. Consider the kitchen entry scene: the camera is on a string behind Liotta. We follow, always follow, just as the fellas at Pesci's table have to follow his prattling. Compare that to dePalma's similar long tracking shot of Bruce Willis at the start of `Bonfire of the Vanities.' DePalma's camera isn't dragged along behind by the force of Willis. It floats to the front, the side, swooping around, independently curious. We the viewers are masters of the story. It's the difference between the northern and southern European storytelling traditions.Seeing how little deference the camera gives us really grates when the payoff is so slight. It makes DeNiro pretty hard to take. Yes, we all get impressed by the power of his performance. But it is always clear that it is a performance: we are not seeing a character but a `serious actor,' employed as a tractor to pull us along.Is this a great film? Well, it did not change my life, give my dreams new form, or provide the basis for any meaningful discussion with my wife. It didn't help me define myself or my world. It provided no new perspectives on the things I struggle with. (And many, many films do one or more of these things.) So for me no.What a waste.
Typical Scorsese effort: average crime movie script dressed up with great acting and pretentious, way overly stylish camera-work.I'm amazed this movie holds anyone's attention, let alone earns the "best movie ever!" praise you hear about this one. As I said, I didn't think it was bad, it was just wasn't that good. I had to force myself to keep watching, trying once again to see what other people see in Scorsese. I get the feeling all the praise and accolades heaped on him are just a big prank being played on me.At least the Godfather was an actual good movie, although certainly no masterpiece.A far, far better movie than this that came out around the same time would be Miller's Crossing. It's actually entertaining--you don't feel like killing yourself after watching it for just a few minutes, which is another thing about Scorsese I don't like. His slickness, bleak subject matter, unredeeming violence all combine to create an effect like a low-frequency earthquake hum or day-old shellfish--it's nauseating and depressing. I honestly spend the rest of the day depressed and joyless after watching a Scorsese film. You may say that's the power of the film maker, but I say that's simply the power of the subject matter. Manos: the Hands of Fate is pretty depressing for much the same reason.Art shouldn't always be uplifting (I love Bicycle Thief and the Year of Living Dangerously) but if it's going to put such misery on the screen then it should have a good reason for doing it and it should teach me something.A good example of how hollow the praise for Scorsese and his works rings is the famous Copacabana scene, a two or three minute steadicam shot following two characters from the outside of a nightclub as they wind through the kitchens and so forth and end up at their table. Scorsese's fans call this "the best shot ever." As I said, it's a long shot of a fellow getting a table. Kubrick did great tracking shots too, but the key to a great tracking shot, like any shot, is that it communicates something significant to us, puts us in the state of mind of the characters, etc. But this was just some people walking to their table. The difference is contextual and often subtle, but it's there.


                
I suppose a lot of people found the characters in this film compelling and relatable on a basic human level. From what I saw, virtually all of the characters are low kinds of scum, always willing to betray one another and murder for kicks. The protagonist, played by Ray Liota, lacks the depth or redeeming characteristics that Cagney and Al Pacino's gangsters had. Liota's Henry Hill has very little that would make him seem like somebody to care about, because he's always willing to betray people and lie to save his own skin. When he gets his comeuppance, the viewer knows he richly deserves it, and will find no reason to take his side. His colleagues in crime, played by Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci, are equally irredeemable. The only decent qualities about De Niro and Liota is that they are not quick to condone random murder, as Pesci is always apt to do. The level of violence in this movie is gratuitous and disgusting. It does little to glamorize the life of crooks, and instead makes it seem like a low, loathsome venture.This movie is full of violence and little in the way of decent themes, as virtually all the characters are too slimy to convey anything relatable to the viewer on a basic level, except that we sometimes betray others to save ourselves. The acting is decent, though not something to write home about. The plot is winding and tortuous, so pay very close attention if you want to understand the action. The plot actually seems secondary, more like a framework for a menagerie of blood-and-guts and gangster dialogue. I do enjoy movies that feature prominent ultra-violence, like "Robocop" and "Sin City," but those movies had deep characters and themes about morality that this movie does not explore. Watch it if you wish, but don't expect this to be the classic everyone seems to think it is.PS: Listen for the phrase "you're busting my balls." Virtually all the main characters say it. You could play a drinking game with this movie for all the times the characters say that phrase. This likely inspired a scene in the TV series "South Park," where Cartman says this phrase to people who refuse his offer to buy aborted fetuses. Good times.


                
I admit it; I'm an action movie guy. So a film about the mafia should be right up my alley. But I'm often turned off by dramas. It's not that I don't respect those who like fine art. I do. But personally, I lack the sophistication or training to appreciate the makeup or sets or choreography if the plot is awful and the characters unlikeable.That's what gets in my way when I watch Goodfellas, which I've seen twice now but couldn't get through it the 2nd time. The protagonists are nasty and I couldn't identify with them. This is the same thing that turned me off watching "Pulp Fiction".Superb acting, story, some real drama -- but how ugly and why would I want to watch this?Who should see this film:-- art types / drama lovers: a must-see-- action movie types who don't mind when the protagonist is violent and awfulSorry, but at least I've stated some real reasons for giving Goodfellas only a 4 out of 10.


                
Thought I should finally see this movie last year because it is one of those movies "you have to see".  Cinematography notwithstanding, I found little to draw me into the film.  I want to say that it has been dated, or perhaps too often imitated, but having just rewatched The Godfather I see what a good mafia movie should be.  In a nutshell, the violence was expected, the dialogue was simplistic, and the plot went nowhere fast.  I fought to stay awake awaiting a huge climax that never happened.  But that is only my opinion, and a lot of people seem to like it, so judge for yourself.


                
The best thing about the movie: Joe Pesci was simply amazing.  I thought it was a good movie, but the ending left me somewhat unsatisfied.  I would put it in my top 5 gangster movies, but I don't think it even comes close to "The Godfather" or even "A Bronx Tale" as far as mafia movies are concerned.


                
Over rated piece of %#@!.  Why a movie that glorifies the scum of this planet is so popular is beyond me.  People should know better than think that foul language and gratuitous violence  makes a movie. One word describes this poor excuse of a movie, "pitiful".


                
Just take a look at the top 250 list. Which movie has been at the top ALL the time (except for when Lord of The Rings was new and manage to race to the pole position and stay there for a couple of days)? It's Francis Ford Coppola's "The Godfather", based on a book by Mario Puzo!The Godfather is said to have been premiered in 1972 (I won't know, because I wasn't born back then), and during all the time I watched "Goodfellas", i couldn't help feeling how much of a wannabe Martin Scorsese must've been when he directed his version of a 1900's mafia movie. He couldn't even write his own look-alike script, he had to do it JUST like Coppola and take a book about the mob and make a movie out of it. I'm not saying I could have done it any better, but how much of a rip-off isn't this "Goodfellas"?Nothing wrong about the execution of the movie shooting though. Good actors, although I'm sick and tired of seeing Robert De Niro as a mobster. I'll give this movie a 4 out of 10.


                
This film is considered the definitive mob film, probably more because Martin Scorsese is quite possibly the best living American director. If Francis Ford Coppola (director of "The Godfather" trilogy) were still alive, he may disagree with this assessment -- and if he did, I would have to agree with him.Granted, the direction is brilliant, especially on the opening credits, the beginning of Liotta's flashback, the psychedelic feel of the end, and the stunning tracking shot that introduces Liotta and Bracco's first date, but there are so many postmodern innovations that the viewer is veritably jarred. With repeated viewings (which have made this film a classic) this alienation is felt less so, but there is nothing here to challenge Coppola's christening scene.Nonetheless, not enough can be said, especially about this movie's acting. Pesci's star-turn is celebrated, but kudos must also go to the always underrated Liotta whose subtley suits his role perfectly. De Niro is wasted but good playing the role he always plays (could he be anything less than good?) and Paul Sorvino is perfectly understated in a supporting role. The real praise must go to Lorraine Bracco, the only character to experience a full spate of emotions. She is the most convincing female character ever in a gangster film and doesn't have enough scenes, to my taste.The plot - what little there is - weakens the film. The main character's ambiguous goal is to become a gangster, but this does not drive the film. Events happen to him, rather than grow out of his own actions making him difficult to sympathize with. The unsatisfying ending is too quick (as if Scorsese knew his movie was getting a tab bit overlong) and also unsatisfying, though he did the latter on purpose as a point of theme.Overall, a must-see film, though I prefer the better-directed and more engaging plot of "Casino," which, unfortunately is often-panned as a rip-off of this film. Both film's are ridiculously and violent unlike the early Hollywood gangster flicks which were juist as - if not more - thematically effective.


                
I love the brutality and profanity of this movie, I don't think it deserves to be one of the greatest movies ever made, but right until the end is enjoyable to watch. The end should have used some editing to make it more tight. I hate Joe Pesci with all my life, he is a terrible actor and he always does the same schtick in all his movies....he is annoying and dirty, i clapped when he was shot dead!! I also could not believe how many visible mistakes are in this film!! for example they show a shot of 1963 pre-JFK airport showing a 747 jumbo jet!!!!! the plane did not make its public debut until 1969!!! little mistakes like this bother me and destroys the "look" of the film......also Robert Deniro's first appearance on the film..he is supposed to be 28 years old...yet he looks 40!! WTC ? Overall i love the sex, violence and profanity but needs a good editing!


                
I saw this movie again a few days ago. I think I enjoyed it more...their are a lot of nuances I didn't catch the first time. I think the layering makes it exceptional, though the plot itself is still excessively episodic, jumpy and alienating.By the way, in my previous review of "Goodfellas," I said that Francis Ford Coppola is dead. I should have put it in quotations. It was a joke in reference to the fact that Scorsese is still making good movies and Coppola hasn't really done anything worthwhile since...god, since before I was born. Feels dead to me.


                
Concept of the film is amazing and main reason i gave it a watch, but the pacing and writing didnt really grab me as such.


                
I like Mafia movies and I like Scorcese movies. Godfather was great, Casino was great. The direction and setting of this film were excellent, and the actors' performances were unimpeachable. All of that would seem to set me up for another great movie. However, I felt it lacked the character arc that's key to a film like this. The characters lacked a certain self-awareness that could have made the movie enjoyable -- most of the film is about enjoying the spoils of mafia life. Apparently most people think this is one of Scorcese's best, which is a little bemusing to me. Maybe I was just in a bad mood this evening but I found this movie altogether skippable. Would possibly rewatch with friends.


                
