Watching this good movie, you feel like watching the Sopranos,moving from one casual killing to another, with an italian family meal or two. Scorsese is so clever you're not bored any minute : situations are funny, suspense is there, both characters and actors are good. But you cannot go as far as liking the "hero" or feeling anything for him except a mild sympathy. so, all in all I give this movie a 7 mark but do not really understand its ranking, except if some have mistaken it for the godfather...


                
Goodfellas is a technically impressive film and interesting to review largely because of the huge following it has amongst film critics and Martin Scorsese fanatics alike, most of whom reverentially believe it is his best work<U+0085>and they may be correct.The story based on a novel by Nicholas Pileggi chronicles the rise through the ranks of the Mafia of Irish-Sicilian Henry Hill (Ray Liotta), who has always wanted to be a gangster since he was a kid, and finds his wish granted. We follow him from a rambunctious teen to his first arrest, his marriage to Jewish wife Karen (Lorraine Bracco) through to their fall into drugs, and finally as an informer prior to entry into the Witness Protection Program.The film has a dry sense of humor and is technically and visually amazing. Scorsese loves the mobster milieu and is obviously working in his element here with a nicely picked cast. The attention to detail, the camera work, the costumes, the choice of music is all well thought out to the most intimate minutiae. The film is a fairly fascinating peek at life inside the Mafia. Scorsese allows events to unfold believably and the moments near the end where Henry and Karen become increasingly paranoid that they are under surveillance, complete with jittery, over bright intense camera work that heightens their unease, is arguably some of Scorsese's best work.The acting is fairly solid. Liotta manages to hold things together as the focal character and he gets nice support from Bracco. DeNiro manages a dignified turn as Liotta's mentor and friend. Joe Pesci won the Oscar as the psychotic killer Tommy DeVito. He is utilized well enough here to overlook the fact that it is basically the same performance he gives in everything else.Yet as amazing as the film is, it still has its drawbacks that prevent it from becoming the classic that many of its admirers would have you believe. As fascinating as Goodfellas is, I actually find Scorsese's similarly themed subsequent work Casino just as impressive technically, yet far more interesting in that it tells its tale using the backdrop of the formation of gambling mecca Las Vegas. I realize that I am in the minority with that view, but there it is.Yet most notable of all is that Goodfellas seems utterly incapable of connecting on an emotional level with the viewer. The superior Godfather films featured similar themes and focused on characters capable of shocking acts of violence, yet managed to connect on an emotional level so that we had some concern for the players. By contrast, at the end of Goodfellas, as brilliant as I thought some of the direction and technical aspects were, I found that I did not give a damn what happened to any of the characters on screen, including Henry and Karen. I was completely indifferent to whether they lived, died, escaped, etc. And this issue makes for a somewhat empty viewing experience.1990 was a very interesting film year. Coppola released his last Godfather film that year. Although it got an Oscar nod, critics largely overlooked it in favor of Goodfellas due to the fact that it is not on the same level as its predecessors. There is no question Godfather III is a flawed film, but it is also more emotionally rich than Goodfellas and any one of its flaws is more interesting to discuss at length than any of Goodfellas successes. Conversely, critics and Scorsese fans have spilled gallons of ink over the "injustice" of Dances With Wolves winning the Best Picture over Goodfellas, but it is not hard to see why it did. DWW in its own right is just as technically impressive as Goodfellas (maybe even more so considering its director was an amateur with a passionate vision), but DWW connects emotionally with the viewer in a far more powerful way than Goodfellas ever does. At the end of DWW and Godfather III, I had to know what happened with those characters. At the end of Goodfellas, not so much. What Scorsese has achieved is certainly noteworthy and makes for a very good, solid gangster film, but most definitely not a masterpiece. It is slick, flashy and technically well done (sometimes even brilliant), but its inability to make me give a damn about any of its characters is a huge stumbling block.
I realize that in many circles, this film is considered an absolute classic and possibly Scorsese's greatest. However, over the course of time, my perception of this film has changed. Having read "Wiseguy" by Nicholas Pileggi, I realized that this movie does not conform to the book all that much and tends to stray a great deal. While most of the performances are memorable, they don't really resemble the actual characters that the story is based on. Joe Pesci's performance seems way over the top to me although certain short scenes of his are hilarious. Overall, I'd say his performance was overacted. DeNiro, Frank Vincent, Lorraine Bracco, and Ray Liotta turn in very convincing performances and Scorsese's approach to this film was very unique and well done. One of the many overlooked features of this movie is the soundtrack. While not quite chronologically correct in some spots, it does tend to emphasize certain scenes. My major criticism of this film is that way too much time in the second half is devoted to Henry's drug problem. I felt that this segment of his life could have been summed up in one or possibly two scenes. But here, almost the entire second half of this movie focuses on Henry's drug addiction and dealing. Not necessary. Another criticism is that the famous "Lufthansa heist" is only mentioned here and not shown at all. I believe that this, above all, was the centerpiece in the lives of Jimmy Burke and Henry Hill and is not given enough attention. I would have preferred to see more detail about the heist and less about Henry's drug use. Other than that, it's a memorable film and worthy of a few viewings. But as an all-time classic, I don't think so.


                
Everyone has their ups and downs in their careers. Even Martin Scorsase does. Taxi Driver (1976) was excellent, and so was Raging Bull (1980), those two were Scorsase's up moments. Now this so called "Goodfellas", a flawed and overrated gangster movie by Scorsase based of the novel "Wiseguy" is where Scorsese went down. Goodfellas is a bad bad film!The Good: Cursed Words. The script is impressive the fact that it contains 296 uses of the f word and it doesn't really feel like it has been used that many times, yet the cursed word is used more here than in Scarface (1983), all thanks to Joe Pesci's character. That is probably the only good thing about this cursed film, the amount of cursed words. Thats Good.The Bad: Pretty Much Everything Else. The story revolves around Henry Hill (Ray Liotta), a guy who has always wanted to be a gangster since he was a kid. The film shows the rise of Henry's success as he ranks up in the mafia over a period of 25 years. It sounds interesting rigth? Unfortunately the film has no meaning or purpose. Thats Bad. The film glorifies everything about gangsters. It makes out that shooting and killing is fun and the film turns this concept into a sadistic kind of comedy. Thats Bad Goodfellas is very violent, violent in all the wrong ways. More blood is added to exaggerate the violence when it really isn't required. The flashy cinematography is pretty awful and lame because all the shots look the same in nearly every scene. Thats BadThe Performances are average. I have no other comments on this. Overall: This is the moment when talented filmmakers turned to badfellas and made a movie called "Goodfellas", a so called gangster drama but actually sadistic crime comedy that is full of flaws. My recommendation: Watch City Of God (2003) instead. 1.5/10


                
"Goodfellas" is championed as a "gangster movie", but like most of Scorsese's pictures it's also a religious movie concerned about the destructive aspects of devotion. The film begins with one of its few moments of authenticity – a nightmarish sequence in which several gangsters knife a man to death in the trunk of their car - before zooming into the starry eyes of Henry Hill, a low level gangster who begins the film's narration with a heartfelt, "As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster."But Henry's recollections are not meant to be trusted. He's so obsessed with "gangsters" that his romantic view of crime eventually becomes akin to Scorsese's own faith in both cinema and Catholicism. We watch as Hill devotes himself to the hoods above him, a criminal clergyman who worships at the altar of the Mafia's glamorous lifestyle. As a kid, he gazes longingly at the neighbourhood gangsters as if they were gods. To Hill, being a gangster is better than being the President. Being a low level mafia "somebody" is better than being a regular "nobody schnook". Of course, the irony is that Hill's Irish ancestry prevents him from ever climbing the Mafia ranks. He rises from alter boy to priest but is unable to climb any higher, stuck in the very "blue collar" life he deplores.Released by Warner Brothers in 1990, "Goodfellas" follows the same "rise and fall" narrative progression as all the early Warner Brother "machine gun operas" of the 1920s and 30s. Films like "Little Caesar", "The Public Enemy" and "Scarface" all presented fairly simple critiques of crime, their first halves containing "heroes" who climb the ranks of the criminal underworld, crime aestheticized through the power of celluloid, whilst their second halves showed the "hero's" world collapsing inexorably around him. The message: crime is seductive but ultimately doesn't pay.Scorsese disguises his simple narrative with a frenzied style that might be described as "anecdotal" or "documentarian", but it's the same tale. We, like Hill, are seduced by crime, by the sheer sexiness of Scorsese's technique, before being subjected to a long 30-minute tonguelashing in which Hill's life comes crashing down.During this sequence, Scorsese revokes every technique he employed during the film's first two acts. Consider the way Scorsese shows us Hill's cocaine fuelled dash through the daily minutia of his life, the director's once lyrical long takes and smooth tunes now choppy, unsettling and paranoid. The point: Henry's life is a dream, a complete fabrication, the audience suckered into accepting the image-lie. Henry articulates this himself when he says he was "living in a fantasy", we the audience finally learning that our perception of mafia life is built upon artifice. Such a postmodern stance - "Goodfellas" is about the falsity of itself - is in many ways deeply pessimistic. The message isn't that "crime isn't seductive" so much as its "crime is seductive only because it has never been truthfully rendered". The film ends with the image of a gangster firing his gun directly at the audience. This is a homage to "The Great Train Robbery's" final scene, which 90 years ago caused audiences to flinch in their seats with terror. Scorsese's choice of referencing this shot neatly encapsulates how cinema audiences are still captivated by the charisma and violence of the criminal. But the scene also has the unintentional effect of showing how impotent the gangster has become. Devoid of new ideas, the gangster genre requires escalating levels of violence, camera pyrotechnics and swearing to hook audiences. Simply pointing a gun no longer has an effect.In "Projections 1", director John Boorman criticises "Goodfellas", writing: "Marty's camera caresses them, celebrates them, dances attendance on them like the most sycophantic fan. This sets up an uneasy tension in the audience. When a movie is as well made as this, we are seduced. Our moral judgement collapses." But seduction is the very point. This is not a film about gangsters, this is a film about gangster films. It is a film about the seductiveness of technique. A TV series like "The Sopranos" would take this further, presenting gangsters who are so seduced by false images of themselves that they consciously act like the image. What this leads to is a continual distancing effect. We move further away from the "truth" of crime, instead getting increasingly hyper-mediated levels of "fake". What's problematic is that "Goodfellas" - which feigns sophistication by being upfront and ironic about its fakeness - always gets touted as a factual and authentic account of crime, when its actually got more in common with something like "Pulp Fiction", in that both films are relatively substanceless joyrides with a surfeit of style.More interesting are the film's "religious aspects". Henry renounces his ideals and is promptly excommunicated from the mafia for heresy. For his sacrilege, the life he once worshipped so devoutly is taken away. The worship and devotion to something, the constant testing of one's faith and the inevitable disgrace that occurs when one cannot possibly live by an imposed morality any longer, are themes that permeate all of Scorsese's films. Harvey Keitel's "faith in his brother" in Mean Streets - a faith that is tested and then shattered - is very much the genesis of all these ideas.7.9/10 – "Goodfellas" abounds with contradictions. It probes the fraudulent cinematic image of mob glitz whilst relying ("Funny like a clown? I'm here to amuse you?") on the very traits it undermines. But really, the film represents the inability of the maverick directors of the 70s to push cinema any further; most simply sought comfort in nostalgia. Luckily today's new wave of modernist crime films (led by "The Wire") make an effort to map our increasingly complex world, which is why they are so murky and labyrinthine, compared to, say, the easily resolved conflicts of "The Departed".
I have been looking at the top 100 movies list of IMDb and it is becoming so disappointing. The top 6 movies are of crime, murder, action and mafia. Casablanca is the only movie that is of its own category standing out alone at 7th place; but this time I at looking at GoodFellas at spot 17 - all time great movies.The story is based on true events and characters from a novel named "Wise Guy" written by crime reporter Nicholos Pileggi. It is about this boy Henry Hill born (Ray Liotta) in 1943 in a poor working class family who wanted to be in a gang since his boyhood because that gave him freedom, money, and respect from people. He joins hands with Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci) and Jimmy Conway (Robert De Niro). This trio starts by hijacking, stealing and selling goods from huge truck loads. Once arrested Hill starts dealing in drugs in prison and when out continues to do so. In the end, with difficult times, of police after him, with new enemies and having difficult times with his wife Karen (Lorriane Bracco) <U+0096> he decides to be an informant to avoid prison sentence and gives in most of his gangster friends <U+0096> good fellows! The movie is directed by Martin Scorsese, who like Tarantino has earned his reputation with cold blooded killing of people and mafia movies. He directs the movie well in all departments and combines with ample social, family and drama scenes to balance the dark narrative.All the actors have acted well, but the best in the lot is Joe Pesci who has played the weird cranky character of Tommy with such conviction that it should be remembered just for its sheer portrayal of characteristics. Ray Liotta who gets to play the central character is okay and his career till date shows that he has lost himself into mundane small roles. Robert De Niro is as good as ever and shows his brilliant insight to understanding deep dark characters <U+0096> he loves to play.The movie progresses from 1950 till 1980s and Martin captures all those eras with much ease and details.Even though his movie is in the top 20 list - lately, seeing many of these mafia movies <U+0096> I do not feel that much excited. It has become routine and mundane for me to watch the cold killings, glorifying killings, blood everywhere <U+0096> showing crazy characters who pull out gun at any point to shoot someone. I feel sick at times for the world and the good directors who have not got over showing it on big screen.Just a trivia, Henry Hill is still alive but suffering depression and fighting alcoholism and spends most of his time in rehab centers.(Stars 7 out of 10)


                
I saw a lot of mafia movies and they all are on the same mold. This one is no exception and to me, frankly, it was quite boring. Of course, it is possible that other films under this template are younger than "Goodfellas" and that, if I saw them chronologically, this one would be more interesting, and the others that copy it would be boring. But "The Godfather" was made almost twenty years before this film, so this theory does not hold water either. However, seven nominations and one won Oscar, baton in the hands of Martin Scorsese and the cast which is by no means inferior to that of "The Godfather" rise this achievement above a bunch of similar ones. But as I rated "The Godfather" an eight out of ten, I can not rate this one above7/10


                
Goodfellas (1990) Mafia showpiece With action, humor, suspense, Great score and soundtrack, Transfixing Steadicam shot We learn: Don't mess with the boss. I know, but too much Time spent shooting guns not film, Too much blood, swearing, Characters that I hated, Artistic, fun, but what else? (Somonka is a Japanese form of poetry that is essentially two tanka poems, the second stanza a response to the first. Each stanza follows a 5-7-5-7-7 syllable pattern. Traditionally, each is a love letter. This form usually demands two authors, but it is possible to have a poet take on two personas. My somonka will be a love letter to a film?) #Somonka #PoemReview


                
Spoiler i dont really understand what all the fuss is over this film. yes, it is very good. but top 50 of all time good? oscar worthy good? no, i'd have to say no. while the first half is incredibly impressive, beautifully put together with wonderful acting. the second half starts to fall apart. the acting was very good, but impressive? outstanding? no, it didnt appear that any of these actors were actually pushing themselves or doing anything particulary fantastic with the exception of one or two scenes. my main problem with the film was the script. as i said, the first half was very impressive, but the last half just disintergrates. we barely find out anything about the wife after they get married. we dont even found out how deeply involved she is in the drug dealing or whether she knows about sandy. it is only at the last minute that we find out that she is on drugs as well. it is never really made clear why paulie is on trial at the end and there are numerous other plot holes which left me feeling cheated. it felt as if i was told part of the story and then the rest was just brushed over and forgotten. a great shame considering the brilliance of the first half.
Based on a true story, Martin Scorsese turns GOODFELLAS into an engrossing gangster saga that provides a lot of intense actors with some meaty acting roles--among them, RAY LIOTTA ("I always wanted to be a gangster"), JOE PESCI, ROBERT DeNIRO, LORRAINE BRACCO and PAUL SORVINO.The strong narrative follows the career of a youth, Henry Hill (RAY LIOTTA), an Irish lad living in a neighborhood ruled by the Italian Mafia who wants the easy life of crime and money and fancy cars and life in the fast lane. He enjoys the life of crime until it threatens to jeopardize the security of the life he has as a married man.It's a film very similar in theme to "The Godfather", but not quite up to that level of achievement. RAY LIOTTA has never gotten enough credit for his leading role while most of the acting awards went to JOE PESCI as the gun happy hood with an explosive temperament in an Oscar-winning supporting role.If you like this sort of thing, this will be your ticket. Some of the scenes have a strong impact with startling realism as far as the violence goes, and it moves smoothly toward a satisfactory "crime does not pay" conclusion. All of the performances are first rate and there's seldom a dull moment thanks to a soundtrack that includes a lot of pop songs of the period.


                
This is one of my favourites of this genre and for it to be based on true events makes it even better. Yes there could have been things that were done better but still a great movie


                
An extensively investigated, thoroughly detailed & wickedly amusing crime opus that's stylishly directed & brilliantly acted, Goodfellas is considered by some to be an even better crime drama than Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather and while I don't share the same sentiment, I don't deny its influence & impact on the films that followed into its footsteps.Goodfellas chronicles the rise & fall of mob associate Henry Hill & his friends from the 1950s to 1980s. The story follows his journey in the mafia world, covering his relationship with his wife and his two associates Jimmy Conway & Tommy DeVito, as the trio work their way up through the mob hierarchy, and culminates with the events that lead to their eventual downfall.Directed by Martin Scorsese, the film begins in the middle and then work its way around it before coming full circle in the end, thus taking us on a riotous journey that's never tiring. The dialogues are sharp & piercing, the chemistry between the trio has a genuine quality & a sense of brotherhood to it. The violence is brutal & unflinching, and the characters are lively & compelling.The filmmaking technicalities are handled really well, giving its images a frenzied vibe as if things may explode anytime without warning, and they do on multiple occasions. Also notable is the neat cinematography that makes its apt set pieces stand out. But the story as a whole still feels longer than it needed to be, and its 145 minutes runtime is severely felt during the second half.Coming to the performances, Goodfellas features a reliable cast in Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci & Ray Liotta, with Pesci stealing the show with a wild, deranged act that overshadows all in his vicinity. Liotta is in as Henry Hill and delivers an impressive lead show that only gets better with time. De Niro chips in with an assured input yet he feels somewhat under-utilised. Lorraine Bracco & Paul Sorvino also provide excellent support and leave a lasting impression of their own.On an overall scale, Goodfellas captures the glamorous & grisly side of organised crime with finesse and offers a consistently thrilling ride to finish as a fascinating example of its genre. The story is at its best when the screen is shared by the trio but loses steam when it focuses on their individual lives. Riveting at first, the film ends up running a tad too long for me and the interest is already lost by the time it nears its conclusion. A well-researched account of a real-life story, Goodfellas is admirable in its own ways but to rank it alongside The Godfather is pure lunacy.


                
Goodfellas is a wiseguy movie with them doing wiseguy things. You know: robbing and stealing. Beatings and wackings. Extorting and racketeering. Cussing and swearing. I don't want to minimize the movie to just that but that was the gist of it all.The movie is told from the view of Henry Hill (Ray Liotta), a gangster that loved mob life and all it had to offer. Henry Hill is essentially doing a tell all about being a mobster and how mobs operate.What I found most interesting about the movie my second time watching was how sanctimonious mobsters are. Almost like because they have rules that govern their illicit behavior they're better than other criminals. Sure, they'll rob, steal, kill and other crimes but their criminality is not like the criminality of others; almost like there is a nobility to their criminality. The reverence to that lifestyle and the Italian mafioso culture in general could be heard and felt throughout the movie. Henry Hill absolutely loved being a mobster. When I was younger I was fascinated by the lore of it as well (albeit from a great distance, as in from an audience watching on movies) but now I see them as criminals like anyone else. Granted, they are more successful at it than most and they have done very well with their PR but they are still criminals.Goodfellas actually made me see that as Henry narrated about the beatings and killings of criminal and innocent people. Henry was wrapped into all kinds of lowlife activity. His two pals James Conway (Robert De Niro) and Tommy Devito (Joe Pesci) were savages that would murder anyone in their way. And Tommy would murder just because--he had to be the worst mafia representative ever. So, Goodfellas, if anything, was good for drawing back the curtain on how the seedy world of Italian mobs worked.


                
RELEASED IN 1990 and directed by Martin Scorsese, "Goodfellas" tells the true story of Henry Hill (Ray Liotta) and his life through his teen years in the late 50s through his years in the Mob in the 60s-80s, covering his relationships with his wife (Lorraine Bracco), his mistress (Gina Mastrogiacomo), his Boss (Paul Sorvino) and his partners Jimmy Conway (Robert De Niro) & Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci) in the Italian-American crime syndicate in the New York City area.I'm not big on mob movies, but I have to admit that "Goodfellas" is consistently entertaining and delivers a potent message on misguided loyalties, greed and the folly of getting involved in organized crime regardless of its "great perks." In the long run it ain't worth it. I couldn't wait till the arrogant little POS Tommy (Pesci) bought the farm. The feminine cast is rounded out by Debi Mazar and Welker White. Even Samuel L. Jackson shows up.THE MOVIE RUNS 146 minutes and was shot mostly in the New York City/New Jersey area, but also Chicago & Tampa. WRITERS: Nicholas Pileggi with additional stuff from Scorsese.GRADE: B+


                
When I first heard of Goodfellas, I was intrigued. It wasn't about a a single part of a gangster's life, it wasn't about the one part where the gangster decided to move along, it wasn't all that sappy, stupid stuff. It was about the LIFE of a gangster, and that meant realism..Realism is a change sometimes, because it's either overused or underused. People make it so hyper-realistic, it may be a bit boring. On the latter, they use so many things to make it unrealistic that it doesn't even make sense to watch it. But realism works as a counterpart, and it was a film by Martin Scorsese. Who could go wrong with that?I turned it on, watched it, and enjoyed it. It worked as a gangster movie, but anything outside of that? I had some mixed feelings...The acting was brilliant. Everything did such an amazing job, I was surprised at how good it was. Especially how I've heard some scenes were acted how by REAL gangsters. And some scenes weren't told to the background actors, so their reactions were real and surprised.. The screenplay was really well-done. The jokes weren't supposed to be laugh- out-loud funny, but the actors played their parts and perfected them. Their sarcastic behavior made it THIS much more enjoyable and I had a grin upon my face the entire time.. The thing that made this the best was how the whole film reflected of the entire life of a gangster, and how things go in between. Instead of believing I was just watching a movie, I believed I was watching the unfolding of a gangster's life. We have the start, the life of them, the ups and downs, and how everything just goes downhill. We go on an array of emotions and much more. Classic.. But there seemed to be a problem with all of this. Although the movie broke-ground for future movies, there seemed to be this blandness to it. I don't know what it was. I loved the movie as a whole, but looking as I hadn't seen it when it became a classic, it seemed a bit contrived maybe? It seems sad to say that because I wanted to like it more than I had. But something seemed wrong. Something seemed not Scorsese about it... Bad things stop there. The movie really was great, and I really do recommend watching it. But as it receives such high praise, maybe I had too much expectation(s) to surpass the un-originality the film gave to me. But the film was good, no doubt about it.7/10.
Machavelli would have been proud of GoodFellas. No characters are glorified or given unreal motives for their actions. This movie is not driven by fantasy or great one-liners, yet it is totally engrossing. The violence is sickening but motivated. These men are ruthless, they are not characters in a movie jockeying for attention. They are pure Machavelli, what is expedient is necessarily right. In this life, if it is more convenient to have you dead... watch your back and never trust your friends especially if they are smiling.This is the real Mafia; life at its most dangerous. A complex game where everything is for sale and anyone is expendable. Whatever works is right. Machavelli himself couldn't have a better movie demonstrating his theories.


                
Gangster movies are always popular; they combine the quick action of the Wild West with a certain degree of politeness and courtesy that makes the whole world seem intriguingly different to anything else you've seen. And it makes for reasonable cinema; but it's not the film many people make it out to be. It's enjoyable, and it probably will hold your attention. The fact that it's based on a true story, too, adds a little quality to it that makes it intriguing. But the character development is limited; only De Niro's character really seems to move during the film, and in that way, reality loses out to cinema fiction here. As a documentary, I think something like this would have been very fascinating. As a film, though, it seems to be lacking something somewhere down the line.When all's said and done, it's a decent and enjoyable film, but there are plenty of better films out there. It's worth a watch, sure. It has some good performances, from an impressive cast - De Niro's performance is as good as you might hope or expect from him - and the film's ending is certainly memorable. But at the end, it feels a little stretched at 2 1/2 hours, and it falls short of being spectacular.


                
Goodfellas is an overrated gangster movie, kind of like the Godfather except it's better. The movie might be overrated but I still like it. The story is interesting, especially since it's true although I'm sure it's been quite fictionalized to make a good movie. The acting in the movie is good especially by Joe Pesci. He's a funny guy. So see this movie. bye.


                
Goodfellas is about a journey of an outsider who makes it good in the world of Italian mafia, and befriends two mobs for the remainder of his career. Much like Forrest Gump, its a story being told largely through one person' point of view. I conclude at the end that although the movie was exteremely enjoyable, its a bit overrated and it did not bear any lasting images in my psyche. There isn't a single aspect that strikes me as memorable or powerful. Thus it irritates me to no end that Goodfellas is constantly being compared to The Godfather, because I couldn't disagree more. What makes The Godfather so good is that its not really about gangsters running a business, but a deep look on family relationships and how their respective roles and personalities contribute to the family's successes and downfall. Goodfellas is only about three men working together, having the time of their lives, and occasionally punching and kicking their way through obstacles before things starts to fall apart at the end - nothing is out of the ordinary. The only message I get from the story is that becoming a gangster gives you power, but you must pay for that power dearly in exchange for absolute loyalty. Problem is, I've heard of this countless of times already.Goodfellas has a great cast (especially Pesci), nicely paced storyline and unfortunately an average soundtrack trying hard to "capture" the feel of the period. I like it and its really entertaining, but at the same time its an utterly forgettable gangster movie.


                
Martin Scorsese directs a thrilling movie about a man living th gangster life. Ray Liotta and Robert De Niro may have had stella performamces, as well as the rest of the cast, but Joe Pesci completely stole the entire film with his character. The film dooes have some slow moments, but is overall a good film.


                
Strong performances is its saving grace but as a movie overall, Goodfellas runs way too longer than it should have & although is a well researched account of organized crime, it still falls short of the greatness of The Godfather. Martin Scorsese directs & nicely creates the dark atmosphere surrounding this film by making it gritty & realistic but the story, which in simple terms depicts the rise & fall of Henry Hill in the mobster world, felt like going on & on without any idea of where it's headed & soon I found myself completely detached to it. Joe Pesci outshines among the performers followed by brilliant Ray Liotta as Henry Hill. As for Robert De Niro, he wasn't used to his full potential and felt unneeded in this film. Period. A second viewing might change this current opinion of mine but as for now, Goodfellas is a major disappointment.


                
Let me start off by saying that the movie was terribly downgraded by the use of narrative throughout. Scorcese did the narrative technique five years later with Casino and it ruined the film. Imagine hat a mess The Godfather or Scarface would have been with wall-to-wall narrative. So unnecessary and it takes away the feel of the movie. It's actually a crutch.That said, Liotta turned in a Best Actor Oscar worthy performance.I don't think he was even nominated. Peschi deserved his Oscar for Best Suppoting actor. Both guys were intense and turned in flawless performances. DeNiro, oddly enough, turned in a sub par performance. His character was very understated and showed noting of the deranged killer he was to have portrayed. Lots of great scenes and period pieces. The rock n' roll soundtrack worked well. Lots of tunes from the Rolling Stones' 1972 album, "Exile on Main Street", as well as other Stones songs. But oh, what could have been. Take away the narrative and allow the characters to develop within the context of the film and it's a classic.
The gangster movie has gone through a lot of changes, especially since being reinvented as high drama with The Godfather pictures in the 1970s. Such classics soon become clichés and in the 80s gangster movies were often spoofs (Prizzi's Honor, Married to the Mob). Goodfellas opened a new chapter of serious yet very stylish crime flicks.Goodfellas was, back then, a comparative rarity in the genre in that it is based on a true story. And storywise it is as a much a documentary as it is a good yarn. Most scenes, when considered individually are simply revelations of gangster life, and the almost constant narration more or less acknowledges this. It's only when viewed as a whole that an entire story arc starts to emerge. But there is also continual structure in the arrangement of each little anecdote. Take for example the pair of scenes in the bar with "Spider". These go together, but you need to know that some time has passed in between them. Writers Nicholas Pilleggi and Martin Scorsese throw in a quick in-between-scene of Ray Liotta and Lorraine Bracco arguing. This demonstrates that other events have gone on in the meantime, but also keeps the tense, gritty atmosphere riding along. The vibrant language and frequent diversions into wisecracking make this a forerunner to the dialogue-for-the-sake-of-dialogue school of screen writing which Quentin Tarantino would soon specialise in.Martin Scorsese's direction closely follows the narration, both in its content and its snappy pace. Like Hitchcock his camera is constantly roving around, leading us by the hand and making us look at things. In effect he's illustrating Henry Hill's words. And often he's showing a little more than that. Sometimes there's a cheeky counterpoint between words and images. There are also some clever pull-back-and-reveal shots. In one early shot we see a close-up of some liquor changing hands. The camera pulls out to show that the booze is being used to bribe a couple of cops. We are continually bombarded with ideas, continually pushed and pulled through the narrative. Of course, a lot of Scorsese's technical business here – the zooms, jump cuts and lengthy tracking shots are just cinematic wheelies, and headache-inducing ones at that. But so long as you can put up with them you have to admire the rhythmic precision with which the whole thing has been put together.There is however another downside to the overtly technical style at work here. We don't really get to see the performances at their best. Poor old Ray Liotta probably did the best work of his life here, but it's all chopped up in little bits, and all we get is occasional looks, flashes, half-gestures. The same goes for Lorraine Bracco. Robert De Niro apparently did extensive research into his character, but there doesn't seem to have been much point since he is more or less the same as all the other Italian American gangsters he has played in his career. The only player who really comes out well here is Joe Pesci. Pesci has such charisma and presence that he commands attention even in small doses. It also helps that his style is very much in tune with the punchy dialogue and staccato rhythm of the whole piece.Coming from the peak in Scorsese's abilities as a director of tight control over every aspect, Goodfellas could easily have fallen into the trap of being nothing but a showy technical exercise. The only thing that saves it is the fact that its subject matter is so interesting. Old and established as the gangster movie is, this one reveals so many sordid truths and fascinating facts about that lifestyle, and does so in such a direct, never-a-dull-moment manner, that it gives the whole genre a jolting jump-start.


                
I will divide my review into following 5 categories each accounting a maximum of 100%(if perfect) ________________________________________________________________ Visual Pleasure:[75%] This is a classic mobster movie. I've seen quite a few mobster movies including all-time greats like Godfather 1,2; but i've never been visually pleased with them. They are all smooth but none of them visually stun me.Director's Work:[100%] Martin Scorsese is a legend. I feel everything he does is flawless. With this film again he has done an exceptional job. Any director couldn't have done anything more to make this film better.Acting:[100%] This is the best part of the movie. Every actor fits into his/her role perfectly. The execution and the dialogue delivery from all the actors was truly remarkable.Entertainment Value:[71%] This is the thing that let me down. I wasn't fully entertained by this movie and this factor contributes a lot in my rating. Sure there were some parts that I liked a lot but not as a whole. Maybe people who love Gangster movies will like it a lot more than I did.Script:[90%] The script was again very good. The narration and screenplay was also impressive.__________________________________________________________________ My Advice: People who loved Godfather will love this one. Anyone out there looking for a well-acted and a well-directed film, this one is for you._____ 7.4/10


                
Haven't we seen it all many times before? A boy wants to be a gangster, he becomes a gangster, he rises in ranks, gets very influential, very much money, girls, wives, drugs, killings, robberies and it all becomes to much for him. He can't cope and in the end he is redempted. To me it was just another gangster-movie.Anyway, I found it enjoyable; the first half was good entertainment, and I found myself very interested in continuing watching. The story of Henry Hill was somewhat fascinating although it felt like I had seen it before. But then again, after some 100 minutes I'd had enough. The killings, drugs, money and "gangster-stuff" had done it's time and I just wanted to see how it ended and be over with it.It must be said that I'm not a big fan of gangster-movies or Scorsese in general, but I can see that this is a good movie, although weaker than "The Departed", a very good, more original and Scorseses best, movie.In conclusion "Goodfellas" is fairly entertaining, a movie I will watch again if it happens to be on TV on a boring day, but I won't buy it on DVD. Goodfellas is good, it's not great, and therefore overrated. 7/10
