A BEAUTIFUL MIND (2001) Rating: 10/10A Beautiful Mind's greatest achievement, in my humble opinion, is the way it makes schizophrenia accessible to "sane" people. The general public knows schizophrenics tend to talk to themselves, repeat certain actions and do things generally at odds with the norm. But why? It's nearly impossible for a "sane" individual to understand why this happens...and more importantly, what that feels like. Without this essential empathy, many people become frustrated with the mentally ill, asking why patients can't pull themselves together and just bear up. We express this same impatience with the criminally insane who act upon delusions with disastrous results. It is incomprehensible.A Beautiful Mind does all it can to change that, and it succeeds. Unless you are familiar with John Nash's story, you probably won't guess he's schizophrenic until part-way into the movie. He's eccentric, abrupt, and highly intelligent, but doesn't seem crazy. His delusions are as real as reality to Nash, and likewise, they are real to the audience, who cannot tell the difference between truth and delusion.Incidentally, I came across a review from a "professional critic" who blasted A Beautiful Mind for including "all that spying stuff that had nothing to do with Nash's work that was thrown in for Hollywood thrill." I feel bad for that chap, since he missed the entire point of the film. But that just proves Ron Howard's genius in creating a picture of insanity indistinguishable from reality.There are some truly shocking moments in A Beautiful Mind. When Alicia finds her husband's secret cache of newspaper clippings behind their house, I was eerily reminded of Jack Nicholson's wife in The Shining discovering his endless, typewritten pages of the same phrase. The scene that follows, culminating with Nash's realization that his delusions are indeed a false reality is brilliant. In a moment, remembering Marcee, Nash has a flash of insight, and he finally accepts his illness -- ironically, through his intellect. When Nash imagines that someone is going to harm Alicia, he lunges at her -- and only through his eyes do we see how a seemingly senseless act of violence is a gesture of love, filtered through the smog of delusion.Now my take on the acting: Superb in every sense of the word. Russell Crowe is incredible. I can't stress that enough. There's never any question about the authenticity of his character. Crowe doesn't rely on his elaborate makeup to age Nash -- his walk, words, and voice do that elegantly in the movie's end. Crowe will get at least another Oscar nomination out of this one. And, he better win. Jennifer Connelly is amazing as well. And when Crowe and Connelly are put together, extraordinary chemistry erupts, they just gel together, they really belong with one another. Some people have had problems with the romance part of the movie, saying that the way John and Alicia even started seeing each other wasn't very realistic and why Alicia would stay with John after he becomes distant. But, I think that maybe it started out as just a crush, you know, and the math question she showed him was just her excuse for going to his office and she already knew she was going to ask him out before hand. Maybe she's just attracted to the kind of person Nash is? Who knows? A lot of people are attracted to the "weirdest" things sometimes. The crush took over the fact that he sort of insulted her work and she still asked him anyway. When you're around someone you like so much you can't help but be fooled by them. I can't really explain it, but I can understand why she still asked him to dinner. And I guess if you love someone as much as Alicia loved John, then you would stick with them through anything. Even how distant he became, she still stuck with him.Moving on, I think Ed Harris is, as always, great. Harris continues to prove that, simply because he's flawless. With delusions like these, no wonder Nash was torn between treatment and "spying."Simply put, A Beautiful Mind is a film which extends far beyond the 2 hours and 15 minutes that you will spend viewing it in the theater. The characters continued to haunt me after the movie (and still do), thanks to the Oscar-inducing performances by Russell Crowe, Jennifer Connelly and all of the supporting players. They are not merely acting, yet are transformed into the characters, leaving no trace of a line between their part and reality.Of course a film is only as good as a screenplay would allow, and the story contained within is written in a way that compliments everything that is truly great about A Beautiful Mind. Ron Howard contributes truly inspiring work to this film, and I hope that the critics remember him when awards are being given out.All I can tell you now is that if you're looking for an emotionally-charged movie that will make you cry, but still filters in some very funny moments as to lighten things up every now and then, with near perfect acting, cinematography, directing, editing and a screenplay which will cause the story of John Nash to inspire you, then consider A Beautiful Mind.I hope a lot of people see this film. Not just because Russell Crowe is a hunk or because it's a Ron Howard piece, but because you will learn something important. You will learn why compassion is an absolute must when dealing with the mentally ill. You won't glare at the next person you see muttering to themselves. And when someone you love is dealing with a disorder, be it schizophrenia or depression, you won't ask them to "pull themselves together." You will understand why they need your love -- because they are just as confused as you are.In closing, if Russell Crowe isn't awarded the Best Actor Oscar this year, then my faith in movies and its rewards system will be seriously tarnished.
I think its a good idea to know as little as possible about this movie before seeing it.  Now that I've seen it, the commercials on television seem to be giving away too much.  With that in mind DO NOT READ THIS IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT!Its a hard movie to pinpoint.  Its not like any other movie I've ever seen, in that a character exists that is not real.  John Nash's mind is the reality of the movie and its not until the movie is half over that you realize this and its jarring that you've been taken on a ride with this man's illness, and accepted it as the real world.  Its also a very heartbreaking thing.From the middle point, John and you see the world differently because he starts to receive treatment.Russell Crowe does not overdo it for a minute and turns in his customary brilliant performance.  Would not surprise me at all if he were to win his second Best Actor Oscar in March 2002.  He really is that good.
Just as good but with less screen time is the beautiful and beautifully talent Jennifer Connelly, who the world may finally get to see in a mainstream movie.  Her chemistry with Crowe is vital to the movie and neither of them disappoint the audience at all in that respect.
I enjoyed it immensely and felt like I had seen a movie when it was over. I was shown a person at their best and the worse and everything in between, by a masterful actor at the top of his game.I am sure Ron Howard deserves a lot of credit that he won't get, too.


                
I went along to the movies not really wanting to see this movie, thinking it was a 'girly' movie, one which had more technical skill rather than a storyline. I was surprised more than anything I could imagine. I have seen a lot of movies in my time, but this movie just took me by storm. Its uniqueness, ironically enough because it was based on a real life situation was a refreshing change from the usual Hollywood blockbuster. This movie provided a brilliant (pardon the pun) insight into many aspects of a genius at work. This movie touched me on many levels. The psychology of the movie was intriguing, the mathematical philosophies was actually realistic from my own experience, and the icing on the cake making the movie stand out was surprisingly the humanistic side of Love. While love is a common basis in most movies, the interaction of this theme with other aspects of the plot was planned phenomenlly. As for the cast, I have never noticed the actual difference in skill between many actors/actresses before. I like Mel Gibson, Tom Cruise etc, but I wouldn't be able to pinpoint a classic actor's performance. But Russell Crowe in this film showed me what it was like to act in a way where I was in awe of his skill in playing this character, especially when considering the extreme difference from characters in his other movies such as the Gladiator and The Insider. Russell Crowe was one of the big reasons this movie was so brilliant. Added to that the stellar performances of Jennifer Connelly, Ed Harris and Adam Goldberg, and this made for the 'perfect' movie. A Beautiful Mind was by far the most original, intelligent and entertaining movie I have ever seen. And this from a movie I didn't expect big things from. Kudos to Ron Howard, the cast and the crew of this movie. It was truly worthy of the Oscar, and Russell Crowe was definately the most deserving of this production team to miss out on the highest accolade. Perhaps politics played a bigger part than I previously would have thought.


                
I wasn't actually planning on going to see "A Beautiful Mind" in the first place, but as it was, I was convinced by the friend that accompanied me that it was truly something to see. And now, after seeing it, I thank her for that. Instead of spending two and a half hours watching George Clooney and Matt Damon rob casinos or Kevin Spacey and Julianne Moore dealing with their problems in New Foundland, I found myself pulled into another kind of story, a powerful, emotional story of how one man learned to battle his own demons and dazzle the world."A Beautiful Mind", based on the novel by Sylvia Nasar, is the story of John Forbes Nash Jr., the genius mathematician, whose life suddenly takes a turn for the worse when he is diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. After fierce battles with his inner self, he overcomes this and returns to win the Nobel Prize in 1994 for his brakethrough game theory in economics that he had been working on during his years in Princeton University in the 1950s.John Nash, portrayed very well by the versatile and brilliant Russell Crowe, is a partly shy, yet ironic and sometimes even arrogant, gifted young student studying in Princeton University in the late 1940s. He dedicates his time to numbers and equations, set on to solving every problem at hand, rather than mingling with co-students on the football field or in the pub.Nash is later on introduced to Sylvia (played by the lovely Jennifer Connely), a physics student attending his classes. She helps Nash to open up and eventually discover love.Enter William Parcher (played by Ed Harris), a shadowy and mysterious agent working for the Department of Defense. Parcher, after realizing Nash's ability to see mathematical and geometrical patterns everywhere, approaches Nash with a mission that involves national security.Now, amidst his work and relationship, Nash is suddenly thrown into a whirlwind of emotions and disbeliefs as he is diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. And this is the part where "A Beautiful Mind" truly shines: in portraying the disorder from Nash's own point of view. In a powerful and emotional way, it shows the viewer how difficult an illness like this can be to not only face, but overcome, something that people today may not always realize.Before seeing this movie, I must admit that I was a bit afraid that casting such a well-known actor as Russell Crowe as the main character would ruin the image of John Nash, forcing the viewer to see Crowe, rather than Nash. This is a common problem when dealing with famous actors, but to my surprise, it didn't much bother me much. And the same goes for Ed Harris.As a movie, "A Beautiful Mind" is absolutely great (It is so much more, but I cannot find the words to praise it enough, so I will simply go with "great" =). Not only does it have a strong point and an importaint message to the viewer, but it delivers it in a touching and sensitive, partly even humourous kind of way, with the help of powerful actors, a great screenplay and even a few special effects to boost it up. So for anyone whose grown tired of the consant pointless action-movies out there, and instead want to immerse themselves into a character-driven story that might actually bring a tear to your eyes, I sincerily recommend "A Beautiful Mind".
Ed Harris, Russel Crowe, Jennifer Connelly, and Paul Bettany were terrific.The film had great balance and is worth a viewing.The story boldly addresses mental illness as a handicap.Because of the quality of the acting and directing, this movie is a beacon of hope for people of all disabilities. The film illustrates to the viewer how deeply a handicap can infiltrate the domestic, professional, and personal lives of those unfortunate to have these types of issues. I hope Ron Howard and the acting crew can get together again for something similar. This was a great film, that also serves an important role for awareness to people that might not understand how deeply debilitating these issues can be, and also gets the message across that not all should be marginalized.


                
It's not that common people knew John Forbes Nash jr., a Princeton mathematician after he recieved Nobel Prize for his "Game Theory". It's not that people started to know him after Sylvia Nasar wrote his biography. What made John Nash a household name is Ron Howard's brilliant direction and Russell Crowe's excellent performance as the scizophrenic genious.Russell Crowe exceeds all of his past performances in this film. He did not act as Nash, he became Nash. His facial expression while solving a problem, his innocent and shy smile during romantic sequences and his vacant look during the time of scizophrenia are in a word magnificient, and shockingly original. Jennifer Connelly also put a beautiful performance as his devoted wife Alicia. The actings of these two are the core of success of this film. I am still in a dark why Crowe is denied his Oscar for the best actor.
Ron Howard changed the original story in some places a bit, but only to make it more enjoyable. His main goal was to feature Nash's point of view to his world and he has succeeded totally. The shot in the cafe` where Nash first understands the significance of the application of his theory is brilliantly taken and is the best example of Howard's genious as a filmmaker. The make-up throughout the film is drop-dead gorgeous as they showed Nash and Alicia aging in the course of the film. Thus the Russell Crowe in the beginning and the Russell Crowe in the end become two different entities due to the superb art of the make-up artists.A Beautiful Mind will be considered one of the best biopics ever. It is dramatic, descriptive, detailed, reflective, enthusiastic, heroic and in all, a beautiful film. 10/10.
What if you saw things that weren't there? Met people that didn't exist? Went through life not knowing what is real? Sadly, that is the case for real life doctor, John Nash. He has schizophrenia. But he doesn't know it yet. He is a brilliant mathematician who is socially awkward and doesn't like people. The few people he does like are his roommate Charles and his boss Parcher. The problem is, they may be imaginary. When his wife tells him that he has delusions, he doesn't believe it and will stop at nothing to prove that he is right. Russell Crowe plays a very convincing schizophrenic and does a great job portraying this horribly troubled doctor at various stages in his life. I love movies that are based on true stories, such as this one, and what makes them even better is if they are inspirational, such as this one. It is indeed a beautiful movie and one that demands multiple viewings.


                
It is difficult to acknowledge anyone who is above and beyond the run of the mill!! People possessing ability or prodigal genius are often times, not even aware of it!!Russel Crowe is sensational in this movie, as he plays Nobel Peace Prize winner, John Nash!! A critical prerequisite to an actor or actress executing a role effectively, is that he or she can astutely grasp a thorough understanding of the role itself!! This film has a performance by Russel Crowe that can be compared with Tom Hanks performance in "Forrest Gump" and Matt Damon's performance in "Good Will Hunting". All three actors in these movies established a noteworthy precedent in the cinema industry by portraying characters who had an intense comprehension of the character's adamant convictions!! In all three cases, these characters had a self worth which exuded an unintentional greatness!! "A Beautiful Mind" deals with an individual named John Nash, a hermit with an unassuming cerebral charisma who is considered gifted (i.e. not normal). The denotative explanation of normal is ordinary... This individual is extraordinary!! Not normal is often times referred to in these precarious terms... strange, different, or unusual!!! A person who drives a Rolls Royce is strange!! A baseball team that wins the World Series is different!! A person who becomes a CEO of a Fortune 500 Company is unusual!! An exceptionally brilliant mind is not normal, this movie depicts the ramifications of such a blessing in disguise!!! Reality becomes a rude awakening for John Nash (Russel Crowe). His brilliance is not always easy to empathize with because his actions are so reckless!! He perpetually demonstrates a relentless affliction with formidable schizophrenic influences!! Many people who deal with John Nash encounter this illness with trepidation, and it throws them into a tailspin!! For John Nash, this is an obsessive preoccupation which requires a necessary detachment!! The producers of this movie want the audience to view John Nash's (Russel Crowe's) mental handicap like you are from the outside looking in!! It is for this reason that this movie manufactures a succinct obviation of emotional security for John Nash as a way of giving the movie audience a thorough conception of Professor Nash's dilemma!! Ultimately, he attains a noteworthy recognition from Princeton's prominent academia!! This is an accolade which most of us only dream about!! Ronny Howard and Brian Grazer do a remarkable job at directing this film, as their creativity homogenizes!! Their cooperation with the coordinating producers, as well as the actors and actresses in the movie, was not perfunctory, rather, they engaged in a rudimentary commiseration with virtually everyone who was involved in the creation of this film!! The acting in this movie is terrific!! Why the acting is so terrific in this movie, is mostly on account of the fact that all of the performers in this film were mutually challenged!! "A Beautiful Mind" is a marvelous film which left an indelible impact on the intellectually sensitive movie viewers!! Perhaps many of them painstakingly pondered the statement of "I need to believe that something extraordinary is possible". What is normal is ordinary, and, what is not normal has the potential to be extraordinary!! If you stop and think about it, it is truly enlightening when something extraordinary occurs!! If you can thoroughly conceptualize this, than the directors of this film have attained a zenith in artistic gratification which is absolutely spectacular!!


                
The movie create an atmosphere like dreaming with smoothly revolving camera angles. I came in knowing that Nash had schizophrenia because I unfortunately encountered a spoiler while going over reviews here, but I wasn't able to tell which part was delusional because of the hypnotizing tone of the movie. Genius Ron Howard somehow managed to filter all the flaws of filming itself to present a story that is whispering love and persistence in every shot, every line, every insignificant details in the picture. I just finished the movie 3 minutes ago, and all my goals and plans for today are washed away, I can't think about anything but my love for this film.No need to add to many comments you probably have read here, but Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly rock.In social life, nerds and inconsiderate people like John Nash are the first combatants that are cleared out of the colosseum, but the stunning acting of Russell and Jennifer convinces the audience that the love between John Nash and Alicia Nash can't be explain by our shallow knowledge about falling in love. They are above the level of attractive girls falling for attractive boys, their nature, or something deeper, is drawing them closer and closer to form a romance that touch the world with its purity and depth. Alicia didn't marry John for money, safety or his appearance, because John here looks like a wrinkled bear. Alicia loved him because he was where she belonged, and the first appearance of Alicia punched the concept in me that she knew it as soon as she saw him, because she was staring at him with sparkling beauty. It was love at first sight.The settings were also cool, the scene where Alicia cracked open the door of John's office and the cottage near their house is mind-blowing. The scene of numbers glowing and floating out of screens in the Pentagon and from the magazines lying on the floor was also a genius representation of intelligence, exceeding the BBC drama Sherlock Holmes. It actually makes no sense because they are just random clippings of random magazines, but it also force the audience into believing there are some secret messages embodied in these random paragraphs because we are seeing this from a genius' perspective, it's adjusted to a level of intelligence beyond ours. But after seeing the abandoned building from Alicia's eyes, who was a sign of sanity, in which the windows that shadows were escaping and dogs are barking, were sealed with cement. The pile of envelops tell both Nash and us, that the whole conspiracy thing isn't real, it's as ridiculous as the 911 being plotted by the US government or the world tricking you into believing that you have a nose.The music is most effective tool the movie uses to mark out the climaxes and the turning points. James Horner was a gift from the god, I cried when he was taken away 2 months earlier. All the music in here is exciting, but it was exciting mixed with sadness, sense of shock, sense of hope or sense of pride. It always grabbed the audience's attention like a mighty hand, and squeezed their heart until they choke with pain. I think Ron Howard should've buy Horner a drink after the Oscar ceremony.All the Oscar-winning movies perfectly explain something about humanity, and form a explanation in the audience's heart that can't be explained by the simple word "love" or "friendship" or "support", but we find ourselves somehow different when we walk out of the movie theaters half dreaming half awake while mumbling something like "It's hell of a movie."I will think of John Nash when I'm walking my dogs in my 80s, I'll think of him when I am unemployed and wandering on the street, I will think of him when I'm kissing my boyfriend.Image of John writing on the windows in his dorm is still flashing through my mind.Image of Alicia holding the baby to her chest with terror is still flashing though my mind.Image of the little girl opening up her arms is still flashing though my mind.Image of the Charles pushing the table down the window is still flashing through my mind.Image of the paper about Game Theory is still flashing through my mind.Image of old Alicia smiling with tear in Noble Prize ceremony stabbed my heart."You are the only reason I am, you are all my reasons.""Thank you."
A truly brilliant story, filmed in a truly brilliant fashion with truly brilliant acting by esp. Russell Crowe & Jennifer Connelly :) Very hard to top this movie for those fans who consider themselves to be(semi)intellectuals :) The complex subject of schizophrenia is explained in a way I have never seen before. Around this central theme, another very moving story evolves of true love by an incredibly courageous & wise partner as played very convincingly by Jennifer Connelly. The special traditions and customs of a typical upper class University add yet another fine flavor to this superb movie. Well deserved awards, but too few as Russell Crowe is simply magnificent :)


                
"A Beautiful Mind" is brilliant. Brian Grazer and Ron Howard did an amazing job once again, the movie deserving the 4 Oscars and 4 Golden Globes, no doubt about that. It was clearly the best movie of 2001, actually one of the best movies I've ever seen. The movie tells the story of the well-known mathematician John Nash, picturing his life from the moment he arrived at Princeton, until the winning of the Nobel Prize in the late 90's (for his extraordinary work in game theory, his work being a true foundation of economics). "A Beautiful Mind" is pretty accurate with the historical truth, presenting most of the struggles in Nash's life, although not all of them. The plot was amazing, in my opinion another thing that impressed the people at the Academy. The viewer is made to see almost all the film through the eyes of John Nash, ignoring all the subtle hints at the mental-illness he is suffering of, everything making a lot of sense at the end of the movie. Also, the acting was amazing, and it really mattered. Russell Crowe's portrayal of John Nash was just stunning, culminating with the moments picturing Nash old and with his amazing body-language, the kind of things that even the best actors struggle with. This performance was clearly 
Crowe's best. Of course, Jennifer Connelly's acting shouldn't be overlooked. She knew how to handle all the moments of the movie flawlessly. In my opinion, despite everything else, the most important part of the film is John Nash's inner-fight with his problems. From the heights of academical glory and recognition, to the depths of his mental-illness, John Nash is experiencing everything. Above all, the film gets into the deepest of Nash's
mind of soul. The movie expresses so well Nash's genius that there are no words to explain. Truly beautiful and honest.No more words to say, judging with a very critical view, the film would get a rating of 9/10, because of the few historical truths hidden. Although, in my point view, the omitted truths can be easily ignored so it is maybe the most honest 10/10 rating I ever gave. The film is more than a 2-hour video, it
is the story of a genius, a story of both love and bravery. Bogdan Teodorescu, 4th of March 2018R.I.P. John Forbes Nash and Alicia Nash, 2015, amazing peoplePARENTAL ADVISORY! The movie is very explicit, showing schizofrenia at it's worst. This can be very disturbing for children and for adults too.


                
Well written and great acting. Ron Howard did a fine job directing. Worth a watch


                
"Classes will dull your mind, destroy the potential for authentic creativity." A Beautiful Mind shows that Russel Crowe is a very complete actor. Not only can he play a ruthless by vengeance driven gladiator or a brutal cop, but he also delivers as a brilliant but asocial mathematician. He's not an actor, who turns everything he touches into gold, but he shines in a handful amazing movies. A Beautiful Mind has a great plot, where half of the time I don't even no what to think or believe. At times the movie grabs you by the throat and it doesn't let go. It's really intense. It's such a sad film also, and you sympathize with both main characters. The beautiful Jennifer Connelly plays Russell Crowe's wife and she shows so much loyalty, but on the other hand, she doesn't have much of a choice. She can't leave someone in that state. Hopefully this doesn't spoil to much. They are of course adopted from a real story, and maybe that's why they're such deep and well written characters. Jennifer Connelly did such an amazing job performing in this movie. While watching it, I thought to myself that she should have won an Oscar for it, to later find out she actually did. Ron Howard won the Oscar for best Director. He did a really great job and it's well deserved. I especially like the soundtrack. He uses such calm background music and it fits perfectly. It gives a real sad, but also soothing vibe. The last couple of scenes gave me so many chills (in a good way), even watching it for the second time. A Beautiful Mind is a beautiful movie. 9,6/10.


                
"Classes will dull your mind, destroy the potential for authentic creativity." A Beautiful Mind shows that Russel Crowe is a very complete actor. Not only can he play a ruthless by vengeance driven gladiator or a brutal cop, but he also delivers as a brilliant but asocial mathematician. He's not an actor, who turns everything he touches into gold, but he shines in a handful amazing movies. A Beautiful Mind has a great plot, where half of the time I don't even no what to think or believe. At times the movie grabs you by the throat and it doesn't let go. It's really intense. It's such a sad film also, and you sympathize with both main characters. The beautiful Jennifer Connelly plays Russell Crowe's wife and she shows so much loyalty, but on the other hand, she doesn't have much of a choice. She can't leave someone in that state. Hopefully this doesn't spoil to much. They are of course adopted from a real story, and maybe that's why they're such deep and well written characters. Jennifer Connelly did such an amazing job performing in this movie. While watching it, I thought to myself that she should have won an Oscar for it, to later find out she actually did. Ron Howard won the Oscar for best Director. He did a really great job and it's well deserved. I especially like the soundtrack. He uses such calm background music and it fits perfectly. It gives a real sad, but also soothing vibe. The last couple of scenes gave me so many chills (in a good way), even watching it for the second time. A Beautiful Mind is a beautiful movie. 9,6/10.


                
Amazing actor made me cry when people was laugh at him. Awesome movie.
It will not happen again!


                
A brilliant mathematician but anti-social person by the name of John Nash begins having some new acquaintances with whom he seems to achieve the most important work of his life. He marries his beautiful and caring wife and starts secretly working for a mysterious person in an attempt to break a powerful encryption. All seems to go flawlessly but suddenly, a highly unexpected disease is discovered in his body, one that seems to have affected almost everything he has ever done. From there on, a very painful struggle begins, one on which his entire life depends on.It's a very sad movie which seems to tell in its beginning the story of an extraordinary man but suddenly decides to present a very unexpected turn which leaves you completely dazzled. As much as it is mind blowing, as much it increases the drama of the entire movie, keeping you eager to find out the finale of this brilliant plot. The actors do a very good job reenacting their characters, managing to create a highly dramatic atmosphere which transmits emotion with every single scene it describes. I cannot explain how much this movie marked me with its incredible story and characters which ultimately ends with great style. It truly is a masterpiece, making it a must see for every single movie lover.


                
As Saturday night propositions go, the pitch for "A Beautiful Mind" is about as enticing as playing Happy Families with Fred West.But put Russell Crowe in the cinematic equation and Ron Howard's latest portion of Academy-friendly fare becomes a good deal more appetising. Just as the brusque Antipodean's intensity and screen charisma blinded audiences to the flaws in "Gladiator", so he delivers another astonishing performance that more than compensates for this film's weaker facets.A (highly) fictionalised biopic of real-life maths whizz John Forbes Nash Jr, it follows the socially stunted prodigy from his professional beginnings as a nervous freshman at Princeton, through Cold War spy machinations, and his struggle to hold together his marriage to fellow mathematician Alicia (Connelly).Crowe is totally convincing - from 19-year-old student to OAP - giving a truth to Akiva Goldsman's occasionally twee dialogue and bringing fear and excitement to the most off-putting of subjects. Facing off with such a formidable, scene-stealing star would terrify a lesser actor than Jennifer Connelly, but she matches Crowe scene for scene. With a glamour and grace reminiscent of a 40s film star, and unafraid to suffer some unflattering close-ups of her angst- contorted face, the Golden Globe-winner delivers a performance that should see her secure a place on the A-list.Another supporting player who signals his Hollywood arrival is Brit Paul Bettany, as Nash's enigmatic best friend - fulfilling the promise he showed in both "Gangster No.1" and "A Knight's Tale".In truth it's the acting that makes the movie, for while Howard does a good job of actually making sums exciting - and pulls off a masterful narrative shift halfway through - he can't sidestep the pacing problems of biopics that try to cram in their subjects' entire life - perfunctorily whizzing through decades in the final half hour.Still, such problems are forgivable as the tear-stained finale crowns a moving love story.Who'd have thought algebra could be so exciting?
One of my friends suggested me this movie. I wasn't aware of the plot beforehand. Neither I knew about the person on whom this movie was based. Which fortunately turned this to an even more intriguing for me. Maybe that is why my first recommendation would be do not research anything beforehand in order to avoid despoiling the surprises of this movie. These types of movies expect nil information about the plot on the viewers part. That is how they will successfully bind you.A beautiful mind is an American biographical drama film based on the life of John Nash, a Nobel Laureate in Economics. In this movie, John Nash was suffering from a disease schizophrenia. Now the question arrives, What the hell is Schizophrenia? Imagine if you suddenly learned that the people, the places, the moments most important to you were not gone, not dead, but worse, had never been. What kind of hell would that be? This movie is the answer. It shows, How John Nash proves that psychiatrists were wrong about schizophrenia being a brain disease like Alzheimers and Parkinson's. How he refuses to hospitalize himself and courageously decides to tackle with the imaginary people inside his mind. This is the plot on which this movie is based.According to me, what makes this movie different from others is it's extraordinary attention to the details. There is nothing mentioned in the movie which could come in conflict with your common reasoning. There are no violation of nature's law, no preternatural intelligence, no ostentatious scenes which could be refuted by my reasoning skills. For example, When Parcher implanted IC inside Nash's hand which he used while unlocking the doors (by scanning his hand on the scanner). In the next scenes where movie reveals Parcher was a fictional character because of Nash's disease. I was in between devils and the deep as my mind was continuously asking why the hell he was not checking his hand for the IC? That would be the biggest proof whether the characters are imaginary or real. Guess what? Within few moments I see Nash scratching his hand for the IC. which made both of us believe that he was suffering from the disease. Again, when Parcher meets Nash and tries to maintain his credibility of his real existence. He said the IC which was implanted vanished because it was made of Radium which decayed completely. I was enthralled by this scene and for the second time along with Nash, I believed Parcher is no more a fictional character.I think, the rationality of this movie is what makes it so great. While watching this movie, I placed myself at Nash's situation, and was trying to figure out how I would deal. Believe me, the things which I thought I would do to solve these conflict, the same solutions Nash used in the movie. The only thing which I think only Nash could do was the finesse with which he dealt with such characters.Furthermore, the way this movie tries to explain things with rationality which themselves are irrational is simply beyond one's approach. Quoting one scene from the movie.When John Nash Proposes Alicia.Nash: Alicia, does our relationship warrant long-term commitment? I need some kind of proof, some kind of verifiable, empirical data.Alicia: I'm sorry, just give me a moment to redefine my girlish notions of romance.Alicia: How big is the universe?Nash: Infinite.Alicia: How do you know?Nash: I know because all the data indicates it's infinite.Alicia: But it hasn't been proved yet.Nash: No.Alicia: You haven't seen it.Nash: No.Alicia: How do you know for sure?Nash: I don't, I just believe it.Alicia: It's the same with love I guess.There are still a lot more to say about this movie which I found highly admirable. Things which can only be observed and that's why you should watch this movie.


                
In 1947, John Nash (Crowe) arrives at Princeton University. He is co- recipient, with Martin Hansen (Lucas), of the prestigious Carnegie Scholarship for mathematics. At a reception, he meets a group of other promising math and science graduate students, Richard Sol (Goldberg), Ainsley (Jason Gray-Stanford), and Bender (Rapp). He also meets his roommate Charles Herman (Bettany), a literature student.Nash is under extreme pressure to publish, but he wants to publish his own original idea. His inspiration comes when he and his fellow graduate students discuss how to approach a group of women at a bar. Hansen quotes Adam Smith and advocates "every man for himself", but Nash argues that a cooperative approach would lead to better chances of success. Nash develops a new concept of governing dynamics and publishes an article on this. On the strength of this, he is offered an appointment at MIT where Sol and Bender join him.Some years later, Nash is invited to the Pentagon to crack encrypted enemy telecommunication. Nash can decipher the code mentally, to the astonishment of other decrypters. He considers his regular duties at MIT uninteresting and beneath his talents, so he is pleased to be given a new assignment by his mysterious supervisor, William Parcher (Harris) of the United States Department of Defense. He is to look for patterns in magazines and newspapers in order to thwart a Soviet plot. Nash becomes increasingly obsessive about searching for these hidden patterns and believes he is followed when he delivers his results to a secret mailbox.
The beautiful mind is a story about a mathematics genius. I can say that the power of human mind to solve a complex problem is described in great detail in this movie. Every time I watch this movie I think about how a scientist solves a problem that is beyond the reach of any ordinary people. The intellectual ability of John Nash is outstanding. The way he solved the problem of game theory is very effectively shown in the movie.The director gets full credit for depicting such a complex personality in such sensible manner.I personally recommend this movie to any one who has some interest in mathematical problems.It is surely a great piece of work,worth watching many times. Russell Crowe in the role of John Nash is brilliant.


                
One of the best ways to describe this movie is that it is so realistic, which is also the very reason for my liking. In each phase of the movie, the Russell's character depicts the realistic nature of a human being, which indeed is reinforced by his artistic and more naturalistic way of acting only to make it more realistic and which makes you like it. Connelly is my favorite actress, however I am not biasing when I say, that she has performed her role so beautifully. I just started loving her after I watched this movie. So, basically, the movie is about a maths professor who is so lively and exuberant about his works and always tries to prove something. Is he really working as he thinks he is or is he just fooling himself?? Ron moved the movie so meticulously that the watcher doesn't get deviated or at least doesn't want to. I recommend everyone watch this movie unless they want to miss a work of masterpiece. I bet everyone cried at the end of the movie. I did. Though I guarantee you, its a happy ending. DON'T WAIT UNTIL YOUR LIFE ENDS
This movie is a gem screenplay, direction,music,acting in every department it scores 10 on 10.It inspired me in 2002 and even now when I watch it I cant help admiring both the movie and the person on whom it is based John Nash. The resilience with which he faced schizophrenia while publishing outstanding works time and again then going on to win the ultimate Nobel prize simply mesmerizes me.This movie apart from shahrukh khan inspired me to take Economics as a subject and I haven't regretted any moment after that.Instead of the mundaneness attached to mathematics by many he gives an artistic value to it simply admirable. I love the way he asks what are the other things people do in their lives while giving a questioning look to his friend a fellow mathematician. Each and every scene so beautifully merges to the next and keeps the viewer thoroughly engaged. When asked he sums up the difference between genius and excellence beautifully saying ''a lot''. great performances and the effect just stays on with you.


                
A Beautiful Mind is a true masterpiece. This is a movie that I take pride in showing to my friends. It is extremely unique. The main character is selfish, socially awkward, and very weird. But somehow, Crowe makes us connect with him through his amazing acting, and actually puts us in his shoes. By the time the movie ends, you will most likely be looking up John Nash's true story just because you connect with him in the movie (I would not recommend looking up the true story until after watching the movie, because it will spoil a twist in the movie). The acting is better than almost anything I have ever seen. Russell Crowe gives an amazing performance (as always), and you'd almost expect it to say "Actual Footage" at the bottom of the screen. The movie has everything: love, action, tragedy, twists, and suspense. Definitely a must-see for every being on earth.


                
Sylvia Nasar does a superb job of informing readers about John Nash's struggles with schizophrenia in the biography A Beautiful Mind. Nash, a Nobel Prize winner, is an eminent mathematician with (in the words of a colleague) "a beautiful mind." Unfortunately, it's also a sick mind. Although he manages to function "normally" these days, without the aid of medication, Nash is still a schizophrenic (who has an adult son who suffers from the same disease).As moviegoers know, Ron Howard directed the movie version of the book, starring Russell Crowe. While the film does a fine job of introducing audiences to the ins and outs of schizophrenia and the difficulties that caregivers experience while trying to assist someone afflicted with the disease, it shows only the tip of the iceberg. Anyone wanting to know more about what schizophrenia entails should read Nasar's book. It is gripping and reveals the agonies of a schizophrenic life. Thoroughly researched and effectively presented in a cohesive narrative which fully engages the attention of readers, this biography shows how Nash fell prey to the disease and how his family-first his mother and sister, and later his wife-sought to have him treated and provided with the best medical care then available. At one point that treatment called for electric shock treatment (as vividly dramatized in the movie).Nash's colleagues, many of whom had relatives who were schizophrenics or who were schizophrenics themselves, helped him time and time again, when he was at risk of becoming unemployed and/or destitute. Through sheer force of will, Nash managed to pull himself back from the brink and to pursue a life of domestic contentment and professional achievement. His is definitely a story worth knowing. And Nasar relates it in detail and comprehensively, helping readers to appreciate the horror of possibly losing such a beautiful mind.
I have seen A Beautiful Mind several times and I still love it just as much as the first time I viewed this film. Russell Crowe does a great job of playing the main character of John Nash. The title of this movie is very appropriate because the entire film is based on the way John Nash's mind works. You are led to think that the title is based on a man's mind and how truly brilliant he really is when it comes to being a mathematician. John Nash is on a quest to find a mathematical theorem which in itself is very interesting. In terms of the whole film, the title actually begins to take on a different meaning in the middle of the movie when the viewer discovers they have been witnessing a man that is ill. The reality that the viewer sees is actually the reality of a man with an illness. His wife in the film is Alicia Nash played by Jennifer Connelly who stands by her husband the entire movie. Parcher is one of John Nash's delusions and is played by Ed Harris. The theme of the film is more defined by the middle of the movie which showed that even though an illness was involved, John Nash still had a beautiful mind.John Nash proves in the film that the opportunity to be successful can still exist even if someone has something holding them back such as a mental illness. He ends up being diagnosed with schizophrenia and that is where Parcher, one of his delusions, becomes part of his life. As John Nash struggles through treatment he also discovers the true meaning of love with the help of Alicia, his faithful wife. She is shown throughout the film doing everything in her power to help her husband battle his illness and helps him lead a normal life. One of my favorite scenes which validates the theme of the movie is when a member of the Nobel Committee is interviewing John Nash regarding the process of accepting a prize if it were awarded to him. The man interviewing John Nash is basically asking him if he was crazy or if he would do anything crazy on stage. His response was very simple and straight forward stating that yes, he was crazy and that even though the medication does help, it does not eliminate the fact that he still sees people that are not there. Nash said that he chooses not to discuss them with anyone anymore, which proves that he has learned to live with his illness and still live a successful life. At that very moment his Princeton colleagues begin stepping up towards his table where the interview was being conducted. One by one they reach out to his table and present their pens to John Nash stating that it was truly an honor to have Professor Nash there. This action in itself was a big statement that solidified the success that he has achieved.The second part of the theme is in regards to Nash discovering the true meaning of love. This theme is validated during the Nobel Prize Ceremony in December of 1994 when the speech he gave was dedicated to Alicia. It was a very simple speech but powerful and important to his wife. The angle the camera uses in this shot at the Nobel Prize Ceremony included an appearance of John Nash towering above thousands of people giving a thunderous applause. The camera shot of the attentive audience during his speech showed their respect, and the standing ovation after his speech showed their approval. The colors used in this scene are warm including gold, yellow, and orange. The last look on Nash's face after his speech was priceless. He stood there in almost disbelief and looked directly at his wife who at this point was in tears. All of Nash's struggles throughout his life with his wife remaining by his side really gave the viewer a sense of satisfaction in the last scene. John Nash truly ended up being a successful man in more than one aspect of his life regardless of the illness he carried with him.
