If you're going to make a film for grown-ups, treat the audience like grown-ups. Instead, Opie extracts the aspects of John Nash's life and person he decided we grown-ups couldn't handle. Gone is Nash's racism, snobbery, arrest for indecent exposure, history of violent behavior, messy relationships with both sexes, the woman and son he abandoned, the voices that told him aliens were transmitting messages to him via the New York Times, the repeated stays at various loony bins, the nine months he spent wandering Europe trying to renounce his citizenship, the fact that Alicia divorced him in 1963, and that their son is schizophrenic. In short, gone is everything about Nash that made him such a enigmatic yet despicable human being to begin with.The whitewashing doesn't end there. Parcher calling Joe McCarthy "an idiot", and proclaiming how the atomic bombs "evaporated 150,000 people" has no business being in the movie, as such "opinions" were totally foreign to most Americans, and certainly to those who worked for the government (even those who were figments of one's imagination).Crowe as Rain Man and Connelly as the Long-Suffering Wife does not tell us what kept (and keeps) Nash and Alicia together. The cruel irony that a man who finessed a mathematical theory of rational behavior should succumb to insanity is totally lost on Opie and fellow hack Akiva Goldsman. Instead, they suggest that if you learn to "ignore" your imaginary friends, then you will be "cured" of whatever ails you. It's a false and outrageous notion.
A trite story which glosses over John Nash's failings including his divorce from Alicia.  You wouldn't know that she was South American.  You don't know about his arrest in a sting or his child by another woman form the affair that continued through his marriage.  Performances are just OK.  Russell Crowe's West Virginia accent ends up sounding like something from the deep south and gets deeper as the movie goes on. Top films of all time?  This wasn't even the best film I saw in 2002.


                
This was one of the worst films I have seen in recent memory. It was a human interest tale with no soul. The plot was deeply flawed. How can you have a biopic with a deeply flawed plot? I don't know but somehow this movie managed to make no sense. Russel Crowe plays Nash the way he plays every other character. This character works as a gladiator, not as mathematician. Don't get me wrong, I don't hate this movie because of any glaring factual errors, although I have been told there are many. No, this is a work of fiction, and it fails as such. There is nothing to connect to on a human level in this film, except Jennifer Connely, but one strong performance cannot save the bad script and uninspired direction. Avoid this film if any sort of internal consistency or humanity are important to you in film.


                
It has to be said that this would have been okay if it wasn't a patronizing fiction about schizophrenia. Sadly, Ron Howard has made a film which is a complete bastardization of the real story of John Nash.Let's forget that Nash's form of the mental illness was merely misinterpreting radio messages, as opposed to having 'imaginary' car chases from secret agents. Forget that he actually was quite good with women, having numerous relationships with them, as well as men. Let's even forget that the man was actually divorced from his wife, whilst also being a brilliant scientist with numerous accomplishments, and you might enjoy this film. Of course, that would take away the whole point of it being a 'true story'. Just remember that you are watching make-believe.


                
Gotta love those bio-pics that features five percent of a person'slife.  would have loved to see more of his "real" work. The actingwas beautiful, the costumes were beautiful.  The directing was alittle over sentimental, but I expected that going in. Great web site. Over all, a perfect film for the mass audience.  (As long as youdon't know anything about John Nash, who is one of my heros)


                
seeing this movie (just recently) for the first time has shaken my faith in the academy, the critics and filmgoers everywhere.is this the film that won THE OSCAR for BEST FILM of 2001? come on, people! were you on something?i found "a beautiful mind" to be so inept and irredeemably stupid, that had i attended a test screening, i'd have recommended the studio shelf the movie, let alone submit it for consideration."akiva goldsman writes a serious script". the very thought seemed like a joke. but after the oscars and the critical and popular success, i assumed i was just wrong about him; maybe he really was a real writer. maybe the man who brought us the god-awful "lost in space" and "batman returns" (which featured the legendarily witty salvo, "hi freeze, i'm batman") was just making a living, waiting for his masterpiece to be produced? but all hopes were dashed in the first two minutes. this material is aimed at 6 year olds!how can people have serious debates over a movie where characters talk in nothing but expositions, literary quotes, lame jokes and regurgitated cliches? where mathematics, presumably a central theme, is shown as something incomprehensible that eggheads doodle? with a saturday morning cartoon villain/antagonist who taunts our hero about his failures, only to be mocked when he finally succeeds? where a govt. agent's briefing on soviet espionage consists of showing nash (and the audience) stock footage of a-bomb explosions, and nash's explanation of the meaning of a secret russian code meets the reply, "thanks for all your help mr. nash, so-and-so will show you out"?in many ways, this movie is just as bad, if not worse, than any fictionalized biopic ever made in hollywood. would you believe you could still see, in the 21st century, a new movie where an actor in exaggerated old-age makeup accepts the nobel prize for economics with a speech about how the real meaning of life can be found "in the equations of love"?! give me a break!one moment contained as good an unintentional laugh as any in goldsman's old turkeys. in the early stages, a man in the m.i.t. library gets a tribute from colleagues; each places his pen on the man's table. nash "asks" what this means and receives the explanation, along with us. when the obvious payoff to this scene arrives at a later stage, and nash receives the same tribute himself, the mushy string-music moment stretches on for a minute or two, and then nash actually says, almost directly into the camera: "how totally unexpected". how totally ridiculous!dreamworks continues to be a studio that makes only 3 kinds of films: calculated, soulless, test-marketed attempts to make a big box office; calculated, soulless, test-marketed attempts to win oscars, and, thereafter, a big box office; and spielberg films. it's the only time i can think of that a movie studio only contributed to cultural decline, without a single contribution (and yes, i do include "american beauty" and "saving private ryan" in that statement. haven't seen "perdition" yet, but i'm sure it's still accurate.)i hope nash's story will actually, one day, be made into a good movie, not a laughable ham-fest with rehashed sixth sense silliness.


                
A Beautiful Mind was not the Best Picture of the year.  I'm sorry, but that distinction goes to In the Bedroom.  A Beautiful Mind wasn't even in the top 20.  The story was, for the most part, predictable and not involving.  I won't even go into the many, many inaccuracies in the film.  The entire time I found myself just wishing the movie would end.First of all, Russell Crowe was far from convincing as a genius.  His accent was beyond inconsistent and he never, not for even the smallest moment, convinced me that he WAS John Nash.  I can find solace in the fact that he didn't get the Oscar for this overrated performance.  It's a shame they can't take back the one they gave him last year.Jennifer Connelly was decent in a role that I, among others, feel should not have been categorized as supporting.  Either way, it wasn't even the best supporting performance of the year.  That prize should have gone to Marisa Tomei.  I think Connelly is a very fine actress and if she deserved an Oscar it was for her performance in Requiem for a Dream in 2000.  She wasn't even nominated for that.  What a travesty.  But I digress...I saw nothing in the movie that would have warranted a Best Director nod for Ron Howard either.  He's a capable director, but this was nowhere near an Oscar-worthy job.  Take a look at what David Lynch did in Mulholland Dr. or what Christopher Nolan did in Memento or even Ridley Scott in Black Hawk Down.  These are examples of greatness.A Beautiful Mind is not an example of greatness.  It is an over-hyped, overrated, piece of fluff trying to sell itself as something meaningful. And way too many people bought it.  With such extraordinary pieces of work submitted this year, what a true shame that this refuse was given the distinction as the best.


                
A Beautiful Mind represents so much of what is wrong with Hollywood and the Oscars.  Though this film is largely vapid, trite, and completely fails to delve into John Nash's psyche at all, it presents the illusion of a strong character study.  The beautiful cinematography, musical score, and close-ups all work to create, like a formula, the illusion of feeling.  The audience sees (close-up + sad music + frustrated Russel Crowe = sad reaction).  Ron Howard provided the audience with all of the trappings they expect to see in an Oscar-calibre film and most moviegoing audiences have been trained to believe that slow-motion and nice cinematogrgraphy are the elements that make a good film.  Yet, this film completely lacks the kind of character development and true inner conflict that thrives in a film like Monster's Ball.  It is a veneer and never even attempts to get below the surface.  Ron Howard went fishing for an Oscar and got two.  The fact that Howard won an Oscar is embarrasing.  Not that he is an awful dirctor, but he's certainly not on the level that would warrant an Oscar.  He's best when he is simply entertaining -


                
I can scarcely believe that this is in line for best pcture and best director Oscars.  For me it seemed to be an OK movie with a good movie trying to get out.  This is almost the definition of a movie where the direction just hasn't quite nailed it.  Perhaps the casting was the problem - Jennifer Connelly was OK but Russell Crowe just never really seemed convincing in the part.  He did his best but I never really believed he was doing anything other than acting a part.  Oh well............ 5/10


                
If you consider yourself an intellectual or a seeker of truth, read the book and don't waste your time watching this piece of technicolor drivel.  The lies so far outweigh the truth as to make it a betrayal of its subject and its audience.  That is despite good performances by Crowe and Connelly and some others and three false scenes clever enough to justify themselves.
I am not a mathematician or a scientist, but despite my lack of understanding, the first page of Sylvia Nasar's book was more interesting to me than the entire movie.Screenplays frequently change facts and oversimplify to convey important information or feelings efficiently and powerfully.  I'm not offended by such fictionalization per se.  But this movie takes a fascinating real story and completely ignores almost everything fascinating about it and tells a different, ridiculous story that would be journalistically justifiable but mediocre at best as art IF IT WERE TRUE ... which it is not.Until now I thought Moulin Rouge was the worst movie of the year ... I have revised my opinion.


                
Another overrated movie with Crowe (ala Gladiator). This movie is slow & boring. The dialogue is sparsely entertaining and barely keeps any flow going.  Crowe is his usual mediocre-acting self (who will get glowing reviews of course). Connelly was solid but hardly Oscar worthy.  The movie was not developed very well especially in the beginning when his genius was in question. I fell asleep & I never fall asleep at the movies. Don't pay $9 for this one. Rent it if you're bored on a weekend. You may enjoy it but it's not a 'can't miss'. The Hollywood hype machine just keeps on rolling..


                
Unfortunately, due to a type of treacherous nepotism in Hollywood, this mediocre movie won the honor which should not have been its due.  Ron Howard has played Salieri to much more deserving directors, with the academy's approval.  It will be quickly relegated to the "what was that movie about?" pile in a few years, just as Annie Hall has been.  If it had not been awarded this undeserved high honor, it could have sunken into the obscurity which is its fate with a little dignity.  Now it will always be remembered as the movie that made millions of people decide that Oscar was no longer worth watching.


                
I do have to give credit to Ron Howard for trying so hard to show us the power of the mind to overcome all obstacles. Howard's heart was in the right place, but unfortunately, the movie failed to demonstrate the intended message. John Nash does not overcome his obstacles completely. In fact, he is not completely able to function until he does take medication. While his struggle is appreciated, he isn't fully able to overcome his daemons, leaving this viewer feeling only despair at the end of the movie.


                
First of all, am i the only one who saw the microphone's in the movie? At least 4 times did i saw a microphone on the screen, my god ...  This picture is nominated for Best Film!!!It's a real shame that there wasn't more room in the script to show Mr. Nash's character.  The film let's you think that he has a real awfull character.Another thing that was very strange (except for the microphone's :-)), was the fact that Ms. Nash didn't age, or that it didn't look natural at all (especially the scene where Mr. Nash wins the Nobelprice).It's not all bad though, the movie touched me and i learned more about Mr. Nash.To end this, i like the idea of the movie, but they didn't do a good job to make it.


                
I think it was too long and boring. I never heard of John Nash before but when a film bases someone's life that I haven't a clue about, I wouldn't be interested. I only watched this because everybody was ranting on that it was a good movie and what not. I just didn't find it interesting, I know Russell Crowe was on this and he can be a good actor but, this isn't one of his best he has done. When he was in Les Miserables, boy it was worse in his film career too in my opinion!I wanted to give this movie another star because the soundtrack was easy listening and pretty great! Maybe if I was into maths and know who John Nash was, then I would give this a 10/10 regardless of how long the movie is! I just didn't fancy watching it further, that's all I can say!
