When I want to see a bad documentary on the life of a person with mental problems, I'll turn on Public Television. Watching the character portrayed by Russel Crowe was painful- granted I'm sure a life like his IS very painful, but I don't want to spend 8 bucks to sit in a theater and watch it. It wasn't poignant; and it didn't leave me with any insights that haven't been handed to me a million times before. Then again, it was a struggle for me to make it through "Rain Man" too, so keep that in mind.......


                
It's hard to watch a film on real history when that history is skewed. Therefore, since this movie refuses to acknowledge important facts, it falls way short of anything worthwhile. Granted, a book is a book, a screenplay is a screenplay and a movie is a movie, and in the face of fiction, liberties may be taken, but when they altered in light of fact, then the whole work is subsequently meaningless. By no means should this film earn any praises come Oscar night - especially for Best Screenplay when it's far from it.


                
I didn't hate this film, but I certainly didn't love it...or like it a lot. I had the pleasure of seeing four of the five movies nominated for "Best Picture" (all but The Lord of the Rings), and of those I would rate it number four. Again, not to see it was bad, but it wasn't Best Picture winner quality by any means.  Or maybe it was so insanely Best Picture winner mainstream it was annoying. Moulin Rouge was fantastical and original.  Gosford Park was exceptionally witty.  In the Bedroom tore at your emotions with stellar acting.  A Beautiful Mind had good acting, not even great acting. I'm sure I'm a little bias because I hate Russell Crowe because he's such an ass, but all the characters were so one-dimensional.  The only part in the movie I moved at all was when the baby was drowning, and that could have stirred me even in the epitomy of all badness: Bowfinger. Very very very very AVERAGE.


                
To answer to the question John Nash did not give the speech at the Nobel Prize ceremony that is in the film A BEAUTIFUL MIND; the only Nobel Prize winner that gives a speech is the Peace Prize winner (or the Literature winner -- there's only one that is allowed to speak, and I can't remember which -- I'm not losing my mind, just my memory). Nash gave no speech at all; he held a press conference. The speech is a fabrication of the screenwriter.Nash won the Nobel MEMORIAL Prize in Economics, which is not a true Nobel Prize, by the way. It is not funded by the Nobel will (which is the reason the guy vetting Nash for the prize explains that money has to be raised for it). I read the book when it first came out and barely remember it (though I remember it being a good read -- that darn memory again), but I believe it had covered the extensive politicking behind the prize which was fascinating in itself.I thought the film was horrible. One leaves the theater not knowing anything about John Nash (the real John Nash), mental illness, or life itself. Love did not cure John Nash -- the best explanation for the spontaneous remission of his schizophrenia is hormonal changes that began when he reached his 50s. Love does not cure schizophrenia, folks, outside of a Hollywood suds fest.What is so egregious about leaving out Nash's bisexuality is that the "Red Scare" and purges in the U.S. in the late 1940s/1950s targeted homosexuals as security risks. (This explains why Nash in real life was fired from the Rand Corp. -- the "think tank" so intertwined with the Vietnam War -- after allegedly making a pass at another man.) Homosexuals were considered "mentally ill" officially by the American Psychiatric Assn. until the early 1970s. They were, and continue to be considered, security risks by the military-industrial establishment.The film is nearly a constant lie from beginning to end.  One mourns for the great film that could have resulted from such material put in the hands of a great director with a taste for the duality/perversity of life as truly lived, say Atom Egoyan. Ron "Opie" Howard's direction is abysmal. This is a child actor morphed into big budget Hollywood director that has no point-of-view/take on life other than the box office. Schmaltz equals box office, so that's what we get. "That's entertainment!" I don't believe Opie knows anything about what it's like to attend a university such as Princeton, let alone what it is like to be afflicted by genius-cum-schizophrenia or to live life in the real world. It is a movie with a profound deficit in wisdom.I found the performances to be incredibly over-hyped; Jennifer Connelly is fine, but she does not give a performance of award-winning caliber unless the award is such hype-driven "Let's honor the latest B-movie bimbo morphed serious actress" awards as as the Oscar. I was also not disappointed to see her breasts, or her in revealing outfits. (It's the 1950s -- why isn't she in a girdle or some other foundation garments? There is not attention to detail in this film; it's all softened to evoke the year 2001 through a nostalgic filter. "The Man Who Wasn't There," in contrast, masterfully evokes the feel of the '50s. I could remember the feel starched shirts, tiny sports jackets, clasp-on ties and faux-fedoras my brother and I wore to church in the early 1960s while watching "Man." "Beautiful Mind," in contrast, evokes the 1990s, what with portable nukes, the word "meds," the digital readout implant, etc. Soft focus filmmaking, geared towards not challenging the audience even minutely.) I mention Connelly's assets as after watching her over many years, including her wonderful turn in "Waking the Dead," one comes to expect seeing her breasts, or oogling her in something sexy. You're disappointed when it doesn't come off.The one-note performance of Russell Crowe makes me doubt my earlier assessment of him as a very talented actor. There is no development at all in his characterization of John Nash, and while I would like to blame the director, I think back on his performances in L.A. CONFIDENTIAL and THE INSIDER (the latter of which I liked enormously) and see his Nash is just a variation of his "wounded" shtick. It was monotonous, to watch Nash as a loon from beginning to end. None of Crowe's characterizations, on second thought, show any development at all.While I will concede with Crowe in "A Beautiful Mind" that I was watching an actor of some talent (though not greatly gifted), but I was watching an actor "acting" rather than an actor as the character (as Tom Wilkinson, who gave the most outstanding performance in English-language film this year, does in "In The Bedroom" -- you forget you're watching an actor acting and are watching the character himself). There is no fluidity at all in Crowe's characterization, nothing of the seamlessness of when a great actor becomes the character her plays. we're watching a cobbled-together performance, something more akin to elocution, "gestures" that will convey to the ordinary mass "My -- aren't I watching 'great acting.'" Crowe could have used semaphores (as opposed to the lazy or bored actor "phoning in" his performance; I supposed the audience gives extra credit for extra effort in really getting out there and "acting").  Crowe gives us a herky-jerky nut-case who becomes almost laughable two-thirds into the film. While watching the film, I began to think that Tom Hanks would have done a much better job with the character.I have had a long-standing argument with my girlfriend over the merits of Tom Hanks as an actor -- I'm not a fan of his, she is -- but watching Crowe's "good" bad acting made me appreciate that Hanks is indeed a truly good actor. A hallmark of an outstanding performance is when you cannot imagine another actor in the role -- I can not only imagine other actors in the role of John Nash, but other actors giving a far better, far more believable performance than the over-hyped Russell Crowe. Apart from Hanks, Gary Oldman would have been terrific in this role. There's such a scent of ham in Crowe's characterization, all's I can think is -- if you're going to go that route, why not with the greatest slice of ham in the world -- Mr. Oldman? Gary never made it to star status and then began weighing roles by the size of his pay-cheque, but he is at heart a terrific actor, albeit a really full-bore, over-the-top one, but if that's the way the director wanted it played -- as an out and out looney tune -- why not go with a great actor that can give you a fluid performance that is not a bunch of cobbled together tics (and whose "West Virginia" accent wanes more than Nash's schizophrenia as portrayed in the film).This film is terrible -- it makes a caricature of a genius, a caricature of someone who is mentally ill. Fifty years from now, if there still is a good ol' planet Earth, people will look back and see Crowe's unenlightened performance (as orchestrated by Opie) to be the equivalent of Step-in-Fetchit.


                
The start seems like it could become interesting, but alas it does not. If you want to watch something with a similar premise watch "the imitation game", much more interesting. I don't understand how this movie got an oscar. It's tediously long and doesn't paint a true picture of what schizophrenia really is.


                
Kind of stinks.There is one great scene where Crowe comes up with his economic plan by trying to pick up women at a bar....but beyond that, it sort of stinks.The fault is mainly with Crowe and Connolly. Connolly has always had a hard time emoting and Crowe really only plays Crowe aide from the rare movie like "The Insider." The director did a great job aside of the lead, but really we have Crowe playing Crowe thinking he is the greatest actor on earth and, really, he should be playing John Nash.John Nash doesn't really make an appearance in the film at all, it is all Crowe and that just doesn't work for a biopic.Any other actor and it would have been as great as the fans make it out to be.


                
I didn't like Beautiful Mind and I think it's a terribly overrated film. Crowe's performance is the only things that saves it for me.Basically this movie is one more Hollywood cliche - with the character depiction and development, the generic ending, the BORING generic music in the exact moments as expected. Perfectly tailored for mass consumption. The peak of all predictability was prof. Nash's speech when he receives the Nobel Prize - "love is the essence" - what a boring and unimaginative thing to say at the peak of your life. As a whole, this film adds absolutely nothing to the cinema world and does not deserve the high rating it has been given. (3 out of 10)


                
Let's see what they got right in this travesty:1. There was a mathematician named John Nash. 2. He did come up with something that was later called the "Nash Equilibrium". 3. He did go nuts. 4. He did (sort of) recover. 5. He did win the Nobel Prize.Pretty much everything else they got wrong.  They made his insanity much more interesting than the banality it really was.  They glossed over his first child born out of wedlock who he later abandoned.  They ignored the fact that his wife divorced him and never remarried him.  They turned his acceptance speech into a schlocky farce.When they say "based on a true story", shouldn't there be a significant fraction of truth present?


                
Jon Nash's own marvelous, plagued, muddled and ultimately fascinating existence is one which may deserve cinematic portrayal.  _A Beautiful Mind_ is a pandering shameful corruption of a true story which should have been filled with compelling, complex, troubling characters.  Nash has been homogenized for the public gastro-intestinal tract and spewed forth by Crowe, a feat which is sure to be the nader of his acting career.  He is paradoxically terminally bland and oppressively obnoxious.  His wife's role played by Connelly is harmless and sincere I think, she is miscast (certainly not given the same depth as in _Requiem for a Dream_) and not to be blamed.  Harris has always performed better.I file this picture away with neighbors such as _The Rock_ and _Legally Blonde_, both shamelessly populist candy but, and this is the Grand Canyon of buts, both of these films are actually WATCHABLE.  On their own terms these two are probably better films for they are what they are, are exactly what they are supposed to be.  _A Beautiful Mind_ crumbles under its own stupendous pretensia, and is one colossal collapse of faith and integrity to be avoided if at all possible.


                
It is a fantasy someone made up.  Educate yourself about the real life of John Forbes before you decide how you feel about this movie or at least before you vote and comment on it here.  Or maybe state your disinterest in knowing the real life a schizophrenic lives and your preference to embrace a Hollywood warm and fuzzy notion instead. John Forbes' true story could've been told with just as much craft and made a real step toward understanding a schizophrenic's struggle but instead we were dealt a manipulated schmalsification of a real life lived in the grip of an overpowering disease.  I have had schizophrenia in my family and I have watched their realities unfold out there for the rest of us to gaze upon with twisted Malcolm in the Middle faces...it is achingly painful and takes a terrible toll on all those who love them.  His life with a few small twists?  Get outta town!  This could've been a great movie - Russell Crowe delivered a flawless performance and the presentation of the actual schizophrenic events was excellent, but there it stops.  Want to know what schizophrenia really does to a life? - read the true story and don't be sucked in by this Hollywood fuzzy camera lens smoothing out all the trauma and scars.


                
Once again, Hollywood comes out with a film that strains the limits of credibility in order to make the viewer the happy man who walks out of the theatre feeling that love conquers all. This film is highly overrated although not altogether unsatisfying.Unfortunately, right from the very beginning, I didn't believe much of the script that later had the rug pulled out of it in "Shylamanian" style. Some of the surprises were telecast right from the beginning and made for somewhat awkward scenes. Crowe's Virginia accent changes considerably over the film and the image of his buff physique should not have been shown, which in my mind made him the furthest thing from resembling a mathematician. But I'm whining here... let's get to why this film is truly overrated although not unwatchable.The script was incredibly poor. A love story develops with almost no perceptible verbal chemistry on screen. Usually characters have to interact and the character and audience needs to be won over, not just by sensuality and a clever line or two. There is little explanation as to WHY Nash's wife saw something in him more than most who supposedly didn't like him at all (although everyone seemed to enjoy his company at Princeton too, except for one or two tough scenes -- odd.) Neither did I feel the viewer get the sense that the math genius could do the impossible in the manner he does -- look at a roomful of numbers, no pencil, no calculations, nothing -- and simply breaks codes with the aid of some cheesy Hollywood special effects "mesmerizing" your mind. Please, this more resembled Superman than it did a genius mathematician. It asks you, the viewer, to connect the dots you know you have to make since the script doesn't do it for you at all.Unfortunately, the movie continues to strain credibility, especially the family troubles. The lack of other characters assisting in that difficult situation was odd, unexplained (where are their parents), and made me wonder just how much fantasy this movie was based. Apparently, the words "based on a true story" is an understatement as Nash's true story doesn't quite resemble this glorified, Hollywood heart candy. I didn't get much sense of struggle -- the problems encountered were simply passed over quickly. Everyone sticks around to help Dr. Nash, to ends that just were simply not the manner in which people act.Is the movie altogether bad? No. In fact, there is quite a bit that is very good with the movie, such as excellent performance by Russell Crowe and an equally good and sultry performance by Jennifer Connelly, who does the best she can with a mediocre script. This is a good rental but don't go in expecting to be blown away with it's overhyped rating. It's your typical Hollywood fare that glamorizes and airbrushes the lives of people who should have faced serious adversity for fear that you might not want to go to the movies if you don't come out feeling all warm and fuzzy inside. In an era of incredibly weak film-making efforts, this film rises to the top of a mediocre heap.
How is it possible to give this an average of 8 points? This is a lying movie, without compassion, without even the slightest realism in portraying mental illness, without even good acting.Forgive me, but I thought strings were taken out of Hollywood movies in the late 60s. I know the producers have one interest and that is making dollars, but strings??? This movie is already sentimental without them and worst of all sentimentality is the main characters speech to his wife at the end. This can't be tolerated and it is really ridiculing the Mr. Nash of the real world, who is said having disliked this movie. That's a healthy view.


                
I put off seeing this movie for quite some time because I didn't want to get caught up in the "Beautiful Mind" obsession.  But now that I have seen it, I wish I had used the time to do things that have more meaning, like reorganizing your sock drawer.  This is a manufactured film made expressly to win Oscars.  I have never seen as self-centered performance as Russell Crowe's.  Throughout the entire movie he might as well be saying "I'm going to win an Oscar for playing this freak.  HA!"  He has no respect for the amazing man that he is playing, you can see that in his incredibly cliched movements that look like he read a book about what crazy people do, marked exactly where he was going to do these movements, and then executed them without thinking if this is the right time or if it makes sense for the character to do them then.  I was so relieved when he did not win the Oscar, but I didn't think Denzel Washington's performance in Training Day was all that spectacular, but it was more of a career award for him.  Russell Crowe, however, has had a career about as impressive as a box of hair.  Jennifer Connelly was just okay.  I didn't see anything spectacular or Oscar-worthy in her performance, she just sort of screamed and looked worried and disheveled.  The best picture Oscar could have gone to a much more deserving film like Moulin Rouge, instead of this heartless award trap.  The only description I can really give this movie is...blah.  3/10


                
Not to sound like Simon Cowell from American Idol, but this movie was just boring and average to me. The story in itself would be the only reason Id give it some points. I'm not even a huge fan of Russell Crowe but I did feel he gave a great performance, and Jennifer Connelly is well deserving of her oscar. The biggest flaw in this film was its inability to actually start-I got bored halfway through. It was also highly assumable. *SPOILER* Who didn't know that whats-their-name was not real? I know its not the point of the movie, but to some it up-it did not stay interesting enough for me to finish it happily.
Yeah, I must have counted the boom microphone in the picture atleast 20-30 times throughout the movie.  It kept dropping down on top of their heads and one scene you could actually see the mic going back and forth to each actor over their heads.  I couldn't believe it! Ron Howard I suggest you get a new operator.  I couldn't enjoy the movie with my attention elsewhere at the top of the screen. . .


                
This film was something I legitimately tried to like. Really. Going into it, I had average expectations, hearing the hyper over it over the years, and I've always had a tangible interest in conditions such as schizophrenia. Though the movie does do some things that I like, the things that I find wrong are all the more troubling, to the point where I never want to watch it ever again.So, here are the things I liked, at least at first:Russel Crowe's performance: believable. He did his job and did it well. I also enjoyed Ed Harris and Paul Bettany's performances.(SPOILER) - Subtlety. At least, when it comes to the schizophrenia aspect... in the middle of the movie. I think the subject was handled okay, up until the end when it began to feel a little forced (although I would honestly need to comb through that again, of which I am not interested in doing). There's one part in which a desk ends up being thrown out the window. In the next shot(s), something happens in the background that hints to the instability of the protagonist's perspective, that you later understand as the viewer.These are the things that bugged the hell out of me:This is a sappy and contrived Hollywood picture, that instead of bringing issues that catalyzes honesty emotion, the events set in motion feel false, redundant, and overdramatic. I perfectly understand the weight of some of the situations (or the plot as a whole), but at the same time it felt like the movie didn't take the subject itself seriously and was following a paradigm to try and be "one of those good movies."The mother effing romance. It was the most lackluster, flaky, force-fed, quickie-style romance I've seen in a movie this hyped. It felt artificial, it had no foundation or groundedness to it, nor chemistry, and worst of all, it was based on a real relationship that turned out much differently than what was shown in the film, and I feel is incredibly misleading and even PROPAGANDIC towards the whole relationship, which I feel is a disservice to the audience. It probably pisses me off more than most, but the romance in the film is so annoyingly recycled from every single film made in Hollywood. It was eye-rolling, and I simply can't stand it. In actuality, John Nash had an illegitimate son and had actually divorced from his wife and got back with her many years later. Why not include that? It simply didn't feel like it came from nonfiction source material. It felt like the oily, perverted hands of Hollywood.The material it was based on. This felt like fiction - "based on true events" is correct, but I feel like these aren't real people, life doesn't go exactly this way. This is based on a certain reality - not the reality in which it's ADMITTEDLY AND PURPOSEFULLY based upon, which makes it worse when a film like this turns out to be so run of the mill. If the tone and details are going to be changed, why not make it a completely DIFFERENT story altogether? What if this film wasn't based on a REAL MAN and his LIFE? The sins of this film would be much more forgivable, I think. But it's not. It's about "John Nash" and his "life."Ultamitely, I would advise not to take the events of the film incredibly seriously, and judge by your own discretion if you have any interest in it.
This film should not win the academy award for Best Picture or Best Adapted Screenplay because it was neither this year. A true candidate for Best Picture wouldn't leave out significant events of a person's life. A true best adapted screenplay wouldn't ignore unpleasant elements in the name of box-office returns and political correctness. What could have been a great film has been turned into a less than great movie. Too bad.


                
Delivering his Oscar-speech Ron Howard said that his mother told him he would win an Oscar for A Beautiful Mind. But then again: that's what she has told him after every film he has made. So what was it that went through Howards (beautiful) mind when he made A Beautiful Mind: I HAVE TO MAKE A FILM THAT WILL DEFINITELY WIN AN OSCAR. So here is what he did: he closely studied a list with previous winners (for best actor): My Left Foot, Rain Man, Forrest Gump (I wont' go on and on, because it isn't that hard to see the connection). And it paid of. Congratulations.So now that you've got your first Oscar, Ron, it's time to focus on another genre. I'll give you some help: Bravehaert, Gladiator, Lawrence of Arabia, The English Patient. Think big, think epic.Yes, you will deliver another lousy film, but mom will be proud, cause, guess what: OSCAR TIME.


                
I saw this movie with the intention of not liking it. I sure didn't. It's one of those movies that seems to have been made exclusively for the Oscars: music throughout the film in almost every single frame, almost no profanity, set in a time long gone, sepia-toned imagery, pretentious title, NO SEX, and a genius that explains everything he thinks and concludes in sfx/cgi so that we (the stupid audience) get it. One thing that amused me though is the fact that they spelled the NOBEL PRICE WRONG! Instead they call the Nobel-price (named after an actual person called Alfred Nobel) 'the noble-price'.. Jesus! How can one make such a mistake in such a big production, supposedly based on a true story. What a sham! What were you and the others thinking RON?


                
Having now read the book and seen the movie, I wonder why the producers and director bothered calling this film "A Beautiful Mind". It is a piece of feel-good fiction that bears little resemblance to the actual life of John Nash (but it is a good candidate for the series "History vs. Hollywood"). An Oscar nomination for best screenplay adaptation - what a travesty.I read that a one of the films staff indicated the movie was based on the architecture of John Nash's life, and that was more important than the facts. (Easily one of the most inane statements I've ever heard, but typical for Hollywood). I'm sure the picture will receive the Best Picture Oscar, but at what price to integrity and truth.


                
