It's the usual problem with a film about someone whose accomplishments are less easy to demonstrate than touchdowns or legislation passed or wars won: How do you convey even a taste of what makes an artist an artist, or in this case, a genius a genius?Let me say right off that I don't particularly care about possible factual errors in a biopic, unless they're so glaring as to oppose the spirit of their subject (i.e., depicting Muhammad Ali as a Nazi or Himmler as a Muslim).What really bothers me about this well-acted (by the leads) but safe and pat movie is that the filmmakers had plenty of access to details of Nash's accomplishments, but decided not to let us in on the secret(s).  Perhaps the studio just decided we movie-going yokels wouldn't be interested in that kind of thing... and judging from the mega-box office success of the film, maybe they were right.The film is called "A Beautiful Mind", and Nash is a Nobel-winning mathematician, but rather than delve into exactly what made his theories so revolutionary, screenwriter Akiva (the Batman series, Lost In Space) Goldsman and director Ron (Night Shift, Apollo 13) Howard feed us the glowing comments of others & a cute but not entirely plausible explanation of Nash's revolutionary work.  Instead, the film focuses on (fictional) paranoid delusions in order to pander to the sympathies of some.  Why not show (rather than tell) us what made this man so brilliant?It's very difficult to create an artist, much less a genius on screen ("Pollock", "Amadeus", and "The Silence Of The Lambs" are among the notable exceptions), but in my opinion that is what would have made this a special film.  Instead, it's the usual bland button-pushing, lifted by Crowe's extraordinary performance and strong work by Harris and Connelly in support.This one's not as hilariously undeserving of the statue as "Gladiator", "Out Of Africa", and "Braveheart", but it will settle in nicely with the likes of "Chariots Of Fire" and "Driving Miss Daisy" in the bland and forgettable bin, should this heavy favorite win Best Picture in 2002.


                
A completely dumbed-down and whitewashed version of the life of John Nash. The really interesting part, namely the Nash Theorem and the Nash Equilibrium, are just mentioned, no one actually cared to explain why these contributed to game theory and economics and earned him the Nobel prize. Instead of that, we get a ridiculous and unrealistic depiction of his schizophrenia, Crowe babbling as an idiot, Conelly in the most unbelievable, sexist, dumb role they could ever write for Nash's wife and clichés of academic life, institutions, interpersonal relationships etc. Only Christopher Plummer, Ed Harris and the make-up department were actually worth their salaries. A film destined to please brain-dead people, I guess that's why the Academy liked it anyway.


                
The scene in "A Beautiful Mind" that haunts me  most is not the shock therapy delivered to mathematician John Nash, not his infant son left to drown in the bathtub, not the implantation of a radioactive ID number in Nash's arm. None of these. What I keep wondering about is how Alicia, a young math student at Princeton in the1950s, had the savvy to wear a strapless black evening dress on her very first date, which turns out to be a black-tie Princeton do.  If there were an Oscar for most valiant performance under hostile conditions, then Jennifer Connelly, who plays Alicia -- and who, incidentally, looks great in the strapless black -- would surely win.  Ms. Connelly bares up under awkward editing and awful dialog, as when she, now Mrs. Nash, tells him and us that love and faith will cure him of his schizophrenia.  In the New Testament, perhaps; in Hollywood, by all means. All that's missing is a new-age crystal. Dodging a story about ordinary humans, director Ron Howard has chosen to chronicle genius, but the product is the same old inflated confection: a romantic night sky in New Jersey that holds  more stars than any Arizona desert; a ghastly Nobel prize award ceremony; and worst of all, the progress to that prize based on one academic paper, scribbling math formulas on window panes, and a lot of frenzied magazine clipping. The pudding is bloated and sweetened by yet another "uplifting", swollen music track. So predictable and so unbelievable.


                
Maudlin, paint-by-numbers biopic about math whiz John Nash that makes mental illness and marital strife look as pretty as a magazine cover.Russell Crowe does give a good performance, I'll give the film that, but I wonder how much better a performance he could have given if under the guidance of a more interesting director than Ron Howard. Every Howard movie I see makes me feel like -- no matter what the subject matter -- he's determined to create a movie that would be o.k. for eight-year-old kiddies to watch. Works fine when you're dealing with mermaids and firemen, but not so much when dealing with material like this.Jennifer Connelley proved that Joan Allen no longer necessarily cornered the market on mopey suffering wife roles, which turned out to be a good thing for us, because Allen was then free to play a hot CIA agent in the Bourne movies.Grade: C


                
I was extremely disappointed by this film.  I had read many people who said that Ron Howard had done his best work here, but what I saw was the same old stuff - paint by numbers script (not his fault but he could have done a better job disguising it), extensive attempts at tear-wringing, even VIOLINS in the dramatic scenes - overt sentimentality.  The direction was totally manipulative.  Only the acting, (which was still a bit of the showy "give me an Oscar" variety by Crow) kept me with this film.  The Sixth Sense plot line was predictable, and the staging was awkward.  I think it is a shame that so many movie people are jumping on the bandwagon of a mediocre film while ignoring the true classic of a week year.  LORD OF THE RINGS is by far and away the best film of 2001, and Moulin Rouge deserves credit too.  To see a really great Russell Crow performance, watch THE INSIDER.


                
I really love Happy Days. There's something about Richie, Pottsie, Malph, the Fonze, and all the Cunninghams that just causes all of my aversions to sugar-coated Americana switch off. I cannot tolerate the Brady Bunch, Leave It to Beaver, Full House, etc, but a half-hour of Happy Days is pure television genius. I can't really explain why this is, but I surmise that I've always detected that, on some level, Happy Days didn't believe the myths it spun. It understood that the era it depicted was not all peaches and cream; there was something dark underneath all those episodes.Those other shows, those happy-family sit-coms, seem to believe their mythic landscapes and I cannot abide them for that. Or something.Well, as you all know, little Richie grew up and became a reasonably successful film director and produced, among others, A Beautiful Mind. And, man, does it make me yearn for Happy Days.I'm not entirely sure why this film has been un-necessarily given the title of genius. It's really just another Hollywood bio-pic and, if I'm not mistaken, there have been very few of those that were worthwhile (Ed Wood, for example, or Baadasssss! or Auto Focus). Nevertheless, come February and March, they take home all sorts of little gold statuettes.Russell Crowe offers another fine (though not Best Actor nomination worthy) performance as John Nash, schizophrenic genius extraordinaire, while Ed Harris proves again that he should receive more leading roles. He's one of the few character actors left in Hollywood who can waltz into any movie and instantly improve the film's quality. He was by far the finest point in the Hours and he's equally excellent here, yet again supplying the high-point in an otherwise mediocre movie (Truman Show and the aforementioned Hours anyone?). The remaining performances struck me as rather bland, as did the direction, and score.The only other bright spot for me were occasional flashes of cinematographic brilliance supplied by Mr. Roger Deakins, who, though not at the top of his game, provided us with something better, at least, than his nadir thus far - O Brother Where Art Thou.To be honest, though John Nash is certainly an important figure and has provided many important discoveries, I seriously question the need to give him his own film. Most great bio-pics serve a higher purpose than to worship the life they depict, offering the audience insight into something other than a so-called genius. A Beautiful Mind strives to do this, providing us with a glimpse into the world of mental illness, but ultimately the movie fails in this.The movie ultimately is not about schizophrenia; it's about John Nash. I like my bio-pics the other way around; I like them to be about something and not about an individual or group (take Ed Wood, for example - a film not about one of the most interesting Hollywood figures, but rather about the under-side of Hollywood - the B-picture and the effects of Hollywood upon the stars it made famous and threw away) All in all, this was a mediocre film, not worth the attention it received and certainly not worth the $9 I gave them to see it in the theaters. I


                
What is it with Hollywood. Based on a fascinating book, a strong cast and a decent budget -- and...all we get is another sacchirine tear jerker. And where's all the dark stuff? John Nash was definately no saint, but watching this film he came through as "more sinned against than sinning". Some decent acting from Ed Harris and Jennifer connelly just about made it worth the price of the ticket. But only just. Best movie of the year?


                
A Beautiful Mind does many things right: smooth, professional aesthetics, a solid story, and an interesting well developed character, John Nash (Crowe).  I did however have one major problem with the film-- the characterization of Alicia, Nash's wife.Although Jennifer Connelly may have "acted" well, I found her character highly problematic.  How could a smart, beautiful woman (studying at MIT) who seems so normal not have any qualms or relational problems with her husband?  Why, in the first place, would she be attracted to someone who appears twenty years older than her (whether he is or not), who is her teacher, and ultimately, a dork.   Even if the disbelief is suspended in considering the nuptials, why would she stay loyally at his side through all his psycho tendencies, and on top of that, not have any suspicion that she married a schizophrenic? Although this 'dream girl' of the movies may work in less respectable films or comedies, I was disappointed to find such stereotypical characterization in a serious, critically acclaimed film.    I'm sorry, but I've never met anyone like this.Part of the problem with her characterization I think stems from two "Hollywoodisms" to the adaptation: first, omitting the complex and confusing nature of Nash's love life (i.e. the period of homosexuality) in an effort to make the film mainstream friendly, and secondly, the technique of making his schizophrenia appear real for the first half of the film (ala Sixth Sense).  I don't think the film needed to address his homosexuality, but it did need to acknowledge and deal with his complexity in a sexual relationship, and the identity crisis that accompanies it.  His relationship with his wife, however, becomes too stable, too simple, and too easy. Yes she cries towards the end, and may get upset, but where are the problems in their relationship earlier, does this woman have a major issue with denial?  The stunt of not having his condition apparent for the first half of the film further complicates the character Alicia, as she also must be unaware of his condition for this portion of the film.  In reality, however, how could one be?My final criticism is that the pacing was too slow, but I won't rip the film apart any more.  I was just disappointed that such a rich characterization of an interesting man had to be sandwiched with plot candy and typical Hollywood notions of women.Brooke


                
This film is wildly over-rated. I expect it may win Oscars, but that will be an absolute travesty, and simply a confirmation of the pap-loving and mindless U.S. audience. Is that confrontational in Oscar week? No. Look at the sort of films that do well on the big night! This film is like Chocolat - sugary sweet. Let's just hope for the sake of cinema that the Academy sees sense like it did with that. The film is historically completely inaccurate. But the serious crime is that schizophrenia is badly misrepresented. Rather than audi-intrusiveness in some schizophrenics, the film producers decided to opt for sixth-sense style sensationalism. How original. Nash's violent temper and bi-sexuality were almost completely disregarded, or sanitised, and the ending was puke-makingly sugary. The film has one, and only one, redeeming feature: Crowe has done it again. For all his odiousness as a person, he has managed a fine performance. But this film is otherwise hardly worth the entrance fee. Oh, and by the way, a biopic whilst a person is still alive? I don't think so. You end up with a piece of sychophantic drivel.


                
This film has good points of course; acting, camera work and the general look of the film are beyond reproach. However, the plot does not carry a film of this length and scope, and this proves to be a fatal flaw in the tapestry. The excessive time devoted to the unfolding of the relatively simple story makes a mockery of the otherwise fine efforts of the actors, and make them look overdramatised and pretentious. This is where the film crashes in the view of this critic, because a serious and dramatic film can absolutely not afford to be pretentious. Cut by 45 minutes, this film might well have been good. 4/10


                
I really can't stand the people who seem to love this movie so. When I saw it, I was like, so, all this movie is about is one man's ordeal with schizophrenia. So what?? The "beautiful mind" part was never really explored because this man is/was a mathematician and his formulas nobody in the audience would ever understand! So Ron Howard decides to put the focus of the story squarely on our protagonist and his mental demise and subsequent rise again. But it's just not that interesting. Sorry. I was bored by the time the credits came up. Russell Crowe is a fine actor but the story was limp and I was bored. Some movie fans are such suckers when it comes to displays of intense emotion. That puts them over the edge and they think they've just witnessed an incredible movie. Unfortunately, NOT!


                
I first watched this film when it had an advanced preview before its wide release. I liked the film but it did not feel it was a Best Picture Oscar winner and I believe screenwriter Akiva Goldsman is a hack of the worst kind. Well he did write Batman & Robin and here explains 'Game Theory' in terms of picking women up at bars which should had been enough to disqualify him for an Oscar win.Over the years the film's disparity with actual true events has been an issue with a lot of people. The trouble is nearly all films tend to be fictionalised for dramatic effect and A Beautiful Mind I guess is no better or worse but to me felt like a film loosely based on some true facts.I recently re-watched the film and planned to review it. The death of John and Alicia Nash in a traffic accident focused my mind on the review.What I took away from my reviewing of A Beautiful Mind was Nash as played by Russell Crowe being surprised by the varied use of the Game Theory principles in the world of commerce. It makes the hackneyed attempt to explain this theory by Goldsman make it look even more inept. I actually find myself thinking of how Game Theory applies in real life with things like sport rights television auctions.Once upon a time one channel would buy up exclusive rights to soccer. A winner take all attitude which presumably led to underhand tactics such as bribery.Now you have packages sold to various TV channels, which means several channels in one country will show live soccer at different times and days with another channel having highlights and the soccer authorities maximising their revenue. The poor punter gets even more poorer though having to pay more in subscription payments!On the weekend that Nash died I even thought if Game Theory could apply in things like peace talks. Were the South African Truth and Reconciliation hearings just another application of Game Theory put in practice?A Beautiful Mind kind of overlooks the most important part Nash work and really places it as a footnote.What we have is Russell Crowe playing the most muscular, dull/shy Ivy league mathematician you will ever get to meet in a film whose depiction of mental illness borrows heavily from the hit movie released several years earlier, The Sixth Sense.You kind of lulled into a false sense of security before you are hit in the gut with a sucker punch, but eh, this is a film of a man who suffered from mental illness. I saw the punch coming.You then see Nash regaining his self, his worth and his wife. He returns to academia and gains academic acceptance with a Noble prize.The film is watchable, there are some nice flourishes put in by Ron Howard the director but it feels less substantial than its critical acclaim suggests which includes an Oscar for best picture.A Beautiful Mind is a picture of a man where they give you the biography but miss out on his thinking.


                
I watched the DVD, of A Beautiful Mind, over a week ago, as I had really made my mind up about the picture, I didn't write anything until now.  One thing I can't dismiss was the performances of Jennifer and Russell, whom I thought were both excellent.I'm not sure about Ron Howard's direction, it's hard to criticise Ron, as he is such a likeable chap and on the DVD, you hear him talk about the film with great dedication and passion.  Having said all that I feel that this was a weak presentation of a story, rather like Apollo 13, simplistic, <U+0091>join the dots' film making.  No real use of the camera or changes of style. Nothing in this film draws me in or surprises me, by the end of the film, you have a feeling of being let down, with the director trying to get some kind of sentimentality out, even when there isn't any naturally there.There are, of course, two fundamental problems with this film, the story itself.  A mathematician, a shy difficult genius, who suffers from Schizophrenia.  Yet he has the dedication of his wife to help him through his experiences.  The story isn't that interesting or at least it isn't presented as interesting.  The other greater problem is the lack of truth, which is a real problem for me.  The reason I see a <U+0091>true story' is because I really want to see the reality of the situation and what really happened, not a fictitious account.  When I read, after viewing the film, that he had homosexual affairs, whilst at school and in fact he believed he was hearing from Aliens and not from people, it adds a completely different slant on things.  Also the key point of the movie, in my opinion, was his wife's ability to stay with him.  In reality it was her that hid his problems and it was her that had him committed to an institution and the biggest contradiction was that she divorced him.In summary, well acted, but yet another Hollywood <U+0091>true story' that is far from true (Hurricane, The Perfect Storm, Braveheart, etc)6/10


                
I must admit that this review is somewhat unfair in that I only lasted for an hour before I had to leave. It was that bad. It was a very disappointing film. It was corny, overacted, and predictable. The premise of the movie intrigued me, as did seeing Crowe in such a divergent role from that of the character he played in Gladiator. In the movie he has this ability with numbers and uses mostly facial contortions to portray to us the fact that he is using his ability. Well as I watched this I thought `how could they possibly be talking Oscar for this guy' His acting was so painfully bad.In one shot be bangs his head on the window (he acts like he just took a bullet to the groin) and it produces a spider crack in the glass. Well, he bled like a stuck pig, with a gash on his head O.J. would have been proud of. His roommate rushes over and gushes over him like Crowe was his love interest. Sickening. Then, in the very next scene not so much as a scratch on Crows head. Oscar? Smoshker. This movie was well received by many others who reviewed it on this web site. I can only imagine that most of them are women who are infatuated with him, and would give two thumbs up if he played in say `The return of Pee Wee'. The acting from not only him but also most of his costars is so contrite and overacted it leaves one actually in shock as to how bad the movie is. The one bright spot as far as I could tell was Judd Hirsch. Who played a professor. Do your self a favor and wait till this stinker comes out on video and borrow it from the library.


                
Totally agree with the users speaking out on Russell Crowe Crowe and Jennifer Connelly (as eye-candy radiant as ever) for their easily superior turns in "The Insider" and "Requiem for a Dream" (in turn easily superior to "Mind"). Now, on to this picture, which I feel is the worst of the Best Picture nominees this year.....Walking into the theatre beforehand I was well-aware the film was under a considerable amount of critical fire for glossing over Mr. Nash, the individual - making him out to be way too much of a saint - and his accomplishments. Now I must concede that - bearing in mind there's a great deal of validity to all those objections - however you want to cut it, film is just NOT the best medium to resort to for accuracy and factual glut to satisfy the average viewer. War extravaganzas like the recent "Black Hawk Down" and "Pearl Harbor" are glaring examples of such a fault.But even looking past what the film is lacking in biographical substance (not very easy), there's not a whole lot in "A Beautiful Mind" to recommend here:
* John Forbes Nash as Crowe capably inhabits him is awfully hard to care about from beginning to end, despite the fact that the actor labors hard to flesh Nash out. He's fighting a screenplay that is far more concerned with the delusions haunting him than anything as substantial as his real life, or who HE was.* Ed Harris and Christopher Plummer, each a great actor in a rather thankless role.* It painted a portrait of schizophrenia that came off as, for the most part, pedestrian next to others found in the likes of, say, Darren Aronofsky's "Pi" and "Fight Club".* This portrait is worsened by moments supposed to incite laughter from the audience as a result of Nash's illness.* It sprung a 'twist' halfway through that came off like lazy screenwriting or a half-baked rehash of the Revelation concerning people who don't actually exist, something Hollywood ought to retire for a while.
* Not an iota of depth, but a good dose of superficiality, is to be found in the movie's depiction of why Mr. Nash was such a brilliant mathematician or what attracted Alicia Larde to him in the first place. Or why she put up with Nash so long. (Alicia is underwritten to such a great extent, you have to admire that Jennifer Connelly doesn't emerge as defeated from the screenplay as you would think, either.)* It actually left me wondering, like many Miramax-backed yarns of late, whether the central motivation behind its making was to win Oscars - not exactly an uplifting feeling, but then again, I guess the movie must have failed in its obvious attempts near the end to inspire that.For all the faults of "Moulin Rouge", "Gosford Park", "Lord of the Rings" and several other films that didn't make the Best Picture cut, but should have, at least they didn't seem nearly as calculated, and had far more interesting methods of storytelling guiding them. (The fine Apollo 13 aside, I feel Ron 'Opie' Howard's talent is vastly overrated.) Neither did many of them seem to overstay their welcome as much as "A Beautiful Mind" (over 2 hours long).There are spots where the movie simply DRAGS, and threatens to drag the viewer's opinion of the proceedings down with it, despite the valiant efforts of Crowe and Connelly to inject some interest factor into Akiva Goldsman's predictable screenplay (Golden Globe worthy my A$$). At times they almost succeeded. In the end, they are the only elements of the movie worth all the Oscar buzz. Should you be in search of an adequate starting showcase for their talent, but not much more, look no further and check this one out, but brace yourself for the running time.


                
Slow and boring movie about a delusional mathematician which dont focus on the reality in the portrayed persons works. I dont like it because i dont like to look at a disturbed person and his experiences. If you want to see a real nice and fun movie, see scary movie 2 or something really funny like "not another teen movie". However, i dont see how one can try to go into this persons mind, this is just a quick glance at something of course more complex and involved than its room to place in a one and a half hour movie. Instead, you should study some psychology, and in that case use this movie for some kind of acknowledgment of your already learned knowledge. The mathematic aspect is, as expected, strongly simplified, and a kind of a crack kids high in the cloud fantasy. Why dont we see more of the interesting works of this man? Probably because one of two reasons. We already have one reason; the time aspect. This is acceptable, if you dont count on getting the priorities straight, because the obvious time limit of a long film. The other possibly reason is because the film makers is thinking not many people would be interested in a film, harrowing about boring mathematical problems. If that is true or not, can of course be discussed. I however believe its perfectly a necessary component in this kind of movie.


                
Russell Crowe is very good, but there is absolutely nothing new about this movie and the 'Captain my Captain' ending made me laugh.  The supporting cast is very average and to be actually considering this movie as an Oscar winner showcases how bad a year in movies 2001 actually was.


                
Russell Crowe is overacting and this is not a "beatifull"movie.Is very unfair that Academy awards have given the Oscar to Ron Howard instead of Robert Altman.It's simple,lineal and a thousand times seen movie.Is bored and sometimes it seem a TV movie.Don't waste your time in this Academy winner(the worst Academy Winner of the last 4 years)


                
I can't understand what found the Academy in this movie to choose it like best picture. "A beautiful mind" it's a long, long, long and boring movie. Russell Crowe acting it's awful and half of the picture is Mr. Crowe acting like some kind of jerk. Do you really think this can be the best movie of the 2001? I don't think so. What about "Amelié"?


                
The audience is expected to dump a dozen scenes as simply delusions halfway through this slow drift into a brick wall of a film. What might have been an inspired rendering of the life of an interesting man became a quasi X-Files episode that stopped abruptly and left the audience dangling, then the film is deflty dropped into the cold hands of a contrite and abominable psychiatrist. I bought a copy on DVD for a friend and was disappointed that it was so blighted a production. I would not recommend this film to anyone. Something cannot be called a delusion if it is shooting at you from a moving vehicle. Oh that was just a dramatic device to illustrate psychosis. Right. Like Scotty from Star Trek said, if my grandmother had wheels she would be a wagon.Go peddle yer wares elsewhere buddy is another thing that comes to mind. Watch the X-Files instead, at least they know how to give a psychosis a good run for its money.


                
Alright, it was a well done movie for what it was, and interestingly executed, but it had the feel of a dry non-fiction work. It almost seemed like the hype and the Academy Award voting were tactical; you couldn't give Jennifer Connelly an Oscar for her brilliant performance in Requiem For A Dream, for instance, because after all Academy Awards can't go to naked women performing explicit kinky sex on camera in druggie films, but Beautiful Mind was just that sort of painfully earnest movie for which Academy members can impress one another at parties by claiming to have given it their votes. Now Crowe did a workmanlike job, Connelly was the spectacular eyecandy she's been capable of being her entire career, and the alternative to voting for this flick would have been to give Moulin Rouge a Best Picture nod, which would have been a crime against nature.But that aside, while I saw this at Dollar Night at the Wollaston Theater, it's still two hours of my life I won't get back.Rating: 4/10 and that's generous.


                
A Beautiful Mind starts off really interesting as we learn about this... genius as he forges his way through high school.  Probably one of the most interesting aspects of the movie is when we get a glimpse inside Nash's mind every so often to see the patterns he finds.But, unfortunately, A Beautiful Mind begins to lose its charm, and quickly. Sure, everything begins to rapidly accelerate for a moment as Nash is wrapped up in some sort of government conspiracy, but soon everything slows and the movie really trudges at a moderate pace.Spoilers are definitely coming.Nash's transformation into the paranoid, totally freaked-out husband is interesting, of course.  I was really getting involved with the movie, wondering what everything meant, what was going to happen to him, his wife, and his unborn child.Then the mental hospital doctor's came, and everything began to go downhill. Once they keep him under control and try to show him that what he sees isn't real, the movie really slows.  In truth, I was captivated, siding with Nash and saying to myself, "No, it's real!"  That was probably the best part of the movie.  It was almost like a twist.  I could have never guessed those people weren't real.But that did not sustain the movie.  It didn't come together really well at the end, it was rather boring, and, although great if you're into movies that explore the depths of psychology, I found it quite tedious.A Beautiful Mind can really catch one's attention at the beginning, but it can't hold its pace.  I wouldn't suggest A Beautiful Mind unless you are into psychological probing movies.
Brilliant mathematician, John Nash (Crowe) becomes embroiled in counter espionage work in the Cold War peak '50's and his grip on reality takes a turn for the worst.  He is helped by the love of a good woman though...God awful ruination of a potentially revelatory story is woefully pithy; insensitively directed and features the worst Crowe performance since he hit Hollywood!  The dialogue is a collection of wannabe profound soundbites which convince neither as the musings of the characters saying them or as the deep aphorisms the writer mistakenly perceived he was educating us all with.  Howard's direction seems (almost purposefully) to miss the entire point that this should be a SUBTLE study of descent into and battling with madness.  Instead we see the Hollywood lexicon for what thick viewers will recognise as madness: Nash gets angry for no reason; Nash writhes and foams; Nash chases his own tail; etc...  And as pedestrian as Howard's non-functioning direction is - it isn't remotely helped by Crowe's interpretation of a tortured genius as: Spacker Camp!  Crowe's grossly offensive (clearly un-thought out) attempt to portray insanity as a man walking around with the initial symptoms of cerebral palsy and talking with an affected, pseudo-effeminate register is the stuff of notoriety.  This performance will come to haunt Crowe when right minded people wake up from their understandable reverie of rooting for the tortured soul and realise that a fine film is waiting to be made about John Nash and his tragic illness and this lame, gross affrontary is not it!


                
"A Beautiful Mind" is an honoured film. Lots of awards has been coming it's way and I understand it as this film is an archeotype of the kitschy image a lot of directors have on making film.In fact, the film is kitsch. The result is always going to be so when the introductory view from the directors point is that "we are going to make art/history etc.". Indeed Ron Howard has always wanted to make THAT film that could keep everybody talking. Looking at his records show that he so far has not artistically been very succesful. With all these awards, notably beating Robert Altman in Best Directing at the Oscars and DGA, has he then achieved it? Has he made art with "A Beautiful Mind"?No. Far from. He has elaborated on his very oldfashioned look at making movies, and he has shown his disrespect for the viewers.
Take a look at the dialogue in this one. Do people really talk like this? Did they do that in the '50s? No. Between Nash and his wife there isn't a single real-life conversation. Ron Howard does not have time for such common things. Common things in his mind cannot be art. So the couple are left with a cribbling dialogue that never explain their affection for each other but simply displays them as puppets. They are not real people. (A bizarre thing to say when the plot centers around an authentic story!)Ron Howard's best effort so far IMO has been "EdTV". That was a charming film that did not try to be more than it was: Entertaining. The characters in it were (so to speak) normal - and so was the dialogue. Strange that even the real people in "A Beautiful Mind" have to be so shallow.Also, Howard believes that the audience is more or less stupid. This leeds him to giving up on all subtleness and explaining everything very clearly. I don't like being spoken to as if I was stupid - do you? It destroys the overall issues of this film - and I cannot help thinking that it is so odd Howard never even tries to elaborate on Nash's theories and his importance. He has given up on us from the very start.Russel Crowe is a always a rock, but here his performance tend to be unintentionally amusing - remember Anthony Hopkins in "Legends Of The Fall"? You want to laugh as his character deteriorates - but no no, this is serious stuff. Does Ron Howard really thing life is that serious? Where is the authenticity in this real life story?Jennifer Connelly is given very little to work with. She whispers and has got a different hair-do from time to time - and then there is the obliged breakdown that gave her the Oscar. Only Winslet and Smith were AMPAS nominees in the supporting category this year without displaying "breakdowns". Food for thought, eh? Anyway; even Connelly's breakdown seems odd. Howard so bad wanted the Oscar for her.Kitsch is what this film is about. Indeed the weakest of the five Best Picture nominees. Artistically flawed and tame, Howard got what he wanted.
4/10


                
Good acting by Crowe.  Good glossy package by Howard.Atrocious movie, because it captures the mind, falsely, as a documentary, and leaves out too much of the controversial and true facts:  Nash's bisexuality, divorce, and spontaneous remission of his disorder, to name a few.Oliver Stone would be proud of this commercially recreated biography.


                
