Spoilers herein.So frustrating. Once again we have an inept film about mathematics. Hard to understand: film is visceral, drawing from visually-based insights as abstractions of reality. That also describes the most exciting kind of mathematics.The magic of the Lord of the Rings books wasn't in the story, but in the creation of an alternative world, complete with cosmology. The film lacks that inner reality and instead focuses on the story, basically one escape after another. But it is rousing good fun on that level. And so we have here. As with `Lord,' `Mind' knows where all the emotional strings are and pulls enough of them in the right order that we get successfully manipulated. But this film misses the opportunity of a lifetime to merge the images of math and film.There are three good opportunities here, all missed:The Nash Story Part 1: Mathematics is a matter of invention more than discovery. A clever mathematician can shape abstractions that influence all thought that follows. It is as close to God as one can get, and since most of the world is imaginary, one can argue that God will be bested at some point -- if it hasn't already occurred. There are conflicting factors involved: you need to be novel, but it must bind to some part of the world that exists. The unfamiliar made familiar; which can be done through `proofs' which is a way of presenting the new in such a way that everyone believes the world was made that way all along.Which means you have to be extraordinarily clever in approaching a problem from an odd angle and finding the linkage. Nash was the best mind of the century in this first (challenging both Einstein and Von Neumann!). That's saying a whole lot. It means you have to have an intense focus that you maintain uninterrupted for months. The very idea exhausts. Nash had this in spades, perhaps his most remarkable quality because it was something he taught himself to do. Finally, mathematics is a verbal art, constructed in narratives with colleagues, not intrinsically in funny symbols as cartoons and movies would have it.So think of this: you must talk with peers using a common vocabulary; but you must not in order to stay important and novel. You must shape the new in small terms, but have a global focus, holding mental orgasms for months. The tension between reaching far into the cosmos and keeping it in a conversation must have been immense. The book on which this film is based focuses on the social devolution of Nash, but the more interesting side is where his unanchored voyages took him. The film didn't mine this lode. In reality, Nash was not incompetent with soliciting sex: in fact he was very smooth and conducted multiple simultaneous bisexual affairs. That was part of the focused exercise to relate to the `world as-is.' Where he was incompetent was in mapping his visions to our lesser reality.The Nash Story 2: Nash's madness was almost certainly caused by his `breaking' his mind by straying too far from reality to get outside this large problem he was working. The conspiracies came not from cold war silliness but something far deeper: Phil Dick science fiction and Kabbalah. Not stupid numbers but topologies (forms). Not codes but manifold patterns in higher spaces. Literally extraterrestrial voices. By the way: Alicia was as crazy, but I suppose since she had an uninteresting mind, it is not worth watching.The most powerful scene (in the book at least) is when Nash and poet Robert Lowell were in the same `hospital.' Lowell entered Nash's room and mind daily and held forth on both for visitors. `Every word was his best friend.' Quite possibly the century's most imaginative and literate minds melded. I would have loved to have been there. (In fact I was in a thin way. I took the class Nash taught right after he was first committed -- his acolyte emulated his manner.)The Nash Story 3 is the story about the Nobel. Uncle Alfie didn't like mathematicians (read `Jews') so refused to establish a prize in math. The `economics' was an independent prize grafted onto the Nobels as an `almost' Nobel. Most scientists are uncomfortable with economics being treated like physics because it is more obviously a constructed reality. Nash's prize prompted a debate within the Nobel community that destroyed the economics prize and is eating away at whether there is anything left but math when you skim more than superficially. It is one of the most profound institutional self-examinations ever. The film didn't mine this lode either.All missed opportunities. Wouldn't you like to have been transported rather than merely made to cry?What we get instead is a powerful actor and a competent director. Crowe's trick is to project his character not only into the space around him but into the space of the following scene -- largely by physical motion, usually involving the forehead. Good. But the mannerisms are not those of a mathematician in the Wiener tradition. The accent is not accurate, just an excuse to give new rhythms to the bland lines. The effect of the madness is not true, reflecting prior movies more than reality.Howard's directing is completely without risk, art, interest. The one effect he tries is a bunch of fiddling with glass: shots through windows, often with (irrelevant) mathematical doodles. These are amateurish because the film has no inner cosmology within which one can register the metaphor. Compare this with the use of glass in `Spy Game.' MIT has a specific, abstract feel that is very easy to capture, but it somehow eluded the location scout.See it. Enjoy it. But weep for the `lesser mortals' who fabricated it and mind the opportunities they missed.
A BEAUTIFUL MIND (2001)(3/5 stars)Starring RUSSELL CROWE JENNIFER CONNELLY And ED HARRIS With CHRISTOPHER PLUMMERDirected by RON HOWARD Written by AKIVA GOLDSMAN RATING: PG-13 - for sexual content, and a scene of violenceThe much talked about film A BEAUTIFUL MIND from director RON HOWARD is over rated. In no way should this film have snagged the BEST PICTURE OSCAR. In fact, the best picture SHOULD have gone to LORD OF THE RINGS THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING instead.In the beginning of A BEAUTIFUL MIND, I found myself thinking, `Wow, this really IS going to be good!' Because I, myself, thought RUSSELL CROWE shouldn't have won best actor for GLADIATOR 2 years ago, and now I was thinking that this'll make up for that. Wrong! After Crowe's character starts becoming paranoid-an effect of schizophrenia, the movie just got weird. Something about it just was out of place, and though I know this film is based on the real JOHN NASH, I personally feel RON HOWARD messed up chances at possible good film. Among many other weird sequences with his `friends,'  at the end of the film, though it may be a true story, I actually felt depressed-the OPPOSITE of what Ron said he tried to create at the end. I felt that out of his whole lifetime, all he did, all the terror <U+0085> All John Nash got was one Nobel Prize?. And the other weird thing is, that he STILL sees those people -- the man, the girl and the spy. While this may be true, I got more of a horror vibe at this thought, rather than a ` wow, what an accomplishment.' Ron could've presented this fact better than showing an 80 year old Nash, walking the college floors, and peering behind him, revealing the people, still standing there. I got a very, very weird feeling seeing this.The movie itself, wasn't that great either. Sure, it's good material, but not Oscar worthy! Jennifer Connelly didn't do that great at acting in this film, either. She did better in THE LABYRINTH! Don't take me wrong, this film's good, but not Oscar worthy. And like I said before, this film feels more like a horror picture than anything else, much less a drama! See it, like it, whatever. But don't tell me it deserved an Oscar. Why does everyone like Ron Howard films? All I've REALLY likes so far were APOLLO 13 and RANSOM. Other than that<U+0085> they're okay. NOT Oscar worthy though. This year's Academy Awards were given to the wrong people, and pictures. I'm sorry, but that's just my view of this film. Sue me, but I'll let you know, I'm giving A BEAUTIFUL MIND a good rating, just not a great one. 3/5 stars-If you've got some points to point out, r just to say something about a movie I reviewed, or even to agree with me, you can email me.


                
SPOILERSIt's always inspiring to see someone overcome adversity like John Nash, the real-life hero of A Beautiful Mind. A brilliant mathematician, he suffered from sever paranoid schizophrenia for most of his adult life. But he learned to live with it, as normal a life as possible, and he ended up being awarded the Nobel Prize in 1994. It's a great story. Too bad it's so generically told in Ron Howard's film. It's as by-the-numbers as a film like this can really get. The direction is bland, and the writing can be quite dull at times. Shine, for instance, is a much better film very similar in plot and structure. I must make an interjection in my own criticisms for this film, though. One reason why A Beautiful Mind may lack power is that it had some major points spoiled in the advertising. We don't actually know in the film, not until a long time in, that Nash is suffering delusions and fantasies. For instance, Ed Harris' character is imaginary, which can be deduced almost instantly. But would I have assumed that if I didn't know what the film was about? Can't be so sure.Anyhow, A Beautiful Mind is well worth seeing. The actors are pretty good. Russel Crowe may have given his best performance so far in the film. He won an Oscar last year for a rather lame role in Gladiator, but if he wins this year (I write this the night before the Oscars air, by the way) it will be very deserved. We've got an actor here who will continue to impress the hell out of us. Hopefully he can restrain himself from beating the crap out of people (I think that it might cost him the award, but we'll see in approximately 24 hours! An update: it did). Jennifer Connely is good, but she's been a lot better elsewhere, most notably in Dark City and Requiem for a Dream. It wouldn't be too out of line to award her, though. The rest of the awards it has been nominated for can vanish, for all I care. There's nothing special about Ron Howard's direction. It may be his best film, but that's a backhanded complement coming from me. The editing is plain. James Horner's score is particularly bad. It's far too overdramatic. The makeup is a possibility, though. Russel Crowe's old man makeup is quite good. I give the film a 7/10.
To be frank, I found this movie very boring in the beginning. But as time passes, I got immersed into it fully and it takes me along with it. John Nash's life is beautifully picturized with all the complexities in his life. I could relate this movie to people in my life and I found this movie very authentic and true. Jennfier Conolly was superb in her role as Nash's suffering wife. I would rate this film as a MUST WATCH among the biopics.


                
In retrospect, it isn't surprising that Ron Howard's "A Beautiful Mind" won the Academy Award for Best Picture: it's a sentimental and yet highly dramatic package which takes a time-worn theme for the movies (mental illness) and gives it a few new twists (the Academy normally frowns on edgy concepts--this one has an old-fashioned set-up and a lead performance preconceived to be a triumph, yet it has a toughness to its narrative which feels very modern). In 1947 Princeton, mathematician John Nash is flailing away at an economics theory while all his male classmates just want to get laid (the film equates the average Princeton male with the type of guys typical to "Happy Days"); five years later, Nash is working with the Pentagon on numerical formation patterns and appears to be pulled into a conspiracy plot to thwart the Russians from detonating their H-Bomb on American soil. The film has a rocky first hour, with Howard indeed setting up the plot mechanisms but also giving us a main character who is disconnected, a failure at social interaction, and a really bad first date (future-wife Jennifer Connelly doesn't escape easily herself, and she's stuck with dim thoughts such as "God must be a painter, why else would there be so many colors?"). Still, by the second act, Nash's personal crisis has become more clear to us, more involving and gripping, and Russell Crowe isn't so much deliberately one-note as he is intensely focused (the actorly tics come later, yet when they do they are almost endearing). The film has that slick look of "grand entertainment"--designed to win awards--but there are miraculous moments: Nash neglecting to take his medicine and discovering an entire covert operation going down in his backyard shed; Nash, recuperating, riding his bicycle in an infinity pattern, scribbling numbers in the air with his finger. The mental institution stuff is the cinematic equivalent of treading water (and wastes Christopher Plummer as a doctor), but the last half of the film is quite good: a brilliant but disturbed professor working his damnedest to overcome his demons, helped along by a loving woman, and receiving the kind of respect he never dreamed of. Sentimental? Yes, but I don't believe it's dishonest sentiment. Ron Howard isn't always graceful or sensitive (especially in the electric shock sequence), but he does resurrect a tired genre and ultimately makes it a moving experience. *** from ****


                
After watching this movie.. even though I am not great thinker.. I started respecting my thoughts. Freedom for thoughts is really food for innovation.It doesn't matter whether the thought becomes reality ..for being evident to the people of this world..or it just remains as thought.. a great thought, beautiful thought or a stupid thought.. but it still remains.Movie makes this realize on every stage of the existing of the beautiful thought in ones life and when it becomes reality.. its 'Beauty' comes to reality..Awesome Movie !


                
Great film. Very interesting insight into the life of a troubled genius. Crowe was phenomenal and fully deserved an Oscar.


                
I love math, and I love intelligent films about intelligent people who do intelligent things. But I don't like watching someone suffer on film. The reason I didn't give this film a higher rating was the excessive amount of time and excessive number of scenes depicting John Nash's obvious disabilities. OK , we get it; the guy is sick and suffers schizoid and paranoid delusions. So did my mother, but I tended to overlook her problems because of her wonderful outstanding qualities. They should have done the same in this film. The scenes depicting Nash's talents and accomplishments were far more inspirational than the cheesy attempts to include us in his delusions. We know he is delusional after the first few scenes with the bogeyman from the CIA or NSA. I understand these scenes are necessary to show his pain and difficulty with this afflictions, but there is no need to hammer it with extra scenes that prevent us from discovering all of the wonderful game theories and how they were discovered by Nash. Still a very impressive film, however.


                
I never watched 'A Beautiful Mind' at its time of release as I wasn't a massive fan of Russell Crowe and I didn't know what the film was about. For me, this was the ultimate example of never judging a book by its cover. I still proclaim that the cover of the DVD looks pretty dull and gives no real hint as to what the film was about. Yes, I knew that Crowe won an Oscar for his performance and that it was a story about a guy who did stuff, but nothing about (the little) I heard about it really grabbed me. However, now nearly twenty years later, I finally got round to seeing what all the fuss was about. And I'm actually quite glad I did.I guess my overriding predictions of 'A Beautiful Mind' was that it was a love story and nothing else. However, the film is actually based on the real life story of John Nash (Crowe), an American code-breaker who helped the US Government decipher Russian messages during the Cold War, making the whole thing more akin to a spy thriller than a romantic drama. I'm not saying that just because it's about spies you're going to get a load of high-octane James Bond car chases and gadgets. What you have here is a far more realistic take on the profession. We see how Nash is 'recruited' by the Government and the way he uses his gifts with patterns and numbers in order to help them out. Of course there's always going to be a reasonable helping of romantic sub-plot and here it comes in the form of Jennifer Connolly who becomes his wife throughout the course of the story. But, in my opinion (now!), it's primarily a spy story.I won't go into too much detail regarding the rest of the plot as there are most likely some things that you won't see coming. Or, at least from my perspective as someone who knew nothing about the film before watching, I certainly didn't predict what would happen. But, I do recommend watching it, even if you're not a fan of spy-stuff. If nothing else then Crowe's performance is definitely worth a look. You can see why he got his Oscar as he does put everything he has into the portrayal of a man who, by his own admission, isn't that likeable and yet you want to see what happens to him. Ed Harris and Christopher Plummer should also get mentions as they both provide integral parts of the story. I know Jennifer Connolly was good too, but I felt she had little to do other than be Nash's long-suffering partner throughout the story. It is a kind of long film and I think perhaps around fifteen to twenty minutes of the final act could probably have been trimmed to make it a tighter film. It may take me another twenty years to watch 'A Beautiful Mind' again, but I'm pretty sure one day I will.


                
'A Beautiful Mind' had a lot going for it. An intriguing story based on an interesting man, a great cast full of talented actors, the involvement of James Horner and Roger Deakins (perhaps one of the best modern cinematographers in the business) and Ron Howard as director (a very competent director with some great films under his belt, directing always with a lot of quality and polish if not always distinction).Finally seeing it, always wanting to but never quite having the time, 'A Beautiful Mind' was to me a good, often very good, film, if not quite great. Of its four Oscar wins, Connelly and adapted screenplay (on the most part) were worthy wins, though there were better contenders in the Best Picture and Director categories, 'Fellowship of the Ring' for Best Picture and David Lynch for 'Mulholland Drive' for director. Again, from personal opinion, 'A Beautiful Mind's' Oscar nominations were worthier of wins generally, especially Russell Crowe for Best Picture, make-up and the film editing, cinematography also should have been under serious consideration.There are a few things that stop 'A Beautiful Mind' from being great. Pacing can be messy, feeling rushed in some spots and then dragging in others. Admittedly though there were other places where it was perfect.Do agree with the portrayal of schizophrenia being problematic, it is a sensitive and courageous subject to address but those with schizophrenia and mental illness in general will find problems with how it's portrayed. It is a complex and often frightening illness, that the film tries to take seriously and sensitively, but it just felt too clean and like it was being careful not to offend but ended up being too careful. Other aspects are heavy-handed.The espionage subplot was intriguing mostly and gave some powerful conflict, at the same time parts not quite gelling with the rest of the film and feeling a little confused.However, 'A Beautiful Mind' for want of a better word looks absolutely beautiful. The cinematography with the vibrant colours and seamless fluidity was one of the best of its year, and the period detail remarkably evocative and a joy to look at. James Horner's score has garnered mixed views, mostly leaning on the positive, personally though it added a lot to the emotional power of the film, swelled thrillingly and was beautifully and cleverly orchestrated, didn't think it was melodramatic at all.'A Beautiful Mind's' adapted screenplay really makes one think while also capturing a wide range of emotions, more than making up for the lack of accuracy. The story is compelling on the most part with a spot on portrayal of mathematics, something that was praised by the maths community at the time including John Nash. It is very moving and uplifting, many scenes dealt with powerfully.Ron Howard's direction is some of the best he's done. As ever from him it is rich in quality and polish but it also is some of his most distinguished and shows that he can direct with distinction (even if he doesn't always elsewhere.Can't praise the cast enough, along with the visuals it is the best aspect of the film. It is impossible to find fault with the powerhouse and perhaps career best performance of Russell Crowe, while Jennifer Connelly is touching in a loyal and sympathetically written role (even if not as challenging as a few of her other roles such as in 'Requiem for a Dream'.Ed Harris is chillingly malevolent, while the rarely less than game Paul Bettany and Adam Goldberg charm and Judd Hirsch and Christopher Plummer also not putting a foot wrong.In conclusion, admirable and extremely well made, directed and acted with a sizeable range of emotions, if missing the mark of being a "great" film instead of a good and often very good film and not doing enough justice to a great man and his life. The divisiveness is understandable. 7/10 Bethany Cox


                
Confused between having to give it a very low rating or a very high one and with hundreds of reviews written before mine, I still want to make a few points. Maybe it would help out someone:1- Biographically: I've read that the real John Nash had an entirely different story. Please tell me would you take the history and life of a man and change it entirely, deceiving a lot of people and mutilating history to make a movie ?! Couldn't you change the names and say that it was "inspired" bu a true story ?! Was it that hard or was it not at appealing and interesting ?! So I agree with everyone out here bashing out this movie for being that inaccurate and deceiving.2- Regarding the fictional love story: it was a little real. When you love someone with all your heart and senses, Hollywood -in a lot of other movies- would be selling you lies. The reality is that even the most romantic couples with the most beautiful love stories ever suffer a lot, fight but stick around. So, it was to some degree realistic. 3- Regarding the mental illness:Some people here say it was very unrealistic and a fairy tale. Those people didn't pay enough attention to a lot of details in the movie like the baby who would drown or the people making fun of the professor. So I disagree, it showed much truth, although not in every aspect. There's a very important aspect that was very disrespected in the movie: the Psychiatrist's image and the medications, which I overlooked because that might be the case with some of the patients who weren't taught how medications would help or have had experiences with bad psychiatrists.A point I found ridiculous and offensive to a great extent, however, was how mental illnesses were portrayed as if a patient with some strong will would overcome them without hospitalization, psychiatric help or medication, just his "heart" as pointed by the wife in the movie. This was utterly stupid, this is a disease who sick people should be taught how to cope with, or in other words, a state of mind that you have to learn to live with. However, there's a very important aspect clarified here: disorders are not things you have to get rid of or cure, rather than states of mind or in other words, chronic cases, medication should help in some cases, therapy would help greatly too in a lot of cases, and you have to cope with it. Pain makes the most beautiful and the wisest people as I have seen in my life, especially mental and psychological pain, and if the patient/individual knew how to learn from it. 4- Technical Details: The acting was marvelous and the soundtrack stood out. The direction overall could have been a little better and of course, the writing is really criticized for all the deception.Overall, a movie recommended and shows a lot of reality for some people, but is a sorrow to see it transform true people's stories into fabrications.


                
I found this movie quite enjoyable. It's not one of those kinds of movies I would view again,however is worth watching the once. I think this movie is inspirational and empathetic to those of us who may be perceived or actually experience psychological conditions similar to that of the lead character. It shows the progress and changes made in both scientific and the social understandings, while also reveling the emotional impact this can have on those close to us. The performance of the lead characters was generally good and the story line quite clever. I love a film with a good ending, whether this be happy or sad. This film had a good ending.


                
There's little doubt that "A Beautiful Mind" is an excellent film. There's also little doubt that it was buoyed from buzz to Oscar acclaim by hype, strategic PR, and a gullible public. Taken in and of itself the film is rather ordinary among excellent films and not worthy of much of the critical acclaim it garnered. I personally found much of the film uninteresting, tedious, and downright boring. After all, how does one relate to someone whose accomplishments are so abstract as to be buried in esoteric symbolism and someone whose illness is so intangible as to be a state of mind? The beauty of mathematics and the war with the demons of delusions were not brought sufficiently into focus by the film which spent too much time trying to develop a rather uninteresting character, making his delusions our delusions, spicing it up with a car chase and shootout, fleshing out the mental ghosts, and showing the principal's eccentricism with endless scribbling on window glass. Compensate for the hype, keep expectations low, and enjoy.


                
An unusually complex and adventurous Hollywood biopic, A Beautiful Mind, starring Russell Crowe as Nobel Laureate John Nash, is a likely 2001 Best Picture nominee <U+0096> and given its Academy-pleasing inspirational-triumph-over-disability main story line, I wouldn't be surprised if it took the whole enchilada.The film's early scenes are richly scripted (and daringly slow paced) to establish Nash's mathematical genius. We listen to him talk math with his fellow 1940s graduate students at Princeton University. We try to follow his obsessive problem solving on windows and any other handy surface. More mysteriously, we observe him observing group dynamics from pigeons to barflies, moving, we ultimately learn, ever more profoundly toward his Adam Smith-revising epiphany. All this is done with enough surface realism to convince us that the character is actually doing what he is supposed to be so good at <U+0096> a much more difficult task when the character's accomplishments are mainly ratiocinative (writers, philosophers, and scientists) than when the character leaves a physical mark on society (artists, soldiers, politicians). If nothing else, A Beautiful Mind will provoke many viewers into looking up the mathematical/economic theories of the real John Nash. Complicating this tale of genius (and, of course, attracting Hollywood to it), is Nash's decades-long descent into, and recovery from, serious mental illness. While the film's depiction of schizophrenia continues to receive praise from the mental health community for its accuracy and sympathy, the stylistic approach walks a line <U+0096> not always soberly <U+0096> between effective drama and preternatural hokum lifted from The Sixth Sense. Since the director (Ron Howard) carefully restricts the film's first two acts to Nash's point of view, the audience has little or no means of perceiving the increasing paranoid madness that envelopes the character, especially given the generally paranoia-producing milieu of post- World War II American society. For much of the movie, in fact, the plot seems to be following the 'just because I'm-paranoid doesn't mean that they are NOT out to get me' formula of many a Hollywood political thriller, most elaborately illustrated/parodied in Conspiracy Theory.But in an inspired moment of Hitchcockian reversal, the last act shifts the point of view to Nash's wife as she discovers (and thereby we also discover) that her husband is truly insane. Ironically, Nash manages to break himself out of his subjective prison by marshaling his logical powers to the examination of a crucial piece of 'data' that leads ineluctably to the proof of his own madness. Upon this Cartesian foundation and with the help of his heroically loyal wife (Jennifer Connelly), Nash spends the years leading up to and beyond his Nobel Prize in Economics warding off the demons of delusion through the concentrated application of reason. Despite a little overblown sentimentality in its final scenes, A Beautiful Mind delivers some interesting existential observations about the powers as well as limits of love and reason as momentary stays against the confusions of mind and society. And if it turns out to be this year's Best Picture Award recipient, well, it certainly won't be the least worthy one in recent years.
It feels pretty paltry and dry to grade a film on accuracy <U+0096> especially since "A Beautiful Mind (2001)" is a dramatization and not a documentary. But when the director not only chooses to omit significant aspects of its biographical figure but richly glosses over almost everything in his life in a lush Hollywood coating up for Academy praise, then I as John Nash, would feel pretty stiffed at seeing the end result. But then I am not John Nash <U+0096> I'm just a movie-goer looking to be entertained, touched and inspired in some way, and I was 2 out 3.These two points are difficult to pinpoint, but I would attribute one of them to the acting in the film, which is sensationally layered and realistic from all parties. Russell Crowe may be a jerk in real life, but he clearly knows his stuff on screen and he is very convincing as genius-mathematician-turned-schizophrenic John Nash. We follow his career and his life starting out at Princeton, getting married, and ending up in Stockholm, heartily accepting the Nobel Prize. He ages 47 years in the film but Russell Crowe is perfect at every stage.So the film makes it clear to us that John Nash is a genius man. Yet I was never mesmerized by his 'beautiful' mind <U+0096> not in the same way I was with other cinematic geniuses in films like Good Will Hunting, Pi, Enigma and Amadeus. This is because you cannot trace his mathematical thoughts, we do not get to follow his genius pattern ideas and oh, when he draws an umbrella-shape in the stars for Alicia (Connelly) IT DOES NOT LOOK LIKE AN UMBRELLA. At all. It looks like a couple of dots, sorry. Very romantic, poignant moment though.While this sounds like a happy and acknowledged life, it is everything but for John Nash. He is the victim of schizophrenia, which makes him paranoid, delusional and insecure. He is never at 'the height of his career', but always a bruised man plagued by his own mind. It just takes him a while to realise it and shake him from his paranoid state. This part is handled superbly in the film -- the break-down is perfect and heartfelt and Jennifer Connelly is there as a supporting wife all along.That actually bothered me somewhat, and it is where the glossy Hollywood autopilot is switched on and Ron Howard leans back in his directing chair. While Russell Crowe is great and Jennifer Connelly is great, their marriage is TOO great. The real Alicia Nash wasn't the pretty little devoted wife to a troubled husband all these years; she divorced him in 1963. Another polished detail that irked me (moreso than the perfect marriage) was the Nobel Prize culmination. The real John Nash shared his prize with two others, but in the film Russell Crowe appears as a sole winner giving a poignant, sappy speech about "the equations of love", and the audience cheers, claps and stands up at the end of it.So in summary, if you do not mind the occasional lofty Hollywood approaches to drama, then this is a very good film. Russell Crowe carries it, Jennifer Connelly supports it and Ed Harris and Paul Bettany add further weight to an already respected cast. It is a well-sewn together product with nice cinematic harmony and my favourite aspect was the subtle nuances in John Nash's delusions that distinguished them from reality. You can spot this at the beginning if you pay attention.7.5/10


                
This is a wonderful film in many ways. The mental struggle Russel Crowe's character endures is heartbreaking. What a powerful mind, too much so even for life, relationships, and happiness.There are a few twists. Most folks will be able to predict one or even all, but, nevertheless, you are along for the ride with Crowe's character. Even if you are not as surprised by certain story breakthroughs as some will be, the connection you feel to John Nash is undeniable. You want to see him succeed and you want him to just get better.Either way, I consider this film melodrama, with some truly outrageous occurrences that push it into the realm of silly, but, not enough to ruin the overall impact of the film.This film requires your attention for full immersion into the story, but, you will not be disappointed if you put in the effort.


                
A Beautiful Mind starts kind of slowly, the first part seems a bit long, even a bit boring sometimes, though the thriller atmosphere manages to captivate the viewer.What makes the movie is its beautiful second part, sublimated by Russel Crowe's performance with his John Nash character.One problem comes up though when a movie relies on a twist, which is the case here for the first part: once you know it, re-watching the movie is less interesting. And since that first half is already a bit boring, it doesn't help at all.As for the direction, it is very classic, perhaps a bit too much, but ultimately efficient.


                
I watched this DVD at my son's recommendation. I had no idea what to expect. As a university professor I was interested in the picture of academia in the 50's. The film then started to lose it's way. It threatened to deteriorate into a Hollywood spy thriller. The brilliant mathematician (John Nash) hired by dumb spooks. Just as my interest waned it turned out that the secret undercover work was actually a paranoid schizophrenic fantasy. Having being confronted by this debilitating mental dysfunction at close hand (my sister) for most of my life, the film became suddenly captivating. Here and there stereotype Hollywoood sentimentality prevents the film from becoming a really great film, but it remained stimulating and moving right through to the end. The next day I checked out the movie content with a genuine biography and interview with John Nash himself. The movie is not entirely accurate - Nash never actually had visual delusions, but he did experience voices. In the movie Nash is stabilizes and continues to take medication. In reality he has not taken medication for the last thirty years.


                
Essentially a biography, this is a story that could have been treated awfully, and instead has been turned into a fascinating and absorbing film. Without revealing any of the surprises, suffice it to say that things are not what they seem in the life of this Nobel Prize winning mathematician. This film is not boring, sappy, or pandering, instead managing to tell an amazing story in a way that would have made Rod Serling proud.


                
I wished so much to like this film. I ended up very disappointed. Was it a bad movie? No. Was it a bad story? No. Was it bad handling by producer and director? Yes.The problem is that the depiction is pure formula. Everything reeks phony. Phony, phony, phony! It makes shameless use of much too obvious Hollywood standard tricks to stir up emotions. The bicycling routine, the desk out the window, the stereotype mannerism, the ubiquitous self referencing (the board game, the pen gifts e.g.). And the international Hollywood symbol of "crazy" is walls plastered with papers and photos. Yawn!The acting is downright hammy. It suffers from the Hollywood illness: heavy handed hammering the sentiments down our throats, no elegance at all. And the dumbest Hollywood standard of them all: let the actor speak out what has just been acted out! When even the dimmest of the viewers has seen "they did it" the actors MUST say "WE DID IT". Right, yes, why take the trouble of showing it on the screen when you tell us anyway? Does American directors think the viewers are too dumb to believe what they see? Are they planning the soundtrack for broadcast as a radio play on the side?An English project would have created a much more subtle, intelligent movie which would have explored the story and impacted so much harder. I can't help compare with Shine. It's a totally different movie but the same story. It's done with elegance. I am quite unsentimental by nature but the tears forced their way out when I saw that. This didn't move me at all, I just started counting the clichés to have something to do while the utterly predictable moved along ...This is a totally overrated film in my opinion. Oscar? More than one?? Best picture??? They must be joking!


                
Effective scenes. That's all this movie is all about. Ron Howard directing scenes as well as he can with great actors. There are even some surprises in the film in the start, but the ending is so typical "we will overcome" story, that it ruins the pretty and effective scenes of the beginning.Russel Crowe is John Nash, a mathematician with schizophrenia. The films start is all about what is real and what is not. Is Nash really a part of secret government code breaking group or does he just imagine all it and so on and so forth. That really is the best part of the film. After the reality and fiction become separated we are shown so mush syrup, that only Ron Howard is capable of doing that.This film wouldn't work without Crowes performance as disillusioned Nash, but he has great supporting cast. Jennifer Connelly does great job as Nashes' wife, who tries to understand be supportive. Ed Harris has a nice role as secret government agent.As said, effective scenes in the beginning determined the score I gave to this film, but the there just is too much syrup in the ending for me to give bigger score.


                
Director Ron Howard has the reputation of making intellectually undemanding films, often with a sentimental, uplifting theme, and "A Beautiful Mind" is no exception. It is a biography of the mathematician John Forbes Nash, but makes no attempt to explain Nash's mathematical theories, probably wisely as pure mathematics is a notoriously difficult subject for the layman to grasp. The film points out that these theories have influenced a number of fields of activity, including economics and evolutionary biology, but does not go into any detail about the nature of that influence. The film is rather an example of the "triumph of the human spirit over adversity" type of biopic, the adversity over which Nash triumphs being the schizophrenia from which he suffered.When we first meet Nash he is an undergraduate at Princeton in the late 1940s, intellectually brilliant but awkward and lacking in social skills. Despite his gaucheness, however, Nash makes a close friend in his more self-assured room-mate Charles Herman, and later meets and marries a beautiful student named Alicia. After graduating, he is recruited by the American intelligence services to help break Soviet codes during the Cold War. His CIA contact, Parcher, informs him that the Soviets are using American newspapers and magazines to convey information to their agents, and much of Nash's time is taken up with his attempts to crack the code they are using. It is at this point that Howard pulls off a coup de cinema. Sudden plot twists are more normally associated with the thriller genre, but Howard shows that they can be just as effective in the context of a biopic. We learn that Nash is not merely eccentric but actually mentally ill and that much of what we have hitherto seen- and accepted as fact- is not the truth, but an illusion existing only inside Nash's head. It turns out that there is no such person as Charles Herman; he is a figment of Nash's imagination. Although it appears that Nash did indeed do some work for the CIA, Parcher is also an imaginary figure and the supposed Soviet newspaper code which Nash has desperately been trying to crack has no existence in reality. There is a suggestion that Nash's fantasies are ways of compensating for his own perceived deficiencies; "Charles" is outgoing and confident whereas Nash himself is shy and reserved, and the melodramatic adventures in which he becomes embroiled with "Parcher" perhaps reflect an unfulfilled desire for physical excitement. The rest of the film details Nash's attempts, with the aid of his doctors and the loyal Alicia, to overcome his illness and to return to productive life as a mathematician. Like a number of Howard's films, this one has been criticised for its alleged sentimentality. This criticism, however, does not seem to have done it any harm in the eyes of the Academy; indeed, sentimentality often seems to be a positive advantage when it comes to winning Academy Awards. There is some truth in the criticism, but at least "A Beautiful Mind" sins less grievously in this respect than does another recent "Best Picture" winner, "Million Dollar Baby". Like that film, however, it is saved by some excellent acting performances. I knew from "Gladiator" and "Master and Commander" that Russell Crowe was a gifted actor; "A Beautiful Mind" showed me that he is also a versatile one, able to play a character very different from the action heroes he played in those two films and to convey the pathos of Nash's situation as the possessor of a brilliant but flawed mind. He received good support from Jennifer Connelly as Alicia and also from Ed Harris as Parcher and Paul Bettany as Charles, these latter two actors coping well with the difficult task of portraying characters who are, even in the context of the story itself, fictitious, having no reality outside the mind of another character. It has also been claimed that the film is not always accurate when it comes to the facts of Nash's life. It has, for example, been criticised for not mentioning allegations of affairs with both men and women, although I am not sure whether details of his supposed bisexuality were omitted at the behest of studio executives who felt that a main character who was anything other than a red-blooded heterosexual was bad for the box-office, or of gay activists who disliked any possible association between homosexuality and mental illness, or of Nash himself who has denied the allegations. It has also been pointed out that Nash's real-life relationship with Alicia was rather more rocky than the one shown here; they were actually divorced and remarried, something omitted from the film. No biography, however, can ever hope to tell the full story of its subject's life, and biographers always have to choose which elements they wish to emphasise. This choice is particularly acute for the scriptwriters and directors of filmed biographies, if only because a normal-length feature film can convey far less information than a book. Here Howard and Akiva Goldsman have clearly gone for the emotional rather than the factual approach to Nash's life; seen as entertainment rather than a biographical treatise this approach works well enough. 7/10
After a brilliant but asocial mathematician (Russell Crowe) accepts secret work in cryptography, his life takes a turn for the nightmarish.I was sold when Nash began expounding on Adam Smith, and how everyone acting in their own self-interest works best for all. Effectively, he made a good argument for price fixing... only applied to dating. His thoughts on game theory are pretty incredible.The story gets more interesting as Nash gets more mentally ill. It is in many ways a precursor to "The Imitation Game" (2014), and both are excellent films about mathematicians. Maybe not a great double feature, but excellent for comparison.


                
A Beautiful MindThe downside to being an extremely intelligent person is not being able to enjoy anything in pop culture.Thankfully, the math prodigy in this drama keeps himself occupied cracking hidden code.After proving his acumen at Princeton, and later at MIT, John Forbes Nash, Jr. (Russell Crowe) is approached by the US Defense Department (Ed Harris) to decipher Russian communiqué concealed in daily newspapers and magazines.Much to the chagrin of his concerned wife (Jennifer Connelly), John becomes obsessed with his top-secret task and the shadowy government agents he insists are out to silence him.Ron Howard's astute but skewed interpretation of the Noble Prize winning economist 's descent into schizophrenia, this adaptation of the renowned novel is masterfully crafted and superbly acted. However, its insistence on formulating a touching love story is strenuous.Incidentally, marriages built on an attraction to each other's mind only works if you're both ugly.Yellow lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca


                
Simply put, a biopic about John Forbes Nash Jr., a mathematical genius who went on to win a Nobel Prize after years battling his many problems, including his schizophrenia.'A Beautiful Mind' is good, that much I'm not questioning. It is very engrossing, at times moving more like a thriller than a drama; likewise, the emotion actually feels natural and effective, without the usual sappiness of Hollywood dramas. The acting is superb: Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly shine here, and deserved the awards that year. Others who shone in a very good cast included Ed Harris, Christopher Plummer and Paul Bettany.My complaint comes in that this is supposed to be a biography of John Nash; however, it is anything but. This is Hollywood sugar-coating at its finest: it shows Nash as a troubled individual, having to fight against his illness and overcome his own shy nature to succeed; it completes ignores his more thornier history and changes it all to make him an impossibly sympathetic person. They flat out make things up as they go for the sake of turning this into your typical 'underdog fighting against all odds', formulaic and not unlike 'Rocky' or 'Good Will Hunting' (those other two, though, do not attempt to disguise themselves under the cover of a true story).This is partially fault of Nash himself, who refused to let a biopic of him unless they took out all the 'shadier' aspects of his life, and partially of screenwriter Akiva Goldsman, who extensively makes use of emotion over actual storytelling to win over his audiences in pretty much every film he does (I know what to expect when I see his name on a film, and it is never to expect a great one).In the end 'A Beautiful Mind' is a very good film, with a great cast, and a rare one which manages to make its emotional moments effective without melodrama or cheesiness; even the more cheesy moments, like Nash's 'Nobel Prize speech' (yet another non-truth), work better here than they usually. On the other hand, being labeled as a 'true story' or as a biopic is not only misleading, but distracting for those who know Nash's real (and far more interesting) story.I never understood Hollywood when it comes to their sugarcoated biopics. If they are going to change and make things up so his lifestory can support the theme they want to, why still insist with the 'true story' label? Just to fool the viewers/critics?


                
