Please.This is a dismal movie.  I'm going to spoil some stuff, so don't read if you don't want, but read on if you want to save some time and money.
After I sat through this abomination, I knew I'd come on here and see that it got great reviews, because it tried to be so artsy that weak-minded people would say they liked it just to try to convince themselves that they have advanced taste.  Midway through I told myself that if I heard that "I am Jake's this and that" line again I would get up and leave, but sure enough I kept hearing it and I stayed.  Maybe I'm as dumb as the filmmakers. The fact of the matter is that I haven't seen a plot this full of holes since "Slugs".  So if I start a fight club, the participants will just start showing up at my doorstep out of the blue and turn into mind-numbed drones that do my evil bidding???  Not only that, but this movie also taught me that if I stick a gun in my mouth and pull the trigger, not only will I live but I'll be able to talk to people in my normal voice, as long as I put a gauze pad on it.If you still don't know, this movie is about a clinically-depressed guy who's search for therapy leads him to Brad Pitt, who teaches him that beating the bejeezus out of people will brighten his spirits.  More guys find out about this, and they all join the "fight club" and then naturally go live with Pitt to become his evil minions.  Of course! This must be how the Wicked Witch found all those monkeys.  Their evil deeds get worse and worse, and the supposedly still-sane Norton inexplicably keeps hanging out with this bunch.  This leads to one totally inane scene where the evil monkeys return from a gunfight with one of their members dead, and all Norton can do is whine "C'mon guys, cut it out".So after this movie backs itself into a miserable corner, it's only escape is the equally awful "It was all a dream" ending, where we find out that Brad Pitt was just Norton's evil imaginary friend, and that Norton had been committing all these acts himself.  Please audience, forget the fact that the "imaginary" Pitt managed to pull Norton from a burning car wreck and pick him up off the ground and hurl him down a flight of stairs.  I don't care how psycho you are, your imaginary friend cannot physically pick you up.Plot hole #9233 asks us to believe that during this short time, Norton had been in EVERY MAJOR CITY in the US forming more armies of mind-numbed robot monkeys, and that every male over the age of 18 in the United States was now a member of his "secret" evil gang.  So anyhow, Norton finally realizes that he's been crazy all this time, and to kill Pitt he sticks a gun in his own mouth and blows his neck off, a wound which apparently isn't as debilitating as you would think, since he manages to get right up and make up with his girlfriend and watch peacefully as his evil plot comes to fruition.  But wait, you thought he was sane now and would be horrified at what he did? So would I, but that apparently also is not the case.Before you typically think that my movie tastes aren't as cultured as yours, let me tell you that I loved the masterpiece that was "A Clockwork Orange", and this movie was NO "Clockwork".  If Clockwork ended by telling you that the old man in the wheelchair was actually the killer and that McDowell was just his evil imagination, then we'd have a comparison, but Kubrick wasn't that horribly stupid.I am Jake's bad movie review.
In short, Fight Club is a movie that attempts to give a distorted portrait of society as an evil in order to facilitate showing violence and yet more violence. But since the protagonist's disbelief in society is not substantiated, the movie has a hard time explaining the destruction plot. So, time has to be spent watching people fight. And of course, the disbelief cannot be motivated: The protagonist complaining that: "God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas ... We have no Great War. No Great Depression." is both romanticizing over events in Western history, that made absolutely no sense to the people living it, and at the same time mocking our grandparents and the life and society they fought for, ours.The main character continues: "We were raised on television to believe that we'd all be millionaires, movie gods, rock stars, but we won't".Well, learning to differentiate between yourself and "movie gods [and] rock stars" and learning that life is not all beer and skittles is what growing up is about today.So, Brad Pitt et al., grow up. And go read a book or something.The rubbish quote sums it up pretty good: "I see in fight club the strongest and smartest men that have ever lived. I see all this potential, and I see it squandered. God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas or waiting tables; slaves with white collars. We're the middle children of history. No purpose or place. We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War is a spiritual war... our Great Depression is our lives. Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate, so we can buy s**t we don't need. We were raised on television to believe that we'd all be millionaires, movie gods, rock stars, but we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact. And we're very, very p***ed off. "


                
Although this film was watchable for the first hour or so, it goes very rapidly downhill for the sorry remainder of it's duration. There are simply too many different ideas vying for the viewers attention. Intellectuals have found acres and acres of meaning, which David Fincher wanted them too, although he knows that he has simply made an extremely pretentious and boring mess. It's not all doom and gloom though - there are some very good set pieces in the first half of the film that actually entertained me for a while.


                
So. It flirts a bit with the ideals of anti-conformism and anti-corporate (a bit hypocritical considering a corporate made this movie, but let's pretend otherwise), and then offers as a solution a gang of people meeting up to beat up each other. Like "to hell with this system, we'll make a super gang of fighters and take over!". And then what? I see people rebelling but without any goal or project beside rebelling. "We are tired of this system, we make gangs and beat up corporates!" I won't even go into the plot flaws of the protagonist etc because that's be too easy.A movie for losers with a lot of passive aggressiveness inside and no solution for it, they just want to rebel. A movie for people who will go all "eff the system!" and then buy iPhone 17 on first day, just to complain the following day about their low- paying job. A movie for those typical guys who talk crap about capitalism but if you try to offer them a different system they'll dirty their pants and start sucking their fingers calling mom State to save them from the terrorist. A movie for those who are all rebellious and when stopped by police will go all "G-Good afternoon Agent" and sh*t their pants.
How can we get Brad Pitt, Edward Norton and Meatloaf to beat the c**p out of each other?  This movie solves that "problem," and gives the studio license to shoot a film veiled in psuedo-philosophies and violence.It's just dumb.  Don't try looking beneath the surface, because nothing is there (maybe that's the point).  It provides that men are imasculated and shackled by modern life...  their spirits crushed by their jobs and their possessions.  In order to escape, you fight.  It's so simple!  Give up the banalities of ordinary life and find your individuality in a black t-shirt fight gang.  Makes sense.  Teenage males will certainly think so, since it is filmed in the MTV style...  bright color palette, fancy edits, blood... mesmerizing (and simple philosophies tend to go over well on that demographic).It actually starts our promisingly.  I loved the first quarter.  Only when it attempts to provide us with answers that are, sorry, far out of the grasp of the writers, does it fail.Film buffs may want to view it simply for one of the sloppiest, tacked-on "surprise" endings in cinema history.  I could only laugh.  Bottom line: Dumb.


                
I really didn't enjoy this film at all & I fall into the target group (male 20-30). 2/10 I'd give this.There seems a belief too that anyone who doesn't enjoy it is either thick, against violence or especially 'doesn't get the message behind it'. Well, none of those apply to me.In this flawed film, I understand that it was any of: a)a group of young men rebelling against a Borgeousie consumerism society. b)one man seeing how he is totally dissatisfied with life and how his mind tries to change things or c)people stopping to watch Cornelius fight himself because voyeurism is human nature the film makes a deliberate attempt to make the viewer feel guilty for being a voyeur. (I'll come to that later)You can take your pick really, whatever way, I still find it crap. Any film (Shawshank Redmeption excepted) which concerns 'one mans' anything, generally creates no emotion in me other than boredom. The whole tagline to the film makes me want to puke: "one 30 year old man's journey of self-discovery."So what? Are we supposed to sympathise with Norton because of this? I'm sorry but I have sympathy in films with people dying, or who's family have been killed. John Hurt triumphing over cancer in Champions, Tom Hanks in Saving Private Ryan, thousands of others. Even Norton himself actually in the brilliant American History X. In the 2nd half, I sympathise with him for the life he has found himself with.But in this (and I find myself saying the same as I did with the equally awful American Beauty) Just because some blokes fed up & having a midlife crisis we're supposed to feel for him. Oh diddums. The only film where this premise has worked brilliantly is 'It's a Wonderful Life' with James Stewart. He was in crisis (and justifyably too) but never resorted to any of the levels stooped to here.(That might seem a weak point, but It's just come to me & I can't put my finger on exactly why Wonderful Life is so far superior to Fight Club in tackling a midlife crisis, but they are as far extreme as you can get)
I'd also question whether we're all voyers? For every moron that slows down on a motorway to look at an accident on the other side, there's a 100 or so that can't believe the stupidity of it.There are countless flaws too. The scene prior to the car crash wouldn't have worked? Who was Norton talking to? with the passengers there? Where did he acquire his knowledge of soap from? Would people have watched 1 bloke fighting himself? and much more too. Ok, maybe one or 2 of those have answers but I couldn't find them.I think to really enjoy this film, you have to have clicked or empathised with the main character, and if you did, I feel a bit sorry for you. It would however account for the popularity of such things as marriage guidance councillors, drugs, footballers agents, even to a degree religion (but only when it becomes absolutely fanatical & life revolves around it).
Maybe it's just me & I'm fortunate but so many people seem unable to get through the little problems that life throws up on their own & without help of any kind anymore, like inventing a friend for one thing.I know plenty of people who like this, intelligent some of them, so I've no problem with people who enjoy 'Arty & deep' films with psychological meaning to them. I just don't. But not through failing to understand them, Just merely through not connecting with characters who suffer problems like a 'mid-life crisis for non deserving reasons'.On top of all of that, it was a very slow film too.
If you find anything at all edifying in this film then you must be incredibly gullible--even for a filmgoer.  Never got past the idea that we were being sold this supposed critique of our consumerist, soulless society by none other than News Corporation (Rupert Murdoch).  These people are just toying with you--they're in it for the money and have no conviction whatsoever (as is born out by the ending--the film goes...NOWHERE).  Avoid this nonsense.


                
I have tried to keep the number of spoilers to a minimum, while making those that remain as vague as possible.This movie has broken some long-standing records of mine. Let me list them:1. The most irritating movie 2. The most ridiculous high-budget movie (beating Knowing) 3. The most overrated movie (beating Pulp Fiction - Gotta admit, I didn't think this record was going to be beaten for a while longer)To describe this film as a train wreck would be the understatement of the century. There isn't a word or phrase in existence to sum up this colossal nightmare. The closest I can come to it is the word 'abomination'. But go ahead and knock yourself out with a thesaurus. It's definitely the worst high-budget or worst high-rated movie I have ever seen, and I don't think that's a record that will be beaten for a long, long time. The person who wrote this had absolutely no idea how to create a believable or coherent story (or else was trolling). It literally cannot work in the real world in ANY WAY. Even if this were a comic book fiction, the plot would have more holes in it than Britney Spears' brain. But it's set in our world and with ordinary humans. Well, I say 'ordinary', but the humans in this film have seemingly had brain tissue removed so they can get from A to B without wondering what the hell is going on.I could go through the movie and write a thesis on everything that is contrary to good storytelling, but I will instead highlight some things that spring to mind:1. A man goes into his place of work and threatens to kill his boss and co-workers. His boss does nothing at all about it. Not to mention the man is coming into work all the time with a smashed-in face.2. If the "Fight Club" were real, the people in it would be dead long before they could enact a master plan. No human could or would inflict this level of damage on such a frequent basis. 3. You cannot beat yourself up the way the main character in this film does. It's physically impossible - and probably mentally impossible, too. When Jim Carrey did this in Liar Liar, we all laughed because it's funny and worked in a comedy. How thick does a director have to be to think this can work in a serious setting? The laws of biology are also absent for the duration of this picture, because a silly thing like fact can interfere with a bad writer's screenplay. Some dumb individuals tried to create their own Fight Club after seeing this movie, but they quickly learned the difference between reality and bad fiction. Brain damage, pain, and serious injury exist in the real world, folks. Who'd have thunk it?4. There is no way that one person (especially a nut job) could infiltrate so many organizations in such a coordinated fashion, or plant so many bombs without people finding out. The real world is a bit more complicated than the moron who wrote this obscenity. A Tom and Jerry cartoon has better logic than this film. 5. Man's apartment (part of a tower block) is blown to bits and the police find out dynamite was involved. Man is told not to go anywhere but is then allowed to jet about the country. He isn't even brought in for questioning. Are you realizing why this story is cuckoo, yet?6. There is no possible way a psychopath could brainwash so many people and form a large-scale army, spread over such a wide area. But the plot needs it to happen - so it does. Oh, I love it when writers do that. Don't you?7. The twist makes as much sense as the rest of the film. It's not just impossible, it's ludicrous. It's so bad that even a three year old would laugh at it.Fight Club also joins Pulp Fiction and Goodfellas as films to be in the top 20 simply because of gratuitous violence and gore. At least Goodfellas is a decent film with some basis in reality.The only reason this film has been rated so high is because the dumb masses will swallow anything with violence and a pseudo-intellectual script. People who gave this film 10/10 are either gormless fools or mindless barbarians. It's an absolute travesty for the human race that Fight Club is currently in the top 10, let alone top 250.It's beyond all my powers of reasoning to comprehend how people can like something as lazily written and ridiculous as this festering disease of a film. It has absolutely zero credibility.My rating 0/5: DO NOT WATCH. STEER WELL CLEAR. Even the name 'Fight Club' should tell you something about the intellect that created it - by the looks of it, another sneering champagne socialist.
Let me put it this way: If I ever had to list the 10 scariest things that could happen to me, I'd say in first place: living in a country where this turd is considered a masterpiece. Oh no wait, that would be second. First would be having to raise kids in such a place. And If you happen to live there I strongly advice you to get the heck out as fast as you can because that country is rotten to the core culturally, morally and spiritually, a zombie place. There's something profoundly wrong in the "idea" that any issue a man can have with society can be addressed by him meeting some others in his same situation and beating each other senseless. That's the dumbest idea that has ever come to any entity walking on two legs and the scariest thing is that someone had actually the resources to put this monstrosity in the form of a movie; even worse, that there may be a constituency for it out there. Fortunately, it seems that most of that crowd is concentrated in a few places which must be a relief for sensible people around the world. So just stay away from those places and everything will be fine.Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not saying this because of the violence in FC. I never judge a movie only by the amount of violence in it; I may even love it if that violence is pertinent to the plot. I loved Apocalypses Now, also The Thin Red Line, and even if I could hardly stomach Texas Chainsaw Massacre I still was able to appreciate the movie as a poignant metaphor for Vietnam; the plight of thousands of boys sent to the slaughterhouse to feed with their blood the career ambitions of some farts in Washington; all sent to be chopped to pieces so some brass could get his medal, some politician could get elected and so on. That's a strong metaphor for a film and that's why I respect TCM as a honest work of art. FC lacks any of that artistic integrity. This is just pure, crass, commercialism; barefaced manipulation of emotionally unstable teenagers, borderline psycho teenagers .But above all a gross a display of gratuitous violence; violence for the sake of it, under a thin veneer of a study on social discontent. I have never heard a more ridiculously phony speech in a movie than the one "rebel" Pitt addresses to his pathetic minions when listing the ills of society. If things are that bad, why don't they start a political party, an Occupy movement; why don't they go help the homeless, start a stage troupe featuring Bretch? But of course that would be too much, like asking cockroaches to perform The Nutcracker. Because these are the dregs of society, don't ask from them anything more sophisticated or high minded that knocking each other cold. If you are one of those who becomes fascinated by the sight of drunken bums urinating in the street or fighting with each other, this is one for you. Enjoy it.Now, even if I'm not prone to conspiracy theories I can't fail to notice that most "protest" or "rebel" flicks coming out of Hollywood do nothing more that discredit the very causes they are supposedly advocating, starting with that dreck of the 1960s, Easy Rider, where social discontent--once again--doesn't lead to social or political participation, to the raising of mass consciousness, but to farcical hippie-communal schemes and to drug trafficking & consumption. I'm not saying that there is an ongoing corporate sponsored plot set to discredit the chances of any social or political alternative to the present established order, but it certainly looks that way. In my VFV review I noted the poor quality of the social and political debate in the Anglo Saxon world, but even in that movie, shot in the U.K., there is a hint of the right way of doing things when the total sum of individual protests turns into collective empowerment. Yet in Hollywood such kind of thing seems unattainable. There, if you have a social or political beef to take to the open the only way seemingly accessible to you is banditry, drug consumption, terrorism, even mental illness--or useless, inane bleating, like in Network, The Graduate.I wasn't even thinking about reviewing FC, as after reading some "Hated It" I realized that everything I had to say had already been said. Anyway I'm not writing here a review but a warning for all to stay away from it. What urged me most to write it was to read some rave reviews about how it has changed lives. FC as a life changing experience! Wow, we have seen it all, really. If you think this dog has changed your life I tremble imagining what kind of life you led before and I tremble even more picturing what it may become.This is not a review but a public service warning, I said, so I won't dignify it with technical comments. I'll just say the score is grating and Norton offers the most annoying voice-over in film history. This dog is so bad, at some point my DVD player stopped playing it, it just couldn't take it anymore; and not to be left behind the TV set unplugged itself. Talk about not taking chances! Worse that Irreversible, Possession and Bad Santa all put together. Worst flick in History.
It would be interesting to know the ages of the people who gave this movie more than 5 stars. I just cannot imagine they are older than 20, most of them must be between 13 and 17.The title of this movie made me avoid it like the pest for a long time, sensing it was going to be bad. Yesterday, I finally watched it, and boy, it was even worse than I thought it would be! It was so bad that from time to time I had to fast forward it.This movie's biggest problem: unbelievably contrived. Its sole purpose is desperately try to be different, shocking, revolutionary, subversive. It tries so hard that it fails miserably. And for one simple reason: childishness.Watching grownup men being constantly childish is simply not funny, much less interesting. Unless you are a redneck or not older than 17.


                
The first half hour or so was pretty entertaining, even if most of it consisted of Edward Norton telling us what we were seeing (you know, God forbid we should use our abilities to surmise what's going on). And since I saw it on video, I could use slo-mo to catch Brad's "Where's Waldo" bits. As soon as Norton met Brad, it was all downhill. Even a really fine, insightful actor would have had a hard time making those pretentious lines sound significant, but Brad Pitt's spewing of them was like a nearsighted used car dealer reading cue cards. This movie was so obvious, so pretentious, and such a total con job, right up to the absurd plot twist three-quarters of the way through that completely invalidated everything that came before it. Also, for a movie that was so preachy about consumerism ("You are not your car, your khakis," all that hackneyed nonsense), did anyone else notice that all the tired young execs at Fight Club proper seemed to spend alot of time at the gym? Nary a pot belly to be found, save for poor Meat Loaf, who was somehow exempt from the "no shirt/no shoes" rule. Large-breasted Meat Loaf fighting shirtless--now that would have been shocking.Everything this movie had to say has been said before, and better. And sometimes just as badly. (See "Zabriskie Point" for another example of an overblown, smug rumination on being yourself and getting back to basics vs. evil products like Wonder Bread.) "Fight Club" was just a cynical exercise from a self-important director seeing how much he could get away with.


                
I went to see this with a friend because I'd heard 'it was good' at the local IMAX theater, no less. I went in with absolutely no knowledge on it whatsoever. Once I actually saw it, I realized it was one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and I've seen some real stinkers. I'd rather have my eyelids held open by toothpicks while tied to a chair in front of a screen showing a back to back Ed Wood marathon.I can't think of a single thing I enjoyed about Fight Club. What there is of a plot is all over the place, the lines are beyond cringe-worthy, it's way too preachy, and the 'plot twist' at the end manages to veer off way past the range of strange into the range of bat**** crazy.The secret longing of men is to beat each other up in basements and blow up buildings? Who knew? Much like the fights, there's no subtlety in the plots. Yeah, yeah, materialism is bad, we're not what we own, blah blah blah. Did we really need that pounded into our skulls for almost 2 hours? If you feel like you're in a rat race and you hate your job, THEN QUIT AND FIND SOMETHING TO DO THAT'S MORE WORTHWHILE TO YOU.I could hardly believe that was Brad Pitt. His performances in 12 Monkeys and Se7en were far superior to this trashy flick.Is Fincher incapable of making a movie that doesn't look like the lenses have been sprayed with Campbell's beef broth? The cinematography is choppy, and there's only so much I can take of random dudes beating the snot out of each other for no reason.They should have used some of that soap to clean up the film.From me, 1 star.


                
As an earlier comment stated, the first 2/3rds of this movie are truly intriguing. The visuals are slick, but not in you Blade-meets-Mortal-Kombat kinda way, instead focusing on delivering irony, sarcasm and black jokes through flawless direction and edition ( and even some hi tech effects, like when the credits roll).   Edward Norton plays the narrator, and the social satire presented during the first half of the flic is simply put, awesome, because the movie doesn't seem to take itself too seriously ( althought it is serious ). One plus point is the fact that the narrator doesn't step on a soapbox to preach and condemn, he just...narrates and observes.   However, after the first half of the movie is over, it suddenly dulls and painfully slows down from the pace from which it begun. For starters, the attention to detail lowers, the dialogues start to dumb down, you get this "anything can happen now, no matter how far fetched" feeling, and plain and simple, it just gets silly. As in "6th sense", another recent movie, there a "shocking" twist near the end. But instead of leaving you gasping for air like in the former, here it all seems contrived, forced, it just doesn't fit. All in all, Fight Club is not a bad movie, but I really wished it had ended as good as it started...


                
Just came from a sneak preview of this movie, Edward Norton was nice enough to bring the movie to his alma mater, Yale University, but unfortunately it doesn't live up to the preliminary hype, or to the quality of his other work. The problem here isn't acting- he is still good in a demanding role that merited top billing(rather than being put under Pitt), and the rest of the cast does admirably as well, although Brad Pitt has played a role much like this before(see 12 Monkeys) and Helena Bonham Carter's role is pretty much as demeaning to women as it gets. Jared Leto and Meat Loaf, yes, Meat Loaf, are also in this movie, although you may not recognize Leto with a badly scared face or Meat Loaf with breasts(no, I didn't stutter). This film owes a lot to The Game, David Fincher's last movie, in that it ends up with a complex plot that is solved a little too easily and non-logically- I won't destroy the film by explaining how exactly, but the movie basically builds up to a climax that just doesn't resolve much, and then resolves that with a further illogical ending. The laughs along the way are not for the faint of heart or those who don't appreciate black comedy, but they are the highlights of the film, from the odd humor of Norton and Carter being addicted to help sessions for diseases they don't have, to Pitt's interesting use of liposuction byproducts. There's never too much appeal to the violence of the movie, but the combination of nihilism and comedy doesn't send the movie into mediocrity. It's when the movie turns serious that it starts to turn sour, as the plot twists out of control and a strange comedy turns into just another movie in the Seven/The Game/The Matrix genre of stylish, mindless violence without much purpose, point, or original plot. The script shows elements of literature that may have just been better in the original book, but otherwise, this is a movie with not much going for it except its cast. Answering questions, Edward Norton joked about how working with Brad Pitt was easier for him because he could always rag on him about Pitt's bad movies- "Whenever he'd get on me, I'd just have to say 'Cool World'"- and also said he thought he had yet to be part of a "stinker". This may just be his first, and Pitt's latest.


                
Boring, quasi-philosophical violence-feast. The plot is dumb, the "surprise" twist is not surprising, the dialogue is stiff and lifeless (with lines like "What you´re feeling is premature enlightenment"). Furthermore, Helena Bonham Carter isreally, truly miscast. How can anyone like this movie? (I know a lot of people do, but I just cannot understand why).


                
This movie doesn't know exactly what it wants. The movie is very slow on pace. I actually like the kind of movies that first try to build the characters and make you delve into the atmosphere. This movie wasn't building any character or atmosphere but what it was building is total BOREDOM.I didn't want to watch this movie till the end but then I thought about the high points that people have given it and some of the reviewers were talking about its great twist ending. But the ending alone couldn't save the 90% of this movie's boredom.I really feel cheated, I want my money and above all 139 min of my life back that I wasted on this crap.My advice to you people who haven't seen this movie please don't waste your valuable resources on this crap.


                
(Preface: I really think I was careful enough with my words to avoid any spoiling, but if vague descriptions count as spoilers to you, don't read on.)Let's face it - it's all about fighting - gruesome, stupid, uncivilized, uncultured, immature fighting. If you are a caveman, go ahead and like this movie. If not, then I am sincerely grateful for your existence in our world.On a side note, despite the plot holes, I figured out who Pitt's character was since the end-of-the-apartment scene. I'd be interested to know if anyone else was able to predict the same thing.The very end of the movie falls under the same category as the body - immature, shallow, and useless. I just gotta say it - this is my least favorite movie of all time.


                
This is one of the most Unpleasant Films you are likely to see. Making you Squirm is perhaps one of its 'Charms" and part of what makes it a Teen Favorite.This is an Ugly Thing, both in Tone and the way it Looks. It starts out with a lot of Unsightly Stuff. Like the Victim Self-Help Meetings where we have to look at a Homely Woman, about to Die, looking to "just get laid one more time before it ends" and Meat Loaf with Huge Man-Breasts drooping to his waste being hugged by Ed Norton while exchanging Affection and Sweat.That's just the beginning. It gets a lot more Repulsive as things go along their Merry Way. We have the Central Conceit and Title of the Movie, that Place where Lonely Guys meet to Beat and Bond. Then things really get out of hand with a Zombie Squad and a lot of Speechifying about the Evils of Capitalism, Consumerism, and Zen Stuff like "when you own your possessions they own you" and other Well Worn Witicisims that might have been Insightful a Thousand Years Ago.If you are a Fan of those Bare Knuckle Cage Matches, Guy Ritchie Movies, Neo-Nazis, or Anarchists Anonymous, this may be Entertaining. But it can also be a Pseudo-Intellectual, Inane, Disturbing Diatribe that is not Cathartic, just a Vile, Witless Waste, Pretending to be an Ultra-Cool, Post-Modern Philosophical Guidepost for the New Millennium. The Film is Objectionable, Hideous, Unsightly, Overrated, Trashy, Dumbed-Down, Unforgivable, and Absolutely Awful. The Stylish, Talented Director can not be Forgiven for this Wildly out of Control Poisonous Picture.


                
I saw this film at a free preview about a week before it was released and two years later I can still remember how angry I was wasting an evening on this drivel.The whole premise that these guys can't feel any emotion unless they're beating the hell out of each other is ridiculous and boring.I can't remember one thing I liked about this movie.Not the script,none of the performances,the editing or cinematography,nothing.Maybe this film taps into the current anarchist views and aspirations  of whatever generation we're up to,but who cares?If there was a  score lower than one,I wouldn't hesitate to mark it on my ballot.


                
SPOILER!!! This is one of a few movies overrated by wanna-be intellectuals. The script is slick in that it disguises its propaganda. Propaganda you ask? Lets start off with the FACT that Edward Norton's character in this movie is psychotic and Brad Pitt's doesn't exist. Brad Pitt's character Tyler Durden is a figment of Norton's imagination because Norton's character is psychotic. This whole plot twist becomes even more aggravating when you realized you wasted over two hours watching a movie about a psychotic anarchist. The movie's message is great for impressionable kids; the system is against you so how to succeed is through violence in some cases terrorism. Please, spare me the rhetoric. I realize the movie is fiction but it does not excuse it. Even fiction should entertain; this just drags you down into the sewer and gives impressionable misguided kids bad ideas. Sort of what the Clock Work Orange did for racists and neo-Nazis.The people who watch this need to realize that for every person or corporation in society that is corrupt there are a large magnitude of corporations and people that are not. Society in general and Capitalism are not bad. Far from it, in society today whatever is bad is used as propaganda to generalize everything as bad. This movie does the same. It conveniently keeps out any opposing arguments for its purpose. Which is to portray sadistic violence, anarchy and terrorism in an appealing light and then attempt to make it seem intelligent, instead of what it really is - insanity. Capitalism is what has given the west it's high standard of living and life expectancy. No other economic system offers this prosperity.People are always searching for tips in life or tricks they could use because they do not have an imagination themselves. Movies like this are candy to someone with no imagination. Forensic science could easily determine if someone beat himself up or whether your boss did but then you blow the plot of this whole movie because where would Norton's character get all his funding? Instead some will feel they have a "new" way to black mail their boss, how pathetic. So much of the movie is laughable when you analyze it. Did I mention Tyler Durden, I mean Edward Norton's character intimidates a mobster? Please.This movie attempts to be smart and that is why it fails. Smart people do not punch themselves until they bleed, live in abandoned decrepit buildings or perform terrorist acts. Smart people also do not waste their time watching dumb movies like this over and over. They read books, go to college and learn how things really work. The fact that movies like this are popular is a sign society is failing.
Yes, this movie is quite different. However, aside from the possibility that no one's done it before because they weren't smart/inspired/good enough to, there's also the other one.  This is a movie that fails so remarkably, you almost have to be a genius to come up with such a failure.In the one excellent scene in this movie, Edward Norton, flying on a plane from one of his constant business trips cracks a joke to his neighbour, Brad Pitt (aka Tyler Durden, here). "very clever." Pitt replies "how is that going for you?"That is both funny and poignant. The rest of the movie, however, is neither. In fact, it's just the same as poor Ed Norton - too clever for its own good.Worse yet is the reaction this movie seems to cause. Many of the others commented (and other people who've seen this movie) think that Tyler Durden is somehow the voice of good, a positive role model, if you will. And some people are completely nuts about this movie, they quote it day and night and I don't know, it's just weird.And then there's the ending. I can't give it away, but the best thing that I can say about it is that it is gimmicky. It's also pretty implausible, doesn't fit with the rest of the story and involves blowing up skyscrapers (something we now know is not a very good idea).If you're going to make a clever movie with a clever surprise ending, fine. It's possible to make a good one - The Usual Suspects for example. But having a clever movie that isn't clever enough to make sure the movie still makes any sense when the ending is revealed? A clever movie whose message is how empty cleverness is? A clever message movie? Where the message is delivered by someone who's obviously, shall we say, not very emotionally/mentally stable, to say the least?I guess you could say it's irony, but then with the same success you can say that "Domestic Disturbance" is a movie that makes one think 'cause it makes you think what the heck you're doing watching/paying for such an awful movie.Having said all that, this is a movie that could have been partially rescued by having a lead actress who is stunningly beautiful. Unfortunately, Helena Bonham Carter isn't.Okay, maybe it's not the most overrated movie on IMDb - after all "The Shwshank Redemption" is ranked #2 and "Kingpin" is not even on the bottom 100 at all. But it's pretty close.1/10. And that high only cause it took so much effort.


                
I have read other reviews of this movie, and I think that my outlying, grossly negative opinion, may have something to do with the fact that I do not identify at all with this movie.  I am proud to say this.  It is sad that so many people did see something of themselves in this movie.  I feel truly sorry for you.It was obviously never this movie's intent to be entertaining, or to make you care about the characters, humanity, or society.


                
( May Spoil (WARNING) ) I seen this in the theater's when it came out in 99'. I payed $7.00 dollars to see it. The second i found out "The Secret". I wanted to beat someone up all right. No plot. Plot don't make since.. If i was in a basement full of guys. and had to watch someone abuse them self. And they thought it was interesting. I would exit as fast as i can.. I have to wright ten lines in order for me to be able to warn you that I don't even think this qualifies as a movie.. There is no plot. or story.. that I can see making a movie about. Therese a point where his "non-self" shots a gun at him and blows out a van window? so.. is the gun real? is the bullet real? did the window blow out or was that imagined?
Despite the clever crafting of this film, it is basically a complain-fest about the poor upper-class privileged white male blaming all his woes on Ikea. Is this the extent of self-proclaimed victimization that is taking over American culture? Disturbingly to any intellectuals, this movie's amorality passes itself off under the guise of reason -- as if the central character has a logic to his rage and subsequent violent decisions -- as if the poor young white businessman who's been educated well and raised in an upper middle class lifestyle with all the benefits really is some sort of victim of retail stores. Is it really proving a coherent point to blow something up? It's even more upsetting to think about this after seeing 9-11 take this film's logic into reality...is the point of this movie to say that American commercial freedom SHOULD be attacked? With all the sexification and glamorizing of violence, and its poor-me ranting against consumer products (rather than taking responsibility for one's own commercialism or participation in it), it's hard to find a redeemable net-sum to this movie. Ed Norton is, as always, terrific. Brad Pitt very good in this role too. And I very much appreciate the filmmaker's talent, but I wish he would use it for something that was thoughtful.


                
I won't try to write an outline of the film, others have done a good job of that here already, I'll just confine myself to observing my own reaction to it: This is one poor movie. Due to the buildup I expected something pretty good. My enthusiasm went progressively downhill as I watched the story develop and when Ed Norton performs the revealing scene (Which I suppose I should not describe here) I felt like pulling the tape out right there, I was that insulted. I am struck with jaw dropping amazement at the vote results here in IMDB. What possible value does this movie have to place it higher than so many great films in the top 250 list? I have a feeling that this flick speaks to the 16 to 21 year old male (the same group that the worlds armies traditionally love to make eager immortal uncritical soldiers from). I would like to see a demographic breakdown of the registered voters in IMDB. I get the impression that a hoard of enthusiastic male youths flooded the IMDB with high votes immediately after the release of this puerile tale. Oh well, if you want to vote this sloppy trash highly, knock yourself out.


                
