Ed Norton character: "I don't know. I'm just not content with my life. I have a job that doesn't do anything to benefit mankind. I have so many possessions, but they don't make me happy. I just feel there must be more to life than this shallow, commercial, material world I live in. I want to do something different."Me: "Well, it's very commendable of you to re-evaluate your priorities. So, since you don't like your material possessions, are you going to get rid of all your IKEA furniture and move to a smaller apartment, one that you actually feel comfortable in?"Norton: No.Me: Well, since your job isn't fulfilling, are you going to quit and join the PEace Corps, or get a job as a teacher in an poor neighborhood?Norton: Nah.Me: Well, since you're looking for some higher meaning to life, are you going to start going to church?Norton: Nope.Me: Sigh... okay, so what ARE you going to do?Norton: I think I'll get together with a bunch of other unfulfilled guys, and then we'll beat the snot out of each other.
**If that strikes you as profound, well, then "Fight Club" is the movie for you. If it sounds ridiculous (and it should!), avoid it like the plague.The ironic and amusing thing is, most of the fanboys who rave about this movie are geeks who couldn't fight their way out of a paper bag, and would run crying to their mommies if someone even LOOKED like he was going to throw a punch at them!


                
I cannot believe the number of rabid fans this sophomoric self-indulgent piece of watered down Nietzsche crossed with Herman Hesse's Steppenwolf has garnered. If this film was a life-changing experience for some of the reviewers I am wrung with pity at what that life must have been before, and with the thought of what it can have become. There was some amusing satire in here, but you had to wade through a lot of adolescent posing and prosing to hear it.I am commenting only because I think this tawdry junker needs a counterpoint to its unmerited adulation. If you found a lot in this movie and want to watch it again and again to validate your deep philosophical and artistic insights, you need to broaden your horizons. Grow up and join the real world. Ask for more from your art than this.


                
...in which pretty much the only aspect that doesn't totally disappoint is the cinematography (basically an elaboration of the set design on "Seven"). Even the soundtrack is lukewarm and sounds horribly dated (some "brothers" or someone). Norton is the kind of actor whom you either can or cannot watch (I haven't totally decided yet), Bonham Carter still delivers a phoney stateside accent (Woody Allen obviously hasn't helped), and Pitt only looks good in his eye to eye hotel room sequence with Norton (anyone who claims they see him as a good actor is either lying or is deluded - the guy just looks good with cropped hair). Other than this we're looking at a film made for awkward teenage boys who can't watch it anyway cause it's mostly rated 18. It's the slightly older awkward boys who sadly do get to see it and end up slobbering over it and writing rave reviews about it. A little rubbish goes a long way these days.Having appreciated both "The Game" and especially "Seven", I'd like to think Fincher was presented with a job to be done and got away with it. Let's see what happens next.


                
This movie is not that good. After seeing this movie, I wouldn't ever pay cash money to see this again. I will never rent this movie again. I probably wouldn't watch it on TV if it came on. It's really that bad. $3.50 is not worth watching this movie. Do not rent it. It is awful. My reason for this opinion is the fact that it doesn't make sense in most scenes. The part where he's burning his hand is fairly impossible. The ending is really bad. I mean, it's so bad that I almost threw a flower pot at the TV screen. And don't be misled by the title. It's not really about a fight club, it's about something more absurd. Edward Norton did the best job he could with this lousy script, and even Brad Pitt did a mediocre job. The surprise ending is nothing like The Sixth Sense. I'd rather see that movie twenty more times rather than see 5 minutes from Fight Club. I've read some comments about this movie, and I don't know what you guys are talking about. It's not that good. Some plot twists does not make for good movie making. This movie is on the level of Judge Dredd. No wait, Judge Dredd isn't this bad.


                
Admittedly, I would have never gone to see Fight Club if it hadn't been part of a class I'm taking at USC, but this film makes you wonder what it takes for the MPAA not to give a film an R rating. It's so gratuitously violent and downright gross (even in non-violent scenes) that Pulp Fiction looks tame by comparison.Seriously, it's hyped as a violent film about non-violence, but isn't that akin to saying a film with gratuitous sex can be about abstinence. Sure, I guess it could, but you'd be hard pressed to find an example, just as I find it hard to believe that anyone honestly thinks this film is more than a glorified Faces Of Death with big name actors.I don't know what else to say, but keep your kids (and yourself) away from this film.


                
The fact that so many people liked this movie disturbed me. Is violence really the only way to escape societal constraints? Using consumerism as a straw man, the movie says that all males are, inherently, prone to violence and that society is denying them the right to exercise this innateness. After glorifying violence for 2 1/2 hours, the filmmakers decide to say "but really violence is not quite as good as we might have led you to believe." Most males will come out of this movie saying " cool man. we should start a fight club so that we can be real men" and that is irresponsible filmmaking.


                
This film starts out good then it just disappoints.  It just gets stupid and stupider.  The first half hour led me to believe it was going to be good. Edward Norton attending support groups for problems and diseases he pretended to have.  Trying to get Seconal for his insomnia.  This film could have been so much better.  By the way, I do not care for Brad Pitt.  Not worth watching.  2/10


                
My husband talked me into this after time and time again saying "I don't want to watch a movie about fighting", I guess he thought the beginning was better than I thought it was...I guess if you get kicks out of people whose lives are completely the dumps then watch this movie.  It's only mildly amusing before the fighting if you're a mentally stable person.


                
I am back for my second review of Fight Club. Why, you ask? Because I  was told I had an "inadequate" amount of evidence to prove my point! So  here I go.  Fight Club is a very strange, erratic movie that, quite honestly,  nearly put me to sleep within the first ten minutes. It seemed that the  whole movie revolved around an insomniac! And that's true--this movie  is about nothing but a guy who can't sleep. For over half of it seems  to be the very first movie that has no plot, no decent characters (what  kind of main character is known only as "The Narrator"?), and a crummy  soundtrack. I was SO disappointed.  "Plot Outline: A man disillusioned by what his life has become  encounters an exciting stranger who introduces him to a new way of  life."  Well, yeah, that's all fine and dandy, but this new way of life doesn't  come in until WAY later. And once Fight Club is finally introduced, it  is hardly shown. Then it turns into a macho group of terrorists... I'm  sorry, but how utterly boring! From the commercials and video cover, I  was expecting there to be a plot that revolved around the Fight Club.  Instead, I was slapped in the face with this stupid terrorist group  that doesn't serve a purpose.  I now have to go to Helena Bonham Carter. Hey, lady, you did excellent  in Planet of the Apes! But in this movie she plays as a rival  counseling group member (speaking of which, what purpose do these  groups serve for the movie?  NOTHING!  The final conflict, in which The Narrator (boy, that name is just so  cool) is fighting "himself", is utterly pathetic. How boring. And then  the buildings topple... and that's the end. Ho! Wait! I see a naked man  from the waist down at the ending! Maybe this is the second reason  people liked this stupid, boring movie so much. It shows both female  AND male anatomy.  How stupid! Repulsive! I DESPISED this movie. Now you know why. If, in  fact, you STILL don't understand, listen closely:  1. Boring 2. No plot (adds to number 1) 3. Shallow characters 4. Actual  film has hardly anything to do with its title 5. Constant  swearing/nudity that sickened me 6. Music was cruddy  Basically, this film reeked of anything but stupidity. I was so sick of  it before the first half hour was up.  I will never watch it again. And I hope my review will help keep you  from watching it as well.


                
I won't spoil the plot for you if I say that "Fight Club" is about guys who like to fight each other, no holds barred. I'm an action movie buff, so I thought it might be fun and cartoony. I like Jackie Chan, Arnold Schwarzenegger, etc. But I hated this film.The violence is very real and awful. There is a lot of pretentious art crap (such as Brad Pitt appearing for brief flickers of time), and the film is similar to war films whose sole purpose is to show you the horror of war. I've got enough problems without psychological trauma, thank you very much.Plus, the characters are incredibly unbelievable. When you fight someone in real life and do real damage, the human reaction is you go to a hospital, you think ow ow ow ow, and you think I'd better stop fighting. No. These guys eat it up and turn it into a hobby. That's psychopathic.Who should see this film:-- film school types: go crazy, have a blast watching the blood-- action movie types with a strong lack of empathy for suffering. And stay away from my daughter.Sorry, but at least I've stated some intelligent reasons for giving Fight Club a worst-of-the-worst 1 out of 10.


                
I watched End Of Days directly after this disjointed feature and the Ah'nold piece came out looking like The Godfather!There was a lot of talk when Alien3 came out that David Fincher's limitations as a music video/commercial director would hamper the film's presentation.  I was pleasantly surprised that this ended up not being the case.  Apparently he has decided to devolve into that predicted state.This film was not a bad idea and the acting was good (with what was provided) so that leaves us with the presentation being the problem.  The focus of the film was very disjointed.  The dialogue was vague and an seemed to try too hard and coming up with the next big quotable.  And the cinematography was .... well ... Fincher - if you're going to roll a film that is so colorless, just make it black and white!I'd love to see them remake this movie with some different direction - there was some real potential in it.


                
First, the good stuff.  The acting was superb.  Edward Norton was very strong (though I expected more, somehow) and Brad Pitt was a phenomenon. I'm glad Sean Penn pulled out of this role, though I'm sure he would have nailed it as well (and in a very different way, I'll bet).  The direction was also interesting, though it seemed like the director was enjoying himself to much.  So much of it seemed like the "wouldn't it be cool if..." style of direction.Now, the bad stuff.  This plot is more full of holes than Independence Day. I mean, it makes absolutely no sense whatsoever.  Other reviewers have said that if you go to this movie, you must be prepared to think.  Very true, you must think about the film's themes and the film's subtext every step of the way.  This was extremely interesting and enjoyable.  But whatever you do, please do not think about the plot.  It doesn't hold up under any scrutiny at all.  At a very basic level, this film doesn't make sense.  I can't elaborate without throwing out a huge spoiler, so I won't.If you ask me, plot is the first thing.  If you have a weak plot, that can be forgiven by other strengths.  But if your plot can't even stand up without the willful indulgence of a forgiving audience, then you've already fouled up too big to ignore.  This movie could not have been good without massive script alterations.  No matter how good the acting, how good the directing, how clever the dialogue, this movie could not have been other than a travesty of modern film.  Horrible.On the other hand, from the number of posters here who seem to think that Edward Norton's character was named Jack, it's quite clear that people indeed don't pay very close attention to films.  No wonder this film is so highly regarded.
Major spoilers. This movie will only get a two on my scale of one-to-ten because of the twist in the ending, and even the twist isn't all that great. People say this movie is great. Insightful. Exhilarating. I say it's complete trash and almost a waste of time. The characters aren't bad, except for that really ugly lady (change your hair and clean yourself up). She plays some psycho nymphomaniac who falls for Tyler Durden's (Brad Pitt) body. Eventually those two get together and have constant sex, which gets really old because the house is shaking all the time and the narrator explains how annoying it is. Soon the story gets boring and we find that the Fight Club is really a group of losers who are deviant maniacs bent on disrupting society. Let's face it, the only reason anyone should ever watch this movie all the way through is to find out that Tyler Durden is actually the narrator, and the narrator is Tyler Durden. Tyler Durden doesn't even exist. That twist really fell below the status of "bad". This movie really falls below the status of "annoying, stupid, boring, disgusting, monotonous, and ridiculous". The music reeks, the acting isn't great, the storyline is awful, the plot is stupid, and nothing fits together real well to make this movie solid. I implore everyone to avoid this movie.
I started out enjoying this film immensely. Following the first half hour, however, it has already stated everything that it has to say. For the remainder of the film it merely repeats itself over and over and over and over.
To write more on the film would be to commit the same sin.


                
This might be the stoopidest movie ever made. The story is ridiculous, the twist beyond retarded.Spoiler ALERTOooh Brad Pitt IS Ed Norton. Is this supposed to be deep?Given what passes as intellectualism and political discourse in this country, it is no wonder that this film is heralded as a masterpiece. I give major props to Fincher for imbuing this piece of idiocy with great style. The lighting and clothes are top -notch. But that does not make for a good movie. I'm sure to teenage bozos, this is about something. To anyone with a brain it is pure dreck.Is that supposed to be funny? Is it supposed to be insightful? What it leaves one with, is a feeling that Brad Pitt sure wishes he was cooler than he is.
I'm as confused as a rat in a maze as to why Fight Club is rated so highly and is in the top 10. The story and the overall film doesn't make much sense, I mean how on Earth does an insomniac office worker have a split personality believing he's talking (and fighting) to someone and starts up a cult following of men that not only do they all appear to enjoy fighting without moral question but are completely brainwashed and have become terrorists to his cause? Not only that but the main character breaks the fourth wall. I just find this film to be incredibly weird, also I don't understand why Marla just can't give a straight answer of things that are happening between them which the main character doesn't realise he's doing. But the weirdest thing about this film is when he's fighting with Tyler Durden, there's a part where he's being dragged and it's seen from a security camera which shows it's just him dragging himself, but how is this possible? He looks like he's being dragged by a ghost.Personally, I didn't like this film and from what I think from a general consensus, no way is this a masterpiece, maybe the revealing of the split personality thing but everything else is just weird.
Fight Club (1999) is considered a cult classic by those who praise it for its brutal critique of the meaninglessness of modern urban life. It is condemned as "irresponsible" by some critics who claim that it advocates violence. I claim that both of these positions reveal a total lack of insight into what the film is actually saying, and an unwillingness or inability to read the text of the film as a whole.It seems that all criticism of the film focuses only on the first half. The first half depicts a man living a consumerist lifestyle in an anonymous American city who meets a powerful man who inspires him to make radical changes in his life, primarily through all-male meetings of consensual bloody violence called Fight Clubs. The debate about whether violence is a legitimate response to a suffocating culture of submission is a legitimate one, but not one that will ever be meaningfully discussed in mainstream media. State institutions have a monopoly on violence. End of debate.The film is stylishly designed, charmingly performed and its philosophy is quotable, the only problem is the second half, in which Fight Club becomes Project Mayhem. The second half appears to be nonsensical but a rather cynical message can be drawn from it. Whether the destruction of credit card companies to erase personal debt without loss of human life is a legitimate response to capitalism is not a debate the film encourages. These men are not depicted as free-thinking radicals liberated from wage slavery, but as a mindless army blindly following the orders of their deified leader.Maybe the anarchists, activists and eccentrics are feeling validated by Twentieth Century Fox for offering them entertainment that presses the alienated buttons they have been sullenly nurturing and so resist a critical examination of their beloved product. The revelation that the two main characters are actually the same person is merely dismissed as bad plotting, but is much more self-aware and manipulative.There is a tiny clue to the true "twist" in the film. There is a comment in the narration that we hear but do not understand, and so forget. This is an effective method of subliminal messaging that is demonstrated in the film by Brad Pitt's character inserting single frames of pornography into children's films. "It's called a change-over. The movie goes on and nobody has any idea." Everyone knows that different genres are designed to induce different feelings in an audience; horror movies scare, comedies make you laugh and thrillers thrill. Fight Club starts off as social commentary, designed to make you think, and moves into thriller, designed to cease thought by getting you excited. Most thrillers have completely inane utilitarian plots. I worry about thrillers that have actually raised serious and complex issues.The hero of the film, who has spouted all this quotable philosophy, is completely insane. It seems the story so far has been an episode of acute dissociative schizophrenia and if you are on the protagonist's side you will stay on his side as he wakes up from this episode, realises that he is Brad Pitt and Edward Norton, and attempts to stop the progress of the destruction he has instigated – blowing up the credit card companies – because it is obviously wrong.The film successfully negates everything of interest that has been presented, and does it all in the mindless thriller genre, so the cult followers of the film can remain willfully ignorant to how they have been manipulated.When the protagonist realises that he is unable to stop the destruction of the credit card companies, he decides to kill himself. He shoots himself in the mouth, both killing himself (Brad Pitt) and not killing himself (Edward Norton). He has thus liberated himself from the man who liberated him and so is now free to watch the destruction of the buildings he tried to save.For the first half of the film we are Edward Norton and our minds and lives are opened up by Brad Pitt. The second half of the film then reveals that Brad Pitt is a lunatic who must be stopped and that actually he is a part of us, he is an aspect of ourselves that we must destroy. We enjoy the destruction vicariously through this film, we buy the DVD and maybe even the t-shirt. Our inner anarchist is stimulated, excited and finally subdued; put back to sleep for another decade of employment, consumption and the thought-provoking philosophy of Hollywood studios.http://www.personaproductions.com/2014/10/fight-club.html
This one is sick. I had hoped and prayed I would not live to see another film as bad as the Matrix but Fight Club is. In a way it is even worse since it is not as obviously silly. The actors can really play the directing is as good as could be expected by someone like Fincher (I loved Se7en). So what is wrong? Well, it is sick. Now, that is not a smart thing to say when criticising  a film but there is no way to avoid it. Fight Club is extremely violent. This is something I do not like in general but for a movie with a title like Fight Club to be expected. And it is not senseless violence like in Matrix but belonging to the story. Indeed it is the essence and in this sense acceptable. What is wrong, if not evil, is that it is presented as a possible solution to the emptiness we feel in our lives. So our generation did not enjoy the blessing of an honest good war? No wonder we degenerate and start buying IKEA furniture. Is this a joke? It is not meant as one.
Our hero (the `Narrator') cannot sleep. He is not really happy but who is. What to do? First he finds some unusual hobby. He goes to meetings of people who really suffer.  And the mixture of real feelings mixed with the ridiculous situation gives him energy some fake `sense of life'. There he meets the beautiful Marla. My heart jumped with joy. There was some kindred spirit. They should fall in love, marry, settle down, have some kids live happily (more or less) ever after. That is what I want (I know I am the one who is sick but this is what watching classic Hollywood movies did to me.) It would have been perfect. Unfortunately the film would have been over after fifteen minutes. That is why our hero first has to go to point zero. And he does it by establishing this Fight Club and moving in with lovely Brad. Okay, why not. But does it have to be terror organisation next? Come on. What is the point of the whole thing? You enjoyed the film? Punch yourself on the nose and start thinking. Or even better stop pretending that you do. The schizophrenia angle was rather foreseeable but the happy ending was okay. Like I said... the two hours in between where at best annoying at worst... (I will think of something.)


                
This movie makes the occasional gesture towards Nietszche and being a fight between Reason and the Id - this becomes most apparent closer to the end, when we learn a little something about our main characters. Mostly, however, it is about grown men beating each other into gumbo, because the actual meat of the movie barely touches on that. Essentially, it is a little bit of philosophy wrapped up in a lot of very, very bloody boxing. There's something suspect about the whole matter.It's a rush, sure, but if they wanted to film a WCW match, why did they feel the need to wrap some half-baked quasi-New Age ideas around it? I fear that a bunch of guys around the country will miss the spirit-vs-flesh angle and decide that this fighting thing is Way Cool, Man, and will set up little Fight Clubs in their basements until they all die from internal hemorrhaging. I guess people will buy anything if you wrap fake spirituality around it.
I really enjoyed this movies.... And I hated it as well. The movie was done well and had some great parts, but never came together as a whole. I really think this movie had the same problems that Fincher's last movie (The Game) had.... It lands a huge surprise on you and then forces you to believe it even though it doesn't work at all with the movie. In "The Game" it didn't bother me as much because that was more of a "fun" film, where as Fight Club actually proports to say something about society. It's worth seeing, but just the "The Emporer's New Clothes", this movie proports to be so much, but is really nothing.


                
So, there was once a loser, a guy who is so depressed and alienated by society and his job that he has to join different self-help groups, even though he does not suffer from the conditions of the attendants, just to find some human warmth. Suddenly an unfortunate incident leaves him homeless, and he turns to a recently met friend for help. This means a dramatic change in his life, his friend is handsome, strong, full of self-confidence, charismatic, bold, audacious, that is, just the opposite from him, and the one he would maybe like to become. And his friend opens for him a sort of liberation path, through fight!, the most basic and primitive of human instincts; first between them, then starting a club of fighters who meet every week to release their life frustrations through violence and direct hand-to-hand combat. The other most primitive human instinct, sex, appears abruptly too, but it's not him, but his friend whom becomes the sex partner of the girl he likes. Most of the film time is spent in the development of the fight club, which gets bigger, with some of its members going to live to the friend house (much to the displeasure of the protagonist), and then finally turning into a sort of protest/sabotage/terrorist group.And suddenly his friend disappears, and in his search for him the protagonist discovers that his friend founded many other fight clubs in other cities. And here the "great" moment of the film comes!... the protagonist discovers that his friend is actually... himself!!, it is a fictional personage created by his own mind, the person he would like to be, the embodiment of his ambitions, of everything he admires... and hates all at once, the fictional being through whom he takes revenge on the senseless world he lives in. And thus we are forced to completely change our perspective and interpret the whole story under a totally new point of view, and it is just then when we realize the story we have been told is about.... NOTHING AT ALL!!!.... liberation through violence and sex?? oh yeah! we might believe that if the end of the film showed us something different from a guy meekly pleading his lady to come back with him, something different form a guy horrified at the tragical consequences the acts of violence he has promoted have had. Regret from having departed so much from the established social order?? it just does not make sense.Then we start to think of the internal coherence of the story, and we find so many plot holes and so much inconsistency that the whole film literally deflates into nothing but a bunch of senseless violent scenes and a ridiculously pretentious and void criticism-against-the-system message.Probably one of the most overrated films at IMDb, a perfect example of a film which should have never been made.
I think the movie is worth 2 or 3 at most.What the whole movie really brought to the viewers is a mass of violence, destruction, illogic, impossibility and obscurity.I am not going to describe the violence and destruction here because everyone can easily understand what I am talking about. These things are obvious. I want to point out the latter three.First, if a person don't know how to create explosives, how come after becoming a psycho he/she can? ...illogical and impossible. Second, without Brad Pitt, how could a fight club exist? ...illogical. Third, what did the other members of the fight club do to earn a living? They appeared as jobless or tramps. ...impossible and obscure. Actually there are other points I am tired of pointing out.If all these things are good in our world, what is the bad? As a result, it was not awarded any prize.


                
This is one of the silliest movies I have ever seen.It is not only not credible that such clubs exist; the motivation of the characters in this film to act the way they do is simply not believable.Having said that the performances are quite good. Brad Pitt and Edward Norton always deliver consistent well rounded performances. It is unfortunate that their efforts are wasted here due to an unsatisfactory script and an incredible plot line.The ending of the film is especially unsatisfying and .... well, weird. I guess one should have expected that from the lengthy period of grief that precedes it. The performances probably rate more than a 2 rating, but I think it deserves a rap on the knuckles just in case someone wants to make Fight Club II


                
It's amazing that anyone thought this was watch-able, never mind brilliant. The acting, camera work and music are all good, but the story is so absurd, it had me laughing out loud. I can understand that a fight club could come to be, but this story has it wrapped up in anti-consumerism <U+0096> and other heady subjects. It just doesn't fly. Show me one backyard boxing enthusiast with these intellectual ideals. They're in it for the fighting. At least show me how the first fight club member was inducted. Two guys start it and the next thing you know there are a hundred members willing to die for their leader. When did that and happen and how? These are huge unanswered questions and without the answers it makes the whole thing seem so implausible that I could not suspend my disbelief.The thing about the body organs was shoe-horned in to give some novel-like cohesiveness, but when they transferred it using statements like, "This is Jack's complete lack of surprise," it became a ridiculous sophomoric device. The attempts at humor were embarrassing. It's good to add some humor to lighten the tension, but here the gags seemed to be dropped in from a Farrelly Brothers movie and were so out-of-place that it seemed that the movie had an identity crisis. Also, the gags were childish and weren't funny. Helena Bonham Carter's character was not only completely unbelievable, but also superfluous. The character could be removed and the overall story would not change one bit. So, why is this character here? I found all the characters to be unbelievable and absurd. Their motivations and dialog made little or no sense at all. Sometimes the dialog and narration seemed to be selected just to make a character say something provocative, even if it made no sense. The scenes where Ed Norton was beating himself up was like watching a MST3K episode, only I was filling in the commentary. And near the end we get a bizarre twist that's really just a cheap trick by the filmmaker. I felt cheated because I was led down a path without enough information to put together the reality. In "The Sixth Sense" or "A Beautiful Mind", they left the door open, so at the end you realize all the info was there. In "Fight Club" you are summarily duped. Overall, this film seems like the work of an edgy high school student <U+0096> all style, no substance and a bunch of quirky, edgy characters that couldn't possibly exist.


                
This film is the one of the worst uses of celluloid I've seen. No plot, acting by Ed Norton, Brad (I can't act) Pitt, and others off the mark.  It's just plain lame.  It's herky jerky...the NEW way to make films...just film a series of crazy mixed up scenes and teenagers dig it.  This can only be described as a "teenagers angst" film...society's out to get me so form a fight club to strike back.  Forget this film...unless you're 16 and feeling bad.


                
