Fight Club is a brash slap in the face of consumerism and the working dead. It questions reality. It is strikingly thought provoking and visually stimulating. The direction is incredibly brilliant. Director David Fincher (Aliens, Se7en and The Game) is at his finest here warping both space and time, dropping in things here and there to make things clear. Edward Norton is excellent as Jack, the narrator of the movie. He is a nerdy insomniac who catalog shops at Ikea and has a going nowhere job. Brad Pitt is dynamic as Tyler Durden, an anarchistic man who lives in a run-down abandoned house and makes and sells soap for a living. Helen Bonham Carter is also great as Marla Singer, the manic-depressive chain-smoking woman in both their lives. Her role is critical and she plays it well.There has been some controversy about the violence in this film but it is not gratuitous violence, it is part of the story and serves it well. It is much less than what you would see in your average Hollywood blockbuster. This is actually an insightful film and in many ways similar to American Beauty, although this film is much more in your face about it's message. If you are squeamish, you may not want to see it. There are some very painful bloody scenes, but if you can stomach it, then check it out. There is also a huge twist in this film that almost rivals the twist at the end of The Sixth Sense. And I must admit, it is the twist in this film that made me really love it. The best audience for this film is men in their 20's or 30's, but anyone that can appreciate film as a modern art should like it. One of the best films of 1999.


                
Ever since I first watched this movie a few years back with some of my friends, I loved it. It became a sort of habit of ours to watch it every couple weeks or at least once a month while we laughed and quoted the whole thing for fun. 
 Anyways, what makes this movie better than what the 1999 box office credited it with, is the filmography. My favorite use of camera and film techniques probably had to be the moment where Tyler describes the meaningless of possessions in a shot inside their house as it wobbles from side to side. His calm demeanor reminds you more of Jack rather than himself and his more aggressive tone, creating a sense of foreshadowing the ultimate climax when Jack realizes he is Tyler and Tyler is him. It's also very interesting to see the change from a clear and sunny day in the city to the yellow-tinted bars, basements, and ultimately the abandoned house Jack and Tyler live in at night. There's a feeling of the underground's grime and dirt in these transitions, as well as a feel for the tougher moments in life that are a central theme in this movie.
 This movie also made a high ranking for me because it makes you think. In 1999, people were looking for stability in the shadow of Y2K. They weren't thinking about giving up everything they had, but preserving it and gathering more possessions, as highlighted throughout the film yet again as a central theme. This film goes exactly against contemporary consumer society at the time by instead of telling people to "buy stuff we don't need", it emphasizes the ideas of minimalism and even tribalism in some aspects when Tyler talks about "starting over" again. What sticks with this movie is that it's message still sticks to us today, perhaps even stronger than in 1999.
This movie show the real face of metacritic and other reviews sites. Don't listen to any critics and just watch this movie.


                
(Spoilers herein) Films like this frustrate. This is so competent, so engaging that I curse it for wasting the chance to say something memorable, or important or perhaps both.What's good is the way that they've solved the `narrator problem.' here, the narrator has imagined the hero (we find out), which is rather clever. We become cocreater of the hero because the narrator has cast the whole film as a conversation with us to explain the last scene which we see in flashback at the beginning of the film. Along the way, we are reminded that we are messing with the film, and the film with us. This latter goes so far as to have the hero work as a projectionist, explaining cigarette burns. He inserts subliminal pornography, which we see throughout with a longer, more noticeable flash toward the end. When we find out about Pitt's non-existence, it is underscored by images on `video.' Add to that the inherently cinematic nature of voyeuristic personal violence, and this film has us captured.When we return to the last scene, Pitt tells us that the whole thing is `flashback humor,' the most strongly selfreferential trick I know in film. Obviously, the self-referential notion of narrator is the reason for this film. That's why Ed Norton bought the film rights to `Motherless Brooklyn,' which exploits a similar experiment in the narrative mystery. In that case, the narrator has Tourette's.So the film competently captures us, and then what? A wasted opportunity. My major complaint is that this film meant nothing, imparted nothing, only thumbed its nose as if to say: I can capture you as easily as the doofuses in the story and for just as capricious a reason. We deserve better. You with talent should do better.Lesser complaints:Norton and Pitt are excellent, though Pitt has much the simpler requirement. Why waste Helena Bonham Carter? She's got the moxie; she's been memorable before. I think the director just didn't know how to use her beyond a vapid sullenness. Another wasted opportunity.Narrative tricks like this are best when they follow the detective story `play-fair' model. This is what `The Sixth Sense' does. On a second viewing of that film, everything works, but with new information. More, some minor problems become clearer. Not so with this film. The writers have played too fast and loose with motivations. It is rather in the `oh, that was a dream' or the `oh, time travel reversed that' category. And it could have been tidier in this regard without messing anything up.Most every scene was weird (a good) because it ran against short-term expectations. But the scene where Lou and thug visit the fight club is pure stereotype, and predictable. Why?I wish the last scene were more, more something. This is where it really begins to hit you that the whole thing was motivated by an illusion, with as much effect.Bottom line: this film is so good, and its makers so talented that should be held to higher standards. I give it a 9 for competence. You should see it for that reason. But it has no purpose.
A woman needs to speak up for Helena Bonham Carter's incredible acting performance in this movie. Because it's guys who post for the film she's been overlooked because no man can relate to how anti-female this woman is and how far from the real Helena. Women who can treat random sex and despicable grunge as a natural and casual form of life have gone off the path somewhere and this girl isn't looking for redemption. She embraces the strange as normal and rejects the comfortable and pretty as the aberrations. Few other actresses could have achieved the level of intense hyperactivity and abandon Helena captures here. So much so that she sinks into the movie like a dead body into a sewer and has been ignored on these boards thus far.


                
The first time I watched this flick is when I'm in my junior high. My thought are what an amazing film this is. Ten years later in my College I watched this again and I'm in the awestruck, how come such a splendid craftsmanship bring so much joy to my life. After the first watched now 17 years later I watched it with my pregnant wife. And she's had the same reaction like when I'm in Junior high. Times goes by, but this film is sit still the Thorne of awesomeness.


                
Fight Club is a brash slap in the face of consumerism and the working dead. It questions reality. It is strikingly thought provoking and visually stimulating. The direction is incredibly brilliant. Director David Fincher (Aliens, Se7en and The Game) is at his finest here warping both space and time, dropping in things here and there to make things clear. Edward Norton is excellent as Jack, the narrator of the movie. He is a nerdy insomniac who catalog shops at Ikea and has a going nowhere job. Brad Pitt is dynamic as Tyler Durden, an anarchistic man who lives in a run-down abandoned house and makes and sells soap for a living. Helen Bonham Carter is also great as Marla Singer, the manic-depressive chain-smoking woman in both their lives. Her role is critical and she plays it well. There has been some controversy about the violence in this film but it is not gratuitous violence, it is part of the story and serves it well. It is much less than what you would see in your average Hollywood blockbuster. This is actually an insightful film and in many ways similar to American Beauty, although this film is much more in your face about it's message. If you are squeamish, you may not want to see it. There are some very painful bloody scenes, but if you can stomach it, then check it out. There is also a huge twist in this film that almost rivals the twist at the end of The Sixth Sense. And I must admit, it is the twist in this film that made me really love it. The best audience for this film is men in their 20's or 30's, but anyone that can appreciate film as a modern art should like it. One of the best films of 1999.
"Fight Club" runs a bit over 2 hours. For the first 1 hour and 51 minutes I found this movie very difficult to watch or enjoy. I kept wondering why Ed Norton's character continued to put up with Brad Pitt's out-of-control character. To me the movie seemed to be one big mess. However, my patience, and trust in the director, paid off and I had to watch much of the movie twice to really appreciate how good it is. I rate it 9 of 10 and predict it will be one of those ground-breaking films that viewers and critics refer to for years, much like "The Matrix" and "The Sixth Sense." It is definitely for someone with a mature mind, who can understand subtleties, and who enjoys "studying" a film. This film is definitely meant to be a funny and absurd take on life, but with a very dark tone to it. It isn't really about "fight clubs", although the fighting is presented as an avenue for characters to deal with their inner conflicts. It is not intended to represent reality, nor to suggest that fighting is good. It's closest prior film is perhaps "Doctor Strangelove."I saw this film on DVD. The sound is perhaps the best I've heard so far. There are several crashes and explosions throughout the movie and the realism is just so good it made me cringe. But you have to have a good subwoofer to enjoy it all.Now - CAUTION - SPOILERS FOLLOW - READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.However, I think most people will enjoy the movie more, on first viewing, if they understand the total concept. So here it is.Norton plays the "narrator", and in the introductory scenes we find out he has a conventional existence, a traveling job as a "recall coordinator" for a major automobile manufacturer. By his own admission he is "a slave to the IKEA nesting instinct", travels with his "CK shirts and DKNY shoes", and says of his total existence "close to being complete." "Fighting" is completely foreign to him. But, deep in his subconscious he hates what he is becoming, and if he were to die now his life will have been meaningless.Brad Pitt's character, Tyler Durden, is Norton's alter-ego. They are one and the same person. In opening scenes you see various single-frame flashes (stop-action on DVD helps see this clearly) of Pitt's 'Tyler', we assume still in Norton's subconscious as he first begins to realize he hates his existence.Then, on a buisness flight, while talking to the lady seated next to him, Norton thinks "I pray for a crash or midair collision", which is quickly followed by a highly realistic "dream collision", then Pitt's Tyler Durden the rest of the trip is actually sitting next to Norton, conversing with him. This "prayer for a crash" is the consciousness that first makes Pitt's Tyler totally real to Norton.The rest of the movie has many scenes with both Norton and Tyler but, we see later, no one else ever sees Brad Pitt's "Tyler", they only see Norton as "Tyler." Brad Pitt's Tyler is explained this way, "You were looking for a way to change your life. You could not do this on your own. All the ways you wish you could be - that's me. I look like you want to look... am free in all the ways you are not. Little by little you're letting yourself become - Tyler Durden."The movie's title is unfortunately misleading, because only a small part of the movie is really about the fighting, which is used as a way for disillusioned men to get out their frustrations. One line by Norton, "This kid from work, Ricky, couldn't remember if you ordered pens with blue ink or black. But Ricky was a 'god' for 10 minutes when he trounced the maitre d' of the local food court", explains the gist of why they fight. It symbolizes the one area where they are in complete control of their pleasure and pain.That last comment, "maitre d' of the local food court" illustrates the comedic approach to much of the movie. Who ever heard of a food court having a maitre d'? How much lower in the food chain could you get? Or Ricky supplying ink pens at work? One of the fight club "assignments", to pick a fight with a stranger, then lose", has a number of very funny sequences in it.The movie turns very dark when the fight club kicks itself "up a notch" and begins to plot the destruction of all major buildings housing credit card companies. The rationale - destroy them and all their records of debt, and everyone can start again at ground zero. When Norton's Tyler finally at 1 hour 52 minutes into the film finally figures out what he had done, he tries unsuccessfully to twarth the plan. The final scene shows him and his girlfriend standing before a window in a high-rise, and sequentially all bombs go off and the buildings crash into various piles of rubble. Reminiscent of the final scene of "Doctor Strangelove", where all the nuclear bombs are going off, destroying the world.The closing line, Norton says, "Everything will be alright. You met me at a really strange time in my life." Again, dark humor.The genius of this film, if there is any, resides in the premise that the two main characters represent the two extremes of the same person, and in the end the "real" Tyler Durden meets them in the middle. Once you know this premise, and can watch the whole movie in this context, I found it much more enjoyable, made much more sense, and every scene with both Tylers is done completely in character with the premise.The DVD also has a second DVD which is devoted to extras which are in themselves very interesting if you like to study the art of film-making. However, plan to spend a minimum of 5 hours total in viewing and studying this film to get its full impact.
Whenever I talk about different years in movies, I always pick 1999 as my favourite year. So many amazing films came out such as American Beauty, The Green Mile, The Matrix and Being John Malkovich. Out of every movie that came out this year, one stands out for me and that is Fight Club.The first time I ever watched this movie was really late at night and I had waited for it to come on T.V and had to wait until everyone was asleep. I was in absolute awe over the sheer brilliance of the film. everything about it is amazing.The first thing I noticed was the cinematography. Every time I watch this movie, the opening shot gets me excited and ready for a powerful film.The story itself is so interesting, it doesn't have any dull moments. Even when a character's life is portrayed as boring you are just hooked in wanting to see what will happened next. The way the story develops also is very fascinating.Then we have wonderful performances from both Edward Norton and Brad Pitt. But I think that the real standout here is Helena Bonham Carter. She plays one of the only female characters in the movie and truly makes you think about everything in the movie.There is one negative point though, the fact that a few scenes feel random and tacked on, along with some plot holes.Overall, if you haven't checked this out, this is a must for every person as long as you aren't squeamish.Rating: 6.8/7 (or 9/10)


                
This movie is really great,it shows the ugly truth on various aspects of life such as consumerism white,collar slavery. The performance were really great and the director did fabulous job in directing the movie,the only thing which did not go well was the twist where we get to know the there is no Tyler and ending seemed a bit unconvincing,if you ignore that then this is a great movie,so many things can be learnt from this movie
Perfect scenario, the best creativity of all time and Incredible end.


                
Interesting philosophical point of view.
Amazing contrast between capitalism and socialism.
Recommend for people who love to read the subtext in a movie.


                
Interesting tale of what happens when white collar worker get bored. With nothing better to do, two guys have a fight and it draws a crowd. This seems to start a new fad where accountants/lawyers/stockbroker types get together and watch two of them go at it. Eventually, guys are showing up to work all bruised and there seems to a knowing when one sees the other. As the movie progresses, we are not sure what is real and what is in the mind of one of the main characters.There have been other movies that seem to depict fights in back rooms and garages (Jean Claude Van Damme did Lionheart). This movie is definitely the best of the bunch.
I love this film because of the twist. It makes you think, and made me watch it multiple times. Fantastic writing and the actors really sold the film to me. I love this type of dark film. The director and the director of photography also did a wonderful job...I love the scenes in the abandoned buildings...They add to the darkness of the film. This film is unmatched in it's performance and in a class all by itself. The gritty film noir type has been copied, but never duplicated. The dual personality of the lead actor was delivered wonderfully as was the supporting actor. Brad Pitt delivers a stellar performance and makes us believe there is actually another person in the movie when there was not. The only other film I can think of that pulled this off was "Sixth Sense" with Bruce Willis.


                
It is quite rare thing that movie may be better than the book it is based on. And Fight Club actually is. I have watched it many times, the shrill still there, while the book gathers dust on a shelf. I read the book in English and in Russian (BTW the translation, at least the one I got in hand, sucks). By its sctucture it is very easy to be turned into a script exactly like it should be POV the narrator; OTOH it's not rich with descriptions, visuals are rather scanty. So I think the director and the cast did a perfect job to make movie pretty close to the book in pace, action and picture, giving the story greater power and subtlety by the means of cinematography; with one caveat - the ending. I know many people like the film ending and Palanniuk himself was quoted to prefer it. But it really doesn't make sense to me and makes the story more surreal and more shallow than one might digest.The acting is superb. Both Pitt and Norton are at their best and though I am not much into Helena Bonham Carter, she is amazing as Marla. Supporting characters are all well done, too. I also always love change of color scheme into sepia once we get into the Paper street world. Many things like that, you just must see it. It's an excellent film that will blow your mind anyway.That said, I am far from thinking this movie (and the book whatever) to be anything of a message. It is indeed thought-provoking but it actually doesn't offer a solution, nor a hint. Quite contrary it shows how much more preferrable the existing system would be comparing to the offered ways to get up at it. This rebellion without a cause, within the system, against its most obscure and superficial features is just a childish tantrum. That will pass and that is sad. BTW I would really like those many posters who state the movie changed their lives, to specify - how exactly? Oh wait I guess. They must have been purchasing Che Guevara t-shirts. Those do look nice with CK briefs.


                
I was looking forward to this since I'm a fan of David Fincher, Brad Pitt, Edward Norton, and Helena Bonham Carter, and since I read and liked the novel.  For the most part, I wasn't disappointed, until the end.  Not the plot twist(when I read the novel, I thought it was a rip-off of a famous thriller, which I won't name, since it'll give away this one, but it plays much better in the movie.  Also, you have to admit Fincher et al played fair with the audience before pulling the twist), but Project Mayhem and so forth; that seemed out of control and unnecessary.  Still, this is almost nothing like you've seen before, and unlike many visually-oriented directors, Fincher puts his talents in service of telling an interesting story, so you're carried along.  And all three leads are terrific, as is the supporting cast(including an almost unrecognizable Jared Leto, formerly of MY SO-CALLED LIFE, going blond here).


                
1999 was a great year for film, with many great films releases that year: The Matrix, American Beauty, Being John Malkovich, Toy Story 2, The Sixth Sense are just a few examples. To join them was Fight Club, a controversial film based on a popular novel and directed by David Fincher, a man whom career was on the up.Edward Norton play an insurance clerk who was suffering from insomnia and struggles to deal with it. He starts by attending support groups for people suffering from long term illnesses to cope with his issues. Yet that disappears when Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter) starts to attend these meeting and takes away their edge. Whilst on a business trip the man meets Travis Durden (Brad Pitt), a soap maker and salesman. They quickly becomes friends and move in together into a dilapidated house. They also start to take joy when having fights and the popularity of these fights quickly expand into Fight Club. But under Travis' leadership Fight Club soon takes an even darker turn and it's up to the man to stop him and his plot.Fincher is a very skilled director and with Fight Club he gives audiences his most stylist film. He uses a lot of visual trick and starts to play around a lot more with the camera. He shows confidence with CGI and the nature of how it was used was fitting for the film. There is a dark style and tone throughout, Fincher does not hold back the violence or some of the more grim aspects of the film. There is a lot of dark humour in the film, particularly during the early part of the film. Fincher with a screenplay by Jim Uhls which is based on a novel by Chuck Palahniuk tell a very complex story and there is a lot of themes throughout. There are themes about people trying to find their identity, how the human mind works, criticisms of modern advertising and consumerism and how people could use it or become hypocrites, how a cult would function and of course, man's desire for violence and destruction. Despite it's title this film does not focus to much on the underground fighting. This is an intelligent film which will allow the audience to think.There is some excellent acting in this film with a great cast. Pitt and Norton were brilliant in the lead roles, with Pitt having a potent charisma throughout whilst Norton is effective as an everyman character of the piece. Bonham Carter was also great in this film and these 3 actors were a dream team together.An excellent film.


                
If you haven't seen it, and don't know others who have seen it, you probably think this is a movie that glorifies violence. And you'd be wrong. The movie is certainly charged with testosterone, but it is actually a deep, thought provoking movie examining the rampant consumerism of society versus ideas of nihilism and primitivism.The central figure to all the philosophizing is Tyler Durden, played to perfection by Brad Pitt. Durden is perhaps one of the most charismatic villains since Richard III, with eminently quotable sound bites that speak to the disillusionment in all of us. Pair that off with Ed Norton as a sardonic narrator, at first a wreck lost to the 'IKEA nesting instinct' and rendered cynical by the amorality of his job, and we have a scathing indictment of the consumerism smothering society.The bloody underground boxing of the Fight Club is a way the characters can gain control of their life, break free of the bonds society shackles them with. This in turn becomes Project Mayhem a terrorist organization aiming to send society 'back to zero.' In one chilling scene, Tyler evokes his dream world from the shadows: a world of post-apocalyptic proportions where people worry about things that matter--i.e. survival. Clearly, the violence has escalated beyond the point where it makes sense, but at the same time we can't shake the truth beyond Tyler's words, the desire to live one's own life.The film doesn't tell you 'do this' or 'do that.' It just asks you to think.(Some may be put off by a few plot holes the twist creates. These are actually fewer than they first appear, and further, the film is not the poster child for realism. Just ride with it.)
Man, enough cannot be said about that man, he is an incredible actor. "Fight Club", "Fight Club", man, what hasn't been said about it? "It's an awesome movie, everyone should see this movie, this movie is the bomb". Although I would agree that this was a great movie, do I think it should be on the top 100? No, maybe top 250. I wouldn't go as far to say that this is one of the best movies ever. But the acting is very good and the story is f----- up as hell. That's all I give the film. That's pretty much it. I would recommend this for Ed fans or Brad as well. I expected a lot and only got about 89% of the film's satisfaction. That's all I have to say about that.9/10


                
I had this film constantly discussed around me growing up. "It's the best film ever made!" "It's an overrated piece of trash!"
Around three years ago i finally saw Fight Club, and i can say with certainty, it is not overrated. You need to watch this film. It's a masterpiece in cinema history.


                
Fight Club is a rather dark drama filled with subtle comedy and with a rather dark ending. The ending is actually the most important scene in the movie and the director decided to begin the film with it too. However, he purposely leaves out the major twist you learn at the end. This is obviously done not to ruin the rest of the movie. However, the fact that you never learn the narrator's real name the entire movie is the most important part of this plot twist. When you learn that Tyler is actually just the narrator's mental projection, your entire understanding of the movie is changed. Tyler is the narrator's mental projection of what he wants to be. During the movie, the narrator's physical appearance worsens while Tyler's actually gets better. This was a consciously made decision by the director in the film. "We decided early on that I would start to starve myself as the film went on, while he would lift and go to tanning beds; he would become more and more idealized as I wasted away." The fact that the narrator's physical appearance degrades over the lapse of the film is an excellent choice to show how actually his mental state became worse and worse. This is not only because of his continuous insomnia throughout the film, but also for his own self-hatred for how average his life has become. This is why he eventually creates Tyler as an image of a true man and what he actually wants to be. What he wants to see in himself he envisions in Tyler.Tyler is very masculine, handsome, and confident. All of these characteristics the narrator lacks. Tyler is what the narrator actually sees himself as becoming. He falsely sees partaking in these underground fight clubs to make himself more masculine. This is why Tyler's appearance becomes more ideal, while the narrator's worsens. He only sees himself become this more ideal person while in reality; he is not bettering himself at all. He quits his job, loses all connections to his friends and family, and completely loses track of who he actually is. The reason why the narrator creates Tyler is not only because of his hatred for his own lifestyle, but also how emasculate he felt in society. He has no confidence in his own self-image and who he is. When he goes to these self-help groups, he actually gains little confidence in himself seeing that there are actually people who are less of a man than he is and has bigger problems than he does. The first time he actually embraces this is when he is at the self-help group for men with testicular cancer. He convinces himself that he is also a victim. He is not actually a victim to the same circumstances these men face, but feels just as emasculate as they do. This is actually what relieves his insomnia. It isn't actually until he meets Marla that he sees how fake both of them are by going to self-help groups for their own pleasure that his insomnia worsens and eventually meets Tyler.The physical appearance of the characters in the movie Fight Club is an unnoticed decision the director made that emphasizes a crucial point in the movie. The fact that the narrator projects what he wants to be through Tyler is seen through his appearance. Tyler becomes more attractive while in reality, he becoming worse off and just more battered and beat up as the movie goes on. The narrator never comes to grip with this until the final scene of the movie. Once the narrator realizes that Tyler is just what he project, he sees how far Tyler has taken his role. He finds a middle ground between Tyler's over masculinity and his low self-esteem as 'kills' Tyler once and for all.
This film impressed me because it is not the typical story you find in books or movies. I'm a fan of black humor and it is quite funny how the characters laugh at themselves, at their lives and problems, and I think even moral fags will laugh on this and will be surprised. Also I found interesting the way the story develops, which has an alternative end that one doesn't expect to happen at all, but if one pays enough attention, there are a pair of details that suggests how it might end. It is a movie that makes you think about your own life, about scary things that happen around you and you don't even notice it. So it is not actually so far from reality. Actually a friend of mine has told me he found the movie better than the book itself.


                
After watching this movie, your taste buds are likely to change forever. You will feel that all those run-out-of-mill, factory assembled, excessively marketed movies from Hollywood will no longer appeal to you..If you are up for it, welcome to fight club!!! The first 2 rules of the fight club are that you do not talk about fight club, so I don't want to ramble..Edward Norton plays a cynical insomniac who is in search for a meaning of life and the proprietor of the fight club (Pitt) provides exactly the same.However, Norton ultimately realizes that he has probably got more than he bargained for.So? well.. you have to see for yourself.


                
I wasn't prepared for an existential trip about life. I thought it was just going to be about fighting. I was wrong.The line in my title grabbed me because I have always thought about "stuff" and how it ties you down. People can't get divorced when the love is gone because of "stuff." People can't move to a better location because of "stuff." "Stuff" is choking us all.It is like the Kipling poem: If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it all on one turn of pitch-and-toss, And lose, and start again at your beginnings And never breath a word about your loss;then you will be a man!Besides, "stuff." we are chocked by consumerism; which may be the same thing. The film is replete with phallic symbols and decries the femininization of men."We're a generation of men raised by women. I'm wondering if another woman is really the answer we need."Fight Club gives us an emphatic NO to that question. But, then, what is Marla's role? To show us that we are lying to ourselves? Hmmm.This film had brilliant performances by Edward Norton, Brad Pitt, and Helena Bonham Carter, under the superb direction of David Fincher. It deserves multiple watchings.


                
To be really frank the financial system throughout the globe is something that makes me uncomfortable. Although the movie highlights other controlling factors by organizations as well it concludes with act concerning first point.The charisma of fight club, bonding between people of formed group, project mayhem, multiple personalities further add to this epic execution.


                
