In a sea of beautiful masterpieces from Iran, somehow this piece of drek got snapped up for the kind of distribution and attention that dozens of other films deserved. It's the cliched story of a poor brother and sister who have to get by with one pair of beat-up old shoes between them. Direct references to Bicycle Thieves abound.Samira Makhmalbaf's The Apple, one of the greatest films of modern cinema, is still unavailable on video and has been seen by almost no one in the states. Until Kiarostami won the Palme D'Or for Taste of Cherry, his films were only seen by a handful of lucky individuals who made it to the right film festivals. Samira's father, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, whose films make it to theaters but never with too much attention, and other great artists like Bahram Bayzai and Daryush Mehrju'i, are overshadowed in America, somehow, by Majidi. Despite having made what might be the most significant Iranian film in history, The Cow - shown at Venice in the early 70's and introducing the country's cinema to the world - Mehrju'i and Bayzai - considered to be their best by the Iranians themselves - collectively have fewer films available on video than does Majidi, in his relatively young career.
Children of Heaven is the only Iranian film that I have seen which seems artificial. The performances are not good, the plot seems hackneyed and contrived, and it's sentimental - there's lot of crying and yelling. The children aren't real people, but little angels beset upon by this harsh life. The little boy hero is even the best student in his class AND a great athlete. Jafar Panahi's The White Balloon and Abbas Kiarostami's Where Is The Friend's Home are both very similar storywise, but infinitely more touching, substantial and genuine.


                
As much as I wanted to like Children of Heaven, it just didn't do it for me. I commend the child actors, as I can't blame them for a script that I felt lacked the urgency and grittiness of the living situation in which they found themselves.Some parts were unnecessary or just outright silly. Some of the relationship between Ali and his father working seemed unconvincing and underdeveloped, and therefore expendable. Also, I was slightly offended at a scene where Ali, at a critical point in the film, cries in order to get his way. At best, I was left scratching my head confused and unconvinced. At worst, I got the message that whining is an OK way to get things done. I know the main character is a kid, and maybe it's too much to ask for someone that age to have a coherent conversation explaining the situation and asking for help in a mature manner. However, Ali does act fairly mature around his sister, so I guess I expected more out of a likable character.Finally, the goldfish thing was a bit lost on me, but that might just be me and I'd appreciate any clarification. I would suggest A Separation instead for anyone wanting an introduction to Iranian cinema.2 out 4 stars.
