On the face of it, this is a gentle and warm hearted movie that so many reviewers have detailed already that I won't have to go into an explanation of what occurred. The young actor portraying Ali (Amir Farrokh Hashemian) was quite incredible conveying the emotions involved with losing his sister's shoes, trying to explain the dilemma to her and dealing with the school principal who always seemed to be in the wrong place at the wrong time when Ali got to school late.The sister (Bahare Seddiqui) was also quite good but not as accomplished as her sibling. I actually found the side story of Zahra dropping her pen and her new friend Roya returning it to be somewhat more compelling. The subject of the 'lost' shoes never came up between them, even though Zahra saw her wearing them, retrieved from the discarded material at the produce stand. One wonders why the subject never came up; one assumes Zahra was too shy or embarrassed to ask about them.What I'm not understanding is why there wasn't more of a sense of closure for Ali and Zahra over the fate of the shoes. Granted, Ali went the extra mile by entering the race contest and winning, but in this case, it was the father who would inadvertently save the day with new shoes for both of them after earning a good day's pay. There is probably some meaning to be taken from the goldfish ending that eludes me, but it's something I won't dwell on. The film works as a feel good movie for the resolution of Ali and Zahra's plight, but I didn't get a sense of what was so extraordinary in the telling.
_Children of Heaven_ is pretty shocking in its depiction of poverty in modern-day Tehran. Well, "modern-day": for the first few dozens of minutes in the movie, you might as well be watching a story from centuries ago. The only aspect of contemporary life visible in the frame is a small, old-fashioned TV set; and a radio transistor, like those commonly used 50 years ago, perhaps. Only later in the movie, when the father and son, riding a bicycle, visit "downtown, modern" Tehran, does one clearly realize that the movie is, in fact, fully taking place in the present day, although it certainly doesn't look like it to a Western viewer.I may be naive, but somehow one would expect a "religious state" to be better capable of taking care of its citizens, so that such extremes of poverty can be avoided. I mean, to shoot a movie in 1997 showing a pair of sneakers as the most precious imaginable possession is just sad. The illusion must be similar to what one used to expect from Communist countries - that they would eliminate sharp class divides within society. That's what Communists used to preach, in theory - but in practice, they failed miserably. Does Iran as a religious society wish to remove such sharp divides? I have no idea, but it was disappointing to see so clearly in the movie that they apparently still exist in Iran today.After I finished watching the movie, I wasn't entirely satisfied. Basically, everything turned out right, as it typically does in fairy-tales. OK, but it also lends a "phony" aspect to the movie: the movie pretty much tells the viewers, "Ah, it's not really as bad as it all initially seems. Just lay back and enjoy the movie - everything will sort itself out eventually, so there's no reason to get upset. You viewers can go ahead and live your comfortable lives just like before, and you can forget about everything you saw in this movie because, see, these folks are eventually capable of resolving all their problems by themselves."But is that true in real life? And is it a hallmark of a cinematic masterpiece to make viewers comfortable? To be honest, I'd rather expect the opposite effect from an outstanding work of art. _Children of Heaven_ appears to be soothing the viewers' bad conscience: "We don't really care about all the terrible struggles these poor folks experience on a daily basis, but that's OK, because they can sort it all out by themselves at the end of the day."There's a fairytale-like atmosphere around _Children of Heaven_; the adults in this world appear threatening, but eventually, as it turns out, most are just kind-hearted folks. In the midst of the harshest conditions, people are, in their depth, mostly good. That's a nice, heart-warming theory, but is reality quite as simple? The movie makes it seem *too* simple and allows the viewers to conclude that no measures need to be undertaken to help those around the world who are currently suffering. That's a less elating, and one might almost say - a kitschy aspect of the movie: "The good will prevail, it always does, so why should I worry or do anything about bad things that exist in this world?"There's another kitschy aspect in _Children of Heaven_, as there often is with children's movies: the two children in the lead roles are just too cute. What if the two kids were ugly? Would there still be a movie?Finally, the movie was a bit frightening to watch from a European perspective. I find even "liberal" European schools too suffocating for a free-thinking spirit, but that's nothing compared to how Iranian schools are depicted in _Children of Heaven_. One is reminded of army barracks rather than an educational institution. The "uniforms" worn by everyone except males in the movie (headwear by all women, the exact same clothing by all school kids...) strengthen the "military" impression generated by the movie. Uniform clothing - uniform thinking...Does _Children of Heaven_ deserve its Oscar nomination? It's a very good movie, beautifully shot and apparently realistic, showing you both sides of Tehran as if you visited it in person, but the movie's praise is perhaps exaggerated. It's very much a movie in the spirit of De Sica's classic _Bicycle Thieves_, and it goes to the credit of _Children of Heaven_ that one can pronounce this comparison without blushing. Still, to me, it lacks the intensity and artistry of the classic - unlike here, I never for a second mistook _Bicycle Thieves_ for a fairy-tale while watching it.
Ali has a problem. He has just lost the prized pair of shoes of his sister, Zahra. He tries to find them but to no avail. Now he and Zahra have to share shoes at school, a situation which causes all sorts of problems. Ali comes up with other plans to get Zahra a pair of shoes. Meanwhile, Zahra thinks she may have tracked down the new owner of her shoes.Sweet movie from Iran. The spin-off events from the loss of the shoes and the adventures of the kids are quite entertaining. Also a great, warmth-filled reminder of life's simple pleasures and how things which may seem unimportant to one person in one culture and/or socio- economic sphere can be vitally important to someone with different circumstances.Not particularly profound though. The movie doesn't really come up with much in the way of profundities or even a powerful conclusion (in fact, the conclusion is fairly weak). It's a simple, linear story with very few frills or great twists, told engagingly and with great warmth.The movie was nominated for Best Foreign Film at the 1999 Oscars, losing out in the end to Life is Beautiful.


                
I have been on a "family movie" kick recently. An odd genre to delve into. And no, I am not a nostalgia addled twentysomething revisiting Disney. I'm talking anything that moves and talks and is inoffensive enough so that parents can let a screen babysit their munchkins for 2 hoursish. This genus of film shelters the lazy and has historically provided us with the most notorious specimens of hackery. Beyond the trash however, there exists children's movie that inspire wonder. It is these films, where creators did not compromise on their art, that feel as if they are abandoning me. I am inured, always on guard. Is simple innocuous sentimentality so unstomachable even when not squishy? I blame society. Children of Heaven is my only recent escape from this cultural conditioning.Let's first address the most obvious possibility why Children of Heaven is an exception. Writer/Director Majid Majidi is from Iran and this is a Persian language film. Now any film veteran knows that flowery words can work beautifully as subtitles and be completely hollow when audible. This is a wrench in the works when reviewing foreign language films. So unless I learn Persian, I cannot say exactly how resilient I am to the syrup. I'll get right on that. So I am sure the unfamiliar tongue does lower my guard, but I am convinced that is not the deciding factor. The source of conflict is sublime. Children of Heaven is the story of how young boy Ali survives day to day life after misplacing his sister Zahra's shoes. There is a duality to this problem's scale. Even the smallest mishaps can be tragedies for children. Lost shoes seem like one such problem, yet Ali's family is poor. With the rent past due, Ali's father overworked, and his mother injured, even the smallest mishap can push a vulnerable family over the brink. With this and their father's potential ire in mind, the siblings choose to handle this problem on their own.This seems a reasonable undertaking for a pair of elementary schoolers, but we forget how integral shoes are in everyday life. They are practical, but also convey style and status. So when Ali and Zahra share a pair of worn out tennies this arrangement colors their day to day life. Still, the loss is not a McGuffin driving a plot, but a perspective. Ali and Zahra live where school is run in shifts to maximize the use of the facilities. Zahra takes the shoes in the morning, dashes to a meeting place, Ali trades her sandals hopefully in time to get to school without being tardy. A reasonable arraignment, but imagine trying to get your sister to ware your beat up oversized shoes or wearing ugly ill-fitting boats to school. So no, plot lovers, this is not a story for you. Just life in the face of the tiny obstacles the size of the world. The dilemmas never seems forced our overly dramatized. The director knows the peril these narratives pose to our attention spans. The movie is not even 90 minutes long. Identical to the similar Bicycle Thieves. There is a climax to Children of Heaven, but it does not resolve the problem of the shoes. There are some hints, but Children does not have a slick Hollywood ending. This has and will continue to perturb some viewers, but I argue they missed the point. Majidi is a measured storyteller. Like the family, authenticity hangs on a delicate precipice. Heartwarming, but another dash of cuteness could send the film tumbling into an abyss that has claimed so many others. Children of Heaven finds the balance and a place in any beating heart.


                
How far will you go to get something you badly want? What happens if there is only a pair of shoes between you and your sibling, and your family is not well-off at all? It begins with Ali (Amir Farrokh Hashemian) fetching his younger sister Zahra's (Bahare Seddiqi) pink shoes from a cobbler who had repaired them. While Ali gets some potatoes, a garbage man accidentally picked up the pair of shoes and took them away. Ali would knock over crates of vegetables while trying to get his younger sister's shoes and is chased away in the process.With the financial situation of Ali's family, the landlord is arguing with Ali's mother (Fereshte Sarabandi) over being behind in paying the rent. As for the missing pair of shoes, the two began to devise a plan on what to do with it after Zahra had promised her brother not to tell their mother about it as they were doing their homework; while before that Ali's father (Reza Naji) had reprimanded Ali for not helping his ill mother when asked. The two siblings decided to share Ali's sneakers with Zahra wearing it in the morning to school before she returns it to her brother at midday so that he can wear it to class in the afternoon. This arrangement would see Ali being late for school three consecutive times with at the third time, the principal nearly wanted to send him away before Ali's teacher (Dariush Mokhtari) intervened.Meanwhile once at the school's morning assembly, Zahra noticed her missing pair of pink shoes were on another student Roya's (Nafise Jafar-Mohammadi) feet. She would secretly follow Roya home and later brought her brother Ali along to try getting her shoes back, before both learned that Roya's father, who is actually the garbage man, is blind. Zahra would come to be very dismayed when her new friend Roya tell her that her father had threw away the pink shoes after Zahra noticed the new pair of purple shoes Roya was wearing as a result of doing well in her studies.Ali and Zahra's father was anxious to earn extra money and decides to head for the rich suburbs of North Tehran to try his luck at being a gardener, with Ali accompanying his father. Not only that, Ali had learned in school of a long-distance footrace involving schools in the area and he noticed that the third prize is a one-week vacation camp and a pair of sneakers.The beauty of this film is how the child actors played their parts, with their innocence shining through at various moments. The fear of simply not having a pair of shoe to wear, of Ali temporarily making up to his sister Zahra with the gold pen which he got after being in the top three in a class test, and especially personally for me, of where the siblings were blowing bubbles. Even despite the agony of losing a pair of shoes, such scenes still appear.It may be something we take for granted in our daily lives, but Ali's determination of getting a pair of shoes for his sister after losing hers very early on is something to be admired, despite his age. It does remind us of what do we really treasure in our lives, and how despite the world we are living in, there are not many things in life which is as pure as childhood innocence as shown by the siblings in the film.
Ali and Zahra are two inspiring young actors in an Iranian film called Children of Heaven. Ali and Zahra are the two main characters in the movie. Furthermore, their father has a decent role and their mother is only seen in the house. The film takes place in an urban suburb of the city in Iran and is surrounded around the school and where they reside. Other scenes include a trip to the lavish and beautiful city to the rich neighborhoods. The pace of the movie is relatively slow, especially in the opening scene, but progresses at a decent and almost unnoticeable pace. The framework of the movie is taken straight from the streets of Iran, in an actual schoolyard, house, and city in Iran. In addition, there are no props used in the movie.The movie is surrounded by his sister's shoe that is lost. It doesn't seem like a great plot, but the true meaning of the shoe makes the movie relatively good. To Americans, it doesn't seem like a big deal about losing a shoe, but Ali's father cannot afford another shoe for his sister. The movies main conflict is Ali's struggle to make it to school because he cannot wear his slippers. In Iranian culture, the girls wear clothes that cover their bodies, or a hijab, and the only thing that differs between them is their shoes'. Ali's goal is to find his sisters shoes, but he must overcome obstacles to get them back. Much of the social commentary is between Ali and Zahra, with a short scene between Ali and his father. This movie can be heard in French or Persian, and can be read in subtitles.This movie has a hidden image, and if you can determine it, it is a very good meaning. The water being the will of God is a theme in this movie that is shown quite nicely. The movie also displays themes of modernity versus tradition. As in most cases, the youth having the modernity and the elder's keeping their traditions. The movie does not display any religion or any views on government due to it being outlawed by the government. The scenery in the movie is excellent due to the fact it is taken straight from the streets of Iran and the plot, although different from a western film, is good and will keep the audience interested. Once you can get over the subtitles, unless you speak Persian or French, the movie is entertaining and fascinating.


                
The story is of a boy and girl, maybe 10 and 8, who cooperate not to disclose to their parents the loss of a pair of shoes. Supposedly this is to protect the ego of their father who will not have enough money to replace them until the end of the month -- rather than to avoid the beating they can BOTH expect if he finds out. Well, I guess my feelings about children being beaten, and about film-makers who present that atrocity without even a shred of condemnation, very much colored my response to this movie. I notice that IMDb has this listed as "Comedy/Drama," but frankly I didn't find anything funny about it . The protagonists' family is poor in an affluent city, the father works constantly in a futile effort to make ends meet, and the mother shows no discontent at her utter subservience. These lovely bright children attend schools where conformity and obedience are the only traits rewarded, and have only each other to turn to for support and comfort. During the course of the film, every time an opportunity for progress arises, it is soon dashed, and even the State religion is not shown as offering any consolation. Look, I've probably known more than my share of good-hearted children, optimistic in the face of adversity, but even I found this pair hard to believe. Sorry.


                
Examining the main theme of this film through the window of another culture showed me that the Iranian ideology is not fundamentally different from our own. In fact, the theme I extracted demonstrated that we share more in common with each other (in terms of the goals we are attempting to achieve as human participants of life) then not: Although adversity and other desperate circumstances seek to thwart man's journey to succeed, man is not only endowed with specific problem-solving capabilities but also the potential to triumph over any obstacle thrown his way.Using the contextual tools in connection with this theme, I seek to examine the following question: How does the hero act in this story? The main character, Ali, is faced with many difficult situations which strongly motivate him to act and provide solutions for. After accidentally losing the shoes of his sister Zahra and realizing the poverty conditions of his family, Ali is challenged with solving how he and his sister are going to get to school with only one pair of shoes. His solution: They can both share a pair of sneakers. Once her day is done, she can rush home and give the sneakers to him. Unfortunately, she arrives too late and causes Ali to be late for his school<U+0097>thus creating another problem. Ali develops another solution: His love and care for his sister's welfare causes him to enter a foot race where the runner in third place receives a new pair of sneakers. Although both second and first place prizes are more lucrative, Ali only cares about the happiness of his sister. This was an interesting characteristic of the hero of this culture as contrasted to the hero of an American culture. American heroes are usually determined by how prestigious/strong their image is<U+0097>even if it be at the expense of another. This particular culture depicted its hero as a weak (small and simple) boy whose primary concern was family. Traditionally speaking from an American perspective, the main character of this film, Ali, would not be considered necessarily a hero. Why? Because he doesn't win what he intended to win in the race. This led me to ask the next question: How is success or failure defined in the story? Success, as defined in the eyes of this culture's hero, is not success unless it benefits the whole rather than the individual. In other words, success is not something to be hoarded to oneself but rather shared equally with others. Ali wants to share his success with his sister by finishing in third place, thereby winning his sister's joy, but instead wins first place. The result of him not enjoying his ranking is terribly ironic when compared to how success is defined in an American culture<U+0097>if you're not first you're nothing. Rather than benefiting the whole (Ali, his sister and family), Ali reluctantly benefits only himself. As stated in my theme, Ali had the potential to triumph over this particular obstacle but instead received an outcome that ran contrary to what he had desired/intended.Overall, Ali is a unique and culturally diverse hero that demonstrates the tool of activism to help support the lives of his family members. Although he is young and helpless, this does not thwart him from helping and providing solutions to those around him who are also helpless. This idea is demonstrated in two specific scenes: when he helps his helpless father in promoting gardening services in the city, and, when he retrieves the sneakers from a rainstorm outside for his helpless sister who is frightened to retrieve them herself.
I'm not a huge fan of foreign films with subtitles. And I'm not a huge fan of this movie, but I didn't hate it either. The director had a commending approach while the story and setting was enchanting.Children of Heaven follows Ali and Zahra, brother and sister in a poor Iranian family. When Ali loses his sisters only pair of shoes they must share his while keeping it a secret from their parents. This movie follows their adventurous dilemma and amazing relationship.I don't believe that this is a movie for everybody. Personally, I didn't hate it, although I wouldn't put it in my top ten either. But it is a movie worth checking out. What I found most fascinating was the imagery. Since this movie was actually filmed in "everyday" Iran I was intrigued to see how the city actually looked and how people lived. There was such a contrast between the way poor families, such as Ali's lived, and the better off families near the city. And even though this isn't really my type of movie it was interesting and kept my attention, most of the time. The lack of music was well done, but something I'm not very use to and I caught myself dazing off a couple of times. When Ali joins the race the movie really picks up. The scene when Ali is running the race is my favorite, hands down. It didn't only have me on the edge of my seat but the way it was filmed was exceptionally done also. I really liked the way that the director chose to not put any music along with it but instead all that was heard was the boys gasping for air and the sound of their shoes pounding the pavement. I couldn't wait to see the result.Overall, I would tell people to check it out. It's not a film that I would ever sit down and watch again or try to buy but it would definitely be worth someone's time to watch. It is interesting to see how people live and how films are told half-way around the world. Until watching this movie the only things I saw of Iran on TV was the cultures reactions to war and America. This will definitely broaden your view on the people and the country.


                
Children of Heaven (1997) is a great movie with an overarching theme about the will of God. The main character, Ali, attempts to challenge the will of God throughout the movie, and the will of God continues to prevail. The will of god dictates many of the events in the movie; the most important events being when Zahra's (Ali's sister) shoes are lost and the climatic race that Ali participates in. The general message in the movie, as depicted by these scenes, is that everyone is subject to god's will, and that if one has faith in God, he or she will have all their needs met.The first example of God's will in the movie is when Ali loses Zahra's shoes. The shoes were accidentally taken by a trash collector, and this event is the launching point the movie's plot line. Ali blames himself for the loss of the shoes, and he spends the entire movie challenging God's will in an attempt to get the shoes back, or get new shoes. However, from the Muslim perspective, the loss of the shoes is God's will, and if Ali would just accept this and submit to God's will, his life would be better.Water represents God's will, and the movie makes good use of this representation. Everyone should submit to God's will, and when Ali and Zahra do not by sharing shoes and not accepting that Zahra's shoes are gone forever, God's will interferes with the plan. Zahra drops a shoe in the water drain on the way home one day. Since the water is God's will, it could be assumed that God is making their lives difficult, so that they will give up and submit to the will of God like they should. However, Ali refuses to give up, and he decides to enter a race in order to win a new pair of shoes for Zahra.The new pair of sneakers is the third place prize for the race that Ali enters. Ali promises Zahra that he will come in third in order to win the sneakers, and then he would trade them in for girl's shoes. The problem is that by doing this, Ali is continuing to challenge God's will. Nevertheless, Ali participates in the race and he wins first place, but in his mind, he did not win because he wanted third place for the shoes. When he goes home he does not even have to tell Zahra the he failed for her to know. The last scene is Ali soaking his feet in water, which is the will of God, and having his feet cleaned by goldfish. The goldfish could be seen as manifestation of God's will because they are part of the water. With this assumption, Ali's feet being cleaned by the goldfish could represent how God's will is going to take care of Ali now that he has submitted to it. It is also interesting how the scene prior to the last shows Ali's father buying new shoes for Ali and Zahra, but the last scene does not show Ali and Zahra getting the shoes. This shows that the most important part of life is trying ones hardest. It does not matter Ali failed in the quest to get his sister new shoes. What matters is that Ali tried his hardest, and that he finally accepts the fact that he cannot get Zahra some shoes. This unfulfilling final scene also shows that if one submits to will of god, his or her life will be better. This is scene by how everyone knows that Ali and Zahra will get those shoes their father bought now that they have submitted to the will of God. Overall, one message in this movie is that to have a good life, one must submit to the will of God.
Children of Heaven (or Bacheha-ye Aseman) is a poignant human drama by the acclaimed Iranian director Majid Majidi. Majid Majidi's films are defined by their quiet flow, in the course of which tender human feelings, emotions and relationships are explored in an equally tender manner which rarely fail to touch the heart in a calm and soothing fashion. Children of Heaven is no exception to that.The primary characters of this story are two young children – a young boy and his younger sister. The story is told mostly from their perspective – and those of who are past our childhoods are allowed a trip back into the world of children. A world in which a tiny problem can cast a much larger shadow and another bigger issue is unable to cast any shadow at all. Children live in their own world, with their own hopes and fears and Majidi lets us peek into the world of these two children for some time and perhaps, through them, into a world that was once our own as well. The protagonists are disarmingly innocent and captivate the viewer who watch their life unfold while in their shoes. Shoes, of course, are an integral part of the plot. To elaborate more would be meaningless, as, in the end, Children of Heaven is as much about shoes as Through the Looking Glass is about mirrors.Majidi is dexterous at weaving stories around the small matters and joys in life. Children of Heaven is a classic example of how soft-spoken movies can move the heart, how a tiny drama can be more expressive than the grandest of magnum opuses and how simple joys are enough to fill a life and render it the deepest meaning and the most beautiful colors.
Anyone who was touched by O. Henry's short story "The Gift of the Magi" will like this wonderful film. An accidental loss of his sister's shoes causes this little boy to go through enormous lengths to make things right again. The stern father's transformation into a gentle, loving provider is also endearing, and provides some refreshing hilarious scenes. This is a film is a universal tale about families, especially poor families, and how the sacrifice of self for the betterment of others becomes the cement that bonds good people together. This film, and another Iranian film Baran, demonstrate the wonderful storytelling movement afoot in post-revolutionary Iran. Anyone in the family who doesn't mind subtitles should enjoy this one.
Children of Heaven is a realistic style film about young Ali (Amir Farrokh Hashemian) and his sister Zahra (Bahare Seddiqi) involved in a scheme to share a pair of sneakers to school because Ali mistakenly lost Zahra's shoes while doing errands for the family. The film follows their adventures to hide the plan from their parents and teachers, keep up with school and errands and manage a way to gain a new pair of shoes for Zahra. With the family struggling for money, the film portrays the children's relentless pride and determination, a theme continued throughout New Iranian Cinema. New Iranian Cinema, internationally appearing in 1985 with the release of The Runner, uses non-actors, child characters and real location shooting to compose a natural modern-day tempo for Iran. The films depicting life through a child's eyes bring an indisputable innocence and hope for change in the country. This change as we see in Children of Heaven depicts the poverty of modern-day Iran against the character and strength in the familial love of the brother and sister. Out of poverty we find hope in their relationship. By 1997 American audiences and the Hollywood Academy were ready to accept the "poetic realism" of Iranian films. Since the release of the Runner in 1985 and the many films that followed introduced Iran's "Cinema of Children" for western audiences. Children of Heaven's inside look into modern day Tehran gave an open and realistic point of view the Academy was ready and eager for.


                
"Children of Heaven" is a movie that communicates many different ideas. It shows that even though you are small and don't think you have much you can make a difference. Because Ali's sister had no shoes, Ali and Zahra had to come up with a plan so that they both could go to school with one pair of shoes between them. The whole movie is built around the struggle of these children and the need for Zahra to have shoes but they make it work without the help of an adult. It's also a movie of hope, no matter what your situation looks like there will still come a light at the end of the tunnel. Ali and his family are very poor and Ali's father cannot catch a break. Ali and father go to the city and are able to make a significant amount of money. If it were not for Ali, Ali's father would have turned away and given up. This goes back to the idea of young Ali making a difference when an adult could not. Because Ali and his father made that money His father was able to but food, pay the rent and buy both Ali and Zahra shoes. Ali didn't expect to get shoes he was more concerned with his sister getting shoes but he was also rewarded. I believe there were many messages in the movie and symbolism with Muslim undertones that would not be clear if you are not familiar with that religion. Think the idea of faith in Allah to help you when you need it is one of the main ideas. Also, he may not help you when you would like him to but he will not leave you hung out to dry. I think it was good that the director used a Middle Eastern setting and cast. The movie was in the native Middle-eastern language and I think the culture was portrayed accurately. This movie was not an American film in the Middle East. This movie is an authentic Middle-Eastern movie that we Americans have the privilege off viewing. I think the director's decision to use a natural setting and culture for this movie mad it more real to the viewer.There were some points in this movie I thought didn't work. There were some scenes that were too long, like the opening scene of the cobbler and the shoes or the children running back and forth to school or even Ali's race at the end. I kept expected something surprising to happen during these long scenes but it never came. It seemed like there was something the author wanted you to focus on but I never really figured out what that was. However, my views may be a product of the western cinema I am accustomed to.I would recommend this movie, I thought it was entertaining and had a simple plot. It reminded me of a children's cartoon, where one unexpected event snowballs into a series of unfortunate event and everything works out in the end. It is not an action packed movie, a thriller or a perplexing logical movie but it is insight into another culture that is commonly misunderstood by Americans.
