I suppose one has to view the reputed great classics of cinema to sort of test one's critical faculties against established standards and coming to this iconic film I was certainly aware of some of its famous imagery, in particular that of the soldier playing chess with Death, but nothing more than this. It does make for an arresting start to the film but after that I found it rather heavy going I must say.Once said soldier Max Van Sydow treks after the family of travelling performers, I struggled to make sense of the narrative as the film follows a picaresque trail of incidents such as as the backstage seduction of a fellow-performer's wife, the humiliation of the travelling husband at an inn and the death by fire of a young female witch. Where exactly are they all headed? Well, with Death silently and unobtrusively along for the ride, I think I get the inference; nobody lives forever.Mind you, I guess in all of it there's lots of stuff I'm still missing about faith, relationships, class, superstition and the human spirit, the meaning of life in short, but I'm afraid much of its symbolism passed me by. It is well shot in black and white and language-barrier notwithstanding appears to be well played with the actors certainly giving life to their individual characters, Van Sydow in particular, but I found the bitty, episodic development of the story as mystifying and unsatisfying as the higher allegorical meaning striven for.In fact the only really memorable scene for me was the chess match, which of course I knew about already, so really there was no need for me to watch the rest of it and I'm kind of sorry I did. Not my cup of tea, I'm afraid.


                
This must certainly be the most overrated movie of all time. Practically everybody I meet who is anxious about conveying an image of themselves as culturally minded, praise this movie, but gives few reasons why. The fact is, this movie is much too long, and could have been a much better product had it been condensed to around 3 minutes. It could then contain the shots the self-proclaimed "cultural elite" talk so much about: The beach in the beginning; the introduction of Mr Death; the game of chess between Block and him.One could make it even more appealing by converting it into a music video. One would have people in traditional Swedish clothes playing folk music at the summer solstice celebration(midsommar in Swedish), while Mr Death chases Block around the midsommarstång, in the end catching up with him.The great problem with this movie, is that there is hardly anything interesting in it. There's only a number of long, meaningless dialogues without any real connecting story. My version would at least not cause you to fall asleep.Even though I'm an educated person, having read among other classical works the Bible, John Milton's "Paradise lost" and "Paradise regained", I only find this movie pseudo-cultural boredom. Don't watch it.


                
Got this from my library and just watched it last night. After reading the reviews full of praises for it,I am disappointed! It is only a "so-so" movie in my opinion,certainly nothing great or even "special" in my opinion.(((( Spoiler Ahead)))) Especially a let down is the fact that the knight never does get the satisfaction of discovering the answers to his questions about God! Very disappointing ending,as well.I sure don't see what all the praise is about!I most certainly would not pay over $6 for this! It is not a movie I even have any interest in adding to my collection. If you have a good library,or can get it through an inter-library loan system,take my advice and satisfy your curiosity that way. I am so glad that I did not waste my money buying this. It did not impress me in any way. I only gave it the 3 rating,because it is "different".


                
