Its a series that connects only with a certain group of people. Poorly written scripts, really bad execution. Although it has quite good actors, and some decent episodes the overall series was average. Now as a guy sitting somewhere in the world, apart from America, I would probably keep wondering what the f*** is wrong with the stupid characters? What are these bunch of retards trying to show? And would never understand the so-called "Freaks" or "Geeks" part of it. I mean what a series needs is a good story, an ingenious concept, good research and technical aspects and frankly, it was average (if not lousy) in all these aspects. No wonder it got scrapped. 9/10? Bitch Please! Not even worth a 7!


                
No matter how much the (bribed?) critics tried to drum up ratings for this show, it didn't make up for how mediocre it actually is. When "Freaks and Geeks" was on the air it had terrible ratings and was canceled for good reason.This is just another cringe-fest teen show with boring, spoiled, whiny suburban white teenagers.For the main character, as is typical we have this brunette girl who is smart, cute, wholesome and has feathered hair, and somehow she is supposedly a "freak". Usually they give the girl glasses, in this show they stuck the beauty in a baggy army-jacket.All of the characters are 2-dimensional, unlikeable, hackneyed stereotypes. The pathetic teen girl, always trying to be cool and impress her nit-witted Jordan Catalano that she is infatuated with for some inexplicable reason. The Jewish kid who has to mention in every scene that he's Jewish. The wholesome yet moronic authoritarian parents. The only characters with potential are relegated to be shallow side characters that are hardly on screen.Then there's the bitchy "freak" girl. I don't even understand where TV's stereotype of the bitchy "freak" girl came from, (e.g. the roommate in the show Felicity). When I was in high-school the girls who were counter- cultural were super cool and friendly. Come to think of it, the show does a huge disservice to real-life female freaks and geeks. The only female geek is Millie, who plays the annoying religious-goody-two-shoes at maximum volume.And the writing is pretty bad, I couldn't even make it past the first few episodes, which were supposedly the good ones. The plot lines are the most cliché and unoriginal ideas imaginable. The testosterone-deficient geeks must face the bully! One of them works up the courage to ask "Cindy" to the prom! Second episode: The parents go out of town and so they throw a party, and surprise surprise, more kids than expected arrive and it gets out-of-hand, one of the main characters sees their crush making out in a bedroom with someone else and they are emotionally crushed! Oh noes!I was promised a show about Freaks and Geeks, instead we get just another teen show with thin, attractive, wholesome high-cheek-boned actors dwelling on trifling problems. When I was kid, many of the freaks and geeks were fascinating, interesting people who has cool hobbies and worked on interesting projects. In this show even the geeks are kind of dumb and don't seem to have much in the way of intellectual interests. It is so unrealistic. Why is it that on television the geek girls always fall for some airhead who is "cool" just because he wears a leather jacket or is in a band or something? Like the eponymous "Daria" and her crush on Trent. In real life smart girls like guys who are just as smart as them.I tried to watch the show when it first came on the air, and I was disappointed. Then now, almost 15 years later I tried again, and it just seems even worse somehow. Do not recommend!


                
