Well, not bad... But kinda, uhm... well, I mean, what's the hype? Anyway, it's a veeery casual show, nothing unexpected will pop up. The characters are archetypal and one-dimensional. The "nice girl wanting to be cool", the "bad girl with bad parents", that kind of stereotypical. The theme is, apparently, the life of 80's youth cliques, the "geeks" who are smart, nerdy and unpopular (seriously, in which world is this NOT a cliché?), and the "freaks" who are... well... stupid, irresponsible and very much not likable at all, and apparently, our "sweet girl" can't get enough of 'em, even though most of them treat her and the people around her like crap. The different motives from episode to episode can be the suches as drinking, Halloween(?), and going to parties... wooptie freakin' doo... nothing we haven't had explained a couple of times before... And most of which are portrayed through practically one angle only... And it's when the show hits me with clichés like the teacher teaching sexual matters, while the students laugh at every term he uses, which is NOT only a cliché, but also simply stupid (unless American high school students seriously are that lame? I doubt it) which annoys me. It is enjoyable, though, at times to be able to kick back with something completely casual and predictable, but in that case, i think I'd prefer an old fashioned sit-com anyway... Obviously, some people enjoy this a lot, and while i don't get it, i guess it's fine... As said, it's not bad... It's just elevator television, really...


                
I regret reading the reviews for F&Gs before watching the show for the first time because the euphoric reviews over-hyped this show for me. Yes, it's a great show deserving more than one season. But I wouldn't say it's a classic.The series didn't get interesting until the final few episodes when the show started to explore new tangents. Throughout most of the series, the storyline between Lindsey and Nick was boring, tedious and a tremendous drag on the flow of the show. It occupied valuable real estate that could have been devoted to something more interesting and humorous.By the way, even though Lindsey was the main focus of the series, she was actually the weakest character. I felt the writers were too hell-bent on converting her from being a goodie-goodie mathlete to the dark and wild side. The conversion was forced and contrived. OK, fine, people change in high school. I get the point. But the writers should have taken a course on how to be subtle.Oh, and the "freaks"? Why are they so good-looking? How many "freaks" in your high school look like James Franco and Jason Segel? Both look like they can model in fashion magazines. I wouldn't say their portrayal was particularly "realistic". And realism seem to be what many fans of the show hold up as a trophy.The show really shines with the several "geek" characters -- not just the three main "geeks", but also the overweight guy and the dungeon master. Their dialogue was often funny and endearing. Their portrayal of geeky teen angst was far superior and realistic to that of The Wonder Years. I would have preferred the show focus more on the geeks than on the soap opera of the freaks.I also enjoyed the several supporting characters such as the coach, the guidance counselor, Millie and the Weir parents. All were beautifully acted.
I like Freaks and Geeks. In particular I found the characters to have depth, be endearing, and be thoroughly realistic.In fact ~ that was my only real complaint about the show. They focused on the realism of these teenagers lives that their never seemed to be any relief. They were constantly stuck in roles they were depressed by. They did not seem to grow and transform throughout the episodes into the individuals that they wanted to be... and that made it hard to watch at times. I would have liked to see some more uplifting and empowering moments. Yet it resonates with so many people, clearly they are doing something right.But as a reflection of a snippet of life... well done.


                
Show is supposed to be set in 1980 to 81. The 1979 Firebird is very old and beat up. It would not have been. They feature a lot of 60's car. These are nonexistent in Michigan because they all rusted out years before. Michigan has a harsh winter and they use a lot of salt on the roads. Car before ecoat was invented rusted out very fast. In the 70's and 80's 5 year old cars looked bad with giant rust holes and 10 year old cars were practically never seen in reality. The 20 year old cars in the show only exist in California, where it is too obviously shot.


                
