I have just finished watching the Complete Series DVD collection of "Freaks and Geeks," one of the best high school television series on televisions that, thanks to idiotic network executives who continue to make the decisions that make network television more and more unbearable to watch, have truly missed out on a gem. And, thanks to a healthy fan network, I was able to enjoy every bit of the series (as short as it was) on DVD.Freaks and Geeks was one of the most honest portrayals of high school life, pleasantly departing from the overrated attention given to other television series and films who consistently focus on the "untouchable" classes of the dreaded high school social caste system that we are all likely too familiar with. The assorted teen dramas, and the difficulty of just subsisting in the often passively rigid classes within the high school social scene. This television series presented things from two perspectives: a group of freshman friends marked as "The Geeks" and a group of older friends, underachievers known as "The Freaks." The Geeks often provided the comical element to the show, while the Freaks often explore more dramatic story lines such as problems with parents (a constant subplot), self-esteem, drugs, and more. Although the Geeks confronted their own share of problems, their youth and easygoing attitude often made the situation more light-hearted.Other commentators have often posited the question (on the "Freaks and Geeks" board along with other short-lived television series) why shows like these never last long on television. While "Saved by the Bell" might have been the only show to be quite successful with it (though only after significant retooling of the original series, "Good Morning Mrs. Bliss would NBC even agree to pick up the show), my guess is that this show may have initially had a difficult time finding a loyal audience in the crucial early days of the show. There were issues of drug use and teenage sex which some might not have found ideal for the younger viewers of this show (people in their very early teens as this show tended to sometimes celebrate drug use...even though there was one episode that was clearly anti-drug). Five years ago was a different time, however. And shows like "The O.C." (on Fox) seems to get away with stories surrounding its "young" characters and attitudes towards casual sex. Sadly, however, the network, too, is to blame, as it shifted the show into unrecognizable time slots, airing a show that was ideal for young audiences at a time when they would least likely be watching television--Friday and Sunday evenings. I cannot say that this would be why other television series surrounding high school would also be canceled.It might also be that the show was never given a fair chance. Some might have quickly judged it as a rip-off of "The Wonder Years" (John Daly and the Geek Gang--especially Neil and Harris--did look like characters you might find on that show, not to mention the high school looking just like that in The Wonder Years).My other guess for the reason that shows like these are often short-lived is that they are too expensive to produce. "Freaks and Geeks," like "My So-Called Life" filled a lengthy time slot of fifty minutes or so. Filmed partially on location and partially on a set (like "Sqaure Pegs" and "My So-Called Life"), a show like this becomes very expensive to produce and, may unfortunately force some hasty decisions about how long a network would ride out slack ratings.I still think NBC passed up a good thing, and possibly other networks if it was pitched to them once being canceled. It was a great show that tried to produce a very dynamic set of characters and stories and did well.I would also like to say while I adored nearly every character on the show (except for Nick who's obsession with Lindsay transformed him into not only a bizarre, but a boring character), I thought Martin Starr was the best as the witty Bill Haverchuck (I love his Bionic Woman bit when he is getting his costume ready in the Halloween episode). Though I thought him to be needlessly bizarre in the beginning (particularly due to his gawky appearance), he turned out to be one of the best characters. He always tried his best to be a good friend to everyone and, he always had some of the funniest lines in th show (Joe Flaherty, as Sam's dad, also had a bunch of good one-liners). And, while he was not in the show but sporadically, I also loved 'Harris,' the Geek mentor who always seemed so confident about everything.Long live Freaks and Geeks! May the television show's creators reconsider trying this one again (even if you have to start over with a new cast, since everyone has aged six years--as of this writing).


                
I'm so glad I stumbled across this cult classic. It stars the who's who of the celebrity stoner crowd and honestly I never knew they had this in them. This is one of the best adolescent coming of age shows I have ever seen. Some may see it as hollow and moronic but that's the point. Kids are moronic and repeatedly make mistakes. I can definitely see the comparison between my high school and the characters of the show.Seems like someone else thought it was pretty great as 10 Things I Hate About You...another brilliant adolescent tale, appears to have adapted it into a film version. This point alone gives it even more credit in my eyes.It deserves some serious recognition for launching so many stars careers and I can assure you that you won't regret watching it.


                
This show is easily one of the most true to life series to ever hit the air. It has an honesty and a truthfulness about it that I haven't seen in anything else.The freaks are judged and criticized, but they are not the two-dimensional extras of other shows. The geeks are mathletes trying to fit in.. not with the cheerleaders or the jocks. Not with the so-called popular people. But with the freaks. The interesting, unpopular, strange freaks.The freaks and the geeks are the main portion of the high school population. The kids who get picked last. Who get made fun of for putting up their hand to answer a question. The kids who get made fun of for flunking every test. Kids who have too much sex, and kids who don't have sex at all.This show is timeless. Almost 10 years later I am dealing with the same things in high school and it is conveyed in the most upfront way.The fact that it was never given a real shot is a true shame.


                
I went to high school in Michigan in the 1980s and hated it. But I thought this show had so many touching and funny moments that I could relate to that it's really a shame it only lasted one season. This was the high school I remember - not populated by beautiful people with so-called problems. NBC gave shows with initially low ratings like Seinfeld and Friends a chance, why couldn't they have given Freaks and Geeks a chance before cancelling it. It's a real loss.I loved the Geeks because I identify with them the most. They - especially Sam - actually look like the kids they're supposed to be, and I thought some of the most touching moments were when they were trying to straddle that line between childhood and adulthood. Like when Sam throws away his toy trucks but still decides to go trick-or-treating on Halloween.The moment in the pilot when Sam leads Cindy on the dance floor and then the music changes from slow to fast is initially funny, but the pained look on Sam's face like he's about to cry before he awkwardly starts to dance and cheers up brought tears to my eyes. (There's a priceless deleted scene on the DVD called "our creepiest moment" where Sam and Cindy slow dance while singing the slow part of "Come Sail Away".).The episode when they watch a porn movie and are freaked out until the gym teacher sets Sam straight is priceless. I loved how when Sam finally got the pretty cheerleader he'd been chasing it turned out she was boring and they had nothing in common. Not the usual plot lines you see on shows about teenagers. And the music was always appropriate - because it was a period piece they could avoid network executives telling them to promote the latest band like most teen shows.Geeks deal with bullies, being picked last to be on school teams, and don't want to shower in public. Real high school problems. So many other touching moments: Bill coming home to an empty house and making himself a grilled cheese sandwich and having a great time watching TV, Neil realizing his father is having an affair, Bill resentful that his mother has a boyfriend.That said, everything I liked about the show mostly related to the Geeks. I didn't understand the Freaks or why Lindsay wanted to hang out with them, especially at the beginning when they just wanted her for parties or cheating on tests. The implication was that she'd decided there were no rewards for being a good person after witnessing her grandmother dying, but clearly she was not comfortable being a Freak, at least not until later episodes when the Freaks seemed to develop some genuine affection for her.The suggestion is that they were high all the time, but apart from one episode (when Lindsay smokes marijuana) they never seemed to be smoking. Lindsay's parents forbid her from hanging out with them after she crashed their car but at the end of the episode she goes back to them and nothing changes. Of the Freaks I liked Nick the best - sweet but clueless, the episode when Lindsay's father takes him under his wing is great - him singing "Lady" to Lindsay and writing "Lady L" were hilarious.I thought the last episodes were going off in some strange directions which may have made more sense had the show continued: Lindsay following the Grateful Dead instead of going to the Academic Summit, Daniel joining the audiovisual team and playing Dungeons and Dragons, Nick discovering disco, and Ken going out with a tuba player.
Show's really great with amazing script and actors. Don't know why they didn't made another season, atleast they could have made a better climax.


                
This was one of my favorite television shows to watch while I was growing up. While it didn't gain much commercial success, it certainly earned its place in the hearts of those who watched it. I really appreciated the realism that this show brought to the genre of high school television, especially at a time when many other TV shows set in high school seemed to glamorize the high school experience.The series follows two siblings, Sam and Lindsay Weir, as they venture through high school. Just as the title indicates, the show depicts two distinct social groups in high school that had received representation beforehand, but rarely at the same time. The show spans a variety of adventures with Lindsay Weir and her "freak" friends along with Sam Weir and his "geek" friends.I really enjoyed the character of Lindsay Weir, she was emotionally complex yet inspiring at the same time. Lindsay is a high school sophomore who is at conflict with her sense of identity. After witnessing the death of her grandmother, Lindsay has an existential crisis and begins to exhibit a shift in character. Other characters comment Lindsay's change, some are taken aback, like Millie and Neal, while others are skeptical, like Kim and Ken. She is accepted by Daniel and Nick and eventually the other characters begin to accept that she has changed. It's revealed that Lindsay had romantic feelings for Daniel, but Daniel is already in a relationship with Kim. Nick reveals that he has feelings for Lindsay, and at first the audience is unsure if his feelings are requited, but it becomes clear that Lindsay only considers him to be a friend when she kisses Nick to comfort him from depression. Lindsay's conflicting sense of identity is an ongoing premise throughout the series, as she is presented to be a character transitioning from a geek to a freak. Sam is another important character that I really connected with. Sam is a geek and the younger brother of Lindsay Weir. Along with his friends, Neal and Bill, Sam is mostly designated to light-hearted subplots about freshmen outcasts being exposed to the reality of high school. His story primarily revolves around his feelings for Cindy, his relationship with his sister and his friends.There is conflict between certain characters within this show, Sam has an ongoing dilemma with his bully, Alan, who torments the freshmen geeks for most of the first season. Lindsay is at odds with Kim Wexler at the beginning of the first season, however the two become closer when Lindsay sees the disparity in Kim's home life. There is also tension between Nick and Lindsay as they struggle to understand how they feel for each other.Despite the fact that this is a high school story, there is a lot of social commentary spread throughout the different episodes of the season. Ken struggles with his sexuality upon discovering that his girlfriend is intersex, Kim deals with the neglect and abuse that is associated with her impoverished upbringing and Neal deals with discovering that his father is having multiple affairs.In conclusion, this television show subverts the traditional high school narrative by showing two alternate lifestyles while also displaying the qualities that these two titular social groups share in common. Overall, this show is intended to illustrate the realities and complexities of high school life while also delivering an entertaining story.
It's so sad that this show only got one season. It was so good! Ah there's not much I can really say other than that. I recommend you watch it!


                
This series is a combination of The Wonder Years and My So-Called Life meshed together in 1980, half-way between the times these two series took place. Linsday in Angela Chase while Sam is Kevin Arnold. Taking this one step further, Sam's best friend even looks like Paul Pfeifer while Cindy is a Winnie Cooper. The brother/sister chemistry between Linsay and Sam was just started to brew and clearly need to be developed. Had the series survived, no doubt the writers would have done more between the two siblings. What is also interesting is that the episodes are not predictable (or at least not by me.) I often find myself wondering how the episodes are going to end, particularly the episode with Linsday's car crash.Like many of the great shows, Freaks and Geeks also got canceled before it had time to mature. Good, real, characters that are believable and in situations that are very realistic. Feig's use of humor that is entertaining and falls way short of slapstick. If you watch the episodes you will see writing that is thoughtful and full of emotional intelligence that is lacking in today's programming.


                
Like Arrested Development and Futurama, Freaks and Geeks is one of those shows that has more power as a martyr than it did in life. Cancelled after 12 episodes in 1999-2000, some years later James Poniewozik of Time magazine named it as one of the 100 greatest TV shows of all time.Is it as good as people say? After watching the first six episodes, I found it was pretty good, but the humour doesn't quite work for me. Despite some sharp jokes (a Jewish student notes that he was elected treasurer without even running), it just didn't click with me. Except for when one girl is instructed by her parents to compliment her brother's body, and she takes it a step too far ("I'm With the Band").But Freaks and Geeks isn't just a comedy, it's a dramedy. And as a drama, it works. That's not surprising considering the quality. The writing is smooth- indeed, this show got nominated for two Emmys for writing. The acting is competent; they manage to sound real even when the script has them freaking out, to an incredible degree ("Kim Kelly Is My Friend"). The characters and story lines are appealing. Set in 1980 in Michigan (although there's not a lot of difference between the show and the real life high school experience now), the show follows the "freaks"- ie. the slackers- and the geeks. They're relatable (personally, I was a geek) and most are sympathetic. The main character is Lindsay who transitions from geek to freak, a smart move since the makers of the show balanced the freaks and geeks by focusing on the character who was a bit of both. Linda Cardellini plays her well. It also allows for some drama as Lindsay's parents are concerned about the direction their daughter's life is taking. Other characters are incredibly cruel (including Kim Kelly and her friend who wrote on a geek's locker), but then, high school was like that. The show has impact- at a scene where a geek is paid to eat a disgusting drink concocted by his friends, I cringed, and seeing a boy having to run through the school naked was intense. When the characters were awkward, I felt their pain. The show is realistic and unique at the same time. I couldn't deny that.


                
Not structured like your normal comedy, the laughs are not the main focus for this one. Instead it's full of those awkward adolescent moments that we're all familiar with, with nostalgic humor sprinkled in.The show basically follows Sam and Lindsay Weir through their travails in high school. Lindsay (Linda Cardellini) is an upperclassman rebelling against her goody-two-shoes mathlete past. She starts hanging out with a group of burnouts and "losers" (the Freaks: James Franco, Jason Segel, Seth Rogen and Busy Philipps). Meanwhile, her brother Sam (John Daley from "Waiting...") is entering high school with his own group of social outcast friends (the Geeks: Samm Levine and Martin Starr)."Freaks and Geeks" presents a realistic view of high school life, unlike the glamorized, soap opera high schools of shows like "The OC". And this show has heart. It has all of the emotions you'd expect from a show about teenagers. There isn't always a happy ending, just like in life. But the show also manages to pack in some humor without being a laugh-track fest like "That '70s Show".And with the diverse cast of characters (from students to teachers to parents, etc.), there is bound to be at least SOMEONE who is alarmingly similar to someone from the viewer's own past.I loved the pilot episode, but didn't think too much of the next handful of episodes. The show really grew on me about halfway through, however, prompting me to bump up my rating by a couple of stars. I wasn't even born in 1980 (when the show is set), but the portrayal of the American high school experience is universal. James Franco, by the way, is really cool in this show. (I'd only known him from the Spider-Man movies.) With equal parts heart and humor, "Freaks and Geeks" truly was a wonderful (if short-lived) show.


                
