When Jeremy Brett first appeared as Sherlock Holmes in the mid 1980's he came as a breath of fresh air. Since the 1940's Basil Rathbone had been the "definitive" Holmes (even though he only appeared in two period adventures, and only one of those a Doyle original - 'The Hound of the Baskervilles'). Jeremy Brett's Holmes was a revelation: energetic, theatrical and cerebral. The screenplays were generally faithful to the source material and the production values very handsome.In this final series those virtues have been lost. What were originally two separate stories are clumsily welded together for one episode. In 'The Mazarin Stone' (which has 'The Three Garridebs' thrown in) Sherlock barely appears (was Jeremy Brett too ill to perform?) and is replaced by his brother Mycroft. Worse still, Mycroft acts completely out of character and becomes far too energetically involved in the case.The quality of the production is also down to the level of a standard period detective series. Compare 'The Cardboard Box' with earlier episodes such as 'Silver Blaze' with its glorious location work and you will see the difference. The supporting casts are equally colourless. There is no-one with the magnificent malevolence of Eric Porter's Moriarty. John Hallam in the 'The Red Circle' is a pantomime villain by comparison and totally fails to convince us he is a vicious Italian gangster.It seems almost cruel to add that Jeremy Brett was now too ill to summon up the energy and dynamism that made his first outings as Holmes so wonderful, but unfortunately it is the truth. It would have wiser, and kinder, on the part of the producers to have left us with a Holmes at the peak of his powers.
While this final Sherlock Holmes volume from Granada has its moments, it generally doesn't have much to offer and ended much too soon with Jeremy Brett's death. The glory days of Granada adaptations were over. The stories that were left to film were generally not strong and Brett's sick, ghastly appearance did not help.The episodes are very much a mixed bag. "The Golden-Pince Nez" is enjoyable even though it deviates from the original story as the role of Watson is switched with Mycroft. "The Three Gables" is overwrought melodrama despite having some good elements. "The Red Circle" is a fine and complex crime story by Doyle. "The Dying Detective" is a clever if rather thin episode. "The Mazarin Stone" is the worst as the role of Holmes is replaced by Mycroft as it tries to add " The Adventure of the Three Garriebs" to pad out its plot. However, the makers save the best for last as "The Cardboard Box" is a beautifully done adaptation and a satisfying end to the series.While Edward Hardwicke is as good as ever as Watson, Jeremy Brett is ill throughout all of this series (in fact in "The Cardboard Box" he is almost lethargic) yet he still manages to stay in character as Sherlock Holmes. His performances in this series are solid even if it is sad to see him in the condition he's in. One has to really admire Brett for playing the role as long as he did and that he was able to perform so well given his illness. Although, "The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes" is the weakest volume in the Granada series it marks the end of a great era. Jeremy Brett will be remembered as perhaps the greatest actor to ever play Sherlock Holmes with a portrayal that has yet to be surpassed. In fact the entire series by Granada in general deserves to go down as one of the best television shows ever crafted (at least in my book). It makes most of the run-of-the mill television shows we see today pale in comparison. Both Brett and this celebrated series will be missed.
