"The Green Mile" is one of my favorite Stephen King books and I have read it several times.  I was anxiously anticipating the film version, but was concerned that the emotional impact of the book could not be replicated on screen.  Fortunately this wonderful story was adapted by Frank Darabont, who did such a magnificent job bringing King's "Shawshank Redemption" to the screen.  He does the same high quality work with "The Green Mile".  The story is faithful to the book, only losing details that were not important to the story anyway.  The casting is superb - every actor is perfectly suited for his role and does an excellent job, although I would like to single out Doug Hutchison.  His portrayal of the detestable Percy is right on the mark and suggests complexities in this character I had not discovered in the book.  The length is about three hours and it seems that critics are complaining about that.  I can't understand the complaints.  The film never drags and is never dull, and it certainly didn't feel three hours long.  The length is needed to tell this story the way it should be told, and the story is so very engrossing.  Best of all, Darabont and the actors bring so much emotion ot the screen, that I cried like a baby through several scenes. "The Green Mile" will haunt you.


                
The Green Mile is a masterwork. This is film as art, at it's very best. The depth of the cast is extraordinary, with all of the players delivering excellent performances. There is a clear sense here that all involved in the production knew that this was something special, and gave it their all. See this film if you truly enjoy actors giving everything to their craft. Watch for the countless subtleties of expression, and the great power that the cast creates with silence. This is evident in the opening sequence and remains throughout. Above all, Michael Duncan as John Coffey is exceptional. He brings gripping emotion to a unique, fascinating character.The Green Mile should bring you joy, laughter, and if you are like most in the theater this night, tears.BRAVO!


                
Frank Darabont returns to the directors chair with another adaptation of Stephen Kings novel. The events take place at a death row, the guards call the green mile. The story is a layered, rather character-driven fantasy tale of the events that transpire at "the mile" after the arrival of a giant man, John Coffey (Michael Duncan), convicted of the murder of two small girls. Actually this is not one single story, but several tied together seamlessly.A character-driven movie requires a lot from the cast, and fortunately when it comes to cast, The Green Mile delivers. As the poster of the movie tells, this movie stars Tom Hanks as Paul Edgecomb, senior prison guard of the mile, and as always he performs very well indeed. Yet the cast around him is even more spectacular, perhaps partially due to them being relatively unknown. With a face you know, one inevitably remembers previous performances, and the new role is coloured by this.  Doug Hutchison as Percy Wetmore, a mean spirited prison guard was particularly impressive, yet his character could have been given more depth. The most captivating was the performance of Michael Duncan.It is hard to find a flaw in this movie. The camerawork is superb, cast wonderful and direction flawless. The movie's considerable length, a bit over three hours, is something that had me worried. Yet the marvellous cast and the peaceful yet firm pace of the movie held my attention progressively through the three hours right to the touching culmination. Many will find this movie to be too long, but I for one was delighted of the style, combination of simplicity of events and depth of characters and conversation.All in all the The Green Mile is a very touching drama, with the joys and sorrows of the life pictured with great skill, if not the best movie of the year. Five out of five.


                
THE GREEN MILE (1999) ****Starring: Tom Hanks, David Morse, Michael Clarke Duncan, Bonnie Hunt, James Cromwell, Michael Jeter, Doug Hutchison, and Gary Sinise Written and directed by Frank Darabont. Running Time: 180 minutes. Rated R (for scenes of strong disturbing violence, language, and some sexuality)
By Blake French:	It's not everyday that a movie is able to change an audiences opinion on something. "The Green Mile" is a movie that made me think long and hard about supporting the death penalty. The film, based on a novel by  Stephen King, contains such a variety of emotional events that it repels its audience away from its subject rather than glamorizing it. Only a handful of recent productions have been capable of such power. "The Green Mile" is truly one of the best films this year and is Oscar Worthy in many categories. It is a unique, three hour experience that must be seen to believe.  The story is more of a personal narrative than an actual plot. The film offers an interesting perspective of the events that take place. It is seen through the eyes of a man who is over one hundred years of age, Paul Edgecomb, who is currently living in an old folks home with his friend, Elaine. During a very emotional day for Paul, he tells Elaine of a historical year in his experiences. She listens closely to his story.He tells of a particular year in the 1930's. The setting is a beautifully crafted prison hall. Paul explains he used to be a kind prison guard on death row in charge of overseeing the executions. In this year, several significant activities occurred in his life: he had a terribly painful urinary infection, and met a prisoner named John Coffey. This man has been sentenced to the electric chair for the rape and murder of two innocent little girls. This man isn't like anyone else Paul has seen, however. Aside from being massive in size, he is humble, mild mannered, and caring. After several miraculous events take place that may point to the thought that John Coffey might have magical powers from God, Paul begins to doubt the crimes this so called criminal has been convicted of. 	Throughout the story we witness three executions that in an electric chair. These capital punishment sequences have much power and significance. The electrocutions, one in particular, contain some of the most unsettling, disturbing material in film history. The movie is anti death penalty; we see the sometimes sadistic world from the prisoner guards point of view. It will put you in their shoes--and perhaps, change your opinion on the death penalty. I certainly had to think about my stand on this issue.
I did have questions that were not really answered by the filmmakers. I wanted more on John Coffey's magical powers; the miracles aren't investigated enough to suit our pleas. I think the movie could have also stood on a firmer platform of religion. We assume that Coffey's abilities are a gift from God from the character's dialogue, but religion itself is more of a theme in the film than a message or plot point. I can perfectly see why the writers decided to leave these elements to the audiences imagination, to provoke participation. So I suppose my objections are not really flaws, just personal aspirations."The Green Mile" contains so many vivid performances, I will not be able to honor everyone who deserves credit in my review. Michael Jeter, Gary Sinise, Doug Hutchison, James Cromwell, Bonnie Hunt, and David Morse are all superior in strength of their characters. Each contributes Oscar worthy performances, and if the Academy leaves these individuals out at Award time, they need to recheck their databases. Michael Clarke Duncan recently received a Golden Globe nomination for his supporting role, and he deserves it. Tom Hanks is just unspeakably brilliant in the leading role. He is right behind Kevin Spacey from "American Beauty" in the best performance of 1999. 
The message to "The Green Mile" is clear and understandable: justice isn't always just and the miracles can happen in the most unexpected of places. This film is one of the most penetrating dramas of the past several years. It will induce your mind to think about its subjects, and gradually build on you. "The Green Mile" is a movie that will stick with you long after the ending credits role by. Brought to you by Warner Bros.


                
i expected this movie to be a normal and i just want to see it for Tom Hanks but as movie goes through i cry,i laugh and there comes a feeling which can't be described in words. i rate this movie as the best i have ever seen. some moments in the movie makes me hold my bed pillow in the tightest ever grip. i can guarantee that this movie will leave an impression in your mind for a long time. i even say that this movie is better than shawshank redemption.fantastic story, brilliant acting,mind boggling feelings and overall an unforgettable drama. if you have watched 1000 movies and not this then your movie watching journey is incomplete.i will also make sure that even my next generation should watch this one.


                
The length of the movie was perfect. It kept to the story to an amazing degree. The few changes didn't hurt the feeling nor the telling. The story itself is stirring and captivating. The casting of the parts and their portrayal were right on. This is one of the best movie versions of a Steven King novel I've ever seen, and I think I've seen them all. If you're prone to tears at a film, take extra tissues, you'll need them. The theater I was in was a mass of sniffles through the end credits. If you like fantasy/drama the film cannot be missed. There are some graphic scenes that may upset some, but this is Steven King. This is a movie I plan to add to my video collection as soon as the Letter Box version hits the shelves.


                
This movie is a real gem.  It is hard to find fault with it.  Hanks is excellent in a role that clearly calls for him to suppress his natural slant toward humor.  He is Paul Edgecomb; Tom Hanks is nowhere to be found.  Yet he gives Edgecomb just the right flavor.  One cannot find a single weak cast member!  Michael Jeter should have got an Oscar.  Michael Clark Duncan put just the right shading on his huge character to make him vulnerable and sympathetic.Flawlessly shot on perfect period sets, the whole production binds together to bring the extraordinary story into the realm of a believable and compelling study of human injustice and charity.


                
Without using all the old cliches, I would recommend this movie to anyone interested in a creative, intriguing, and life enhancing experience. Everything about this movie was delightful. I recommend seeing this movie with someone especially close to you. After the movie my Fiancée and I spent two hours talking and expanding on the films ideas and concepts. This was truly a electrifying experience. I would venture to call this movie one of the best movies of all time.  Sure, there are things that I would have liked to see done differently, but that is what makes a movie more enjoyable. The discussions following this film were wonderful.


                
I went looking for an experience. Something that would take me to the limits of my own existence and remind me that even in the darkest corner of my own life, there was hope. I was reminded, instead that along with the triumph there must also be sacrifice. A part of me died in that theater, but I walked out feeling renewed, refreshed...and a little cursed.I think Paul Edgecomb feels the same way.Tom Hanks has to be the epitome of a Hollywood living legend...and the guy's only in his 40s. He went from scraping his way through sophomoric slap like The 'Burbs, Turner & Hooch, and Bachelor Party to rise up in the 90s as our towering "everyman."  Anyone who marvels in his "simple guy in complicated circumstances" roles such as Forrest Gump and Saving Private Ryan knows that he can deliver the goods...and an Oscar nomination (or win...or two...in aROW!!!)  But Tom does something very interesting in The Green Mile.  He lays back.The breakout performance in this film goes to Michael Clark Duncan (right now tied with Sixth Sense's Haley Joel Osment for my Best Supporting Actor vote).  Crippled by his size, Mr. Duncan has a limit of the roles he can play. However, given the role of a child-like behemoth with Christ-like powers of healing, Duncan brings to the screen a performance that will transcend the Denzels and the Poitiers of the world.The Green Mile is Cell Block E in a Louisiana State Prison, death row. Paul Edgecomb run this wing with compassion, a startlingly different approach considering the legendary cruelty of southern prisons.  He is surrounded by men in him employ who all share his philosophy that these men ultimately await the most devastating punishment.  Why make their stay any more troubling.All save one: Percy Wetmore (Doug Hutchinson), relative of the Governor and always ready to remind anyone who disagrees his HIS methods just who got him his job. Percy hates everything about The Green Mile; the prisoners, other guards, even a tiny, brave mouse who befriends one of the inmates (Michael Jeter).  It isn't until another new inmate is processed, a man they call "Wild Bill", that Percy will meet his equal.So where is the common thread? What is a messianic character doing on death row? What role will Tom Hanks play in his redemption? And what's this "curse" thing I brought up in the beginning of this review?If I could tell you, you wouldn't slap the money down on the box office and find it for yourself.  Let me just tell you that the final blessings bestowed by John Coffey (Duncan) could make optimists and pessimists alike find a common ground. How you perceive the final moments will be up to how you impart on yourself...and the world.If John Coffey guilty of his crime?  Are the fates of the characters in this film deserved?  Half and half.  Evil is punished, bu t goodness must bare witness...and that has a price as well.  Will Tom Hanks win another Academy Award?  He shouldn't.  Is this a good film?  No.  It's an incredible film.I still weep for Paul Edgecomb.
There's a reason why this Oscar winning tour de force is #67 ranked of all films on IMDb, despite the fact that it's 3 hours long and has some truly grisly scenes (not for the squeamish, children, or a first date.)It's chock full of outstanding performances, not only from Hanks, but also from the many supporting characters, all who are rich and full. It will seem slow to the impatient, but will be richly rewarding for those with the stamina to make it to the end. It will certainly get you thinking about capital punishment and perhaps different shades/degrees of evil. It is either a deeply moving spiritual tale or a wonderfully creepy journey down the rabbit hole of Stephen King's mind; take your pick. Either way, I put it right up there on my desert island list with the likes of Shawshank Redemption. It is definitely required watching.


                
GREATEST FILM I HAVE EVER SEEN. i remember seeing it when it first came out when i was 12 years old. now i just finished watching it and have gone through practically a whole box of tissues...that pure, love and honesty was portrayed so exquisitely well by Michael Clarke Duncan... it made me want to tear my hair out. If there is anything in this world which reminds me of true human love and compassion, it is this film. If you ever give up hope on humanity and the destruction which our disgusting race has brought to this world, watch "The Green Mile" Hopefully it will change your outlook a little bit like it just has mine.11/10 SHOULD HAVE WON ALL THE AWARDS AVAILABLE THE YEAR OF IT'S RELEASE.


                
This movie goes beyond others into an elite group with movies like Facing The Giants, Good Will Hunting, Men Of Honor and others; in which the story is so brilliant and takes you to a climax higher than the usual, that it baffles you to think that there exist possibility in the human mind to create such a story. Kind of like songs, in which there are songs so brilliantly written that you can't imagine a human being writing it.I love drama, they're my favorites and I don't get bored with them especially when it's interesting; so the length, which is something complained about by a lot of people with this movie, doesn't bother me at all it just adds more interest.One of the best movies of all time and a must see! 10/10 without a doubt.


                
The Shawshank Redemption is possibly my favorite movie ever. I had seen many movies before it, and I've certainly seen a lot after, but not many of them made me feel what that one did. Now, I have that feeling again. And once again, it comes from watching a Frank Darabont movie. I couldn't possibly explain the overload of emotions I experienced in the 3 hours it lasts. I have laughed. I have felt the emotions of every character. And most of all, I have cried. Very few movies have touched me like this one. Is there something to say about the acting that hasn't been said before? No, it isn't. You may have heard it is flawless, incredible, whatever. You did hear right, it absolutely is. I can't think of anyone in the whole movie that wasn't convincing in the least. The script has its funny moments, but it's incredibly deep, poignant and heartfelt. The characters are so "human" and unpretentious you can't help but adore them. But, well, there will be some you'd like to strangle. There has to be a villain everywhere, right? The Green Mile is a movie I will hardly forget. You can't possibly forget such an emotive story.What, you want to watch it? Great! But don't forget to have grab some tissues first.


                
I'm glad that a number of reviewers have informed me that this highly unusual tale was a faithful adaption from the novel by Stephen King. I'm not much of a fiction reader so it is gratifying to hear that his vision got to the screen intact. I would not have guessed this film would have come from a horror story writer. No monsters from the id or any place else are present in this story set in the American South of the Thirties. But demons do exist in The Green Mile and there is a man named John Coffey who takes them unto himself.The Green Mile refers to the cell block housing the inmates scheduled for Death Row. In that cell block comes Michael Clarke Duncan who is close to seven feet tall and maybe weighing 400 pounds. He's also as docile as a baby lamb and whose only request is that they leave a night light burning because he gets a little afraid of a strange place in the dark.Of course the guards who have the typical white Alabama attitudes of the day don't quite know what to make of them, but Tom Hanks who captains the cell block and most of the rest find out just how special he is. And Hanks cannot believe that someone like Duncan could possibly be guilty of a double rape/murder of a child.This modern day parable of the Jesus story has King telling us that it is very possible that many of his kind have walked the earth with talents for healing. One of them got a religion worked around him, but they can come in all walks of life and certainly no one would expect one to come in the guise of an illiterate black Alabama sharecropper. But one of my favorite Bible verses has Jesus himself saying that what you do unto the least of my brethren you do unto me.Somebody of Michael Clarke Duncan's size and build is not going to get too many really good roles and he certainly hasn't played anything remotely like John Coffey again. Parts like that don't come along and the film seems almost to have been built around him. It's one of the most moving performance that has ever been put on film in history. And it's an incredibly difficult role, he's meek for his size and Uncle Tom like, but as we learn far from it. In fact Coffey is beyond what the ordinary human mind can comprehend. Duncan received one of four Academy Award nominations that The Green Mile got, in his case for Best Supporting Actor. Since the film is built around him, my only question is why was it the Supporting Actor category?The Green Mile was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Sound and Best Adapted Screenplay, but did not come home a winner in any of these. A pity that one of the best films of the Nineties could not get at least one Oscar.Where there's a Christ-like figure you also have some devil spawn villains and we have a pair of them in Sam Rockwell as another death row prisoner and David Hutchison as a rat of a prison guard with both connections and issues. What happens to them is both poetic and diabolical in true Stephen King tradition. Others in the cast of note are Bonnie Hunt as Mrs. Hanks, James Cromwell and Patricia Clarkson as the warden and his wife, David Morse and Barry Pepper as two other guards on the block and Michael Jeter as another prisoner with a remarkably trained 'circus' mouse.The Green Mile is a remarkable allegorical picture and might be considered for Easter time viewing if it has a season. It certainly will make folks think.
In every way, this is a wonderful film and IMO deserves a rare 10/10 because it's hard personally for me to see how it could have been made any better. Hugely touching, emotive on every human level, a brilliant storyline, by all accounts a faithful screenplay and wonderfully cast. It's long, but the time flies.Hanks is superb here as is the inspired choice of Michael Clarke Duncan and in fact all of the cast. Even the mouse was brilliant!SPOILERS:It's the story of a simple man wrongly convicted of the worst type of crime. Set in a time where there is no real recourse to justice for such men and with a subplot that becomes the main focus of the film. Is John Coffey a gift from God and if so why are we allowing him to be legally murdered? That he ultimately doesn't mind, doesn't ease Paul's pain or the viewers pain at what we are watchingBoth Bitterbuck and Delacroix will make you question the death penaltyPercy's grossly offensive behaviour will make you question your humanity Paul Edgecomb will make you realise what a fantastically emotive actor Tom Hanks is and Duncan's John Coffey will make you weepHats off to you Mr Darabont once again and thank you for a truly beautiful film.
This is easily one of my favourite movies of all time. do not be put off of watching this movie because of its run time(3 hours) because those 3 hours will just fly by as this movie is so interesting and such a huge success. tom hanks is the main character but i think that Micheal Clarke Duncan really does steal the spotlight away from him. Stephen kings novel (with the same title) is not as good as the movie but it still stands tall i would recommend viewing this little gem if you're a fan of tom hanks or Stephen king.i have never watched a movie that has made me cry but i have to say i was very close to tears after the undeniable ending.the script is just outstanding and the acting is spot on.the storyline is very original as i have never seen anything like this before and i don't think anyone will ever try to copy it.if you're thinking about viewing this title and you haven't seen it already i suggest you get the tissues ready.


                
Personaly iam that kind of guy who doesn't tear on atouching scene or anything like that,but in this movie i cryied like a baby ,it was a masterpiece,you will never see somthing like this in your life again


                
Great movie. Embodies magic , mystery, love and death in a historical Stephen king fashion. Tom Hanks is brilliant and the movie feels shorter than it is when you watch it


                
This movie was so well done, always enjoy watching it.


                
This is a must see movie for any generation..... phenomenal <U+2764>


                
I saw this movie back in high school. I saw it in present day and it remains a powerful film.


                
It's beautiful, I find it really hard to keep focus in movies but this i couldn't stop watching. I love it.


                
There have been a few times in my life when a film moved me to such a degree that I cry for hours after the end credits have rolled... last night was one of them. I avoided watching The Green Mile for years after my very first experience left me crying for a whole week and experiencing intense nightmares about it. One could say that I was probably not emotionally ready to handle a movie of this magnitude and while the emotions I experienced were very real to me, I never grasped the underlying messages and couldn't understand the symbolism.As a matured adult I experienced the film very differently. On the surface level, this film is about the brutal murder of two young girls which led a black man to be falsely accused of the crime and sentenced to death. The film delves into the relationships formed between the prisoners and the officers in charge, and the realization that he may be innocent of the crime. However, beneath the surface, the film is riddled with deep symbolism that makes it incredibly difficult to watch.The selection of cast members for this movie was expertly chosen - each one bringing a new layer of humanity to the overall story. Tom Hanks was breath-taking in his portrayal of Paul Edgecomb, the head guard on the mile who was greatly affected by the magical presence of John Coffey. Tom captured Paul's inner struggles beautifully and brought the character to life. The late Michael Clarke Duncan, who played John Coffey was mesmerising and I could not take my eyes off of him. His muscular physique and rough exterior made him perfect for the role but it was his ability to embody the mysterious and often naive nature of John Coffey's character that should have won him an Oscar. His character's growth throughout the film and his ultimate realisation that the only way to escape this unpleasant life is to go through with his execution are what made him so heart-wrenching to watch. Moreover, the underlying symbolism in this movie was expertly hidden and handled with care. Most notably was Mr Jingles, the little grey mouse who befriended inmate Edward Delacroix and offered him some relief from the pain he was facing as his impending execution was fast approaching, symbolising the child-like nature of the human spirit and our longing to cling to life. I found their interactions very heart-warming but it was his brutal execution that awoke a sense of hopelessness and sadness in me.Another example of this was evident in the scene where John Coffey is being led out of the prison to be taken to the house of the Sheriff who's wife was dying of brain cancer; he stops for a moment to look up at the stars and tries to share a story with the officers. Later, as he is being led to a wooded area outside the prison walls, he stops for a moment to smell the leaves on the floor and then offers them to the officers to smell. In both scenes, he portrays both the child-like wonder so many of us have lost and the lack of gratitude that we have for simple things like being able to smell leaves or look up at the stars. Finally, John Coffey epitomized three of the most beautiful characteristics any person could have: love, compassion and empathy. As I watched his character unfold, I felt drawn to the pain that he was experiencing. If I had to describe my own experience with this life, it would be through John Coffey's famous line: "I'm tired, boss. Tired of being on the road, lonely as a sparrow in the rain. I'm tired of never having a buddy to be with, to tell me where we's going to, coming from or why. Mostly, I'm tired of people being ugly to each other."
The Green Mile.... Yet another movie which made me cry.Outstanding work by Frank Darabont. Both his prison dramas "The Green Mile" & "The Shawshank Redemption" are real class! This film is beautifully written and perfectly cast. Michael Clarke Duncan delivers the performance of his career. There are scenes in this film that will make you quiver, and there are scenes that will keep you on the edge of your seat until you cry. Tom Hanks once again provides a strong support for a talented ensemble cast.Darabont's skills as a screenwriter that even after three hours, he can bring the film to such a good, solid conclusion.


                
MCD was an amazing actor. Seriously could not believe my eyes when I watched this film. One of my all-time favorites. It will have you in tears I'm sure! And Tom Hanks is good as always in what was a very sensitive role.


                
