OK. The movie starts all right. The acting is good. But my god, what a sentimental crap is this story! It seems to me the writers only thought of jerking as much tears as possible. By making the big feller soooooo innocent. And the bad guy soooooo bad. And they leave no stone unturned to tear your tears out, because when an audience weeps, the film must be good.Well, it isn't. YES, I wept. But it didn't feel good. Because it was SO cheap. When you hit me with a hammer on my toe, I weep as well. And this film was about as subtle as that. And so I felt emotionally raped by this movie. I actually did.PLEASE see the Shawshank redemption instead...


                
There are some times when I can say that I must have seen a truly different film than the vast majority of other people in the world. This time is one of them. For this film to be rated so highly, is completely bewildering to me. Let me just say that I am by no means some kind of American working class slob who can only sit through a 90 minute action-packed popcorn film loaded special fx and t&a. I can easily sit through films like Barry Lyndon and 2001 without even getting up for a snack. If a film is truly great, it will hold my attention. If it isn't, then I may just doze off. At least I was interested enough to rewind it when I woke up to see what I missed. It wasn't worth the effort. This film failed on almost every level to connect or convey any true emotion to me. The only character I liked was Michael Clarke Duncan as a Christ-like figure who has exceptional healing powers, but is put to death for a crime he didn't commit. The film is slow, talky, and not very well-acted. This was truly surprising since the cast members of this film are usually quite good.Tom Hanks stars as a guard in charge of the death row wing of on old southern prison. Through most of the film, we see him and the other guards interacting with the prisoners and carrying out an execution here and there. Tom Hanks gives one of the worst performances I've ever seen him give. The only emotion he shows at all is agony while trying to pass a stone through his urethra! Yes, a major plot point in this film is that Hanks is having trouble urinating! Whatever.As far as the other characters go, nobody does that well in the acting department. David Morse, Barry Pepper, and James Cromwell have boring characters. The individuals who play the bad guard and the psychotic prisoner over-act badly. Michael Jeter's character is so annoying that I couldn't wait to see him executed. His execution scene is perhaps the most memorable scene in the film. And the part with the little mouse! Way too cutesy for words. I thought I was watching Stuart Little for a moment. And not to spoil the conclusion or anything, but there is absolutely no payoff for anything we've learned throughout the film. I at least was hoping the ending would tie everything up in a thoughtful manner that would somehow make the whole experience rewarding. Nope! Overall, this film is a dud. I really can't see where all the hype came from. Do yourself a favor and stick with Shawshank instead. That's one hell of a lot better film. 4 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound.


                
I use that expression cautiously and deliberately. This film hides its massive illogic and implausibility behind emotional manipulativeness and cheap tear-jerker tricks. Fans of the film who may be reading this will naturally object as though I am invalidating their tears. But please consider that your tears were coaxed out by a crude setup. Some complaints: 1. Where on earth would one find such compassionate prison guards? To quote Mahathir Muhammad, "Either one gets callouses on one's heart or you bleed to death." 2. In the South of 1935, not even the white liberals would treat a black man with such dignity, let alone prison guards. 3. How would a patrician white woman thank an illiterate and dirty black man for saving her life? With a hug? 4. Once John Coffey sees Wild Bill, why would his only words be,"He's a bad man!"? Why did he say nothing? 5. After visiting Coffey's lawyer, why did Paul say nothing to any legal authority? 6. The execution of Delacroix was annoyingly unrealistic. A botched execution (and there have been many) would never be anywhere nearly as gruesome. 7. Finally, and this is the point at which I hated the movie, there were MANY opportunities for the guards to get Coffey's case re-opened, even if he didn't cooperate. But that would have turned it into a courtroom drama, not a religious-like story of redemption, suffering and eternal punishment.


                
This film (a numbing 3 hours and 10 minutes) has got to be one of the WORST film of 1999.  Yeah, it looks beautiful, the acting is very good, interesting special effects...BUT the movie is thuddingly obvious, subtlety goes out the window early on, and the film stretches out EVERY SINGLE SCENE for no point!  SPOILERS AHEAD!!!  WE get that the black prisoner is a savior (or something) early on--does it have to be proven FOUR times?  What's the point of Mr. Jingles being in the movie--other than being killed and brought back to life?  And really the initials of the guy (John Coffey--JC--get it?) was SO obvious it got annoying.  It's also mentioned at least 5 times. Ending was pointless and stupid and the movie was just plain DULL!!  This movie needs severe editing.  A big waste of time and talent.
I saw this film recently late one night on television. Just happened to switch it on. I knew nothing about it (I'm not a film("movie") buff), didn't who it was by, or whether it was a true story or a piece of fiction. I found it too long; turned it off after about two and a half hours (too late at night/early morning). Nicely paced, though; obviously, the story takes three hours to tell, which is fair enough. I went along with much of the early parts, the death row routines, the bad apple among the little good guys; the likable inmates - bad boys once but harmless old lags now. They bring in the black guy, he's marked down as the worst of the worst: good for dramatic contrast. I assumed he was going to be the healer. He is. Fixes up Hanks, blows - what: ash? evil? corruption? - afterwards. It's then I had my first doubts. Looked like hokey was on the way. And do we get a wagon load of it! Brings the mouse back to life - bright lights please, otherwise no one will be impressed. Then the big miracle, why even the house itself rocks: must be a big big miracle. So I had my fill of hokey: turned off the TV and went to bed. Never read Stephen King. From the comments above I gather that this is a good novel by him. So I never will readStephen King. I daresay some people need this kind of sentimental mush.My main regret (other then to lament the fact that some people are so badly caught in this life that they need this kind of escapism) is that these writers and film (movie) makers should exploit such serious issues for such pathetic ends. What's wrong with romantic comedy for the escapists?. And what's wrong with plain straight-forward religion for those who might want to find some hope in this world? Why offer them this kind of straight-faced slush?


                
THE GREEN MILE-starts out with an  older man, remembering the time he was much younger and working in 'the green mile', the prison cell block, prisoners were put in, before being electrocuted in the electric chair. The real story starts when a huge black man, John Coffey comes in, who much later in the film turns out to be able to heal people in a mysterious way. We also get acquainted with the other prisoners and wards. One of the wards is not as nice as the others, but a frustrated sadist. The story is well told with great eye for detail, also the actors, with Tom Hanks as main character are giving excellent performances. The film loses (great part) of its' credibility when John Coffey starts working his miracles. It is not very clear why we need to see not one, not two, but THREE electrocutions(of which one goes wrong and never seems to end).But what is mainly disturbing about this film is not so much its' length or the unnecessary flashback (why not start right away with the story?), but the portrayal of its charachters. The film seems to be trying to tell us, that we should be nice to all, no matter what or who, not be racist, but it does it in a very stereotypical and disturbing way, and thus sending the opposite message. As Hall already once argued, a representation of, for example violence, is not violence, but a message about violence. The huge, muscled black guy, is really a softy who is hardly able to pronounce grammarly correct sentences. It is very surprising nobody protested against this terrible stereotype, which I supposed has been overcome and  belonged to the past, where blacks were thought simple and stupid. The nice wards are all good christians (after all, we are in the south of America), and therefor it is impossible that someone who is able to perform miracles has done any harm. And indeed this 'angel' turns out to be innocent. Yep, the Good and the Bad are not to be mixed up, ignoring roughly the enormous grey area in between. Surprising  then that it is OK to treat the nasty ward, Percy, in a very cruel manner. OK, he is a very bad guy, but weren't we supposed to be nice to all? * 1/2 out of five


                
That's right, this movie is so bad that I cried.  I cried because people, sitting right there close to me bought this predictible, racist, simple, Tom Hanks disaster.  WOW, Tom Hanks can play a nice man in a long drama, we already now Tom, please, try some variety here.  The acting was marginal, the story was pointless and the moral of the story is.......?????? I have no idea......is it Life is long? life is magical if you are on death row?  Tom Hanks likes mice?  I don't now and I don't care.  Go see American Beauty again and save yourself 3 long dreadful hours!


                
WARNING: SPOILERSWhat a disappointment! The Green Mile is nothing but a predictable movie. The characters are too shallow. The four guards, John Coffey and Delacroix represent Good, Wild Bill and Percy represent Evil. The film gives us no reason why Percy acts the way he does, nor does it say why John Coffey has its power. Someone might think those powers were given to him by God, but it's nonsense. Why would God give someone the power to cure others, if he allows everyone to die? And why does he need a human to do it, when he can do it himself? And things like that. The film tries to make some critics, ("What the hell was that?" "A successful execution" "You call that successful?" "He's dead, isn't he?") but the point is lost in the melodramatic atmosphere the director (unsuccessfully) tries to create. That scene when John Coffey is executed was simply ridiculous. I almost laughed. The Green Mile is just plain stupid. And that thing at the end? "He infected us with life". What was the purpose of that? Nothing, but to add more melodrama.
I still don't know if I really liked the movie or just loved the actors and Tom Hanks surprisingly is not the strongest of these. The prisoners are such incredibly interesting people, especially the chilly "Wild Bill" and the crazy De La Croix. I didn't even recognize Patricia Clarkson who was so good as the heroin addict girl friend to Ally Sheedy's photographer in High Art, here is the sweet (too?) wife of the warden. It is a small role but she did the most with what she was given. Then there is that incredible center piece , the guy that plays John Coffey, the original gentle giant wrongly accused, incompetently represented, predictably convicted and oh so beatific.The real problem is that this movie is: A. too long. B Too predictable (Wild Bill was the real killer to me almost as soon as the warden told Hanks that they had a real hard case coming in.)
C. too hackneyed in production (The storm the night De la Croix is executed.
D. Too silly Does Hanks really have to pee that much (Maybe it is just me, but as career signatures go, I much prefer Nicholas Cage's fondness for Volvo's to Hanks peeing). and E. Too gooey sweet, Brutal may be how a real death row guard operates, but this Brutal was the sweetest guy you will ever meet as were all of his cronies except of course for Percy. Which brings us to Percy who epitomizes the movie as a whole, well acted but poorly scripted, after the botched job he did in front of witnesses even the governor is going to say to him "son you {blew it} this time and there isn't anything we are going to do about it" this if he is still there after failing to help another guard in an emergency. How can we believe this guy? As much fun as he is too watch strutting around getting us ready for his just reward (Is there ever any doubt that justice will be done?) he is like everyone else in the film written out of someone's fantasy book.


                
I don't really like the religion symbolism in this movie. I also think that it's a bit too long.  But it's a far superior work from most of the American movies of the 1990's (where there was a lot of remakes, adaptations of old TV programs, or adaptations of cartoons, very bad versions of French films and a lot of Hollywood crap, like these horribles catastrophe movies). What I really like about this film? The acting! Absolutely superb from A to Z !


                
An overproduced, overlong sentimental fairy tale about prison executions, filled with (with one exception) the cuddliest, most tender-hearted Death Row prisoners this side of Christ, and featuring a sickeningly horrific botched execution.  A pointless present-day frame story doesn't help this manipulative, heavy-handed narrative.  Move on, Mr. Darabont.


                
i did like the film, y'know, it was okay but that's about it. It's obviously aimed at the ladies and i have no problem with that, but it is (in my humble opinion) extremely overrated. Tom Hanks was probably hoping for his 3rd oscar, yet his performance is not great. I read the books and thought they were great, but this is a weak, tired effort to translate novella to the screen. Plus it's far too long, and only Michael Clarke Duncan should be pleased with this poor effort.


                
What was this film about? It was *far* too long. One and a half hours would stretch the storyline let alone 3 hours. The first hour basically did nothing. And there were some preposterous moments in it - like the whole mouse business. It felt like the movie was based on an old fable that took 5 minutes to tell - but was stretched to 3 hours in this film. American Beauty will walk away with the Oscars if this movie got a nomination for Best Film.


                
Could it be that The Green Mile is really three hours long?  It only feels like five or six.  But seriously, folks. . . I could take cheap shots all day at this film, but I won't.  There's plenty of more substantial things to dislike about it.In The Green Mile, the normal routines of a death row cell block in Depression-era Louisiana are upset when John Coffey, a gigantic, yet meek child-murder convict arrives, bringing supernatural healing and empathic abilities.  Coffey is a thinly-veiled religious figure (his initials are J.C., get it?), whose powers cause him to suffer on behalf of humanity. Paul Edgecomb, the morally-centered head guard of the block, is forced to consider issues of guilt, responsibility, and duty.When asked for a last request, Coffey expresses his desire to see a "flicker movie," something he has only heard about.  In the empty prison theater, he gets to see Fred Estaire and Ginger Rogers dance cheek-to-cheek in their 1935 film Top Hat.  (Interestingly, it was the same scenes that Mia Farrow gazed at longingly at the close of Purple Rose of Cairo to distract her from the train wreck of her life.)  To him, the dancers are "angels," and as he's strapped into the electric chair he intones, "I'm in heaven. . . ," the same line that Estaire sings.  The movies, director Frank Darabount suggests somewhat self-importantly, are a spiritual media that can transport us into an afterlife.In a film willing to shoulder the responsibility of a believable context, these ideas might bear fruit, but The Green Mile willfully avoids the complexities of its main topic, capital punishment.  Darabount, acting like the Oscar-crazed filmmaker his critics accuse him of being, uses almost every scene in a mad attempt to jerk at the audience's heartstrings.  Such a strategy leaves precious little room for the ambiguity that justifiably clings to the topic.  Darabount has no choice but to portray the convicts (and the other characters, for that matter) as either noble or evil.  With the exception of Coffey, we are not told what their crimes are; their only indication is the anonymous faces in the crowd observing the execution. These yawning gaps in context, in addition to the George Lucas morality, give the film something of the aura of a fairy tale, a distasteful precedent considering the importance of addressing the issues surrounding capital punishment with a firm grounding in reality.Did I mention that this movie is long?  Not only are we taken through every excruciating detail of each of the three executions, we also get to go through two dry runs.  In lieu of subtlety, Darabount figures the way to our hearts is redundancy.  Does anyone doubt it will work?


                
What is The Green Mile? It's an extended flashback wherein a man in a rest home relates his youth as a death row prison guard in 30s Louisiana, and in particular his experience at the hands of John Coffey. Coffey is a colossal black simpleton who's in for the rape and murder of two white girls, but this is Hollywood circa 1999 so obviously he never done it. On the other hand he has a third eye, can project third-person footage of past events directly onto your mind by grabbing your pods, and can cure anything from the clap to inoperable brain tumours to a malfunctioning moral conscience by inhaling the bad from out of your body, then expelling it as a large swarm of insects (?) He can also bring pulverised mice back from the dead. But not two murdered girls, mind you, because they had been dead for 'too long' and that would just be silly.I know Stephen King novels are notoriously hard to adapt, but...With two exceptions, all the major figures in TGM, including, for all we are shown, the condemned men, are Good. They attempt to do the right thing without fail regardless of consequences, or they are endearingly simple, or, as in Black Jesus' case, both. The two exceptions are such laughable caricatures of evil they might as well have the word of curse tattooed across their foreheads; such manichaean nonsense is not the stuff of great films. All the considerable acting talent on display in this film can't quite bring these cardboard characters to life.The good guys may be Good but they're not particularly effective. They react to the grossest provocations (such as being urinated over by a lag, which I expect would earn you a good kicking in most jurisdictions even today) with stoical good humour such that at times the film succeeds in making a Depression era execution block look like a Butlins run by the Keystone Kops.I took leave of the film at the point when Hanks' character, concerned about his boss' wife's cancer, invites his work buddies to breakfast on the lawn, where he outlines his plan to a) remove what as far as everyone in the world is concerned is a double child rapist / murderer from his cell and take him out on the road b) dope another prisoner to cover their tracks and c) lock one of their own colleagues, who is out of the loop, in solitary for the duration, there to produce realistic bangs and moans in order to lead the other prisoners to think (b) is in there instead. All on the off-chance that a man who resurrected a squashed mouse and fixed Hanks' genito-urinary system might be able to cure cancer into the bargain.Needless to say, they agree to this gargantuan lapse of professionalism and sanity almost without hesitation. The obvious question is raised and dismissed in a single sentence. Why not ask the boss to bring her into the prison instead? Because he's cautious and sceptical and therefore wouldn't go for it (who could blame him, really?) But even smashing his door in while he was out, force-feeding his wife sedatives and dragging her to the jail bound and gagged would make more practical sense.What they do instead, then, is to doorstep him, with Coffey, completely unannounced in the wee hours of the morning. Because obviously he is far more likely to react favourably to a home invasion than a polite suggestion over the water cooler. Mr Cautious emerges with a shotgun in a state of some alarm, as one would in the circumstances. But for all his front he still lets them into the house and up the stairs. Now call me wacky but if several men tipped up in uniform at stupid o'clock with a giant murderer in tow who I didn't have a prayer of stopping by physical means, hell bent on entering my terminally ill wife's bedroom with God knows what in mind, but I had a gun to hand I'd have shot every one of the bastards half a dozen times before they got within arm's length.But anyway. Incidentally, the way that Wetmore is set up as a cartoonish prick so that we are almost forced to applaud when his colleagues turn on him is more than ironic for a film that's supposed to warn us against kneejerk reactions.Watching this film, in fact, reminded me how far we have come since the late 90s. TGM with its crude mixture of political correctness and dewy- eyed sentimentality wouldn't pass muster in this age of withering cynicism. I'm not Spike Lee's biggest fan but his criticism of Coffey's character as the archetypal Magickal Negro was on point.Finally, if anyone actually changed their mind about the death penalty on the strength of a film with about as much grounding in reality as Who Framed Roger Rabbit they need to have their right to vote revoked.Two stars for some very solid performances, one more because my wife liked it, plus 'tilt' because the main man died recently and seemed like the kind of fellow you could set your watch by.
I've seen this movie several times, and while I'm a Stephen King fan, it does rely a little too heavily on the "large hulking slow-witted man as Christ" motif. I'm reminded of Richard Wright's Native Son and the Joe Christmas (John Coffey) (Jesus Christ) character, who meets a fate similar to Coffey.Once the Coffey/Christ analogy is even hinted at, the end of the movie is inevitable. Weird ending, too. Individual performances are solid if undistinguished. Brutal, played by one of my favorite actors, David Morse, has that slightly sinister vibe going on. Tom Hanks, as much as I like him, doesn't convince me as a deep-Southern prison guard.All in all, a movie to see once, maybe twice, but not worthy of a night on AMC.
This is an amazing waste of everyone's talent...you know the movie is going to be awful when it begins with an old man remembering something which changed his life, and you know it's really really awful, when the character he's remembering at says at the end of the tale, "...but there's something I don't understand..."  You know the old man is going to, with a twinkle in his eye, reveal the mystery that puts the twist on the whole story.....and it'll turn your stomach with it's preposterousness... Tom Hanks does a good job: he usually does (good ol' Tom) and the supporting cast is all equally good, but the story is so melodramatic and so emotionally contrived that the final effect is that I'm sure I won't remember a thing about this movie 5 minutes after I finish typing this...in fact I can't think of much about it now...what a blessing!!! Long story short, an innocent man is going to die and there's not enough tragedy in that; he needs to be a miracle worker, also.  But I don't care, and I'm pretty sure you won't, but it'll earn a heap of award nominations and as long as it doesn't win for writing, then I won't complain...much.


                
I've got to say that I'd hoped to like this movie.  And, to be honest, the acting and look of the film  is top-notch.  The huge weak link in the entire production is the story.  And for me that's the entire movie.After all, I bear a strong resemblance to Stephen King (Really!  Pity me). I'd like to be able to be mistakenly associated with someone I could be proud of.  Sadly, I do not admire King's character development.  I have a problem with his "good vs. evil" running commentary.  I appreciate more depth in literary figures than Stephen King is capable of delivering.I could give several examples of flaws throughout this film.  Why did no one expose Mr. Coffey's ability?  Why did the evil "Wild Bill" remain quite in key scenes like the pre-execution turned awry?  How could a prison official in the 1930's let a black convicted murderer enter his wife's room and watch as the killer placed his lips on that of the warden's ailing spouse?Too bad the project wasn't handled by Touchstone Pictures.  Maybe then we'd see more parallels being drawn between Mister Jingles and Mickey Mouse. Mouseville in Florida?  Puts me in the mind of Goofy.While having pure characters with contrasts as obvious as "black and white" (no play on words intended) make easy paint-by-numbers storytelling, it doesn't satify completely.  Hell, I thought old Del (the Cajun convict) was friggin' innocent!!!  And who except Satan-worshipping parents would name their child "Percy Wetmore"?!  Christ, did they WANT kids to constantly kick the crap out of him as he grew up?!  By the end, I couldn't believe a word of this story.Stephen King needs to learn to start mixing his paints.  His storytelling reeks of a child's ability to use crayons and a coloring book.  He always uses solid colors and stays within the lines.  Black mixed with white makes gray, Stephen!  People in the real world are gray!  There are no absolutes!!!  Start writing for a sophisticated audience and not like a two-bit hack cranking out Depression-era movie serial westerns!  The Fred Astaire movie "Top Hat" had more basis in the real world than this shell of a story.


                
Not nearly as good as its hype.  Hokey, predictable and slow. 
You really think Louisiana prison guards (on death row watch, no less) were this politically correct during the 1930s?  The best scene (and by far one of the most gruesome scenes in recent movie memory, including the opening sequence in Saving Private Ryan) was when the little nazi prison guard (yes, there was one token bad guy guard) was in `charge' of an execution.  A scene you won't soon forget.The director also tries to get you to sympathize with a French prisoner who trains a little mouse, but they left out why he was on the row.  A white guy (and this row was made up mostly of white guys.  In Louisiana.  In the 1930s.  Right!) who must have done one nasty killing to be on death row, but what?Any awards in this show go to the mouse <U+0096> and even he wore out his welcome. What a stupid ending!


                
