Having doubts about seeing this movie because of the length (3 hours can be death to a film).I was so surprised that I didn't look at my watch once throughout the whole movie. Tom Hanks, in my opinion, gave the performance of his career by bringing emotion and depth to his part. The only actor that bettered him was Michael Clarke Duncan. How he made this giant like character into a vulnerable pussycat was a marvel. On whole, the cast came together and gave the best performance I have seen in a movie for a long time. Not one of them let the side down by being weak. David Morse who is more known for his supporting roles was also excellent and hopefully not long till he's carrying his own movie. If you haven't seen this get it out now,forget about the running time and connections to 'The Shawshank Redemption' and enjoy it for what it is, a little miracle. 4 out of 5


                
Such an old iconic film - another Tom Hanks great. Michael C-D was an amazing actor who will be missed but his job in this film was nothing short of tear-jerking. Watch it!


                
The Green Mile is a masterwork. This is film as art, at it's very best. The depth of the cast is extraordinary, with all of the players delivering excellent performances. There is a clear sense here that all involved in the production knew that this was something special, and gave it their all. See this film if you truly enjoy actors giving everything to their craft. Watch for the countless subtleties of expression, and the great power that the cast creates with silence. This is evident in the opening sequence and remains throughout. Above all, Michael Duncan as John Coffey is exceptional. He brings gripping emotion to a unique, fascinating character.The Green Mile should bring you joy, laughter, and if you are like most in the theater this night, tears.


                
I believe I'm one of the few human beings that had no idea of what is movie was about. I heard a lot about this picture, of course, but I didn't even know what the main story was. Maybe it's a plus, since it allowed me to see the entire thing without knowing what was gonna happen next. Well, like other death row movies, this one really touched me; ending with people lives, despite what they've done, is a sad subject for me. It must be the most terrifying feeling to know you're going to be killed in a matter of minutes. Preparing yourself for the electric chair might be even worse. As a thrilling Stephen King's story, "The Green Mile" brings an innovation-- this time, a character has a special gift of healing people, like a saint. It is indeed beautiful to see that big and apparently bad guy helping people as he can. Filmmakers are mean in this case-- they make you adore the character, just to kill him in the end and let you down. It happened to me as well, I cried in the end and it is not a common thing for me-- so by that you can imagine how strong this movie is. A masterpiece in matter of acting, story and life.
I must say, this is one of the best movies in the world. But why? I am gonna tell you why, it is one of the greatest movies of all time because: *Good and well written story. An interesting storyline that is entertaining all the way to the end.*From book to movie with a great result. The novel is written by Stephen King and the movie was created in almost the same, good result. But I recommend you too read the book.*Good acting and well played roles by the characters. Tom Hanks does a great job in the movie.*Sadness and Goodness that touches your soul.*Almost all kinds of movie lovers will like the movie. It doesn't matter what kind of movies your most into, this movie will entertain you.


                
Had been long waiting to see this movie. At last when it happened, it was really worth the wait. One of the few beautiful movies i have seen. Hanks comes up with yet again splendid performance and adds crisp to the good cast. Particularly Michael Clarke Duncan as John Coffey, WOW what to say!! He, his size, his innocence surely cant go unnoticed.Every scene creates a sort of expectation on whats going to happen next. n satisfies them pretty nicely too. It makes a good watch. It may not b a feel good movie.. but definitely makes u think a lot about humanity and human values. I am waiting to read the book from which it has been adapted


                
I can feel the characters as if I was them, every of them. Paul Edgecomb was not very wise because he let Coffey got killed even if he knew that Coffey was innocent, but he got what he deserved by living forever and felt the pain after the death of his loved ones. But what the movie really showed was that pain can change people in so many ways. Either you became John Coffey (which we all know he stayed being a kid by heart forever) or a total prick like Percy. And also the movie told us that no matter how powerful Percy Wetmore was or strong Wild Bill was, bad people will always get what they deserve.
The Green Mile wasn't as good as the shawshank redemption but it was still worth the watch. It was good because it began as your average prison start that didn't exactly blow me off my seat but it the gradually became more and more interesting until it eventually began to become a bit stupid when the guards discovered that the man on death row had some powers. The story is about an execution place where everything is normal until tall, mean looking, colored man enters and the saying don't judge a book by it's cover definitely occurs with this film when he touches everyone's heart and the workers there start to query the execution of the tall colored man.I'll admit that when the guards call out "Dead man walking down the green mile" it does become quite upsetting for the characters that you have just gotten used to are becoming executed. The acting is very, very good which should have won some awards.I'm not overly keen on the fact of the powers that the colored man gains powers, I found that that turned a normal movie in to a weird movie and those two certainly do not go well together. The directing was fantastic because the picture looked brilliant and the it also gave the depressing mood that it aimed to give.The Green Mile is certainly as I have already explained very different to your average film but still give's that upsetting atmosphere that it was aiming to give. The acting was very good that almost brought tear to my eye especially from Tom Hanks. The Director gave a brilliant atmosphere and the writer did very well until the disappointing end.


                
Well I must say that I was very disappointed with this one. It´s one of the worst "Stephen King" movies. The questions I asked myself that you never got an answer to was -Who is the black man, is he god or something else? Why did he sit there with the two little sisters? where did he come from, and that kind of stuff. But you never got the answer, and that is strange cause you usually get answers in "stephen king" movies. So that was a big disappointment. Otherwise it was kinda boring nothing really funny never happened. Just like the same thing over and over...but the ending made it a bit better though...give it like a 6.5/10


                
I'll keep it short with no spoilers:Nice drama movie.
Good story and acting. Good atmosphere and shots.The whole movie feels a bit like The Shawshank Redemption. Same kind of shots, colour and atmosphere. Off course that can happen when the director and writer are the same, as is the case with The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.
If The Shawshank Redemption is a 10/10(my opinion), I find this movie a 8/10.
I do fancy the story, but I do not like it as much as The Shawshank Redemption.
The score is good, but also not as good as with The Shawshank Redemption.Recommended: Yes.
However, brace yourself, it is a long movie and you need to follow the story. No problem, because it is a good movie, but something to keep in mind.Tip: First watch The Green Mile and after that watch The Shawshank Redemption, if you at this point did not already watch The Shawshank Redemption.


                
Frank Darabont and Stephen King hit that again. I watched Shawshank Redemption and I was really blown out by that movie. One of my favorite movies ever. Knowing that The Green Mile is also a work of Stephen King and Frank Darabont, I expected a lot and I wasn't wrong. The Green Mile is another masterpiece.At first I had doubt watching this movie because it has 3 hours running time. But NOW, i didn't regret every second in my life watching this movie and finishing it. It was really worth it. It is a sad movie but very inspirational. I cried a river while watching this.THIS MOVIE IS AMAZING. 100 PERCENT.


                
A film that will anger and make ill those who watch it. The acting is spot on and the supernatural effects pop out of nowhere. Another very good film


                
Going into this movie, I knew it was goinf ro be very long, as ot's over 3 hours long and I knew it was going to be a dramatic film. But I disn't know what the film was about. This film was dramatic, but the plot was compmetelty different to what I expected. The first 30 mins of the film, it goes on how I expexted ir ro go for, but then, somewhere halfway, the film into a strangely unexpected direction. I sat there thinking, 'what the heck is going on'. Frank Darabont ' Green Mile follows a prision guard who meets a very interesting prisoner. That's all I'm going to say. The film that follows is a really bizzare, trippy, yet heart-warming tale. The pacing at times does help the film to feel faster and move on, so it wouldn't feel too long. Tom Hanks and Micheal Clarke Duncan's performances steal the film and I 100% recommned it.


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
The Green Mile is a tearjerker and although Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings; one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
Frank darabont makes an incredible job with this one having great actors like Tom Hanks or Jeffrey Dmunn. An intense film in which you can find feelings as sadness and fun at the same time. Nice work


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
Simply brilliant! A very different Stephen King film, and very special indeed! The film touches you on so many levels. It is both funny and dramatic, and simply spellbinding. Although it has a long running time, the film is never boring. With an exceptional cast, special mention must go to Doug Hutchison. He is fantastic! You can't help hating him with a passion, and then rejoices when the dog gets his day! Michael Clarke Duncan is also an absolute delight!


                
Frank Darabond is one of those filmmaker's who isn't exactly known all that much, even by people who tend to notice the behind the camera happenings but one look at his filmography and you see that he is special: Shawshank Redemption, The Mist and of course The Green Mile are all not just great but genre defining movies. Green Mile is helped immensely by a great performance by Michael Clarke Duncan and ably supported by Tom Hanks and Sam Rockwell in one of his earliest roles. This crime drama is more heart than suspense or thrills but it is a great, unmissable film nonetheless.


                
All of the performances and technical aspects on display here are excellent. The only major problem with this film is the pacing, especially in the beginning. This movie has many amazing scenes, but it also has scenes that go all kinds of nowhere. The scenes with Paul in the nursing home feel so out of place. The only purpose to them is to reincorporate the film being shown later on. There are a number other scenes like that, where nothing of much substance takes place. The only reason I can think of to justify is this: All of the great scenes were shot, but someone down the line thought the film needed more to stretch it out to three hours for god knows what reason, and they just thought of the most generic and unimportant things to address in this emotionally moving story. In conclusion, it's a really good three hour movie that could've been a great 2 or 2.5 hour movie.
The Green Mile (1999) This is a fine adaptation of a Stephen King serial novel. It's the chronicle of a death row supervisors' encounter with an unusual inmate who displays inexplicable healing and empathetic abilities. It was nominated for multiple Oscars. The film includes Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan and David Morse. Despite its length it was critically acclaimed and we'll received by the public. This is a heartwarming film that pulls you inward and makes you truly feel for its characters. It's one of the better adaptations of a King novel.


                
'The Green Mile' is considered by many to be one of the best films of all time and it's easy to see why it's held in such high regard. It's a brilliant film with a story that has it all - there aren't many films that will make you laugh and cry like this one will, and that's what makes it special.Aside from the story, this film benefits from some excellent acting performances. Tom Hanks is one of my favourite actors and he is simply outstanding as the guard, likewise the rest of the cast all contribute to an all round excellent film. My one gripe, however, is the overly long running length. As a general rule I don't like long films, and while 'The Green Mile' certainly didn't feel like it had been padded out, I do feel it could have been trimmed by half-an-hour or so.


                
Frank Darabont and Stephen King. They have to be one of Hollywood's greatest combinations. They are just, magic.The Green Mile is a film I've been delaying to watch based on the feeling of knowing how amazing it must be, so looking forward to it was pleasure enough. Sadly, I knew sooner or later I'd have to watch it. Now that I have, I both regret and appreciate having watched it. Regret because, it was in fact, as amazing as I thought it would be, and now I've watched it, thus I can't ever unwatch it, just to relive watching it again.This film is over 180 minutes long, and 90 minutes in, I checked how much more of the movie was left; seeing that there was another 90 minutes to go felt like nothing but, joy. At no point did I want this film to end.Every cast member, including Mr. Jingles, applause. Frank Darabont on the directors chair, excellent. Thomas Newman, could've been a little bit more emotive, because this film is at that level, but, he was wonderful nonetheless.And then the story. What I kept asking, and knew of course would have to be addressed is; How are they going to let John die? How, and why? The fact that the initial answer to that question wasn't the only answer/conclusion, just made me appreciate King and/or Darabont's expertise, methodology, precision and sheer intellect even more.For many I feel that, John's explanation to Paul for why he is ready to die was enough, when it actually wasn't. I could sense strongly that it wasn't, but I was willing to let it go because I felt no further consequence, would arise, but clearly, Stephen/Darabont weren't done just yet... They infected the story, with that extra bit of life.The Green Mile is classic material, a must watch and didn't run a minute too long. 8.4/10.
Wonderfully acted and directed.  I didn't realize it was 3 hours long until it was over..... I was so engrossed.  If I had realized how gruesome some of the scenes would be I probably wouldn't have gone to see it, but it was one of the best dramas I've seen in a while.  Take a hanky and be prepared to cover your eyes at the sickening electrocution scenes (of which there are many).


                
The Green Mile (1999) offers a strong story line backed with an exceptional cast and crew.  The cinematography is clean and effective without being overindulgent.  I barely noticed the time pass and was amazed to discover the run time when it was over -- the mark of an excellent story, well told. Much like "LA Confidential," the actors are larger than life characterizations that draw us in and allow us to understand the more basic motivations of human nature.  Not quite as satisfying as "The Shawshank Redemption," I still found myself challenged by the deeper message of the film; i.e., that we must all walk our own green mile in life.


                
