Aamir Khan's debut directorial performance is an astounding feat. Its product is one of the best films of 2007. And I'm not just talking about Bollywood. Taare Zameen Par is a different type of film that does not conform to the typical norms of the masala industry. It is a breath of fresh air that does just enough on the predictable side to reel in typical Hindi film audiences. However, at no point does Taare Zameen Par conform to the standards of melodrama or impossibility and fantasy. The characters are of a different mold. The actors and actresses that portray the roles are even more different. There are no big-budget stars in this movie besides Aamir himself. The main character, Ishaan Awasthi, portrayed by Darsheel Safary is a young dyslexic boy who struggles to read and write. Hidden underneath his math and reading difficulties, lies a talent unnoticed by the "Jame Raho" lifestyle. Darsheel does a fantastic job as Ishaan who reminds us of our old childhood days and evokes tons of emotion from the audience. He is in fact the main character of the film with Aamir Khan appearing only after the intermission. The scenes and settings are colorful and vibrant. The crowded streets of Mumbai are beautifully shot while the New Era boarding school also possesses its own sense of foreboding upon Ishaan's entrance. The songs are also quite a treat. I can't say that I really minded any of the songs of the movie although a few seemed unnecessary. The lyrics in some of the songs are fantastic and the music throughout the film is coherent of the theme: light and simple yet bewilderingly and colorfully complex. The story itself is a great one. Aamir plays the unorthodox temporary art teacher who changes the life of Ishaan through his unconventional practices. We are reminded to appreciate our childhood and remember that every child is special. The film does at some points tend to get a little melodramatic and slightly predictable; however, these are the elements that adhere to the standards of the majority of Hindi films. Therefore, it isn't necessarily a bad thing but it isn't a good thing either. Moreover, Ishaan's volte-face from a confused, misunderstood child to an overachieving and talented painter is brushed over a little too quickly. In my opinion, the scenes when Ram Shankar Nikumbh (Aamir Khan) works with Ishaan are some of the best of the film and I would have appreciated it if they would have made his learning experience even more believable. Nonetheless, those scenes still carry a powerful resonance like most of the film. Overall, the film is a delight. It isn't the conventional Hindi film nor does it stray too far from accepted norms. It's always good to see a different type of film especially one that is so emotionally resounding. It reminds us that we all have purpose and most importantly, that children are the most precious thing we can lose and our only measure of wealth. The film has certainly given me a new outlook on life as well as entertained me. What more could I ask for?


                
This directorial debut by the "perfectionist" Aamir Khan carries the tag-line "Every Child is Special". Ishaan Avasthi, an 8 year-old, is a dreamer and dreams best in class. He is repeating 3rd grade and under-performing by a lot. He has a superstar sibling who aces all his tests and badminton. Ishaan is ridiculed by his teachers and classmates, berated by his ambitious father and pushed along by his harried mother. One day he bunks school and is packed off to an expensive boarding school, but things are no better for him there. He has but one friend, and the teachers continue to be tartars and caricatures - until a colorful sensitive substitute art teacher, Mr. Nikumbh, arrives and sees that Ishaan is locked up in his inward looking universe. Nikumbh is dyslexic and immediately knows that Ishaan too is suffering from dyslexia. He champions Ishaan's cause most vociferously <U+0096> this includes telling the class that dyslexics can be geniuses <U+0096> like Einstein, DaVinci, Abhishek Bachchan (???). Ishaan builds a most DaVinci like transport vehicle model out of twigs and knick-knacks he collects, begins to learn letters from Mr. Nikumbh, and eventually to READ. Then there is an art competition in which we see how fun filled and normal the teachers and kids really are, we see Ishaan winning and becoming the hero of the school and his parents. The movie ends with Ishaan running back in slow motion towards Nikumbh!! To call this well-intentioned fare bland would be unkind, after all it deals with learning disabilities and the message that parents need to love their kids no matter what, and kids need love to develop a sense of self worth. The film delivers the message in a fairly decent way that is several notches above public service messages. What is most likable is the protagonist Ishaan, played very well by Darsheel Safary. His buck toothed smile is used most effectively (not unlike the use of Michelle's wide eyes and duck walk in Black). Aamir plays Nikumbh in a preachy way that ranges from weeping at the drop of a hat to thunderous speeches delivered to the parents. Tisca Chopra is good as the harried and browbeaten mother. The father and all the other people associated with the educational system are caricatured to the maximum - they do help generate a lot of sympathy for Ishaan, but also some for the teaching profession that has been uniformly vilified here. The message gets muddled by Ishaan's winning the art competition <U+0096> was it not that every child is special whether he has something special in him or not? Special schools are not spared either and branded as schools for retarded children. Again this is a less than desirable message about such schools that can focus expert teachers around kids that need them.The film does touch the child within all of us <U+0096> that same child who did most of his thinking while sitting on the potty, spent time day dreaming about being Spaceman Spiff, did not care much about studies, and was sometimes sent out of class <U+0096> for me it was with my desk and chair, for an entire day!! The music is excellent, and 'Maa' is heartrending. The art competition sequence is very well staged. But in the end one is less than satisfied with this story that has lots of black and white, but no shadows or nuances to many of the characters. We are not told much about Nikumbh (or any other character except the protagonist) and there is no enigma to him to make us care to know more. Overall this movie is a decent effort, well intentioned and exceptionally well shot in parts.


                
Like Stars on Earth gives us several strong life lessons for the often disrespected job of a teacher through different aspects, such as: the importance of the teacher and student relationship, the teacher applying different styles in his class, the teacher who approaches all of his students individually, forming bonds with them, about the teacher who lives for his job, and not for the benefit of earning a salary.
On the other hand, the whole plot seems not so convicing: although musical parts were incorporated in a way that they are not at the expense of the plot, but mostly unconvincing performances (it is as if they are all gonna laugh in a sec)...


                
Taare Zameen Par is the story of little Ishaan Awasthi (Darsheel Safary) who is suffering from Dyslexia. He is a bottom ranker in his class and his parents are clueless about his problem and how to deal with him. He is deported to a boarding school. Ishan is shattered. But then arrives a temporary drawing teacher, Ram Shankar Nikumbh (Aamir Khan). He spots Ishaan's problem and his hidden talent. How does the teacher turn the kid around is the rest of the story.It takes courage to make a film like Taare Zameen Par. History has it that the chances of such a film failing at box-office are very high. It is no less than putting his reputation at stake for Aamir Khan to choose such a subject to make his directorial debut. All this only adds to the sheen of the film.Most parents in India are not informed on problems like dyslexia. In a country that is still fighting child malnutrition and where primary education for every child is still a distant dream, that is not a surprise. This film, however, should especially shake the educated upper and middle class of India awake. Malnutrition and primary education is of course not a problem for them - they are only coffee table discussion topics. But are they really equipped on child psychology? What are we, as a society doing, to control the pressure of competition mounting on the children day by day? Taare Zameen Par asks us to introspect.The film establishes its pace very soon. That is its high point. You cannot separate out the most crucial or most happening fifteen minutes of the film. The pace is slow but well established and uniform. Credit goes the screen writer Amol Gupte and editor Deepa Bhatia.The casting is precise. Tisca Chopra as the mother and Vipin Sharma as the father are brilliant. They come out as very natural Indian parents, with their expectations, behavior and prejudices. Aamir Khan is content to play second fiddle to a kid. It only indicates his faith in the subject and his confidence in himself. But the real star, of course, is Darsheel Safary. What a performance ! The kid rips your heart as much as he soothes it. Outstanding, probably the finest performance by a child actor ever in Hindi cinema.Aamir Khan makes a directorial debut worthy of his reputation. Most fist time directors who excel in their debut attempt usually work on their own story. They have the script shaped in their minds over the years. But when somebody excels on a story penned by another person (Amol Gupte, in this case) the very first time, it shows his or her mettle. I'm excited to see what Aamir Khan comes up with next.Prasoon Joshi has written outstanding lyrics for the film. Gulzar, finally, has a rightful heir. The poetry stands in stature as high as the film itself. Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy have interpreted the subject and the lyrics in their own way. This is very different from their regular work. Background score is brilliant.Taare Zameen Par is, hands down, the best film of 2007. I can say that safely with a day left to end December. I'm sure it will make parents go to their kids' bedroom and tuck them in, the night they see this film or hold them a little longer when they give them a hug the next morning. Taare Zameen Par is a triumph all the way. Mr. Khan and crew - great job and thank you !
This may end up being one of my personal comments on any movie/TV program I have done for IMDb. I first saw Taare Zameen Par way back when it first released and instantly connected with the character of Ishaan(played by Darsheel Safari). The reason being because like Ishaan I am too dyslexic. I will however try not to ramble on too much about my personal experiences. I identified with everything Ishaan went through right down to the fact that he was misunderstood by his family who think of him as lazy. One of my favourite moments from Taare Zameen Par is the part when Aamir Khan goes to Ishaan's parents and Aamir khan forces Ishaan's dad to read Chinese writing on the box of a toy, that was truly a wonderful scene. Taare Zameen Par made an excellent point on what Dyslexic children lack in some areas they make up for in others. Ishaan may have been bad at English but his talents lied in Painting.One memory I have as a child is I was very bad at maths and my dad used to set me Maths challenges at home so that I would do better. Maths just didn't register with me and when I got it wrong he would get increasingly frustrated with me. He thought I was lazy when in fact I had dyslexic and it hadn't been identified yet. What is so incredible about Taare Zameen Par is that it refuses to blame Ishaan's parents for not understanding their son but instead makes a point about how ignorant people in countries like India for example are about Dyslexia. Some Bollywood movies are made just to entertain their audiences but movies like Taare Zameen Par not only entertain but also raise awareness of social issues like Dyslexia and everyone involved with the production of Taare Zameen Par should be congratulated for making such a fine movie with a great social message. I don't know about the education system is in India seeing as I live in the UK but I bet more schools in India are more tolerant of dyslexic children and do their best to help them and they have Taare Zameen Par to thank for that. On a parting note I would just like to say that TZP gives hope and understanding for people with Dyslexia and movies like this one should be encouraged.


                
The film had some very sympathetic characters and others completely unsympathetic. While the emotional impact of the film was wonderful, I think that it danced around the same beats over and over again. After a point, I was thinking "I get it, let's move on with the story." One important note to mention is that it only repeated the same beats ever so slightly, making up for it with its emotional connections from characters. I also felt like many of the film's villains were painted to be completely cardboard baddies, including Ishaan's dad and many of the teachers, who I expected to have more depth of character. If the first act had been shortened down a lot and if the second act had condensed the forces of antagonism into a character who we could explore more, the film would definitely be the better for it.


                
This movie starts off rather dull and awkward, and remains that way for some time, so I was rather put off right from the start. It suffers from several very clear tropes I've noticed in all the Bollywood films I've seen; cliche editing, awkward pacing, and most obnoxious the abundance of musical montage sequences which tend to get grating and interrupt the flow throughout. However, where this film really shines is in the characters and the plot which, while not phenomenal, are intriguing enough to hold my attention through its nearly three hour run time. Whilst a long run time in and of itself is not necessarily a bad thing, it does make it more difficult to grip the audience, though I don't feel it a major issue in this film. Sure, there could have easily been an hour trimmed out of this film whilst keeping the important bits intact, but I feel it could have done more to earn a three hour run time as well.The introduction is rather generic and dull, and I feel it goes on too long. There doesn't need to be 40 minutes of depressing stuff to lead directly into an hour of depression. I understood the situation given the first showing of animosity in the kid's life, and could have easily assumed that was the norm in his life, and thus I wanted the plot to get moving immediately. Once it got moving, the rest of the movie felt a lot more appropriately paced, and it wasn't afraid to dive deep into dark themes without getting bogged down in them. It's truly a wholesome family film with a hopeful and overall good mood throughout despite also having many depressing moments in it. It surprisingly did not feel like a roller coaster ride. It addresses struggles without burying itself in pure misery.The characters are of an interesting variety, to say the least. The child's performance was passable, though probably quite mediocre in actuality, though his character's dyslexia provides some leniency to make his awkwardness seem somewhat realistic. The father is a rather standard overbearing type who expects nothing less than perfection from his child, which works in bringing dramatic tension into what would otherwise be a rather dull story. The teacher later in the film is a much more sympathetic individual, and a rather satisfying deus ex machina. The father and the teacher really carry the film, and thankfully they make up a significant portion of the film's heavy acting scenes. Unfortunately, the side characters tend to be a bit flat and undeveloped, though they never overstay their welcome, which I prefer over giving them plenty of screen time without fleshing them out well.The cinematography is entertaining for the most part, even if a tad overt at times. There's a brief animated sequence within the film's first act that is surprisingly well done as far as budget animation goes. It's unexpected, but surprisingly effective, and it reminds me of a similar gimmick done in Krampus. There's also a brief scene where letters are switching with each other on a whiteboard to simulate dyslexia, and it is surprisingly well done. On paper, it would sound rather silly, and maybe a bit ambitious to expect it to work out on such a small budget (I believe it amounts to around $1.7M USD), but not only does it fit, but the effect is seamless. The film is constantly trying new things throughout it, and though it is a bit of a mixed bag, it does tend to hit more often than it misses. There were times in which the editing was overdone, like as if they were copying Requiem For a Dream, and it made a few scenes seem melodramatic.I would compare this film to 2017's Wonder, where I feel like Wonder pulled off a similar task much more effectively. Both are essentially about a kid in school who doesn't fit in, and both tackle their themes maturely and effectively, but I feel this film falls short in a number of aspects.


                
Watching Taare Zameen Par is an experience in itself. All throughout watching it i was wondering why has Aamir Khan not directed a movie till date because he seems so accomplished at the job that you wonder that this movie is directed by a first timer. The way he portrays the character of Ishaan Awasthi is just brilliant and showing the kid a dreamer has been brilliantly put forth. More laudable and commendable is his effort because he tackles a subject which has never before been attempted in world cinema let alone Indian cinema. Dyslexia is a more serious disorder than we often think of it as and i being a doctor is more happy that Aamir made this film. Not only has he took up a socially relevant issue, he has made an entertaining film nevertheless. There is never a dull moment and I guarantee there wouldn't be a single dry eye left in the theater in the climax. All kudos to Darsheel Safary for bringing out Ishaan such beautifully and in an utterly believable way. You wonder if the kid is only 8 years old. Aamir Khan also deserves the special mention for restraining the actor in him and portraying a supporting role albeit full gusto. The only problem I had with the film was that he showed the problem alright but the solution was just rushed over and I would have been happier if treatment of Dyslexia was more stressed upon, but you cant ask for everything in a film, so thats just a minor blemish on this superbly crafted and enacted film..Waiting for Aamir's directorial next with bated breath!!!!


                
I thought the movie was gonna be OK and not good and I was right. Sorry if you think opposite of what I think. I just wasn't crazy for this movie. My ratings- Acting - 8/10 (Great acting) Dialogues - 0/10 (Aweful Dialogues. It sometimes screwed up.) Lyrics - 2/10 (Bad lyrics. Just didn't fit right with the kind of movie it was.Critics - 1/10 (Aweful. I mean, some scenes you go like, what the hell just happened there. Some scenes the movie is very slow, sometimes normal, and sometimes it just really speeds up.) Actors taken for the movie - 3/10 (Darshil was a good actor to pick, but I think Akshay Khanna or Shahrukh would've done better acting than Aamir.) Box Office - 2/10 (It doesn't deserve to be where it is. It was placed 5th in the top 10 top grossing movies in 2007. I think it shouldn't have been in even the top 15. Maybe #18 would've been okay.) Plot - 5/10 (Okay plot) Script - 6/10 (Good Script) Overall - 3.5/10 (Very bad)


                
What your getting into: A young boy who just can't seem to be excel in school is constantly pressed by his parents who think he is just being naughty or lazy. Just when i thought my 3 idiots would never budge as my Bollywood showcase a film much deeper appeared. The film itself altered my perception of Bollywood films, about things just being different, and needing more time(a sort of theme in the movie). Aamir Khan is wonderful, just like in 3 idiots, the child performances are also among the best I've seen in awhile. Films like this make me feel as though even countries that have become heavily americanized in their structure, still have a lot of heart, and realize that being competitive isn't what it's really about... though i could be just looking at the tree and not the whole forest. Although there are moments when the movie moves to song and singing(ala Disney), unlike other Bollywood movies, th majority of the time the singing/dancing is NOT done by the actors. I thought the songs matched the rhythm of the movie perfectly, and actually contributed to the wonderful atmosphere. I give this movie a 9, only because it might lack some more advanced cinematographic techniques, and the directing is probably nothing spectacular. Though i do recommend it to anyone, it is a joy to watch.


                
One of the best amir khan's movie so far. he really did a good job to direct and write a movie. in my opinion, he still the best director in India since now and no other Indian director can reach his level for one future decade.besides khan's hard work to made this movie. still, this movie not good enough to compete against classic masterpiece of European/American movies. but it reach a standard to be a entertaining and sentimentalist yet with moral lessons. first thing first i want to explain whats good and bad from this movie.the movie's first scene is really good and beautiful. a fish-pond shot and ishaan solo performance in the beginning really convincing and sentimentalist. even in the first scene, this movie already guide the viewers to be shaken. a story centered to ishaan as a lead role which performed good. safary's characterization is good, but he was not good enough to perform a "very hard character" role inside ishaan. he cant carry a dark and lonely character but he did well the humor. some scenes were not needed which can be shorten the movie duration or exact to the main plot. as far as i know, amir khan was a director whose likely to continuously repeat to manipulate the viewers with sentimental scenes or photography like what he did in 3 idiots. if thats for people whose movie amateur or movie-goers or bollywod lovers or drama-genre lovers, it will works to do the repeating sentimental shot. but as movie experts who already watch so many legendary and classic movies which have a powerful and strong plot (no need a mainstream sentimental scene) it will not works. and some musical scene were not needed in certain scenes, when the scene already drive deeper, adding a musical will just break the temper and concentration. also the music was too long, with no great movement by amirkhan's dance, its just a repeating movement and the hilarious impact was just small. but some shot also good, like when the camera shot the entire classroom dancing, the students and nikumbh, it brings a hilarious impact to the viewers.besides my bad opinion, this movie still have a good decoration setting, the story is rich, good moral impact, and good leading and supporting performance. but by only an average director this movie suffering. with more darker leading role, shorter duration, more serious and darker setting and script, and drama specialist director this movie can reach 85-89 rating and considered as one of the best. but in its current condition, maybe only reach 66-72 no more.i recommend this movie for a bollywod movie lovers. this movie have no age criteria, entertaining to all ages. good for wasting your weekend time with friends or couple. 7/10


                
After hearing innumerable praises for this movie and a dozen of awards, I felt that I had to watch this movie at least once. My thoughts on this movie are very uneven and contrasting as I felt that if there was no Aamir Khan in it, it would have failed at the box office and also at the 'critic's office'.The thing that lacked in the first half was emotions. Most of the acting seemed superficial and dull. I kept shifting on my couch, singing songs to myself like a hysterical being and was indulging in other activities as the movie didn't get to me at that time.I felt that the first have could have been much stronger and more firm in its approach towards the boy's woes. Tisca exceeds a concerned yet clueless mother who doesn't exactly cope up with her son's problems. I felt that there was a boy who acted better than Darsheel, and that was his elder brother who was very supportive in the movie and did a really good job. Ishan's father does a fine job in the latter half where there are some moving scenes. Darsheel's acting is good and award worthy but I felt that there were better child actors than him, for example,, the girl in Makdee or Malcolm from Sixth Sense. Yet, he improves in the latter half of the movie where he actually comprehends with his character and makes it look real.In the first half, I was not much interested when they showed him tormented by his teachers and parents because I get they didn't get the right grip to make the movie more powerful. Aamir Khan too delivers and his debut direction is applaud worthy. There were some plot holes such as Darsheel already in third grade and how he managed to reach it but yet its a feel good film. I do not think that it would win an Oscar though because it just doesn't click during the first hour.I'm going to go with a seven out of ten for this movie. Watch it for the latter half which is filled with emotions.


                
