How many times has there been a movie you could really relate to? How many times has it happened that you've seen a character on the screen that reminds of something that you've been through in your life? As I saw Ishan (Darsheel Safary) today, I felt, somewhere deep within that that's me.Notwithstanding the slight retard nature, dyslexia and bad academic performance, the character of Ishan really made me remember my childhood today. I remember I was something like him as a child.<U+0097>creative and imaginative. And my imagination always went unappreciated. I used to curate gibberish <U+0096> just like he did. I painted, I dreamed and I fantasized about different things. So I feel writer Amol Gupte and director Aamir Khan (what a wonderful debut!) have picked an incredibly moving story. Frankly, I am not easily moved by movies. Not even the greatest tearjerkers have managed to "move" me, but for a moment I was stunned. Is this really happening to me? Am I trying to cry? In fact, the scene where Ram (Aamir Khan) walks into Ishan's room and discovers a score of sketches and drawings, it made me feel like somebody had in fact, opened my closet and discovered my secret childhood fantasies (Believe me, I still have them.) This movie will surely engage all those who have had similar incidents in their lives. That's for sure. I am moved. I love this film. I don't know and I don't care how this film does in the box office but let me tell you don't watch this film if you're looking for regular boy meets girl story. Don't even skip this film thinking it's children's movie <U+0096> no it isn't. In fact, Taare Zameen Par is a movie potentially targeted towards parents. But if you think you too have undergone similar childhood conflicts and lived a life where the people around you refuse to appreciate your fantasies, then definitely go for it. TZP mirrors many of those people's lives that looks just plain and simple but those who compromised their dreams for the sake of the earthly existence.Okay, enough of fantasies. Technically, writer Amol Gupte delivers an A Grade script. Aamir Khan shows his talent not just as an actor but a very versatile and intelligent. Oscar Wilde, Leonardo da Vinci and Sally Gardner were hardly ever heard of in Hindi cinema before this. The writer just does not deliver a well written script but also his knowledge of research (which other filmmakers hardly ever do!) Musically, it's two-thumbs up for Shanker Ehsaan Loy. The title song is fascinating. Maa and Jame Raho combine talents in all respects- music, words and voice. The production design is superb. Not for a moment you feel anything is fake. They even managed to squeeze in some quick visual effects and animated scenes. They're there to add another dimension to great story telling. The casting is good and well justified. Little Darsheel steals the show. Tisca Chopra grabs attention.Aamir Khan, however stuns the audience by appearing at almost near half of the film. That's the surprise but you don't miss Aamir in the first half because Darsheel will definitely grab your attention and Aamir gets to show some good directorial talent.All in all, I'd say go and watch the film. I wouldn't recommend if you're addicted to Yashraj stuffs but if you really want to see some intelligent film-making, then Taare Zameen Par is a treat.


                
Its a fine Friday morning in Kolkata...the winter vacation has just commenced...we have planned a day out...gonna watch Francis Lawrence's I Am Legend...but due to last minute change of plans under unavoidable circumstances we are reluctantly drawn into the first day first show of Taare Zameen Paar...we are a bunch of movie buffs who watch a Bollywood movie once in a blue moon...within the next 2.5 hrs our opinions had changed...After back to back hits(Rang De Basanti,Fanaa)Amir khan could well have gone for another Masala flick...but it needs guts to for debut directing such a script...and then pull it off even more brilliantly...with such maturity n sensitivity...the field is teeming with great actors making for great first time directors...(Kevin Costner,Mel Gibson,George Clooney n so many others)...but never before in Bollywood have i seen a better example of this.....the film is about a 8 year old dyslexic child Ishann who finds it difficult to read or write correctly or for that matter perform any such activities normal to children of his age...n inevitably has to bear the brunt of his parents,teachers n other people he interacts with...but his world is filled with magical creatures n thoughts that gives him company...his parents unable to realize his disorder...sends him to a boarding school where the child retreats into a self imposed exile and has to contend with the added trauma of separation from his family...in comes Amir khan the temporary art teacher who encourages them to extend their boundaries of thought and imaginations...n shows special interest in finding out the difficulty of Ishaan...with time patience and care he helps Ishaan find himself...but more than the script its the way minute emotions are captured...the way the audience is made to peer into a child's mind nd its own mechanisms...scenes are a film's USP...n though you may forget the film its the scenes that u keep embedded in your heart...n TZP is laden with powerful scenes that will give you moist eyes...there's this scene where Ishan's parents had taken him home from the boarding school...n then comes to leave him there all alone again for the 2nd time...the first time Ishaan had kept staring at his parent's car leaving...this time he turned back n walked away...while his mother kept staring back...this is Ishan's own kind of protest against his parent's unjust nd cruel decision...and to complement the film's excellent theme there's the superbly crafted n maturely executed visual effects n animation to go with it...that sketches a child's world of imagination...the camera work is brilliant...top notch performance by all the actors...Darsheel Safary steals the limelight...quite explains why Amir wanted to rush into directing this film as he was worried the child may grow up..reminds of Satyajit ray n his Apu...though emotional n dramatic everything seems utterly realistic...nd Amir's directing needs special mentioning here...the way he captures a child's world...a child's obsession of noticing minute things nd finding beauty in it...like the little fishes that inhabit the roadside pond...the water filled pothole being run over by vehicles...a mother bird feeding her children...nd with so many news of children succumbing to their parent's pressure these days...the film has come out at an apt time...it will change the whole way u look at the relationship between a parent and a child i bet...its one those films which entertains nd enlightens at the same time...stop reading it any further if you haven't yet seen it..just take your child n go watch it...but everything has its share of bad sides...though it matters little i would still like to talk about the little cons...the editing work cud have been sleeker...the film tends to drag a little in the middle...although as hard as he may have tried Amir khan is unable to break away from the shackles of orthodox Bollywood treatment...nd sum scenes are just too melodramatic...like Ishan sailing a boat he has himself designed...but probably it was to draw the traditional Bollywood audience into watching this unique movie...too many songs...though good music from Shankar Ehsan Loy on all the songs...but sum were unnecessary...that's all...it would be sacrilegious to speak ill of this film any further...u r quite adamant aren't you??i thought i told you to stop reading n go watch the movie...now go nd..enjoy the brilliant world of alphabet crabs...velvet octopuses...absurd arts...nd inverse letters...is any member of Ko<U+042F>n dyslexic??...a friend of mine joked...as far as I am Legend is concerned...never mind...i'm going to watch it tomorrow...


                
I'm not always a fan of the Bollywood style of filmmaking: overrun with musical montages and exaggerated dialogue and acting. But 'Like Stars on Earth' is a magical film about the magnificent abilities that children have, even when all the odds are against them. With a story as powerful as this one, it doesn't matter where or how the story is told.Luckily, most of the Bollywood clichés actually enhance the film experience. Being such an integral part of the story, the soundtrack and score complement the film wonderfully. Each song aligning nicely with the film's dramatic but hopeful tone. Admittedly, having a rap song play over Ishaan's family getting dressed and ready for the day is a bit jarring, but the songs that play after Aamir Khan appear are nothing short of enchanting.This film is about a dyslexic child who has basically given up on school as no one seems to think he's worth anything. His father beats him for goofing off and all of his teachers scold him for not being able to do the simplest of tasks. So, Ishaan finds his way to a boarding school where he meets Ram Shankar Nikumbh (Aamir Khan) who may change his life forever. Everybody had that teacher who changed the way you approached school and perhaps even life itself, which is why I thought this movie was so effective. There's nothing more gratifying than watching someone struggling to find their way, only to have one uniquely suited person put them back on track. It seems so simple but coming from a teaching background, I'll be the first person to say that it can be nearly impossible to connect with someone who doesn't want any help. However, when and if that connection is made, it's possibly the most fulfilling thing a person can do. Aamir Khan captures these emotions perfectly near the end of Like Stars on Earth. I don't think I'll ever get the image of Ishaan's father breaking down into tears out of my head. There's some really powerful stuff here.8.6/10


                
I had just watched the film last night and after that, I was discussing it with a friend, a fellow IMDb member. For me 'Taare Zameen Par' was indeed an enjoyable film and I liked how the research was done on dyslexia as many Hindi films seem to lack that. Also technically it's quite well made. The use of animation is endearing and cinematography is brilliant. I love the songs too.As a director, Aamir Khan does a fine job. Amole Gupte deserves equal credit for giving the film a heart of gold. The screenplay isn't bad but I found the placement of the title song awkward. I mean it seemed to drag things a little. The sequences in the song may have been necessary but the song itself was a strange placement.Also the character development especially of the parents and the few plot holes could have been improved. For instance, how is it that a stay-at-home mom not know at all that her son has learning problems? How did he make it to third grade? The parents are shown to be from an educated family. The parents claim to have thought that the reading problems were a result of his lack of interest and perhaps, they were in denial too as they didn't want to accept that he cannot read because it would mean that he's 'mentally retarded' but none of this is explored and we just get the impression that they didn't know. The child's also shown to repeat the 3rd grade but his classmates look older than him. Even Aamir Khan's characterization seems a little flawed. The character might be that of a very sensitive person but the way he broke down at all the children was a little unbelievable especially since he's known as an experienced teacher in India who would be used to seeing such problems.While some may argue that the teachers are demons, I have gone to school in that part of the world and myself have encountered such 'demons'. Hence it's not completely unbelievable but I agree that not every single teacher should have been shown as demons. However, I find the sudden transformation of the teachers from 'demonhood' very unbelievable. Also, that Hindi literature teacher is mind-numbingly stupid. The kid gave a simple yet fantastic interpretation of the poem and he doesn't get that? What a moron! And this is supposed to be in a prestigious school? I also thought it was awkward bringing Abhishek Bachchan as an Indian example of a 'dyslexic super-achiever' especially since he's mentioned with names like Picasso, da Vinci, Christie and Einstein.Though some may argue that the competition sequence mislead the viewer regarding children with learning disabilities in one area can be supremely gifted in other areas, I think it was probably there to move the story further and give it a happy ending. Perhaps at the end, they could have also stressed on the fact that every child deserves love (no matter what) and attention and effort so that he can achieve his true potential. This point was brought up in the conversations between the teacher and the parents but if it was stressed at the end of the film, it would have made 'Taare Zameen Par' more impactive. Then again, the film is more Ishaan's story and with this competition he has to get back his confidence, that was previously shattered. What about this for an alternative ending? The kid loses the competition but his work is praised and everyone appreciates his effort, his parents still accept and love him and he's happy? 'Taare Zameen Par' belongs to child actor Darsheel Safari. His performance is very natural and he shines throughout the whole film. It's one of the best acting by a child actor. His bunny tooth smile is adorable. Aamir Khan is mostly decent although he does seem to go over the top in some scenes. The actor who plays the dad is awful and Tisca Chopra is okay. The teachers are caricatures.In spite of its flaws, 'Taare Zameen Par' might be a called manipulative but in my humble opinion it is a sincere film. I just loved how it portrays the mind and imagination of a child using animation and art (note the wonderful reference to Calvin and Hobbes) and also the natural behaviour we see in young Safary especially when he bunks class. Some other examples are how he tried his best to read but just can't be bothered anymore because he simply cannot do it, how he's fascinated by things others take for granted or simply ignore, how his confidence is broken when his parents leave him and teachers beat him, the look on his face when someone calls him 'duffer', his lack of interest in daily activities (e.g. playing with water when he's supposed to take a shower). All his scenes are worth watching and that alone makes 'Taare Zameen Par' a pleasant viewing.


                
Taare Zameen Par, which spells "Stars on Earth" in English is probably one of the most anticipated films of the year 2007 by Bollywood. It came out in December last year, and it got received with a blast, and director Aamir Khan was extremely happy with the final outcome. One of the factors which distinguishes TZP from other Indian movies, is that it is not based on the regular cliché of two individuals falling in love, but rather puts a real subject in the limelight. The story follows the nine-year-old protagonist called "Ishaan"(Darsheel Safary). Ishaan is a brisky young boy, with a wild imagination. He loves to admire nature, and enjoys painting with bright freshening colors. The one thing he hates the most is to sit down and do his homework. He never manages to write a word correctly and letters seem to dance in front of his eyes, whenever he attempts to read a sentence. This rare condition sets a barrier between Ishaan and education, and leads to frustration. Ishaan eventually tries to ignore his homework and school because of countless episodes of outbursts from teachers and his parents. His exam papers are a pity for the human eye and Ishaan's teachers say that there is no hope for him. Ishaan's father takes this personally and decides to send Ishaan to a boarding school.Ishaan disagrees with his father of course, as he is not accustomed to living without his mother. Ishaan's mother falls in a dilemma, but ultimately decides that sending Ishaan to boarding school would be the wisest choice.Things get even worse when Ishaan gets into boarding school. It is a strict school with discipline as their main principle. Ishaan is welcomed by strict teachers in every class, and receiving punishment from every teacher soon becomes a part of his daily routine. Ishaan eventually stops talking to anyone and usually meets everyone with a scared eye.One day, a substitute teacher replaces Ishaan's regular arts teacher. Ram Shankar Nikumbh(Aamir Khan) is his name, and he makes a grand entrance with a song. He is well received among Ishaan's fellow students, but Ishaan is still upset with a sore face. Ram instructs his students to paint anything which comes to their mind using vivid colors. Every child paints whatever comes to their mind, with the exception of Ishaan, who usually loves to paint. Ram is a little worried for Ishaan, but he does not torture him with questions and lets him go. However, Ram's concern over Ishaan's behavior is intensified after several days of his reticence.Ram tries further investigation and analyzes Ishaan's textbooks in all of his subjects. He discovers something unusual. It seems to him that Ishaan always misspells certain words and letters in a particular way. He has trouble identifying himself with different letters and their sound. Ram is stunned by seeing Ishaan's textbooks, and wants to investigate even further, and decides to visit Ishaan's family.When Ram tries to explain that Ishaan has difficulties identifying himself with letters and words he is met with rude comments from Ishaan's father. Ishaan's father has always assumed that Ishaan was avoiding doing homework because of his laziness. After a dialog between Ram and Ishaan's father, Ram tries to convince him that Ishaan really has a disability. After his investigation, he concludes the problem as dyslexia. Of course, Ishaan's parent are not aware of this learning disability and are scared for their sons future. Ram responds to this comment by saying that nowadays all parents care about is how to make their sons and daughters toppers of their classes. How they can make them excel in every subject, even though they have to work day and night. Every child is special, and should be allowed to pursue their dreams.When Ram begins his arts class back at school he begins by telling a story. A story about a boy, a boy who had difficulties during childhood. Letters and numbers seem to dance before his eyes and he never remembered that "y" comes after "x". After countless attempts he failed once at school and got dishearted. He decided to take the defeat as a man and continued working. After a time his mind brightened and his mind discovered a treasure. After telling the story, Ram asks his class which boy he is talking about. Ishaan's heart starts to beat much faster, as he is doubts that it is him, Ram is talking about. Ram shows a picture of Albert Einstein. Albert Einstein also had dyslexia, but he managed to overcome it and is considered one of the biggest scientists of human history. These encouraging words brightens Ishaan and he becomes really good friends with Ram. Ram goes to the principle of the school to discuss Ishaan's dyslexia. The principle is shocked at first, and then assembles the puzzles and sees the picture. He appreciates Ram's work with Ishaan and suggests to send Ishaan to a special school for children with disabilities. Ram disagrees to his suggestion and requests him to tell all the teachers to ignore his mistakes for a few weeks. In that period of time, Ram can work with Ishaan and improve his skills.I think I have revealed more than necessary, but I will leave it here and let you watch the movie for yourself.TZP is a film which combines emotions with real life situations and the outcome is mind- blowing. It delivers a great message and has opened eyes of millions of parents around the world. This film exceeded all of my high expectations and I came out satisfied after watching it. Darsheel Safary has done a great job as a child artist and his performance has earned him a handful of Indian awards. I really hope to see more of him. Aamir Khan is great as always as an actor, but has also done a excellent job as a director.


                
Bollywood has felt the need for Child Themed movies as much as the fish needs the bicycle. Considering that, this movie comes as a fresh change, something that every movie lover could love forward to. Aamir Khan is his usual brilliant self but it is Darsheel Safary, the kid that steals the show all the way.Taare Zameen Par is a movie every young couple should watch -- Its a movie every parent with a teenage child must watch. Its a beautiful movie because it shows us how parents, with all the good intentions in their hearts, can still go wrong.The reason why I did not give this a "9" is because I thought the parents role could have been a little more defining. Since for most of the first half, the family of the child plays a role of importance, one hoped that they could carry some of it, if not all, to the second half as well. But overall, by the second half, the story has a good foundation and the protagonist of the movie takes it off from there. The songs are well sequenced and not "just put there". This has been an area that Bollywood has really improved over the last few years.Aamir Khan impresses with his behind the screen antics and considering that he directed himself and a nine year old kid while working on a very sensitive subject that must have involved a lot of background research -- all for the first time, I think he has done a brilliant job. I will not take away one thing from this man, who for all his brilliance, has often been misunderstood in the industry.


                
Being a keen observer of the art of movie making (mostly self observed and learned) I as a student of this genre was eager to see the product coming out of the stable of Aamir Khan <U+0096> the Director. His venture as Producer, in Lagaan <U+0096> did fetch him accolades worldwide, including the Oscar nomination. So would this next product also be so special? The story is about a 8 year old boy Ishaan (Darsheel Safary) who finds it difficult to concentrate on his studies and finds innocent pleasures in the worldly things around him. This attitude of Ishaan makes him a centre of laugh and taunt that leads to his cranky and odd behavior. His parents decide to send Ishaan to boarding school to improve his studies. Being away from parents Ishaan goes into a shell and looses all interest in everything around him. There enters a drawing teacher Ram Nikubh (Aamir Khan) who recognizes Ishaan's state and takes it on himself to bring back life in the boy's life.Aamir says that he worked with his friend, painter, writer, and Creative Director of the movie Amole Gupte for 3 years to make Taare Jameen Par. Credit to Aamir to take this simple, delicate and difficult subject in the first place and standing ovation for preciously presenting the simplicity of the story in the way it has to be presented. Aamir had with him all the star power and resources to hog the lime-light of the movie, but he renders himself to play a pivotal but side and supporting role. He gives the real burden of the movie on the tender shoulders of Ishaan, uff Darsheel <U+0096> a great search by the casting crew. Darsheel carries the movie along with him, and drags us into his world with such an ease that the moments of Ishaan will remain in-grained in our memories forever as twinkling starlights. Kudos to this young and gifted actor! Wow <U+0096> what a performance.Similar credit to the master script and screenplay <U+0096> which is so strong in its narration, that it required somebody as sensitive as Aamir to produce and direct the movie. The story evolves slowly and sucks us into the movie. The background score and music by Shankar Ehsaan Loy is superb. The lyrics by Prasoon Joshi are worth hearing and reciting.I was thinking as a movie maker <U+0096> what would I have changed in TJP? I think, I would have surely added 5-7 minutes in the recovery phase of Ishaan with an added sub-plot event. I would had made the teachers less clichéd and caricatured. I would have used a little more of long shots for the enormity of the emotional pleasure and loss of childhood.Understanding that Aamir must have made this movie in a shoe string budget <U+0096> with mostly unknown or little known cast.This movie may not do great business like other Bollywood commercial movies, but it has its heart in the right place <U+0096> where it should be. It gives out a very important message of seeing children and childhood <U+0096> with immense treasure and not destroy it in today's cut throat competitive world we live in.My only comment to Aamir is that if he had released the movie in Europe, I would not have had seen a pirated copy of the movie (which I do not mind watching anyways), but I regret not going for big screen experience (that I love) for this wonderful gem of a movie that should be watched by every parent and teacher.(Stars 7.75 out of 10)


                
I'm not a big fan of bollywood, I think it is getting a bit to commercialised ''dhoom 2''but Taare Zameen Par was just amazing. Amir Khan is for me the hardest working man is Cinema. He takes his movies so seriously (rang DE basanti). TZP is what I call great cinema,so much effort has gone in to this movie the music is superb and the acting is great. I just hope it gets in to the Oscar so everyone can appreciate how good this movie is. The message is portrayed so well by all the actors especially the little boy and his ''loving'' parents.It is easily on my list up with the great movies like Juno, stranger than fiction, matrix, spirited away i can't wait for Amir khan's next project. so please do watch this movie!


                
I saw Taare Zameen Par last night and I walked out of the theatre feeling that we're finally maturing as a movie making and watching country. For too long Bollywood has been associated with the typical "masala" movie. Its heartening to see that in the past 5 years or so, film makers have taken to making films about real issues without killing the fun of the entire celluloid experience. TZP would have probably been categorised as a "art" film about 6-8 years ago. TZP is about a child (Darsheel Safary) who suffers from dyslexia and his painting teacher (Aamir Khan) who helps him thru it. Safary is pretty good in his role as the confused yet earnest kid exuding innocence and mischief at the same time. Aamir Khan was absolutely terrible and thoroughly unconvincing in his role and if you believe that, you also believe that little green people orbiting Earth in flying saucers are about to abduct you. I've been a big fan of this particular Khan for a long time now. Despite being a fine actor, he's been part of some cinematic disasters. That being said, TZP is NOT one of them. I think long time fans of Aamir's work realise there was always some ghost-directing by him in a lot of his movies. It seemed inevitable that he would don the director's mantle at some point. Fortunately he had something that a lot of first time directors don't have - Aamir Khan the actor. On a side-note, the soundtrack is pretty cool. Prasoon Joshi's lyrics are simple and yet they strike a chord no matter what the mood of the song. Once again Shanker-Ehsaan-Loy prove why they are at the top of the game. I'm listening to my favourite song Kholo Kholo while writing this. Great stuff!Lastly, I've rated this movie an 8/10 only because i felt it was a tad too long. Perhaps I'm being a fussy nit... I'm not a regular Hindi movie watcher but i believe in the paisa-vasool philosophy completely. This is one of them. Go watch it with your parents and maybe you'll come out with a grand ole feeling of nostalgia like I did.


                
This film should be watched by all esp parents of young children.The script is fantastic and also performed well by the two leading roles(Amir and Darsheel)The highlight of this film is that it doesn't preach a lot.It makes us, feel the emotions of the child with a learning problem(dyslexia)The film opens with a superb scene and most of the scenes in the first half are entertaining.It is in the second half that the message is really addressed thru Amir's character. It is one of those few films that can make a difference in the lives of people.The only irritating performance is that of the child's father else, the overall performance by the main characters is praise worthy.some songs are really slowing down the film. Using animations to evoke a child's feelings has worked out well.Finally, some may shed a tear and some may laugh,but none can ignore the film and its issues.It will be nice of it is included in the curriculum of the schools.


                
Starring: Darsheel Safary, Amir Khan. Screenplay by: Amol Gupte. Directed by: Amir Khan.A drop of a red paint falls on a canvas. Then a finger comes and adds some yellow color to that drop. The drop shows some light turbulent mixing of smaller pigments of yellow and red, then that same finger starts mixing those colors. Then appears a creation of color on canvas as seen by Ishaan (Darsheel Safary), an 8-year old kid who just destroyed his graded exam solution of non-art subjects. Well, because he failed in those. There is something that drives Ishaan away from the books and exams to painting, to catching fishes in the gutter, to jigsaw puzzles, to almost anything that catches his eyes. He mentions his teacher that the letters in the book are dancing. That would make him dyslexic. But not dumb. Perhaps his vision is different than an average human being. When he has been send to a boarding school hundreds of miles away from his home then it appears as a child departing from his parents in his flip book. Can we help Ishaan? Perhaps professor Nikumbh has the answer. You have to watch Taare Zameen Par, to know what that answer is.Amol Gupte wrote the screenplay for this beautiful and powerful film. He also was a creative director and I guess that is the basic need of this film. The number one thing expected from any filmmaker is to create sympathy for his protagonist. May it be emotional, but definitely has to be psychological. Amol Gupte puts you right where you are able to observe through Ishaan's eyes at a kid sitting on his father's shoulder and slurping a shaved ice cone. So much indulgence that it makes you unaware of the cone in your 'own' hand that melts and falls. There are so many sequences like those and Amir Khan (also the débutant Director) understands the conveyance need of those visuals as much as Amol Gupte and creates an impact. Slow motion gives us time to understand Ishaan's fast grasping. The connection of images, surreal, if I may, of the solar system to the math problem in Ishaan's exams is simply brilliant. How Ishaan thinks and imagines and applies it to his real world creates sympathy. Not to forget the confrontation by professor Nikhumb to Ishaan's parents is one of the scenes with convincing words. Perhaps convincing for any parent. There does exist get-beaten-first-followed-by-triumph-later-superhero psychology which works. Amol Gupte and Amir Khan both have done a great job.But how much ever you write or direct a movie, it is useless without the actors who make you feel what they are feeling in all the situations in the movie. Darsheel Safary as Ishaan falls short at nothing. He is an actor that has not been bound by anything. He excites at fishes in the gutter, he fights a bully twice his size, he feels guilty and apologizes to his father at first and gets angry with strained eyebrows later at revelation of father's lie. He cries with the sorrows that you will feel and laughs with joys that shake you. Sight of a dawn over mountains and a lake creates an image in his mind that later shows up on a canvas that screams his urge to see what people don't see and you will stand beside him all the way. He deserves all the accolades he stands nominated for.Amir Khan has chosen a unique tale of parent-kids relationship, that is sad, because that relationship has been ignored long enough to make a movie but at least now we have a movie. Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy give music to songs written by Prasoon Joshi that add to the surreal environment of this child. This movie is a great attempt to look at every child because he/she is special beyond our comprehension.My Rating: 8/10.


                
Over the last few weeks I've watched about a half dozen Indian movies and almost all of them star Aamir Khan and offer extended scenes of colorful song and dance numbers. Being a new film experience for me, I thought those details were worth noting, as I don't know how far that stereotype goes.The story here, though a good one for it's subject material, I thought was almost too simplistic and straightforward, as one could pretty easily figure out what the outcome would be. The learning disability that young Ishaan (Darsheel Sagary) had wasn't some big mystery, but a simple case of dyslexia. For that reason, I couldn't understand why he wasn't taken more seriously when he made the statement in my summary line above during one of his classroom experiences. It seems a perceptive teacher should have picked up on that hint long before Ram Shankar Nikumbh (Khan) came along.There's a part of me that always wants to caution about the way a certain type of message is conveyed about children. The saying that 'every child is special' bothers me somewhat, in as much as if we elevate every child to that level, then we've simply redefined what's normal. So that winds up saying that if every child is special then no child is. The better way to phrase such a concept to my mind is that every child is special to someone, and that all children have the right to every opportunity life can afford them. I don't want to give the wrong impression here. I have four grandchildren and they're all special to me, even if they're not going to be world class athletes or the next Einstein. Or maybe one of them will, who knows?With that out of the way, I have to comment on the young actor portraying Ishaan. Darsheel Safary is more talented than a lot of adult actors I've seen, and ran through an amazing arc of emotions that I simply found incredible. I really can't imagine how he pulled off some of the scenes he was required to carry. Quite amazing to my mind, enough so that I would state that in this case, he was pretty special.
Good movie and I strongly recommend to see, but be forewarned that you will have to watch a child be severely emotionally abused for what feels like an hour. You will cry so have a box of tissue ready. However, it leaves a lasting impression, truly teaching and creating awareness regarding the behaviors, sufferings and intelligence of children with dyslexia. It's nice, for a change, to have an inspiring example of someone (the art teacher) who not only cares but takes action to help. This movie will surely influence change in society. I give it 8 rather than 10 because it was a bit overdone, contrived.
Well first of all i want to Congratulate Aamir Khan to have a Heart to make such a beautiful Film... Wat a Directorial Debut...Hats Off to u man!!!! Lately, simplicity had totally gone away from Indian Cinema...every body was trying to prove something or the other...Storytelling had almost taken a back seat... All the Eklavya's, Saawariya's , Jhoom brabar jhoom's could not do Wat "Taare Zammen Par" easily did, bring tears in the audiences eyes...And above all it prompted people to think twice... every body , at least to my knowledge moved and could relate to the simple story telling...in my opinion plz go and watch "taare Zameen par" and encourage Film makers like Aamir Khan to make such meaningful yet entertaining Cinema...


                
A movie from the Bollywood's perfectionist, Aamir, this time in dual role as the director+actor meets the standards set by him. Aamir is here once again to change the trend of NRI- movies (chopras and johars) and cheap skin shows. 'Taare zameen par' is a movie with a sensitive subject. Aamir is clear about the movie as the director but seemed slightly confused with his character in the movie. Shankar Ehsaan Loy's music powered by Prasoon Joshi's lyrics gave life to the movie. Amazing performance from Darsheel in the main role makes this movie truly wonderful.It's not a regular bollywood movie or I should say Indian movie. There are no duets, no villain and not even a heroin. If you want to watch regular so called entertainers with no brain, this movie is surely not for you. It's a movie that deals with a social problem in sensitive and creative way. I advise to show this movie to all Parents (having school going children) and all primary school teachers for free. It's the right movie to watch with your family for this Christmas.


                
Dalsheer should definitely be nominated for an Oscar. This movie should also be mandatory for all school teachers right before schools begin.Having said that, the story of the movie is just like the real life story in "Thank you Mr. Falker" by Patricia Polacco. The movie has a slight variation: instead of a girl, there's a boy. Even scenes like writing on the sand, mirror images are in the book.At least give credit to the original author where you get the story from.For those who haven't read the book you can read more at the author's website: www.patriciapolacco.com/books/falker/falker_index.html Here's what the author has to say: "I did not learn how to read until I was almost 14 years old. Can you imagine what it was like to see all my friends do so well in school and I wasn't! I thought I was dumb. I didn't like school because there was this boy that always teased me and made me feel even dumber.When I was fourteen, it was learned that I have a learning disability. It is called dyslexia. I felt trapped in a body that wouldn't do what everybody else could do. That was when one of my hero's, my teacher, found what was wrong with me and got me the help I needed to succeed in school.Of course , now that I am an adult, I realize that being learning disabled does not mean DUMB AT ALL! As a matter of fact, I have learned that being learning disabled only means that I cannot learn the way most of you do. As a matter of fact most learning disabled children are actually GENIUSES! once I learned how to read and caught up with the rest of my fellow students, I did very well."


                
"Taare Zameen par" tells the story of a boy named Ishan, who is having a mental disability named Dyslexia. Due to this people around think that the boy is very dull, stubborn, and irresponsible. But his new drawing teacher Ramkumar Nikumb (Aamir Khan) makes people educate about this and helps the kid not only to overcome this disability, but also takes out the extraordinary drawing and thinking talent from the kid.First the negative points because as for me there is only one, and that is the length of the movie. The movie is unnecessary stretched to its current length. Because of this sometimes it loose the grip. All the songs either could have been removed or could have been shortened. This happens in both half of the movie. Especially at the end when the rest story is clear the movie elongates unnecessary. Having said that other than that the movie is excellent. Hats off to the writer. While watching the movie, it becomes clear that the writer has taken effort for doing some research before writing the script. Also a special thanks to director/actor Aamir Khan. In Indian movies specially when director and leading actor is same, the focus of the movie automatically shifted to his own character. But certainly not in this movie, where the Aamir's entry it self is at the Interval. And even after that the main focus is on the kid, rather than the teacher. This is really difficult as a director to do, and congrats to Aamir for achieving this. The success of the movie is in its execution which sends out the clear message as it intends i.e. "Every child is special". The help of Dyslexia is just to make this message clear. From starting the story revolves around this kid who is dull in study and as a result is always the target of scolding from parents and teachers. The movie has successfully sketched the kids feeling and the audience can exactly feel what the kid is feeling, and the kid starts getting pity from them. And as the movie progresses audience gets more and more attached to the feelings of the kid. Another excellent point of the movie is the movie from start to end concentrate only on main script and nowhere it moves from its original message. No unnecessary characters, jokes or funny situations. It is this reason that even after leaving the theater, you can't take this movie out of your head.Hence I have rated this movie 8/10. The only two points are removed because of the length of the movie, due to which at many points in the movie you feel bored, and wait for when this scene is going end. Other than that it is really good movie and must watch for each person in society who is dealing with the kids.


                
What is this movie? Taare Zameen Par (TZM) has the simplicity of a nursery rhyme but something that remains with you for a long long time to come. The movie is takes you on a journey with Ishaan, an 8-year old who is the central character of this movie. So much so that had Ishaan be a real life person couldn't have bettered this.Is this slow? This movie is not slow unless you expected a 90 min edge of the seat action/thrillers. Hmm I saw this but... Watch it again for the second time and if you are a parent I would urge you to watch it from Ishaan's shoes. It reminds us so much of our on childhood that you choke on it. Simply!Do I take back something? Oh yes. Make no mistake. This movie is on a moral <U+0096> It makes a genuine attempt to remind every adults childhood. Pleads them to understand the next time they look at their own children. Strike a chord that life is not a race to the top.One Line It says when you are on the beginning of a long journey walk, saunter you'll get your own time to run, sprintRecommend? If you want to bring back some fond memories of your childhood you'll have to simply see this movie.


                
a must see. story of a misunderstood kid who is living in a dream world . the daily mundane life that an average school going kid lives is not for him. he is dyslexic but could just be a dreamer unwilling to give in to the silly regimen of courses which passes off as education in most Indian schools. his typical middle class parents cannot help but compare him with the elder child who is good at studies and sports.(surprisingly not the typical bully you would expect him to be). the mother is very patient and loving but just does not get it. the father is clueless- busy eking out their middle class existence pay checks.the story is a regular story of the teacher stepping in to help the kid and also does go a long way in building awareness about dyslexia (highly needed in this puppy eat puppy world of childhood).what stands out is the great cinematography, childlike special effects, the dazed kid, and the mind blowing music. i would recommend you listen to soundtrack a couple of times and then see the film. you will love the context. the song words are great and the compositions range from acoustic to operatic to heavy metal and rap. awesome music.


                
In the true spirit of Aamir Khan, this film captures the victory of heart over cold tradition and gives the true hero of the story his day in the sun. While heartbreaking at times, the ending is everything we hoped for. Give it a watch, you wont be disappointed. And as for the music number? It doesn't add anything but doesn't take away from the film either.
If there would be a top 3 list for Bollywood films, i would definitely give a place for this movie in that. Not only it inspires not giving up and everybody being special, the screenplay goes on fluidly and it's really well-executed. Darsheel Safary almost single handedly carries the movie and plays his role perfectly.The musics are absolutely perfect. They won't address to everyone as they might sound a little bit weird but i think they are perfectly created. Some scenes are too dramatic as it is so hard not to drop one or two teardrops but i guess it's not that big of a problem.A cut out film for those who don't believe in themselves.


                
Ishaan Awasthi is an 8 year old boy struggling in his second time as a 3rd grade student. He is unfocused easily distracted. He is frustrated and horrible in the classroom. He gets into a fight with a school bully. His father is angry at his perceived laziness. His mother is concerned. When the parents meet the school teachers, it's obvious that Ishaan will never pass 3rd grade. The parents send him away to a strict boarding school. His spirit is broken down until substitute teacher Ram Shankar Nikumbh arrives. Ram soon figures out that the boy has dyslexia.The boy lead is amazing. I completely buy his acting. He is adorable and believable. His relationship with his mother is heart breaking. The movie up to the point with Ram is absolutely riveting. I do have a couple of minor problems with Ram. Being an Indian movie, he does too much song and dance for me. I also don't like Ram's attitude towards the parents. He should dial down the self-righteous anger and dial up the sympathy. What I do like is the great realistic performance of the boy. He could help melt the most hardened heart.


                
Very touching, heart-warming family oriented movie. Aamir Khan strikes gold with a very sensitively directed film - Darsheel has probably essayed the best role by a child-artiste, in the finest possible way, in Bollywood history - blows all the hitherto wooden, typically done roles by Bollywood child artistes, right out of the water. bravo & Kudos! held back the stars only because at the end of the day, it could well pass for an excellent TV film as well - not unlike say, Swami & Friends - cannot be compared with "great cinematic experiences" like say, Sholay etc but apart from that, top-notch.... worth seeing definitely....


                
Right off the bat, let me say that I'm really really really not a fan of Bollywood or Indian cinema. But when I watched this movie, I was very pleasantly surprised. It wasn't a clichéd plot, and the movie never got cheesy. This movie is an emotional roller coaster, and I'm normally quite stone faced when I watch a movie. Fantastic. One complaint I do have; however, is Aamir Khan's entrance into the movie. It's kind of a blatant ripoff of "Dead Poets Society," but if you treat it as a reference or homage, you don't get put off. Absolutely great, not for kids. Early teens and upwards.


                
Acting : 4.0/4 No doubt about, it all the marks given, Not only Aamir Khan n Darsheel Safary but all other have done a great job Direction : 0.6/1 Cinematography : .9/1.0 Some scenes are very good like the one with the drawing competition where many people are sitting in the amphitheatre etc. Screenplay : .5/1.0 No, it is not good, the movie is not placed rightly thats why scenes are not merged together or knitted together, flow is altered in some manner.Screenplay is not that good as sometimes the movie goes on slow then again it turns into a senti scene, film editing also can be blamed here. Sound, Music, Sound : 2.0/2.0 I like the music, the title track, jame raho n Ma Make up: .2/1.0Makeup is not upto the mark, the scene where Ishaan fights with that boy, the wounds are looking fake.total : 8.2/10After writing this I can easily say watch the movie cause it has something out of the general. Also this is the first time for Aamir Khan in direction he will improve in days to come.


                
