First point: Taare Zameen Par is not a movie for children. Its also not a movie only about 'special' children. What it stands for and depicts stunningly is how the cruel world outside is stealing away our children's precious childhood. It is about how our parents are turning into monsters and imposing their own dreams and aspirations on their children which eventually destroys our children's confidence and can only create a generation of hate. Its about how each child needs attention and care and how we so lack those qualities in this life thats bounded by time.Aamir Khan does a fabulous job both behind and in front of the camera. There are scenes in which just his facial expressions tugs at our hearts and moves us. That is truly the hallmark of a great actor. But then, Taare Zameen Par is not about Aamir. Its truly owned by Darsheel Safary. Right from the first scene to the very end he steals the show and our hearts with his endearing acting.Taare Zameen Par is a biting criticism of the times we live in. But it also makes you smile, laugh, cry, nod in agreement and seethe with anger.. everything that a movie is supposed to do. It truly is a movie which everyone can relate to. Reminds you that movies are meant to make us think.. to provoke us and act as a mirror of our times. Taare Zameen Par does all this and much more. Watch it if you like watching meaningful movies.Sreejith - dailyrium.wordpress.com


                
for a mainstream Hindi film, the following is rare: 1. a film for children2. the only star of the film getting a limited screen space 3. high quality animation4. choosing undertones over melodrama, 5. no regular masala stuff 6. strong message that can actually change lives of people 7. conviction and honesty of the makers palpable in every frame 8. and in spite of all this, the movie offering complete, healthy entertainment...the only problem with the audience is that although we keep shouting on the extreme want of quality cinema, meaningful cinema, when a good film actually comes, we tend to find more flaws in it than appreciating it. Are we insecure of accepting somebodies honesty and creative genius?Sure, Taare Zameen Par has moments that could have been better, but shouldn't we just try to overlook those and once, for all, applaud the effort the makers have put...and believe me it is not difficult... for there are innumerable other moments that leave you spellbound, a wet film over your eyes, a strange pain down your throat, a mild ache at your heart, but a pure smile on your lips... there are times you wish you were a kid... may be it takes a child to love simple tales told with honesty and warmth... may be we grown ups have lost that quality we all once had... but Taare Zameen Par should touch a chord somewhere in every one's heart... we all have been after all, at least for some beautiful part of our lives, special. the film is dedicated to that special child in all of us...P.S- no one can hate it...at least i would like to think that way


                
The ghost (director) has been resurrected in human flesh and yes, Mr Perfectionist has got it all perfect. His maiden directorial venture is a delight for one and all. Whether you are a kid, or a teenager, just married, or if you are a parent -- Yes... You'll love it! Pre-release in what appeared to be a non mainstream film, shines like a UNIVERSAL film which will keep the box office abuzz.The story moves along at a very natural pace at which the viewer is able to connect to the 8 year old dyslexic boy played by Darsheel Safary. That is the biggest plus point of the movie, the viewer draws parallel with the boys character connecting with him at a very high emotional level. You'll reminisce and be transported back to those wonderful years of your childhood and will have more than a tear in the eye. The scene where the boy is admitted in the boarding school and bidding goodbye to his parents and brother followed by the 'Maa' song is a real tear jerker. But tears is not all what you are going to have, the screenplay makes sure that those tear jerking moments are followed by heavy doses of laughter with some lovely and innocent humorous moments.If you thought that only Sanjay Leela Bhansali knew how to capture art on celluloid then watch TZP. The boy's bunked day at school, his room, classroom decor, and the painting competition in the end are a colorful visual delight expressing a million words to the viewers.Yes, its true. Aamir's character appears just before the end of the first half, but one is so engrossed that Aamir - The actor's absence is not felt. Thats remarkable! All the credit goes to the protagonist played by Darsheel who in my books gives the best performance till date by a child artist in Hindi Cinema. He is the heart and soul of the movie and how naturally this boy handles scenes of intense emotions with such ease in his first movie is stunning. Tisca Chopra as the boy's mother gives a top notch performance at par, if not above the likes of roles played by Nirupa Roy, Rakhi and Kirron Kher.Aamir the actor has a shorter but powerful role which he performs decently. But at the end of the day its Aamir - The Director who wins hands down by extracting 'A GRADE' performances from all the cast, and making a movie which connects to the heart of the viewer. The second half becomes a little slow in between and it could have been more crisp. But thats negligible because in the end the movie manages convincingly to convey a very important message to today's parents - Your kids are not race horses of a derby. Let them travel life at their pace as each has their unique mission which only they can fulfill.Lastly, TZP just made 2007 better and interesting. The award season is knocking and well, watch out, TZP may just pull off a surprise or two by upsetting the favorites so far...


                
A good film on children has always been much needed for Indian film-goers. And when in this moment of dearth one gets treated to a movie that simply touches the soul - needless to say - Taare Zameen Par - does just that.Aamir Khan proves his mettle as a director. As an actor he is fabulous. The story captures a look at a middle class family who feel the younger kid (Darsheel Safary) is not a patch on the elder one who is a topper at class. The younger one is always struggling with his ABCs and spends more time out of his class rather than inside.Its only when he is sent to boarding school with the hope that an iron fist will help him improve that he comes across art teacher (Aamir Khan) who correctly identities his problem of suffering from dyslexia and decides to unleash his creativity and make him an achiever.To know more one should watch this movie since it has elements that everyone could relate towards while at school or boarding, and brings into focus the need for underprivileged and slow learning children to be given the chance to prove themselves with patience and love that would help them merge with mainstream education and become worthwhile contributors.Brilliant job Aamir and your team for treating the subject with respect, honesty and flair. Darsheel Safary as the struggling kid has done total justice to his role and puts in a performance that will always be remembered.The movie will make you cry, make you laugh, make you rejoice and come out feeling that there are some people out there who take Indian cinema several notches higher.


                
Everyone knows Aamir Khan the actor - now they have seen Aamir Khan the director - a sensitive and artistic director with a fine eye for detail. A maker of true quality cinema; a director who extracts the best from every actor, every department, every person contributing to his movie.Ishaan Awasthi (Darsheel Safary), is a young boy of eight who admires and adores the simple things in life, such as Nature, colours, animals and toys. The 'real' world - as his parents tell him - which consists of grades, neatness, and homework, is just too tiring and boring for Ishaan to deal with and he spends his time daydreaming and having fun. Unlike his older brother Yohaan, who has earned an admirable reputation for his top marks and studious attitude, Ishaan cannot seem to focus, however hard he tries, and reading and writing are torture on his mind. Ishaan starts a reputation of his own, one of mischief and bad behaviour, and is ultimately packed off to boarding school, to be "disciplined". Torn away from his family, and isolated in a world of bright, prim-proper children, Ishaan is lost in a new world, of misery and and tears. His impressive talent for painting and drawing is barely recognized - he cannot fit in academically and this is causing him to succumb to stress and fear, not to mention killing his self esteem completely. One day a new art teacher joins his school, Ram Shankar Nikumbh (Aamir Khan), who encourages the children to think bright an bold; fill their minds with imagination; dance, sing, express themselves. As the other kids grow to love Nikumbh, Ishaan barely acknowledges his new teacher, and remains in his daze of homesickness and gloom. Nikumbh sees past Ishaan, and views the pain in his eyes, and using his kind, patient nature, he discovers that Ishaan suffers from Dyslexia - a learning disorder which is the cause of his low marks. Nikumbh holds out a helping hand to Ishaan, and becomes the one person to look past the grades and see the boy inside, resulting in a close and caring friendship, and exulting Ishaan into the clouds once more - but this time to find his foothold.Taare Zameen Par is Aamir Khan's directorial debut, as well as his debut as a producer. One very impressive thing about his direction is the pace of the movie, which progresses naturally until the very end. The cinematography and production design were superb, as was the music. The added animation, which surprised me, was better than anything I expected for a Bollywood movie; much crisper and sharper, transporting the viewer to the world of Ishaan's dreams. The A-Grade script by Amol Gupte also contributes greatly, and I did not find the ending to be "cheesy" or too dramatic in the slightest.The fine performance by Darsheel Safary stands out, and the little one is sure to be remembered for his fantastic portrayal of Ishaan Awasthi. Though I found he didn't speak much throughout the movie, he brought a life to his role and endeared himself to the audience. His performance brought a lump to my throat on more than one occasion, and reminded me of certain parts of my childhood. Whenever anyone says 'CHILD STAR', I will think of him. Aamir surprised me once more by letting the little one carry the movie forward, and only appearing just about halfway. Even then, Aamir did not steal the film, though he did give a powerful performance, and the spotlight was kept on Darsheel. The two actors playing Ishaan's parents, Tisca Chopra and Vipin Sharma, were adequate, though I was more impressed with Chopra than her male counterpart. The chemistry between the cast seemed good, though I thought Darsheel and Aamir's on screen connection could have seemed stronger.The soundtrack amazed me. My favourite song, had to be 'Maa'. The amount tears I shed during that one song is hard to explain. The beautiful lyrics added to the charm of the song, and even hearing it now makes me want to cry my heart out. 'Bum Bum Bole' is a lighthearted and catchy track picturised on Aamir, and 'Jame Raho' is an addictive number which was used and picturised very well. 'Kholo Kholo' is a soulful song with again, gorgeous lyrics, leaving 'Bheja Kum', an interesting track, used to show Ishaan's trouble at Boarding School. The title track was also lovely.I really regret not having seen this when it released. After viewing it, I strongly believe this is the best movie that came out in 2007, every film seems weak before Taare Zameen Par, it overshadows almost every movie by far.A great and inspiring experience.


                
This is what you call MARVELLOUS!!! I have become a die hard fan of Aamir for his unique way to express his love for every child... it is really astonishing to see that child indisputably a great actor.i am highly influenced by the acting skills of Tisca Chopra too..Music was lively.I Haven't SEEN A MOVIE LIKE THIS.. The craze for this movie was evident when i saw people rushing to have tickets at the box office.. I also got the ticket after a great fuss. Enthusiasm of elders was very much noticed.. They have just come to see that brilliant child artist whom they saw in promos..Aamir has proved he can be a great director too..with such a triumphant script..HATS OFF!!STANDING OVATION!


                
When someone goes to watch an Aamir Khan movie, what does he\she expect?1. Brilliant performance\efforts 2. Tight story 3. Some relevant social message 4. and the USP ...something different that will blow your mind!! Here the USP is Aamir's direction and his total commitment to his script.This latest effort of Aamir is simply brilliant! Told in a very simplistic manner the film touches your heart and takes you through a roller-coaster of emotions. Even though the protagonist has dyslexia the story could have been of any child. The movie speaks about the pressure a child faces in today's competitive world and how he\she tries to match parents' expectations. But, never once does it get preachy.There are many brilliant moments in the movie and will not spoil them for you by highlighting any one specifically. Watch this movie to realize a reality which most are oblivious to. Watch this movie for it's brilliant story, performance and direction. Watch this movie if u r an Aamir fan.. Watch this movie if u r not an Aamir fan and I promise u will become one after watching...and watch this movie to encourage such movies to be made in India and let the world acknowledge our cinema!


                
Let me commence by saying that I rarely see Hindi movies for one main reason. And that is a majority of them are mainly 'love stories'. Love story between a boy and a girl (and vice versa). No matter how many twists and turns there may be, the essence of the film revolves around the boy and girl end up being together and loving each other and 'living happily ever after'.But this movie is not the case and if you are into seeing Amir Khan love story films than you will be bitterly disappointed. Let me warn you right now that this movie will not be for you. This movie is for the Amir Khan fans who admire him for his versatile film types and also for movie critics who has to rate movies for the sake of rating them. By far this is the best film I have seen starring Amir Khan. For the record, I am not an Amir Khan fan.It a movie that displays three human characteristics that is so prominent in our human society. They are: i) Not everyone is born equal with the same intelligence, cognitive and learning level; ii) How much of an a**hole and blind parents can be when they selfishly and eagerly want their children to achieve something that they (they as in the children) may not want to achieve because it is not in their heart; and iii) A child's imagination, wonders and thoughts is something that was in all of us when we were little but is lost as we are exposed to the corrupt elements of the world.The character build up within the film was great. The main attraction of the film was Ishaan Awasthi played by Darsheel Safary. The film was well crafter and progressed at a pace that really made you realize what the world is and can be like from a child's point of view who has trouble reading, writing and understanding things of general. Darsheel Safary was brilliant as the leading character. The expression on his face said it all when he was being put down by his parents, neighbourhood kids and teachers. His performance really makes your mind and eyes open to issues that intellectually disabled kids face on a daily basis. It gave a view of the dangers people with disability/ies may face if they are not properly looked after to build up a base for them.As mentioned above, not everyone is born equal. But given the chance, opportunity and support by people, then the person with disability can head towards the right direction and be successful in life in his/her own way and rights. And this is the most important element that this movie was able to show.The key to success is not by how much money or materialistic things that you may have, but rather what you have achieved how you have achieved it. And this is something else the film displays. Ishan not only achieved the basic understanding of school literacy within his year level but achieved even greater success with something that came naturally to him. And that is his passion for art. His teacher played by Amir Kahn achieved success by bringing out this talent in his student and showing to his colleagues and Ishan's peers the great potential that he has inside of him.On a personal note, its funny how as parents, most of them don't see the potential talents that their children have inside of them. To them if their children are not doctors, lawyers or engineers then they are nothing. That is dead wrong!! If you think about it, most of the successful people in the world were not straight A students at school but rather they struggled during their school years. Rupert Murdoch, John Major (former British Prime Minister), Sylvester Stallone and Richard Branson are just to name a few.For those of you who are struggling or have struggled in school with homework, watch this movie as it may be an inspiration to you to pursue with what is inside your heart.
If Bheja Fry asked questions to Hindi contemporary cinema, Taare Zameen Par should answer it. A movie is not worth watching unless it has a purpose. This purpose is encapsulated in a message, and delivered. Its simple.The purpose is to spread awareness about the pressure normal child carries at an age he should be experiencing completely the opposite, to highlight child labour, to what extent parents' expect a child to deliver and most importantly because of competition (population?) there is no place for failure, & the best way to avoid failure is to study.The message is encapsulated in the story of Ishant Awasthi(Darsheel Safary), who expresses solace in randomness, trusts his capacity to pluck symphony from noise. But every system has to be imperfect, and his unparalleled advantages arise from a congenital condition of mind. His hobbies are unentertained, his sufferings are treated excuses and he is about to be labeled incompetent by the world. His teacher (Aamir Khan), could be his only saviour.The delivery occurs through unique cinematography, expressions over whelming our hearts and Darsheel Safary.As it should be, the director(Aamir Khan) wants us to only ponder. After experiencing his effort, its not a choice most of us will have..


                
I already knew when I walked into the theatre - what the movie was gonna be about.. A kid with some disorder and how the open-minded new teacher rescues him and helps him beat the odds. Something like that..But even then, Aamir has managed to pull a rabbit out of the hat again. He made me cry my eyes out!The disorder here is dyslexia... the pointed comment on today's parents goading on their children relentlessly to be toppers. The lesson... each child is different.He got a new kid who holds the movie on his own till the interval, after which Aamir joins into the act. The movie begins with a frisky lil kid who lives in his own world.. how he can't read.. doesn't fit in with the rest... soon how he recedes into a shell. Finally how the new art teacher finds him again and brings him out. The music fits well into the movie and switches with the mood in the film. You feel for the kid, his mother, his family,Aamir may be accused of perfectionism and hijacking directors... but then he has proved he is too damn good at it. So shut up and watch!


                
Have we ever thought about how easy it would be for a Pied Piper to come and steal all our kids away ? It wouldn't take much, would it ? What do we really offer them, right now ? A life full of discipline and homework, an unyielding drive for progress, bound to timings, curriculum and the ever pervasive rat race ? Even when we do extra-curricular activities, we make it as bad as work - are we on time, are there special classes, how good are they, will they be successful ? When do we really let them just be kids, with their own special time ? Can't we just let them enjoy childhood, before they enter this big bad world of grown-ups and of adult rules ?Such are the thoughts that flit through the mind as you watch this Aamir Khan masterpiece, borne out of a lovely story woven by Amole Gupta and his wife Deepa Bhatia through their work with children over the years. Its about a eight year old kid, Ishaan Awasthi, who finds it difficult to focus on letters or numbers, to catch or throw a ball, to generally do the things we expect children to do. He has failed in the third standard, which is a major source of misery to his middle class parents, whose other son, Yohan, is a topper. The school is now threatening to throw him out since everything points to his failing again. He is a misfit, preferring to live in his world of dreams, finding solace in the company of animals or anything else that catches his fancy. He loves to paint, is good with jig-saws etc but these things of course, will not help you pass the exams. Borne out of frustration, as a kind of punishment, and also with a intent to help him improve through greater discipline, he is put in a boarding school. The discipline, rules and punishments there though, break his spirit instead, making him retreat into his shell. He stops communicating, stops painting, stops talking to his parents. And then a temporary art teacher joins, Ram Shanker Nikumbh, who has his own theories on how to teach children. This is outstanding heart-warming stuff, hats off to Aamir for once again taking on an off- beat topic and bringing it to life in his directorial debut. As he says in his note on the official site, to children and to childhood....And if they dare send another movie to the Oscars, they'll have to deal with me ! My full review is available on blogspot at my blog apurvbollywood. Thx


                
OK, so i may be a little biased as this movie is still fresh on my mind from last night. But when i look back on all the movies that I have seen, world cinema or mainstream bollywood, the one thing I can tell you for sure is that I have never cried so much throughout a movie! This movie makes you feel. I am not a mother, yet I could feel the separation during Ishaan's first day in hostel. I am not dyslexic and yet I could feel the humiliation and helplessness that Ishaan must've felt when mocked by the others...The movie has tackled the issue of dyslexia brilliantly. Subtly highlighting the obstacles a parent faces when accepting a dyslexic child and most importantly what a child goes through when he just cannot fit in... every scene is cinematic brilliance. The dream sequences, the paintings, the imagination... wonderfully done.Technically I am not even gonna comment. All I can say is that it is a Masterpiece. Every scene is going to take your breath away. I mean it.Go ahead and treat yourself to this piece of cinematic brilliance. And I am not saying it 'cos of the films superstar director, but really, TZP just goes to show what good cinema with a strong message can achieve.PS: The critic in me couldn't believe that I'd give any movie a 10. But really, as I write this I cant help admitting that this is one movie which I cannot rate. Any kind of rating will just belittle it.


                
Sure to touch your heart. Not even a single scene is out of place. Songs are beautifully written (watch out for "Maa" - You are bound to have moist eyes), even the rap song makes sense...Can you imagine Aamir khan being absent in the whole 1st half of the movie. And i never felt his absence...Darsheel excels and couldn't have been better. Aamir khan, as usually delivers the best. Somehow i felt the kid's father's character could have been moderated a bit but it never impacted the flow and storyline. Kudos to Aamir for taking up such a concept and making such a beautiful movie. I can wait for 2 more years for such a quality movie. Must watch movie.


                
Aamir has proved with this movie, what a perfectionist he is. This movies is a classic example of what an "uncompromising movie making" is all about.I walked into the theater with my 8 family members and very high expectations and after three hours, we all were entertained to the very core. In the last scene, all 8 /9 of us were crying, and believe me it was in the sparkle in the eye but it was big tears. About the content, movie has an excellent story line, great performances, fantastic music and neat direction. Only thing which has some room for improvement is the length of the movie. Editing could have been a much better especially the fist 70 % of the movie. There were quiet a few scenes, situations, emotions which are repeated more than twice. But this, does not in any way take away , what this movie has achieved.Not to mention, The subject of the movies is as relevant as anything else.KUDOS TO THE MAKER ON PRODUCING THIS GEM !!!


                
As i entered the movie hall on the very first show, many seats were still seen empty, a shocker for me, since its an Aamir khan movie... Yes of course people had the mindset that this is a children s movie and may be did now want to see the movie before the review... No guys!! This movie is NOT A CHILDREN S MOVIE BUT A MOVIE ABOUT CHILDREN and that makes it clear... Aamir , as a debut ant director, Simply shines in each and every Shot in the film... Darsheel Safary , who plays the character of Ishaan awasti , a 9 year old dyslexic kid, simply took my breath away... Such an acting was not seen by me in recent times... Aamir Khan s acting was brilliant as usual but in the end . The beauty of this movie is that it makes you Cry when you have to cry , laugh when you have to laugh and in some cases make you feel so so touched by the magic the kids around us... Such an impact was on the audience... TWO THUMBS UP FOR AAMIR!!


                
This is my 2nd best bollywood movie, 1st is 3 idiots.


                
The first time I saw the rushes of Taare Zameen Par on TV, I didn't give it much thought. I thought, OK, this looks like a small budget movie with no star cast, a bunch of kids, doesn't look like it has any songs and possibly an educational message (how frightening...as if we didn't have enough of that already!!!). In one word - 'BORING'. But when I was dragged along to the movie, I realized how wrong I was! Taare Zameen Par is a wonderfully made movie. For once, I can say that it really is 'different' (A term often grossly misused by the Bollywood film fraternity!). The fact that the film doesn't have a big star cast (with the exception of Aamir Khan of course) is a good thing because we get to see some seasoned performances by lesser known actors like Tisca Chopra & Vipin Sharma. They make the character of a middle class couple coping with the day to day stresses of life look very real and believable. The child actor Darsheel Safary has done a brilliant job. There are some scenes in the movie that are truly touching. I must confess I didn't know anything about dyslexia before watching the movie but after watching it, I'm glad that I'm aware of this condition which I'm sure leaves parents of such children confused and very distressed.This educational and social message I didn't mind one bit! In today's world, when everyone wants to join the rat race, its refreshing to see a different perspective and take on life. It is an eye opener and in my opinion every parent should watch it. I'd like to say kudos to Aamir Khan for making such a good movie. Wish more movies like this were made. Go watch it!


                
This movie can touch your heart and your soul.
Amazing movie
Fantastic


                
On rare occasions are movies and stories written to enlighten the audience about the challenges that 'special' (physically or mentally challenged) kids face. This movie gives a detailed, an emotional appealing insight and journey into education as well as solutions to challenges these kids face. It's a great movie


                
This movie was so good and entertaining and it's really amazing somehow What a wonderful storyline brilliant direction by Aamir khan Aamir khan does well and darsheel is superb as the protagonist other were superb Great songs and this movie very entertaining screenplay good editing fine Overall 9/10


                
One can expect nothing but the best from perfectionist Aamir Khan, and he does just that in his directorial debut. While so many of his movies have been entertaining, profound, etc., Taare Zameen Par also deals with an extremely important issue.TZP is the story of a dyslexic child. Many children with special needs in India are not being given the special care and attention that they need. However, while arranging facilities, proper education, and ample attention is a great challenge to combat, the more difficult and frustrating obstacle is to convince parents of these children that these needs exist. Out of fear of shame and "genetic ego," the parents refuse to hear/deny the truth. We must learn that it is wrong to look at such children as disabled or being a burden to a society. Instead we must recognize that they are special, encourage their unique talents, and accept them for who they are.The film educates its viewers about dyslexia; people such as Einstein, Leonardo da Vinci, and even Abhishek Bachchan are dyslexic. There are endless such conditions that people refuse to accept exist in their families resulting in ruining the lives of so many innocent and able people.All performances are stellar. Songs are not bad; the title track is nice. Everything is great from the cinematography to the animation sequences. Must-see for all parents.


                
First of all.. this movie should be watched everybody!! irrespective of their age.. How many times have you guys been De-motivated, lost your confidence when you were in school??.. well i have a lot of times..and had all the courage to win over it also!..This is what this movie is about...its one of the best movies made in the recent past!!.. the protagonist of the movie 'Darsheel Safary' is simply superb..very natural and smart..the beginning of this movie reminded me of the school days which i miss the most.. they have showed all the minute details..what exactly WE did when we were in primary school.. the spelling mistakes, grammatical errors.. comparing you with the toppers of the class..punishing..making you kneel down..and the day you get your marks card your heart pounding a thousand beats!!..for all the naughty and mischievous things done!!.. i have been punished numerous times when i was in school..this will get you back to those days with a niche smile on your face and makes you feel so good...this movie will make you think.. will make you think so much that..you would'nt utter a word when you going back home!!..now talking about the direction.. it was an amazing work by both the creative director amole gupta and director aamir khan..looking at things just a kid would do. thumbs up!! And the screenplay is beautifully and intelligently written.. especially where aamir is trying to explain the kids dad.. and there are some lines which kicks you real hard!!..Awesome work.. and a lot of research has been done.. Now the music.. is perfect.. everything is situational..lot of acoustics used and less of electronic..thats one good thing!! "kholo kholo" will get your spirits really high...so high that the hair on your arms rise up!!.. 'mere jahaan" just sung like during school days is very soothing..Now this goes for all the parents and teachers who have little kids who don't live to their expectations.. please for Godsake!! Don't COMPARE YOUR KIDS!!..don't force them in things where they find difficult to get into..patience and thought is required!!..its not possible for all the kids to be the same...don't try stretching all the fingers..they might breaK!..and now for teachers please don't beat them for their non-performance in classrooms.. don't insult and demotivate them..think and see how you can get them learn!!I again request all of you to watch this movie at your nearest theaters and please stop buying or renting pirated CD's and DVD's!!.. It will be an insult for the movie!!..cheerio!!..


                
A slow start and then the emotional load increases to the extreme, a great movie that shows how a deeper look and a little love can change lives.Life has many paths, you have to find yours.Excessive musical pieces end up disturbing the film a little.


                
Let us take a closer look at the constraints that are imposed on us by our environment. Our freedom of choice and our freedom to develop in whatever direction we wish is certainly limited by the society. For one thing we cannot choose what we don't know about. If we have never heard of the profession of painting, we will not have the option of entering it.
During childhood we learn a great number of things via reward and punishment. We are praised when we behave in a quiet and well- mannered way at Aunt house and we get hissed at when we comment on the fact that school is boring. When a child attempts to communicate are met with indifference or impatience the child understands this reaction as a personal rebuke, as a message that means , 'You are not worth listening to'. This self-image imprinted in us early on by parents and teacher will later accepted by us as our self.
This movie shows the love of Parents and their reason for turning things hard but it is there believe that there would be change if they turn things around. Most of the time there is not a lot we can do about our biological make-up or the fact that problems arise in our environment. we have to learn to live with the realization that we have.
This movie teaches a lesson to the guardian as well as teacher how to behave their child or student, behaving abnormal or very different from the behavior of common children. In here, I can say that teachers play an important role, either to break or make our students "shine as stars".
But the thing in the movie that during painting competition the student made fun of their teachers and had made their funny sketches on the papers which encourages the students to make funny sketches of their teachers to make fun of them, it may be their physical body or face structure or the attitude or style of teaching of the teacher, which should not be done in schools in our societies.


                
i think every one irrespective of nation,language,religion whether male or female will resemble in this movie. Darsheel safari(boy) is genius and i think he deserves a award for this movie,the dare to produce and direct this movie is awesome by Amir khan is really good. hats of to him. we need more films like this. the screen play ,writer (amole Gupta), music (shankar-essan-loy),concept research(Deepa Bhatia),lyrics(Prasoon Joshi).every one has done their job to perfection every one remember his life sweet or bad memories of school,parents . i recommend to every parent to watch movie as it will be more helpful for them.see,enjoy , be happy


                
