This is pretty much the ultimate action western movie I can think of. This movie has everything you could want, and it appeals to almost any type of viewer. Paul Newman, one of if not the best actor of our time is the lead along with Robert Redford, the two go together perfectly, I dare say this is one of the best combinations in Hollywood history.Anyways the story takes place in the midwest, Newman and Redord run "The Hole in the Wall Gang" named after their hideout. They rob trains and take big scores, later the Pacific railroad gets together the best tracker and lawmen in the entire Western United States to track and kill Butch and Sundance. They must manage to evade their elite counterparts, the movie is 100 percent entertainment, especially during the chases. The movie is based on true events and is spectacular.This movie won Best Score, Best Song (Raindrops) which was very good untraditional music in a western, it fit good in this movie, Best Cinematography, shot by Conrad L. Hall who also did Road To Perdition, arguably the best cinematography done to this very day, and Adapated Screenplay, all for the right reasons. George Roy Hill, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford all went on to create "The Sting" in 1973, which is possibly one of the best movies ever made. I praise this movie, 10/10


                
One of the best and most-liked films of the 1960s, this is still a fun movie to watch today. When I saw this on DVD on a nice flat-screen set, I was amazed how good this looked. I had seen it several times before on VHS and hadn't realized how good this was photographed. I just discovered Conrad Hall was the cinematographer, which explains it. Few, if any, were better than him.One remembers this western for several things: the two leads looking over their shoulders incredulous that their pursers seem to be always there; Paul Newman riding a bicycle to the tune of "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head," the beautiful Katharine Ross, the chemistry of Newman and Robert Redford as a two-man team, on and on. Those three lead actors, with the repartee between them, and the likability of each, make them fun to watch as they dominate this picture. It's just solid entertainment and another example of good film-making that doesn't need a lot of R-rated material to make it successful. Photography-wise, the western scenery was great, there were some wonderful closeup shots and I really liked the tinted old-time footage inserted in here. So, when you combine all the elements, it's no surprise this film won so many awards and endures so well.


                
This has got to be one of my favorite westerns. It has everything you could possibly want for every movie fan. They're so many great aspect and I will attempt to display some of them.The acting, what can I say about it. It was a perfect fit for Redford and Newman who are both friends in the movie and real life. They deliver exhilarating, funny and electrifying performance. It is so great I can't even put it into words. These two actors were robbed of an at least an Oscar nomination. It has to be the biggest Oscar snub ever. Watching this movie my only wish is that Redford and Newman would have done more movies together.The writing was great and creative. I have never witnessed a movie that was so serious and yet so funny. The writing totally propelled this movie forward. The fact that Butch and Sundance went to Bolivia trying to outrun the law was hilarious. This has got to be some of the best writing ever.The directing by George Roy Hill was as well amazing displaying the chase scenes and just sitting back and letting the writing and directing take over. But most of all he let Robert Redford and Paul Newman do their thing. You could see that they were both feeding off each other and George Roy Hill never seemed to interrupt their chemistry. I would advise anyone and everyone to watch this. They are just so many laughs, many fun action scenes and of course Paul Newman and Robert Redford.


                
"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is one of the greatest movies ever made.  It is my favorite film of all time, and the biggest reason for that is because of its script by William Goldman.  It's very rare in film that a script has perfect lines in it from beginning to end, but this film is an example of what can be achieved by Hollywood screenwriters. It was William Goldman's script of this movie that sparked my passion for the American cinema.  Though most Westerns of the cinema past have serious and gritty tones to them, this film has just the right mix of comedy, wit, and adventure.  The greatest team in Hollywood history, arguably, is the team of Paul Newman and Robert Redford.  The presence by these two Hollywood legends has help cement this film as one of the greatest movies ever made - according to organizations like the American Film Institute.  The direction by George Roy Hill is first rate, and much credit also has to be given to cinematographer Conrad Hall, who did a great job giving this film the superior look of the Old West.    Katherine Ross adds to this film in the role as the beautiful Etta Place, as does the score, which makes us feel good about going to the movies.  This was the film that, for the first time, got audiences to root for "the bad guys".  This film should be shown in every film school to show film students how to make a theatrical film.  I will always love this movie, and indeed, this movie is something special.  It is also special to me because the REAL Sundance Kid was born in my hometown of Phoenixville, Pennsylvania.


                
"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is in my all time top ten movies, and has been for quite awhile. At the same time, I can't say that it's my favorite Western, as the film almost transcends the genre to become the quintessential buddy movie. In their respective roles as Butch and The Kid, Paul Newman and Robert Redford develop a magnetism and charisma that give the movie it's tremendous appeal.I recall the first time I saw this movie upon it's release in 1969 and how original many of the scenes and concepts played out, from Butch's put down of Harvey Logan's (Ted Cassidy) challenge at Hole in the Wall, Sundance's gunpoint strip by Etta (Katharine Ross), and the humorous exchanges between the bandits and E.L. Harriman's trusted train guard Woodcock (George Furth). Life on the run never seemed as glamorous as Butch and the Kid attempting to outwit "those guys". Even the final scene, with the Mexican troops encircling the "yanquis bandidos" location, I kept wondering how they were going to get out of this one.The film also cleverly introduces one of the year's top hit tunes with "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head", though if you want to be critical, it wasn't raining during the segment in which it runs, which on reflection doesn't seem to make sense. But the upbeat tempo of the tune does support the light hearted action on screen and just works.Some veteran character actors perform admirably here as well. Of particular note is Jeff Corey as Sheriff Ray who carefully orchestrates his own bondage by the boys lest he be considered in cahoots with them; and Strother Martin as the Bolivian paymaster who hires Butch and Sundance as the proverbial foxes in the hen house to guard the company payroll. The scene with the Mexican bandits was reminiscent of an earlier era's treatment in "Treasure of the Sierra Madre", though with dire consequences for the banditos this time around.At just under two hours, the film seems to fly by, a testament to intriguing and involved story telling. Even when you know it's over for Butch and Sundance, you're hoping for one more exchange before lights out, such is the camaraderie one feels for the film's protagonists. This is a movie I return to at least once yearly for a good old dose of action and humor, and it still delivers time after time.
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid was, for Hollywood-skeptical me, a reminder of how film-making can be an art. It is just so beautifully crafted! Paul Newman and Robert Redford shine as the title characters - I could not take my eyes off of them on the screen. The supporting cast plays off them wonderfully, and the screenplay, full of wit and charisma, is the best I've ever seen. There are some wonderful filming sequences in this movie, used innovatively to compliment the scenes and plot. The score is memorable - not just sweeping soundtrack stuck into the frames of a western, it is really music, beautiful and creative in of itself. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a poignant classic - they don't make 'em like this anymore.


                
Revisiting Butch and Sundance in 2002, 33 years after initial release, this film certainly stands the test of time... it was as funny yet poignant today as it was back then.  Not all films last 33 years when so many other films of the period just look dated.   This one still has legs!


                
After viewing this movie for the first time, and while simultaneously reading about Robert Leroy Parker, I felt it appropriate to give my two cents. The character development and chemistry between Redford and Newman is excellent.  As is the case with their performance in The Sting, the two really excel together as a team.  The shootout in the end best demonstrates the comradery and the brotherhood that the two share. I can't figure out why the soundtrack from this movie won so many awards.  It wasn't terrible but it sure wasn't spectacular.  Oh well, such is politics.      The balance of humor and drama was superb, transitioning between each other like clockwork.  The sets and the actual geography of the sets was incredible.  I think I spent more time marveling at the mountains and the rock formations then the characters at times.      If you are looking for a fun film to watch, or a unique western, I suggest this film whole-heartedly.


                
It's interesting that a film Midnight Cowboy about a street hustler managed to beat out a western about a couple of real western characters for Best Picture of 1969. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is simply one of the best westerns ever made, it's got wit, and charm, and will get you positively infectious in your enthusiasm for it.Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid has the incomparable team of Paul Newman and Robert Redford. George Roy Hill the director had a stroke of inspirational genius teaming the two of them. They both play a different character. Butch Cassidy is the amiable thinker and planner for the Hole in the Wall gang. Outlaw that he is Paul Newman is so charming in the role you have to root for him. He's a guy who thinks fast on his feet. Note what happens right at the beginning of the film when Ted Cassidy, best known for being Lurch the butler on the Addams Family challenges him for the gang leadership. It's one of my favorite scenes.But even better is Newman with George Furth as the dedicated employee of the Union Pacific Railroad in two scenes where this stubborn little clerk tries to singlehandedly stop the robbery. Furth in fact is my favorite character part in the film.Of course Newman is backed up by the laconic fast draw The Sundance Kid as played by Robert Redford. He's got a nice quiet menace about him, but you can tell how much affection he has for Newman. What comes through is these guys genuinely like each other on and off the screen.Katharine Ross plays Etta Place who was Sundance's mistress. I liked her also, she's a survivor and one grateful for the good and bad times she's had. Ross is a former schoolteacher and she went into the relationship with her eyes open with no regrets. But the most poignant moment in the film is when she tells both of the men that she'll go with them to Bolivia after the USA has gotten too hot for them and do whatever they want, but she won't watch them inevitably die because they can't change with the times.A lot of the same themes are expressed in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid as were done in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. The difference is that Butch and Sundance have a ton of redeeming qualities whereas Liberty Valance has none.B.J. Thomas's rendition of the Academy Award winning song Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head is what people remember most about this film. It's certainly one of the most recognized movie themes ever written. Besides Thomas, good records of the song were done by Andy Williams, Perry Como and Dean Martin. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid won some other technical Oscars including a most deserved one for cinematography. It missed being Best Picture and Best Director for George Roy Hill.In the only western he ever did in his career George Roy Hill came up with one of the best. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid should be seen back to back with The Sting. Hard to say which one is the better.


                
Out of the two films Redford and Newman did, this is my favourite out of the two. Redford and Newman just fit the roles of Cassidy and the Sundance Kid like a glove and they gel so well together on the film. I really can't imagine anyone else playing the roles as well as they did. I really enjoyed the interaction between the two, Cassidy (Newman) has the best lines and in character is the lighter of the two and Sundance Kid (Redford) is darker and hard and you really see the contrasts of the characters, how they deal with situations differently.I have always been fascinated about the wild west legends and this film kept me engaged in the story from start to finish. I particularly thought the scene where George Roy Hill superimpose Redford, Newman and Ross's image on old film was amazing and he and the editor did such a good job of making the actors part of the scene that you couldn't tell it was fake.There are a lot of brilliant and iconic scenes in the movie which are my favourites, some include Cassidy and Sundance jumping off a cliff, robbing the train, the fight between Cassidy and Harvey, Cassidy and Sundance fleeing their pursuers and the gun fight at the end. It just works on so many levels, the casting, direction, editing and story.
This is one of the most entertaining and satisfying westerns of all time. There are many factors which works wonder in favor of this movie. Among them:1. The biggest plus point for this movie to be what it is, is the casting of Newman, Redford and Ross. Apart from the obvious declaration that screen chemistry between Newman-Redford is one of the best of all times, chemistry between Newman-Ross and Redford-Ross are some of the other highlights of the movie. Especially, Newman-Ross scene where they ride in a bicycle is pure joy to watch with the background musical score. Not to mention each scene where Newman and Redford share together are some of the finest moment's cinema lover could ask for.2.The other major selling point of this movie is that it doesn't have the usual elements of most other westerns which are there all the times i.e., needless bloodshed/ revenge plot/ gun tricks and so on. So this way it was a complete different viewing experience for me and I enjoyed it a lot. Hero here is not interested in taking revenges, he is not very thrilled by the prospect of killing, and he knows the odds against him when there are many villains involved. And yet he does the things westerners do, like robbing trains, loving women, and killing when utmost necessary.3. Other major factor is the Cinematography. I won't be exaggerating when I suggest that this is the foremost beautiful movie to be photographed, ever! The picturesque landscapes, the white flowing river and everything from day-night to train to houses to people are all so meticulously captured on the camera and with such beautiful, smooth colors that I am totally amazed by this work. Hats off to Conrad Hall for his marvelous efforts.4. Background music is really good, especially in the bicycle scene and in general throughout the movie. It is very different from music so often related to westerns. 5. Direction is superb, dialogs are smart and witty.I have tried to cover all the pluses that came to my mind, but still feel I missed some although some on purpose because if I start writing on those it will take more time for me to finish this comment. Especially particular scenes of Newman-Redford but all of them are so good, full of wit, that it won't be fair to comment only on some. So if you have or will watch the movie then you might know what task I have here to write about some of them. Overall, one of the finest westerns of all time, and yet so different from most other films of this genre.


                
This is a true great majestic western action adventure all provided by Paul Newman, Robert Redford and of coarse the director of the film- George Roy Hill. First of, the chemistry between Newman and Redford are nothing short of absolute magic. The direction from George Roy Hill is epic and sweeping and puts the audience in the time of fast sharp shooters and valiant heroes.The comedy put into the characters of Newman and Redford are classy and intelligent, the action is also as much use as the comedy- brilliant sophisticated and incomparable. So if you are looking for a western that has comedy, action, romance and adventure. Then look no further than Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, let your imagination sour.
If there is a list of movies that defied most film conventions at the time of their release, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" would have to be on the list. Before "Butch Cassidy", the typical western involved good guys with white hats and bad guys with black hats, basically John Wayne versus Jack Palance, and the winner was already foretold. And few of these offerings had much in the way of character study and/or development. "Butch Cassidy" warped the conventional and created a very different way of looking at the genre. From one angle, you might argue its a parody of the American western. On another angle, its a character study. Or is it a comedy? Some of the lines are better than most comedies filmed today. And it is also a drama with tragic elements. "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " is all these things."Butch Cassidy" parodies the traditional American western by focusing on two outlaws as its main characters and giving them beloved humanity. They are even described as "two-bit outlaws on the dodge" in one scene. And yet, we are drawn into their story in a way you might expect being drawn into the story of two good guys. The lawmen of the movie, who are chasing Butch and Sundance, are like specters. We see them from afar barely visible, often riding in the distance a mile or so from our "heros". They appear ominous and unforgiving in a way you might think of the typical bad guy riding into town in movies made only 10-20 years before "Butch Cassidy". We find ourselves fearing the "good guys" and loving the "bad guys".The movie is a complex character study of its two leads. It's impossible now to imagine this film working as well as it does without the talents of Paul Neuman and Robert Redford in which a strange and unpredictable chemistry evolved. As the movie progresses, the relationship of Butch and Sundance is gradually revealed. Sundance is the more erratic and high-strung of the two while Cassidy is the intellectual criminal, analyzing situations, although both are portrayed as highly intelligent. At one point, Sundance says, "You just keep thinking, Butch, that's what you're good at." The comedic elements of "Butch Cassidy" should be celebrated as much as its other aspects. The movie brims with wonderful innuendos, sly remarks, and interesting sarcasm. At one point, the issue of Sundance's girl going with them comes up, and he tells her that he wants no wining or complaining, or "I'm dumping you flat." To which Cassidy says, "Don't sugar-coat it, kid. Tell her straight." This kind of humor permeates the entire film, with some of the best humor erupting in the middle of desperate situations.And finally, "Butch Cassidy" is a tragedy, or at least a tragic-comedy. (No wedding at the end.) At the beginning of the tale, the characters are light-hearted bandits in which they rob trains but always sympathize with the passengers, and even the poor bastard hired by the railroads to guard the "loot". At one point Cassidy tells him "Whatever they're paying you it ain't enough." But then the tide turns as the railroads fight back and hire a sophisticated posy to hunt down and destroy the fun-loving outlaws. The film becomes an interesting study in how these two outlaw stars must now face their greatest foe. It should be noted that the real Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid were ruthless killers who engaged in many gunfights where they mercilessly slaughtered their foes long before they went to Bolivia. Their portrayal in this 1969 film is not really history, but the story works on its own terms.Few filmmakers would attempt to combine all these elements in a single story, and yet the film works on every level. Maybe in a way, although it has these elements of comedy, drama, character, and tragedy, it is ultimately just a well-told story of two guys who happen to be bandits.


                
The word legend gets used all to easily now a days. But in this man i think it is an under-statement. On and off the screen this man was a giant ! My condolences must go out to his family.In my mind he was the last real link between the old Hollywood and the Hollywood of today. I bet you can not find a single person in the movies or in life that would have a bad word to say about him.Butch Cassidy is one of my favourite films of all time but i could pick 10 or more of his films that would make my list of favourites of all time, that was the calibre of his work.Over here in England he is on the front covers of all the major news papers today which times as they are and things that are going on in the world right now speak volumes of how much this screen legend will be missed.RIP Paul Newman........


                
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid was made in 1969. It is in my top 10 films of all time. Few movies change our culture----this one did. Who are those guys ? Girls wanted to have fun too---so they pinched the word "guys" and now it ain't --GUYS AND DOLLS---its guys and guys !! Oh why not ? (before BC & SD , guys were always males). The writer William Goldman delivered a knock-out script---up there with Double Indemnity and Network. The "pure entertainment" which lies at the heart of this masterpiece is also at the core of why BC&SK is historically an extremely important motion picture. I have been hearing a remake of BC&SK is being considered !! That is a nutty decision (if its true). We should all see this movie--we all need a little dose of perfection---from time to time. All of the above ......may be ...totally accurate !


                
Warning: Some spoilers!It is an important clarification to make that 'Butch Cassidy' thrives on legend, on not being too realistic, but balancing realism and fantasy over a thin line.  This is not your John Ford western (noble and loving of the land), nor is it your Sam Peckinpah western (realistic and bloody), nor is it your Sergio Leone western (gritty and stylish).  It is in a class all its own, courtesy of George Roy Hill, Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Conrad Hall, and, of course, Burt Bacharach, who won the Academy Award for best score.The obvious story is that of the two "aging bandits" (their not really either), who escape from the law.  There are those memorable moments, such as the train robbery with a little too much dynamite (and the employee of Mr. E.H. Harriman), the chase into the rocks ("Who are those guys?"), and the "straight" job working for a mine in Bolivia (and the owner who really loves his tobacco).  But the more subtle draw to the story, in my opinion, is the legend behind it.  There are little points made like "Most of What Follows Is True", but the biggest point is made in the last still frame. Sure we see them run out, and sure we hear the Bolivian captain yell "Fire!", but can you really say they are killed?  Remember, these guys are the two-bit legends of the west, resourcful in all they do.  That is the beauty of this film-they're real, but not over-the-top real.The cinematography is absolutely magnificant (point-in-case: the bicycle seen where the camera is on the other side of an old fence, allowing some light to be seen), the music is poignant and appropriate (yes, even the scatting singers-it progresses the plot well), and, of course, the pitch-perfect chemistry between the witty Newman, and the tough Redford. This one is a must; a one of a kind!
great screenplay and story based on the whole in the wall gang. based on true story. paul newman is great and teaming up with robert redford even better. some liberties taken with the whole in the wall gang,due to some better choices for the films ending. the bicycle scene and music involved is priceless and if you love movies and actors like newman and  redford can't be missed. good to rent and see over and over again.love and danger intermixed to bring reality to all the characters.


                
At first, sorry for my english. I´m a brazilian that never forgot the first time I saw this movie. It´s a very good idea not to show us the scenes... let us think for ourselves, to dream, to cry, whatever. And the music - Raindrops keep falling on my head - cannot leave our mind any moment. This eternal rain is one of the reasons for me to elect this movie like a  "note 10".


                
Paul Newman and Robert Redford star in this picture about the legendary outlaws with a great script, excellent chemistry between the two leads, exciting shootouts, saloon brawls and every other western movie staple executed in an interesting way.


                
The story in this movie is very good. It has a lot of good action scenes. They go after some trains in the beginning. But then these high level cops come for them. So they go to Bolivia and start robbing banks. Then the cops had to stop their shenanigans. And they put Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid to rest. The historical accuracy of the film is alright. I didn't notice any other connections to other movies. I liked the ending shoot out. The bank montage was very well put together. I didn't like how they died in the end but it is a good ending to their story. I would watch another film with these actors in it.
I watched this movie for my history through film class. It was the next one for the semester. The filmmaker is telling the tale of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. The filmmaker is putting their own take on the story. It isn't 100% to the real thing but is close. I recognized one of the actors from a current movie. This could be used to help determine how old the movie is based off of his age. The special effects could also give it away as they weren't the best. The biggest thing i liked about the movie was that it was a very well done western movie. They stayed true to the time period and didn't stray at all. Clothing and props were as close at they could be to the real things. I didn't like the scream the entire Mexican gang did. I would like to see more movies by these actors. Preferably in the old west time period again. I'd also like to see more movies by the same director.
We watched this movie for our history through film class. this movie was about 2 bandits that were being hunted by the strong arm of the law. so they moved to bolivia and ended up robbing more banks there. when they realuzed their be hunted there they tried to go straight but that didnt work so they died fighting. it was good filming. they say they didnt find butches body in real life. so id imagine that in the movie that body looks like swiss cheese on the ground. bandits like in the book off life. i liked when the guy made the girl take off her clothes with a gun, when the sundance kid shot things was cool too. and last but most certainly not least i liked when they died. i didnt like that they died. love hate relationship with death. it was a cool movie and id watch it again if i was forced to like that girl was with the clothes.
We are watching this movie for our class. The story teller is showing us how the two bandits lived in there lifetime. Some thing i noticed about the time period were there guns. It also looked to be set in the wild west. I noticed a connection to A new world. I liked the way the actors played the bandits. I liked the setting of the movie ass well. I didnt like the way it ended. All in all i think this is my favorite movie in the class so far it had alot of action and did a good job of keeping my attention, By the way they die, went out with a bangBEST REVIEW OF 2018


                
This classic western pulls the viewers in with the weirdest plot twist, you're supposed to fall for the villain of the picture. This wasn't heard of often due to the fact that the Hayes code prohibited the villain of the film from winning at the end, they had to meet justice one way or another.
The significance of the film is most likely that the villain, no matter how likable or how much we may want them to come out on top, should get what they deserve. The historical significance for the time period this film came out in was that of post war Vietnam, which had been going on for Americans for close to fifteen years, was very much so to reinstill Americans with hope for a brighter day even when things seem hopeless.
They just don't make movies like this anymore. I know that phrase gets thrown around a lot nowadays, but man is it true here. A movie that focuses entire on villains, but Newman and Redford are so charming that you want them to get away. The story's simple, two outlaws try to get away from the law, but it catches up with them. What really elevates this is Newman and Redford, their chemistry is spot on. You want them to succeed, you want them to escape, you don't want them to die. It's shot beautifully, the acting feels real, the action feels real, it just works on every level. There's not a lot else I can say about this that hasn't already been said, just watch it and you'll hopefully understand where I'm coming from.
