I waited so long to see this...why? I don't know.I was expecting lots of laughs, some good old fashioned gun fights in saloons, real western stuff.However what I got a a boring, lame-ass, put me to sleep movie, nothing really worth viewing or waiting to view.Aside of some decent camera shots and settings, and the nice stunt work from jumping off a cliff into some rapids...the rest is just a waste.What I don't understand is...these 2 guys robs banks and trains and payroll...they have a ton of cash to spend, but they decide to flee the country with all their wealth and do nothing with it.They eat lavish and wear very nice attire and can live very well of with what they have in finance, but they don't.What kind of stupidity is that? Say that you've robbed a whack of banks...gathered up around $500 000 in todays currency and fled the country to another country where your money will make you uber wealthy...Why even bother to continue to rob and steal? Buy a house, live by the beach, go fishing...whatever...They had the money to go on a train and on a ship across the ocean and to start all over, fresh...but they totally wasted this opportunity.And back then, it was much easier in terms of getting away with crime So the overall story sucked.Even written in the late 60's, this made for a a really boring movie.After viewing Bonnie & Clyde and Butch Cassidy and the Sudance Kid within 2 weeks of each other, I realize that back in the late 60's...making quality films was close to non-existent.All one has to do is have some lame action for about 2 hours and the characters have to travel across the country - as in soooooo many movies that were made in the 60's and 70's.Assuming that these were really great scripts - which they are not, I would have hated to read the one which the studios passed on.I guess if somebody was able to type 130 pages or so script on a type writer without too many errors, then it would be made into a screenplay.I have seen too many movies where the stories were just time wasters - and they were made in the 60's.Aside from some Clint Eastwood flicks, the rest are just super boring.No real western that emerged from the 60's or 70's had any real plot.Catherine Ross's character was a waste - as were most of the actors in this title.Am I impressed? No.Is it Oscar material? No.Is it to stand the test of time? No Is it a remedy for putting somebody to sleep fast after a long day of work or insomnia? YES! For a movie that I always wanted to see...this sucked.Another Hollywood let down.I am slowly realizing that I don't care to see cinema from generations PRE 1980.If this is quality story telling, then I would rather look at porn...it has as much depth, but is more visually stimulating.


                
Maybe it was cool 30+ years ago, but the thing is really STUPID today.Two long lost actors try to be so *special*.Watch it if you want a time trip to the late '60s.Don't expect a good movie.


                
