I saw this movie when it first came out, like, almost 40 years ago. Was it really that long ago? I guess it was. Anyway, I remember it as being a good movie and I haven't seen it since. So now I have kids who are teenagers and so I think, hey, maybe they'd like to see a good western, funny and entertaining, so I put it in my Netflix queue, and it finally came up last week and we watched it last weekend.What a disappointment.For the life of me, I cannot understand why I ever liked this movie or how it got the reputation it has. It is simply a bad movie that does not hold up well. What makes it bad? The one attribute I would give this movie is boring. Really boring. The scenes just dragged on and on and it got so that I just wanted it to end. Like the bicycle/Raindrops-keep-fallin'-on-my-head scene. What was Hill thinking? If he wanted to establish a relationship between Newman and Ross, the length of that scene could have been cut by about two thirds. Likewise later on, when the camera was panning across sepia photographs of the three main characters to illustrate them making their way down to Bolivia. Again, way too long. We already got the point, but still the sequence dragged on interminably. I actually hit the FF button on my DVD remote at one point and even at 2X, I was surprised how long it took to get to the end of that sequence.And the chemistry between Redford and Newman was almost lifeless, like a glass of soda left out overnight. I don't why, but all the lines (like "who ARE those guys?") I remember as being funny just fell mostly flat. Also, a good actress can light up the screen; but Katherine Ross was about as incandescent as an sick firefly. True, she was not given much to do in this film, but what she did get, she did poorly, reciting her lines mostly in a dull monotone. It's as if she was anticipating her later role in "The Stepford Wives" (which, incidentally, was a much better movie than this one).So I don't know why everybody thinks this movie is so wonderful; I did not find it so and I guess I will have to be in the minority.
This is one the most immoral movies ever made. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid are professional thieves, and Sundance is a soulless killer, and we're supposed to like them because they're handsome guys who say funny things. Well not me, boys.In the end, Butch and Sundance, crackin' funnies all the way, are under attack from a troop of Bolivian soldiers. Sundance shoots down five or six of these honest, nonbankrobbing men, and we're supposed to be impressed by how well he handles a gun. The men he has killed? Not good-looking, not funny, so who cares if they got shot, according to the general drift of the story. Then, when Butch and Sundance get killed, this is made to seem so tragic that we're not allowed to see it.So I hate this movie. If you're not careful, it will seduce you out of your sense of right and wrong. It's not even as if Butch and Sundance are tragic victims who have been forced into a life of crime. They're just a couple of healthy, funny, handsome guys whom everyone seems to like, and they steal and kill because it's more fun than working. The first time I saw this show, I rooted for them myself. I was played for a sucker, and I don't like that I was.


                
There are some good things in this movie, a clever montage scene using what appear to be old stock photographs (for most younger movie audiences the scene probably goes on too long, but that wasn't a problem for me) and some clever and/or funny dialogue, but there is a minority camp that doesn't like this movie and I'm in that camp, and we're all in it for the same reason: this is an incredibly smug movie.


                
This movie was very interesting and had lots of action which was good to keep the story exciting. Although most of the movie took place in South America, it was cool to see different aspects of time especially during the time this movie was made as it's seen as an older movie. The leadership roles were portrayed very strong for the characters so the "mission" and fights the men needed to go through, they could with the right people. Overall this was a good older action movie that used violence in good forms of the story.
This is an iconic film, and anything I say in this review will not change that.It features some of the best film chemistry of all time in Paul Newman and Robert Redford, and lots of great, often still quoted lines to this day.I enjoyed the film, I thought it had some great moments, but the western genre isn't really my thing and I can't say that I'd rush to see this film again.That's not to take away from its obvious quality though.


                
