http://switchingreels.com/2014/01/28/sundance-review-whiplash/Ever had a dream of being a great football player? A great dancer? A great singer? A great musician? Our protagonist has a dream of being a great drummer, a drummer that will be remembered forever. Maybe you are still fighting for your dream. Maybe you have given up on greatness. Greatness doesn't come easily, you need to practice at it. Andrew practices until his hands bleed.Andrew (Miles Teller) is 19-year old student at a music conservatory in Manhattan. Terrence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) is a teacher at the conservatory with a ruthlessly brutal teaching style. After picking Andrew to play in the school band, he pushes Andrew to his limits in order to realize his full potential, at the risk of his humanity.I had a billiards teacher at one point in my life, who was close to becoming a pro in his craft but a grease fire accident changed all that. His perspective changed, to paraphrase, he realized he was becoming an asshole. He became a teacher of pool instead of becoming a pro player. Through him, I can understand what Terrence Fletcher was trying to instill into Andrew. My teacher would push me a little bit. When he gave me opportunities to show him up, "run the table now," he would tell me, I failed. It's embarrassing when that happens but it's also a learning tool because more work needs to be done. You can't get by on talent alone but it certainly helps. On the other side of it, I saw a little bit of my teacher in Andrew. Losing who you are to perfect something you love. Good thing my teacher realized before it was too late.I lost myself in the story. It had something to say about not settling and asking more of yourself. Two fantastic performances from Miles Teller and J.K. Simmons. Perhaps it will push you to maybe pick up that guitar again, put on your ballet shoes, or hit the gym to bulk up. Whiplash is an incredibly powerful film. And after the final shot cuts to black, the film will stick with you for days.My expectations: Medium. I did not expect the film to be so powerful for me. Expectations exceeded.Recommendation: Cinema lovers and casual movie goers, I believe will enjoy this film.Re-watch value: I can watch this film again and I actually can't wait until it hits distribution.Memorable: I am still thinking about this film.


                
Taking the festival circuit by storm since its Sundance premiere in January, Whiplash is starting to feel like the underdog that could go far with its crowd-pleasing intensity. On the surface, it's a gritty story about a brutal student-mentor relationship that oversteps boundaries. Underneath, it's a piercing examination of the psyche of unbridled ambition. Whiplash is a film that stops at nothing. As a result, it's the best film I've seen in years, and I say that without hesitation. This is a film that resonates on every single level and every moment counts. If writer/director Damien Chazelle was striving for greatness as much as his protagonist, then he has achieved it. Miles Teller, who's been steadily growing on me since The Spectacular Now, stars as Andrew Neyman, a 19-year-old aspiring jazz drummer who's pushed and inspired by the abuse and aspirations of his school band leader Fletcher, played by the ferocious J.K. Simmons like we've never seen him before. Chazelle has described the film as an origin story to the jazz musicians of the golden age, and it thrives on the myths of jazz heroes such as Charlie Parker. They're urgently looking for the next Parker, in search of perfection. But with that comes a great irony. The music genre is known as one for freedom of expression but here the jazz is soulless and mechanical, and that clouds the ethical judgment of the characters. Even so, Fletcher is a man who can tell if you have the right tempo within a bar. Although most of the audience for the film may not know much about music including myself, you get a feel for what he's looking for and when someone's wrong even if you don't know why. Simmons is as good as they say he is. He's a force of nature, with a terrifying presence that incites the fear Bryan Cranston achieved with the peak of his Walter White. But it's not a one-note performance. Simmons is still subversive with moments of weakness, insecurity, approachability, and he also sometimes brings in the lightness he's known for in other roles with Jason Reitman, exec producer here. Even though he's an unlikeable character with nothing nice to say, he's still somewhat endearing and enigmatic, much like R. Lee Ermey's drill sergeant in Full Metal Jacket. This demasculinisation through a barrage of insults is a theme explored in Whiplash and it argues whether it's a crime or an 'ends justifying the means' factor of life. It's not just a music film, but also one that adapts to the elements of sports training, war at boot camp and biopic genres with the way it frames its elements. Fletcher is representative of the devil on our shoulders that yells at us that we're not good enough and that symbolic idea resonates deeply for me. His poisonous words are more a part of Andrew's psyche than legitimate coaching techniques. What grabs me about the film is its discussion on artistic perfection, and especially in these intimate and rough sequences of practicing. What is objectively great in art? When is it good enough, and why? It toes a fascinating line. That's why drumming is such an interesting choice for the film to explore because it's so instinctive. Drummers have to make decisions within a fraction of a second and talent can only take you so far. The roaring beat in Whiplash puts your heart in your throat. Teller's performance as Andrew is terrific, one to match Simmons. Chazelle is committed on expressing the physicality of drumming and Teller captures it exhaustively without feeling contrived. It's the virtuosity of the writing that allows us into Andrew's head however. It's a long road to the top, but the script makes the right decision to allow him to revel in the little moments of success, but then to immediately test him in surprising and involving ways. Each turn of the story shapes his expectations and ambitions and then escalates it to the right point. While the film is a gripping experience nonetheless, in retrospect perhaps it is too bitingly cynical. It does suggest that you have to be deprived of a meaningful relationship to achieve your goals. It does appear to be very anti-positive reinforcement, but perhaps it's merely a statement on the abundant sheltering that the latest generation is enduring. Whiplash is refreshing to see, we all know we wouldn't be resilient enough to take that kind of punishment so it's cathartic to watch Andrew go through it all and see how far he'll go. His frustration, regrets, fear and rage with himself cuts to the core of the human condition as he's pushed further and further. The technical aspects of the film help it become so stimulating with dizzying closeups tightly edited together and its the stark orange tinted cinematography. It's thoroughly impressive that the film was shot in only 19 days for them to get shots so immaculately timed and performed with all those complicated movements. There's a refreshing brevity to the film with its sharp atmosphere, but it's so rich in emotion, psychological tension and personal subtext. It neither rushes nor drags, on paper nor on screen. It really is a film that lingers in your mind for days, nagging you, like Fletcher over your shoulder. Maybe it'll continue to linger for weeks. I hope so too, especially for Oscar voters. It seems that J.K. Simmons is building momentum to be a lock for Best Supporting Actor at this point. However, Whiplash isn't just a best of year film, nor best of decade. It approaches best of all-time worthy with its identifiable themes of meticulous work ethics, fulfilling aspirations, resilience of the soul, and knowing when to no longer measure yourself to your mentor. I'll take this film with me for a while as a screaming motivator.10/10. Best film of the decade.Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com/)


                
I don't say that often, in fact...never. There aren't enough superlatives to describe the amazingness of Whiplash. Damien Chazelle crafted not just a tense dramatic piece of cinema, but a thematic experience with layered subtext. Andrew is a college student who simply wants to be the best drummer. Terence Fletcher, a renowned teacher at said college, sees potential in Andrew and chooses him to be the drummer in his band, at the expense of emotional distress. This is a brutal character study, absolutely savage. This is about Fletcher as much as it is about Andrew. The psychological battle and the consequential emotional turmoil that follows. I've never been so compelled in a drama ever (and this is my 5th viewing). The strive for perfection amidst the continuous passion that elevates Andrew as a person and how Fletcher uses his passion in attempt to obtain the perfect musician that Andrew hopes to be. The struggle for perfection is difficult in any profession, there is no right or wrong way to achieve this; the question is: "is there a line between gently pushing someone towards a goal or inflicting emotional torture upon them?". Fletcher leans towards the latter, so much so that he actually imposes physical damage to Andrew to test whether he will be discouraged from the harsh reality of perfection or not. The internal struggle in Andrew is excellently conveyed, you can see his passion seeping through the blood, sweat and tears and yet mentally unable to cope with Fletcher's methods. A simple story, but executed with such ferocity and intelligence that it just feels fresh. Damien Chazelle directed the heck out of this. Quick cuts between the musical instruments and nice long takes of Miles Teller and J.K Simmons duelling in anger. Speaking on Simmons, the best performance I've seen in years. Both complicated and terrifying simultaneously, he deserved every award. Teller was near perfect as well, conveying innocence and vulnerability. Look, I can talk about Whiplash forever. It's a masterpiece. End of review.


                
There is so many excellent great things to say about this film. To start off I will say it may be slow and to different for some to enjoy and so that I warn you. Now I will say that I can not express the idea enough of how surprising this film is. Jk Simmons does an outstanding performance as the highly unpredictable hair trigger tempered teacher Fletcher, Miles Teller an actor who I've only seen in mediocre comedies also shines in a breakthrough performance as the ambitious drummer Andrew. The performance are outstanding and that's just the tip of the iceberg.My favorite thing about this film is how it has created it's own one of a kind spot in the music genre of film, it's atmosphere is unlike any other as well. The idea that this film is one of a kind can't be stressed enough, I guarantee you cannot find another film out there like this. This film expresses a shockingly high intensity for a music film. I believe that Jk Simmons acting is what fueled a lot of the intensity. When you watch this film even though it's pace will seem slow to most it's intensity is impossible to miss. I can see how a lot of certain people may find this film hard to enjoy but for me this film as slow as it is couldn't have been more intense. The mere fact that a music film shows some strong intensity like this one did is mind blowing to me. I don't know how many of you had this same experience or something similar then you already know what I'm talking about. I have a good feeling and I'm hopeful this film rakes in some acting Oscars because this film deserves at least one. I haven't read anything on this films page and I'm sure others have expressed similar opinions and all I can say is listen and trust me. I'm praying you enjoy this film and experience it's one of a kind intensity just as I did. Thanks for reading my review and enjoy.


                
This erosion of innocent ideas, like The American Dream, is becoming more and more prominent, especially amongst young people. The success of Damien Chazelle's, Whiplash, is a testament to this. Miles Teller stars as Andrew Neiman, an obsessive drummer who is hell- bent on becoming a great musician. J.K. Simmons stars as Terence Fletcher, the muscled up old teacher who incessantly yells at Andrew and perpetuates his inferiority complex. A large number of High School and University students found this movie to be scarily relatable. Whether it was the memory of an intimating teacher/mentor, or the shared belief that socializing, relationships and 'fun', will impede on one's ability to achieve some kind of success – audiences clearly empathize with this film, and that may not be a good thing.(Spoiler Alert) In the final scene of Whiplash, Andrew and Terence have seemingly buried the hatchet on their old and troubled student/teacher relationship. Andrew agrees to perform at a Jazz concert, under Terence's conducting. When the concert commences, however, the first song that is cued to be played is unknown to Andrew. He realizes that Terence has sabotaged him, and he ultimately leaves the stage. After embracing with his father, who walks over to console him, Andrew returns to the stage. To Terence's bewilderment, Andrew begins playing the drums solo. The scene runs for a while, and as time moves on, Andrew's solo becomes more impressive. Terence eventually accepts Andrew's rebellious action and begins conducting him. In the final seconds of Andrew's solo, Terence looks at him. Although the frame cuts off just below Terence's nose, the film's prior exposition suggests that he either smiled at Andrew, or said, 'good job'. Terence then cues the rest of the band, and the film closes on a loud jazz cadence – cue: credits.This final scene has been a hot-topic of debate in the YouTube and Twitter-sphere. The debate rests on whether or not Whiplash had a 'happily ever after' ending or not. Should the audience be happy that Andrew made his mentor proud, and that he became a great musician? Or should the audience feel melancholic because of what Andrew sacrificed to reach his level of excellence? Has Andrew's story given the American Dream hope? Or has he demonstrated that it will doom you to live a life without happiness?Film critics almost unanimously agree that it was a bitter-sweet ending; Andrew became great, but at the cost of his youth, and possibly his moral compass. Amongst the University student demographic (my demographic), however, there seems to be a disproportionate number of people who interpreted the ending more so as a triumph of ambition and perseverance. For a story about a young man who pushes himself to the brink of implosion, this kind of interpretation should leave older generations wondering what kind of principles of ethics and work life balance their younger counter-parts are embracing.Do not get me confused, I think Whiplash is brilliant – too brilliant. If I am criticizing the film, then that is my criticism. I loved Whiplash. Many other young people loved Whiplash too, but I am beginning to feel that this may be indicative of a warped understanding of success.Films can be much more than weekend entertainment; they are a helpful way to gauge the psyche of a particular target audience. It is a shame that there have not been many social science studies that have attributed film preferences to specific human characteristics; it would be a very helpful variable. For example, if American Psycho has a large cult following, and millions of people still watch and love the film, would it not be fair to say that there are characteristics that the murderous protagonist, Patrick Bateman, has that most viewers within this demographic empathize with? I am not suggesting that these people are all secretly serial killers – however hyperbolic the connection, there must be something about a character or concept that people empathize with that makes the film so enjoyable for them. Similarly, Whiplash's Andrew Neiman must clearly have some element to his character's psyche that most viewers identify with.
People may quickly picture Whiplash as the Full Metal Jacket of jazz band: there's Fletcher militarily pushing his student, Andrew, to get his task right. The hatred towards the mentor becomes the character's motivation of achieving his orders perfectly; and the similarities could end there. Although this is a very different context; the harsh, shout-y discipline and sometimes its negative human effects are quite reminiscent. But without any grim twists, this movie just sticks directly to one's determination of being successful to his job, either for the instructor or for himself. This is one rough environment that takes you to a relentless study of intense rehearsals and intense discipline until it reaches to the point where their goals lose out of control. And just like those sequences, Whiplash keeps most of the viewers from their comfort zone, and leads them to rewarding results.Movies like this, specifically relationship between a student and a mean teacher, conventionally ends with a heart changing sentiment, possibly leading the two to an unexpected life-long friendship, but Whiplash takes it stone-cold; hardly showing any sign of friendliness in their bond. The only way for the young drummer to gain his own light is to roll with the punches and learn exactly what the band want him to do, even if it costs much of what he has in life. This is supposed to be an image of inspiration, but the film mostly portrays the nightmares of this "never give up" ambition; which transforms the dreamer into a mad man who is few steps away of breaking down. Nonetheless, this unending pressure brings real impact to what lesson this movie is trying to show.The filmmaking is spectacular all in all, each of its musical scenes makes for a truly grandeur show, but the core here are the ones that is mainly about the drums. They are impressively played with relentless intensity, while the camera strikingly displays the flowing literal sweat and blood of the drummer; indicating his committed exhaustion. The performances are the spotlight, especially J.K. Simmons who has done perfect to his character. It might have been easy for an overacted performance, but Simmons finds the sense of humanity beneath what it's written, making Fletcher reasonable to furiously shout at any intolerable flaw of his students. Miles Teller also killed it, recognizably for the drumming parts, but aside of that, he convincingly follows through the character's obsession, until he turns closer to insanity.Whiplash often feels cruel, but there is an important reason for that. It depicts a serious way of motivation, you can feel that in every beat of his terrifyingly breathtaking drum performances; this is mostly the reality of being unstoppable to what you are desperately aiming for, plus driven by fear and hate. But eventually, the film makes a clear point why their world of music have to be this bitter. Overall, it all works by choosing clever directions, staging magnificent musical set pieces, and remarkable acting from its two leads. Even if the story is quite simple, its heart tends to overwhelm you.


                
Whiplash is simply astonishing.Miles Teller plays Andrew, a gifted and highly ambitious drummer in his first year at an elite New York music academy. There his talents are spotted by Fletcher (J.K. Simmons), an equally ambitious coach and mentor who is always looking for the "next big thing" but has never found it. However, there is a very thin line between being an "ambitious coach" and a terrifying bully, and Fletcher constantly crosses that line sometimes inflicting a terrible impact on his young students.In an almost uniformly male environment, love interest is served from the cinema concessionary stand by Nicole (the charming Melissa Benoist) who the shy and uncertain Andrew finally plucks up the courage to ask out on a high-point in his emotional roller-coaster. Spot the female, featuring Melissa Benoist The 'school for protégés' theme has perhaps been trodden before by movies like Alan Parker's "Fame", and some of the emotional and creative jostling of elite musicians has appeared in films such as 2012's "A Late Quartet". But none of these deliver the degree of passion and intensity metered out in Damien Chazelle's movie.Miles Teller ("Divergent") is superbly credible as the aspiring jazz drummer Andrew, and it is almost unbelievable that he was not a professional drummer-turned-actor for this film. In fact, the more accomplished jazz drummer (very different to rock drumming apparently) is Nate Lang who plays Carl, his key competitor for the "percussion 1" role. The two were apparently locked away in a drumming 'boot camp' for 2 months prior to the movie being filmed.But the starring role in the film goes to J.K. Simmons, probably best known in the supporting role of J. Jonah Jameson, the cranky editor of the Daily Bugle in the Spiderman films (and a number of other Marvel spin-offs). Simmons is quite simply astonishing, channelling the sort of Oscar-winning performance of Louis Gossett Jnr ("An Officer and a Gentleman") into his vicious drill-sergeant-style performance. He has been nominated in the Best Supporting Actor role for both Golden Globe and BAFTA awards, and I would fully expect him to feature in the Oscar shortlist when they are announced on January 15th. Personally speaking, he will be the one I will be cheering for in the awards themselves.Cinematography by Sharone Meir is outstanding, with every drop of blood, sweat and tears glistening on forehead and cymbal. The editing by Tom Cross is also extremely tight, winding up the tension during key encounters. The combination of the two together with Chazelle's tight script effectively spears the audience in the gut. The feature is based on Chazelle's short film of the same name, and on this basis he is a name to watch for the future.Gut-wrenching and enthralling, this film will spit you out the other end feeling emotionally drained. This is simply a film you MUST see. Let me drum it into you again. GO SEE THIS FILM! (If you liked this review please see others at bob-the-movie-man.com and sign up to receive future posts). Thanks.


                
An absolutely riveting movie. Terence Fletcher (the crazy good J.K. Simmons) and Andrew Neiman (Miles Teller) were both amazing in this, although really, Fletcher took the cake. His character embodies that fierce (and sometimes violent) drive in each of us, or perhaps some person in our lives that tries to push ourselves to the limit, which is what makes this movie so personal as this connects with the audience. While on the other hand, Andrew represents the dreamer in all of us, but is sometimes faced with the limbo between attempting to push harder or to give up. This is what makes this movie so engaging. The music in the movie, coupled with the drumming also adds to the tension in this roller coaster of a movie.The finale was also spectacular and epic. There's basically nothing to criticize this movie for. It elevates the simple idea of diligence and success to a whole new level and engages the audience throughout. 10/10


                
Never thought I'd like this movie. Really love the drum playing and actually i was hoping that Andrew would play it one more time at the ending, instead he played Caravan. This movie also has a great plot twist. Wow, I should learn human character to anticipate what a person like Fletcher would do when he is felt betrayed. He's never be really good to you. He would revenge. Fletcher is like a male version of Miranda Priestly in The Devil Wears Prada, only severer. Can't imagine if someone suddenly throws hard object at me.Having watched this movie got me thinking that I haven't done enough for my dreams. I feel so small. Somehow I feel Andrew is too obsessed. You should see how hard he practices everyday to impress Fletcher, yet it's never enough for his meticulous ears. Luckily it ends happily, so there is good price to his every hard work.


                
Chazelle delicately directs the film to have that sense of crisp and sound – one that's quite hard to find nowadays. He magically transforms violent and abusive scenes into something extremely watchable without dismissing pity. There is never a camera angle that is out of place, no wasted detail in its frames. This is one film that can teach LES MISERABLES (2012) Director, Tom Hooper, how to effectively use extreme close ups, without having to waste pure emotions and sheer talent.WHIPLASH presents a decent, yet violent argument that exalts the student and polarizes the discipline. This is a story where the teacher simply becomes the tool to the artist's journey to becoming what he really is. Or may be not. At some point, the teacher becomes a separate entity in the learning experience. At some point, the teacher has ambitions of his own, far detached from what his own learners think and dream. At some point, the teacher finds his learners as his competitors in the race to greatness.It's an absurd tragedy, though still arguably triumphant on its own.What WHIPLASH argues is that beyond learning lies a greater and more painful path to ambition, and to get there, one does not need anyone but himself. It is a story that challenges the collaborative norm in education. It is an anti-social thesis on refinement and discipline, yet it is still something worth looking into. It does not give you that moral lesson that you are waiting for. Amidst the loud, energetic sounds of Andrew's sweaty, bloody, jazz drum set, it whispers to you that the road to glory is made of brimstones from hell.


                
After all this time I've finally watched this. And yes, it reminded me of Full metal jacket, part one. I guess that Mr. Chazelle drew his inspiration from Kubrick and boy, did he make it right! Direction is perfect (including editing), fantastic performances by two main characters and fine choice of music. Beautiful photography also. This movie has everything to make it perfect, however Mr. Chazelle is not Mr. Kubrick but may probably be one day. If he tries hard enough to develop his own style. Do not give up now that you set the bar so high. All my compliments to the crew of this movie. Truly a gem. Highly recommended.


                
Wow! Just wow! A young drummer, Andrew (Miles Teller) enrolls at a prestigious music conservatory. Plucked from a rehearsal room, he is given the opportunity to play with the studio band under the tutelage of aggressively driven band leader Fletcher (J.K. Simmons), a man with a vicious mouth, extreme methods and an obsession with driving his students way beyond breaking point in order to achieve their potential and find absolute perfection.Perhaps my greatest joy with Whiplash is that just a few weeks ago I was barely aware of its existence and deliberately knew little about it as I took my seat in the screening room. There is something very special about being blindsided without expectation, and blindsided I was. My screening companion and I felt exhausted by the end and were still discussing animatedly it an hour later.I knew I was in the presence of greatness within minutes of Whiplash. From the opening scenes of Andrew rehearsing and Fletcher observing, passing judgment and scything him down with sharpened tongue and looks that slayed, it was abundantly clear that writer/director Damien Chazelle was on a mission to hammer us repeatedly with verbal blades, withering looks and an intensity that other directors would kill to produce.There are insufficient superlatives to express the power and effect of Whiplash and Chazelle's achievement. At least four times in the course of the screening my heart sank as Chazelle took us towards an alleyway that was predictable and certain to kick a five-star experience into another four-star, notable also-ran. Each time, he turned it around beautifully, steadfastly refusing to take the convenient route, instead aiming another kick at the tender parts, slamming us with the unexpected and leaving us to reel or look on in wide-eye admiration.His brilliance is in the subtlety, the sharp cracks of dialogue that slice through the opposing character's confidence; it is in the reactions of the onlookers that we see once and only once, never over-egging a moment; it is in the blood, sweat and tears, literally, that coat the symbols; it is in the music, the performance and the slam of hand and stick on metal and skin and it is in the accompanying venomous glares that scream more eloquently than a thousand words could ever achieve.Until last night, I didn't really 'get' jazz. After 107 minutes of Whiplash that passed in a heart-pounding, hair prickling moment, I can't get enough. If there had been a second screening I'd have put myself through the exhaustion again in an instant.When the Oscar nominations are revealed tomorrow, I doubt if the Academy will honour Whiplash with a Best Film nod but I sincerely hope it is in the mix at least for director and editing. As for J.K. Simmons, his nomination and win as Best Supporting Actor are probably as much a certainty as Daniel Day Lewis was for Best Actor in 2013 for Lincoln. If Simmons doesn't clean up 90% of the principal awards and see his already superb career take a whole new trajectory after this, I'll eat my hat, and yours and every one I can find in the village! Good? Whiplash is damn near perfect and J.K. Simmons is a major reason for it! For those who know J.K. Simmons as 'that guy from<U+0085>', no longer is he going to be the go-to guy for irascible bosses and supporting characters. There is an effortlessness to his commanding performance as the teacher his students fear but whose validation they crave. Powerful, venomous, controlling, manipulative, vindictive<U+0085> Fletcher is at turns both horrible and, perhaps, a genius. J.K. Simmons' utter ownership of the character pokes an electrified finger into every nerve prompting us to hate, fear and, just maybe, respect and admire a man who walks a razor sharp line between obsessive insanity and genius, all the time staring his victims in the eye, screaming into their face and daring them to take him on.On the receiving end of much of his venom is Andrew, played with equal measure and control by Teller. It is a solid performance that meets Simmons' all the way. More than that is Teller's performance at the drums that astound. He plays with his hands and his fists and his mind and his emotions and every ounce of fluid he can ring out of every available pore in his body. At the risk of sounding repetitive, wow. Just wow! I recently reviewed Big Eyes, a true story that really didn't warrant a feature-length big screen outing. Conversely, Whiplash is an event I wish I could make a reality so that I could experience it in the flesh repeatedly.Chazelle has crafted a film that is pretty much perfect. I fear it will receive a limited audience because, on paper, the premise doesn't blow anyone away: Teacher gives student a hard time; student struggles to find himself... But back in 1994, a little prison movie was released that was badly marketed, garnered seven Oscar nominations, didn't win a single one and bombed at the box office. It was only word of mouth and the DVD release that made the world sit up en masse and notice that The Shawshank Redemption for what it is. Perhaps Whiplash will go through a similar experience, though I suspect Oscar won't make the same mistake this time around.The year is young but Whiplash is the best cinematic outing from it so far. See it, see it now and prepare for something remarkable. To steal a line, "I'll count you in<U+0085>" For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the Facebook page.


                
Whiplash was for sure one of the greatest movies in 2014.The things that are most outstanding is firstly the acting, including Miles Teller's performance of an promising drummer who also visits, as he says, the greatest music-institute in America and on the other hand J.K. Simmons who maybe offered the moviegoer of 2014 one of the best performances seen in a long period of time ( it's still a riddle why he was nominated as an supporting-actor).Secondly I would like to mention the sensationally effective way of how the editing was used to appeal to the viewer in a certain way, namely that camera and sound-editing work perfectly together and brought the movie on a exhilarating level. The story is thrilling, just the thought of having a (music-)teacher like Fletcher (J.K.Simmons) is simply a comparison of yourself going through hell. Andrew (Miles Teller) has to do it. Does he enjoy it? Probably, well, pretty sure not...but he follows his plan of becoming one of the greatest drummers of all time although the pain for him is inconceivable. The "relationship" of these two definitely stands out and saying, that Fletchers' methods are near to rape (physically and psychologically) is not very understated. By giving Andrew a few "opponents" drumming his way through the studio-band makes the movie even more interesting and shows how deep and on point Miles Teller's acting can be. The movie is from the very beginning with the nice overture (after a few minutes) and other musically supports till the end with again some great acting amazing. It could be said more about this masterpiece but I would like to leave it right here as it is my first review. Go and watch it...NOW!


                
Constantly we hear about the lack of substance modern entertainment contains. This movie defies this generalization. Whiplash is excellently constructed, beautifully filmed, and the actors achieve a rarely reached level of skill, which collectively make it worthy of nine stars alone. However, it is Whiplash's display of the cost of greatness, it's insight into the nature of sacrifice and ambition, which make it a ten star film. J.K. Simmons role personifies the aspect of human ambition centered around seeking greatness at all costs, while Miles Teller shows the struggle of attempting to balance the losses. To anyone who wants to see a quality, well developed movie with an excellent, deep plot, watch Whiplash.


                
At first sight, Whiplash seemed to me as another talent movie, which features the same clichés, no matter it's about music, dancing or sports. But the great reviews made me really curious about it, and I can honestly say, that it's nothing like your usual film about music.Damien Chazelle's work, like every beginner director's is full of raw power and energy. Every moment of Whiplash has so much dynamics and tension. You wouldn't expect surprising twists from these kind of movies, but Whiplash has the quality to show you something unexpected in every minute. The director incorporates a few small, but clever twist in the narrative, and these aren't twists for the twists' sake. Chazelle is unlike any other young director: his work is unbelievably calculated, there's not a single unnecessary frame in this picture, and he can always capture the essence of the moment or the actors' performances.And that's a good thing, because Whiplash relies hugely on those actors. Simmons' presence rules every scene he's in, he has clever lines, but the actor is doing most of the work. Miles Teller is a bit shadowed by him, but the young actor also does a great job, and the chemistry between the two of them is the absolute highlight of this movie. And with that, Chazelle can achieve that the songs are not just some promotional material, but important storytelling devices in the conflict of the main characters. The director is also great at capturing emotions through these song.Which takes us to my only problem with Whiplash: the scenes of the rehearsals or the musical performances are so intense and strong, that they make every other scene disappoint you a little. That's exactly the case with the storyline of the love interest or the middle part of the runtime.Whiplash is not the film of great words, act or emotional effects. But I think, nobody's going to care about that, because Chazelle's perfectionist storytelling is going to compensate everybody for that. It's not an flaming improvisation, it's not a shitty, but catchy pop song, but it's an artistic symphony. It may not be a classic, but it's brilliant cinema.


                
I have never written a review on this site before. Never. I have been and IMDb member since 2012. I felt to need to write a review after watching Whiplash. I sat perplexed when the end credits rolled over my scene. I had just seen one of the best films ever created and already a classic of the modern time. Raw emotions, amazing performances by both Teller and Simmons great music breathtaking cinematography amazing sound editing. I don't think there is going to be a movie like whiplash in a long, long time. Even if you don't like jazz, I would recommend this movie to anyone. Cinephiles and casual movie watchers alike are going to find common ground in whiplash.


                
I loved this but the movie is underrated. J.K. Simmons did a good job portraying his role, no doubt he won an Oscar for this one. Miles Teller also did a good job as a drummer boy. Too bad, he wasn't acknowledge by the Academy. Even the movie did not get so much attention. Maybe because it was released by the end of the year, I honestly think that this is an Oscar worthy. The intensity of the movie is just over the top, literally the emotions that you felt while watching the movie were real. After watching it, I can't stop thinking about it on how wonderful the movie was. We need more like this kind of movies.


                
What I love about this movie is how it makes you feel exactly what the character(s) are feeling. The acting is exceptional. Andrew is a very relatable character, even if you don't do music. And don't even get me started on how phenomenally good J.K. Simons is in this, he's a freaking master. He's my new favorite actor. Also Miles Teller impressed me. I mean I saw him in Divergent & The Spectacular Now, and he wasn't bad. But damn, he was legit in Whiplash. And one particular scene literally gave me the chills (yall who saw the movie know what I'm talking about) like it was unreal. I've never been so immersed in a scene that I forget EVERYTHING ELSE except what's going on in the scene. It's like...this film moves out of the screen into your head and messes around with your emotions and thought process...crazy stuffJust watch it


                
At first it was not the synopsis of the movie that captured my attention but the IMDb score. I thought "it's just a movie about drumming, how compelling can it be?". I was an ignorant fool. This movie rocks (or jazzes). From start to end. Your eyes are glued to the screen, you keep guessing what will happen next. I anticipated how the characters would react to one another, not how the story unfolds. The sheer brutality is both refreshing and terrifying. Coming from all characters. They did a splendid job on building original characters. I salute you. It was also an eye-opener for me and my friend. It was enthralling to learn more about the world of orchestras and jazz. Still, it was awesome. A thousand out of ten.


                
As a drummer, I wasn't sure what to expect going into this film. I knew the general idea of the story and of its reputation, but it's hard to be prepared for the actual level of intensity and visceral emotion put into the performance. This is the kind of movie that deserves a close watch and attention to detail; it's by no means light watching or something to "turn on in the background." This is completely uncompromising and gripping drama that may also hold additional interest for drummers, jazz aficionados, or anyone who works at a craft that requires copious amounts of practice. The basic synopsis for this story is that Andrew is an aspiring jazz drummer at a music conservatory who will stop at nothing to achieve greatness, and his teacher Fletcher is a jazz band director who will stop at nothing to unlock greatness. One might think that this combination of goals should allow for a fruitful and cooperative partnership, but the way that the two go about pushing themselves to find this greatness is as destructive socially as it is constructive musically. This space isn't meant to give deep film analysis, so suffice it to say that this is one of several interesting ironies found within this story. Without getting into any finer plot points or spoilers, the meat of this film lies in watching Andrew fall into complete social isolation and obsessive/unhealthy practice habits to improve, while Fletcher pushes him in some less than conventional (and often illegal) methods that would make R. Lee Ermey or Louis Gossett Jr. blush. The contrasting notions of respect, conflict and hatred between the characters are extremely compelling throughout.Your mileage may vary, but this movie was a solid 10/10 for me. As long as you aren't overly sensitive or have a short attention span, I think the film brings a lot to the table. First of all, the acting is absolutely superb. JK Simmons is always good, but he's never been better than in this film. He plays Fletcher to the point where he draws so much contempt from the audience that it can be easy to forget he is just playing a role at times... and yet, there is this slightest twinkle of humanity that he manages to hold onto and instill somewhere deep within the character that leads you to wonder whether or not there is any actual goodness present and the nature of his true motives. The sights and sounds of the movie are top notch. The cinematography is a very strong point for the film. While the film sets aren't particularly interesting, and don't need to be for this film, the frenetic action drumming shots from various perspectives really feed the emotion and intensity of this film. The audience can feel Andrew's pain and his triumph as he physically and mentally pushes himself through these performances. There are a lot of great perspective shots off of the cymbals and drum heads. Andrew (Miles Teller) is a drummer in real life, and did perform these parts to a certain extent, but a ton of expert editing went into this movie to make the performances look 100% accurate and legitimate to actual musician viewers. Aurally, there's a good selection of well-mixed jazz numbers in this movie that really bring it to life.This movie is not for everyone, some people will always only feel comfortable with lighter fare and a more conventional plot sequence. However, in my eyes, this does not detract from the rating. Art doesn't need to make compromises. Greatness doesn't need to make compromises. This is a main theme of the film. Realize this: this film's very existence and earned success in modern mainstream cinema is almost an exact mirror of the struggle that Andrew and Fletcher face in their quest to create something legendary and lasting. Uncompromising and goal-oriented, unwilling to bend or show any leniency for social awareness... and yet the movie was able to garner an 8+ IMDb rating and 90%+ on other critic aggregate sites. There is no doubt in my mind: if this film reined it in a bit and adopted a more conventional and digestible story, it would have not received the same amount of critical or audience acclaim. The film is absolutely relentless from start to finish in the best way.


                
I accidentally watched the movie (by looking at the cover full of awards) and I must say I was very impressed by it.I'm really not a music expert by any mean, but the two main actors are seriously phenomenal and makes me think they are genuinely who they are playing.Everything is just very amazing : -the actors are damn flawless (Fletcher is so funny yet passionate - those shoutings!- , Andrew is truly great despite the fact that I don't really like Miles Teller) -the directing is also flawless by all means really just like the music in the whole movie -the story is sufficiently immersiveI recommend this movie to everyone who want to see a true masterpiece. Already watched it two times, and will again so the rewatch value is pretty high.So anyways enjoy this epic movie, You 95% sure won't regret watching it ! :D


                
If anybody out there has a passion for something, don't let anybody else take it away from you or push you to the edge, no matter what. If you're good at something, do it. There a lot of people out there who will provoke you endlessly and make your blood boil, so do not give them that benefit. This film made me believe in that fact once more, and took my breath away. Anybody with a dream, an intention, a vision of their future, has to see this motion picture event!!!! This is not a musical, this is not just a movie about drumming, DO NOT walk in with that misconception. WHIPLASH is a both electrifying and provocative well-paced drama that asks "what is the true definition of motivation" or as the AFI see it "What is the line between mentor and monster?". I urge you to check it out!!!!! If you're not at the edge of your seat while watching this once-in-a-lifetime masterpiece, something is wrong with you!!


                
There are many reasons to dislike this movie. It shows a teenager being psychologically and physically abused. It shows art being portrayed as something painful. It shows someone abusing his authority. It shows the collapse of a romantic relationship, causing deeply hurt feelings. The story in general comes off as being contrived. Yet, this movie is great. It is highly entertaining, the reason being its theme: what is an artist supposed to do to satisfy his quest for perfection? In this case, the metaphor for perfection is Buddy Rich, who was a famous American jazz drummer. In this movie, Rich's work is used as a standard for artistic perfection, in this case, artistic expression through the playing of percussion instruments. The structure of the plot is simple: a music teacher, Fletcher, wants to bring out the brilliance of his student, Andrew. He believes that the best way to accomplish this through humiliation which will test the level of the student's commitment to achieving greatness and perfection. The student becomes the tool through which the teacher can vicariously achieve perfection. For this story is about the teacher. He is the principal character, the one around whom the action takes place. The teacher is a metaphor for all the artists in the world who are striving for something that they themselves cannot achieve, and so seek it out in others. To bring it out is the challenge, and that generates conflict, as the teacher must first break down the student's resistance, which is a painful and risky process. Painful because it involves elements of abuse; risky because he may lose the student. The acting is superb. J. K. Simmons's gives a terrifically powerful performance as the teacher, Fletcher, and Miles Teller gives a tremendous performance as the student, Andrew. The story moves at a brisk pace and achieves moments of extreme intensity that alone make the movie worth watching. True, the movie includes brief but graphic scenes of physical violence perpetrated against a teenager, but this takes place within the context of an extremely emotional and volatile relationship which drives the story, and without which the story may lose some of it strength.
In the beginning we know nothing about no one ,but throughout we we find out Fletcher's and Andrew's personality and there dreams.The end is really tense, I caught myself cheering for Andrew and when he whispered 'F*** YOU!' to Fletcher, I was like 'F*** Yeah!You go Andrew!'.I don't really like ambiguous endings, but this was totally amazing , and it makes you think about what happened after...and what happened to Andrew (did he become a legend or not),and you can see pride on Fletcher's face and him and Andrew's father realizing that he finally found the next Charlie Parker.I hope this movie or the actors will receive Oscars because they deserve it!
The performance that Miles Teller gives in Damien Chazelle's new film "Whiplash" reminded me a lot of Robert De Niro's in "Raging Bull". They both play tenacious, unrelenting characters and do so in a way that can't be forgotten and stays with the viewer long after the movie's over. They may be pursuing different things, De Niro with boxing and Teller with drumming, but they're each after the same goal: greatness. And that's what this film is all about, reaching a goal that is relative to the person trying to achieve it. In this case, it centers around a guy who never feels understood. He's attending the most prestigious music school in the country and is constantly working to be 'one of the greats'. Who, in his eyes, is someone like Buddy Rich. Then unexpectedly, he's given a chance to prove his chops on the renowned studio band instructed by Terence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons). He's soon met with Fletcher's abusive teaching tactics and is continuously tested under pressure. The question is, can he withstand.It tests the psyche of a young man and shows how far a person will go for something they love and want to do for the rest of their life. That being said, it's a harsh movie. The audience is thrown right into the pressure cooker along with Teller, and if you're not ready for it, it can be unsettling and scary. But that's one of the main reasons why I liked it. Not only does it test the main character, it tests the viewer. You also can't deny the masterful performances on display and finesse that the director brings along with them. Needless to say, this is a must-see. If I had seen it in 2014, it would've undoubtedly made my top ten.


                
