The good parts:The movie is very sensitively filmed. The camera relentlessly explores every bump on Teller's and Simmons's heads like a documentary about Greek sculpture. It adds a lot to the feel of the movie in a wonderfully subtle way.Simmons and Teller (as the "Studio" band director and the, I guess, protagonist young drummer) do a great job. Simmons in particular is really the nexus of energy for the entire movie, and owns that role with absolute precision.The music, when it's actually music, is well-chosen and well-performed.The terrible parts:Simmons ("Fletcher") and Teller ("Andrew") are essentially the only characters in the film. Andrew's dad and his not-really girlfriend are secondary characters that serve to remind the audience what actual humans are like. Andrew is an insufferable jerk, and Teller does an amazing job of maintaining (mostly) a stone-faced, blankly insensitive look throughout almost every tense moment of the film. Simmons's Fletcher is a superb sadistic maniac. He's not "intense" or "volatile" - he's a psychotic monster.I'm debilitated as a reviewer because my son is a talented young drummer, so I get to see good drumming all the time. The persistent trope in the film of Andrew drumming until his hands bleed is wildly unrealistic; that basically cannot happen if you're a drummer good enough to get into a prestigious music school in the first place. Everything else about Andrew at the fancy school, upon further examination, is completely unreal. He basically never talks to the other complete non-entities in the band. They're all like POWs, obeying the maniac director unflinchingly (except when they fail, when they're abused and ejected). My son (whose judgment I trust because he's also obsessed, but not a jerk) described the silly drum "competition" as "three people who can't drum doing shitty grind-core break beats". (To be fair, he liked the movie. What can you do.)So OK, the movie is an allegory, and not intended to be realistic. So it's an allegory about how a sadist can really help a self-absorbed jerk with some obsession get better at what they want to do? I can't find any way to sympathize with that. I mean, who is that speaking to?Finally, the actually appropriate and yet irritatingly obtrusive product placement (pristine cymbal labels, super-clean Zildjian logo on Andrew's stick bag, etc) got pretty hard to take by the (truly weird) ending.Go see this movie because everybody else thinks it's great, but if you feel funny afterwards maybe this review will offer some comfort that you're not alone.
My non-musician friends love this film and insisted I see it. I've been a jazz musician for over 30 years and have taught in a jazz university for over 20. So they figured I would relate. Sorry, this is total crap and it makes me sad to think that the average guy out there thinks Kenny G is cool and this film is a hard-edged depiction of the high-pressure jazz school scene. First of all, no prof would be there a day after any of the rehearsals Terence ran, he'd be dismissed immediately (not hard to do, apparently this school didn't have tenure). And next, jazz is communication, conversation, thoughtfulness, and a big dollop of joyful soul. Any drummer with the competitive mean-spirited attitude shown by any of these students would find themselves in extremely lonely company, nobody appreciates that. This is the 21st Century equivalent of Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland saying, "I know, let's build a show to save the town!" as a representation of Show Biz. it's Hollywood hokum, folks, and I resented its basic assumptions. Where is the Soul? That said, J.K. Simmons is great, working with what he's got. And the cinematography and editing are well done (what IS all that water on the cymbals we see so often? Sweat? If Elvin Jones had gained two hundred pounds he wouldn't have sweated like that! Oh well.) which is why I grudgingly added two stars to this. It's been a while since I so disliked a film. P.S. my drummer plays better than any of these guys. Hah!
(biased but educated review from a jazz drummer student)I give 3 points because:-the movie is entertaining (wich for me is a major factor)i take seven because:-The plot is 100% unbelievable.-The idea portrayed here that to get better at jazz drumming (or for that matter any music genre and any musical instrument) you have to injure yourself, suffer psychologically and practice with tension in your hands/arms is exactly the opposite of what playing/practicing jazz drumming is.The only way to get better is practicing relaxed an being constant...improving in baby, but solid steps.-There is a special accent on playing fast as hell as a mean to be considered "the greatest", and also indirectly in the importance of reading musical scores, when in reality, jazz drumming is a lot more about feel and dynamics, , creativity, coordination and improvisation (without reading any musicl score at all but knowing the form of the song and listening to the other players to interact in the moment).So the movie is a fiction, but not tagged as if. The only thing that can relate with reality is that it can be considered a caricature of a very turbulent student-teacher relationship. Also can be considered a good way to show teachers and students WHAT NOT TO DO.
No need for a long review here. I am disappointed and amazed at the overwhelmingly 9 and 10 star reviews for Whiplash from Users and Critics alike. I agree that the performances are great, and for them I give some stars. In spite of the acting the film/screenplay ultimately glorifies cruelty and abuse to achieve success. I mourn the fact that we have become so insensitive to traumatic, inhuman treatment. I might have felt differently if there were rewards for winning over cruelty rather than glorification of bothSadly submitted,Michaellouie
I just can not understand how this movie does get so much acclaim. The whole movie is just so unrealistic. I have learned and practiced 2 instruments here in Europe and can only say when I watch how this Shaffer character treats musicians like football players, this would never work. In such an environment any musician would get so tense and so full of fear to fail, he would certainly do exactly that. This is not how musicality and technique is teached. Never. Music is not sports. What Shaffer does may create a robot band that plays precise like a computer. But the music that comes out that way will sound alike. People in music are sensitive. Teaching is a process of mutual understanding, respecting and elevating between teacher and student.Further, a good drum technique with speed is not achieved by such tensioned convulsion, it needs the right finger and hand control and swing.The acting is certainly admirable but the cuts are sometimes worse then just distracting.
The fact that this movie has earned high rating from its audience is understandable - in the end, a bad sadomasochistic taste of mass audience is no longer a secret. What surprises me is critical acclaim - it seems that critics aren't gotten far ahead from the public for which they write.As for the movie, it is grotesque, stupid sado-masochistic fiction, indulging bad taste and low inclinations of its viewers.Most sad thing is that someone not to bright might decide that this degenerative movie is actually depicting reality and will try to bring such kind of decay into the real life. From the other side, actual maniacs and degenerates might see this movie as an indulgence to their actions. Well, now I probably understood who those critics with positive reviews on this movie are :)3 out of 10.


                
After the hype all around, I went in to watch this movie with a lot of expectations. Especially because I haven't seen a movie on drumming, at least not a drummer as the protagonist. I have to admit, I am a little disappointed.Drumming is an art. One needs finesse to be a drummer. Here, in the movie, it seems all about 'speed': playing fast tempos. Double time and triple time. To the extent blood oozes out of your body. Is that the definition of good music? Haven't the makers of the film heard of 'rests' in music charts. What not to play and when not to play is more powerful than what you indeed play.And why is it that the Conductor Mr.Fletcher has his eyes set only on the drummer. Not once did we see him interact with the other musicians of the ensemble.With all that filth and anger from the Conductor, one really wonders if any good music would ever flow out from that band? It reminded me of the great movie 'An officer and a gentleman'. The Commanding Trainer in the movie was arrogant and ruthless for a good reason. But not so in 'Whiplash'.


                
In some ways this was quite a strange film as it has virtually no build-up; we start with Andrew (Miles Teiler) playing the drums for a few minutes before his eventual mentor Terrence Fletcher (J.K Simmons) walks in and observes Andrew playing the drums. After liking what he hears, Terrence offers Andrew a place in his band....Not only do the problems start for Andrew at this point, but it's at the point where the band first assemble that I started to have problems with this film...For the next 80 minutes all we have here is Terrence Fletcher - man of mystery; so what do we know about him? Well he's a man that seems to be sponsored by Accurist, he's a combination of the drill sergeant from Full Metal Jacket and Simon Cowell or Nasty Nigel Lythgoe. The majority of the film shows the band playing music (admittedly I initially liked this aspect of the film, but it was repetitive and wore thin after a while) then we have Fletcher shouting at his students, putting them down etc. The only thing that was moderately entertaining about the first 80 minutes was hearing Fletcher's put downs, but after 80 minutes of it I was losing the will to live. Think about hearing some of Simon Cowell's put downs on the X Factor; it's fun for about 5 minutes, but hearing an 80 minute omnibus edition on You Tube would drive me insane.The film even fails for me at a very basic level; it isn't entertaining enough to make it fun to watch, it isn't fleshed out enough to make it a good character study or social commentary and for the most part it isn't interesting enough to keep you involved in the story.There are some other things that had me puzzled such as; what was the point of Fletcher asking Andrew to be there at 6am only for Andrew to turn up late and then Fletcher not be there? This thread was opened up without purpose. I also loved the fact that Fletcher claimed he knew that Andrew made him lose his job at the Schaeffer conservatory of music, but given the fact that he mistreated almost every student he taught how could he possibly know that it was Andrew that dropped him in it? This isn't a total shambles and it is, at least, fairly well made and Simmons is very good in his respective role and did at least not render the film totally unwatchable. Where Whiplash really comes good is in the final 15 minutes and in these 15 minutes we get more revelations here than we did throughout the 90 minutes or so that proceeded it. It was rather unexpected to watch Fletcher be prepared to sabotage his own big night just to show Andrew as being incompetent. To then see Andrew come back and show us some of his best drumming was absolutely fantastic. It's a pity that the earlier parts of this film did not have the same passion and intensity as the last 15 minutes.Ultimately, this is meant to show the pressure of show business and it's also about how being too self-absorbed can affect not only your own life, but the lives of others around you. It's just a shame that for the majority of its running time Whiplash tackles this in a repetitive and dull manner that offers little insight, commentary or entertainment. It does all three aspects to an extent in the last 15-20 minutes, but for me it was a case of too little too late.
Not just in the music, but the characters as well. There's no soul in the main character's musical drive--he doesn't do it for his love of music, but more for his desire for fame. When he gets rejected, he goes home and takes down all the posters of his drumming idols and disassembles his drum kit. Now, I might just be a novice drummer, but if I got let go from this asshole teacher's band, I would be much happier for it and continue drumming for fun, on my own accord. The kid doesn't seem to listen to much except the technical side of drumming (Buddy Rich), and focuses more on how fast he can hit the drum rather than how to incorporate the drums into the rest of the music. This movie makes it seem like the drummer is supposed to hog the show, or at least it celebrates it at the end. Sure, the kid was "pushing his boundaries", but it doesn't necessarily make for good music or make a good musician.This is without mentioning the parts that detract from the realism, such as his constantly bleeding hands (I don't think Charlie Parker or Buddy Rich lost a gallon of blood each session) or his incredible one-hit KO through the snare (I've tried this before, and am slightly less scrawny than this kid--no dice). There are only two characters in this movie. The rest are so flat I can hardly notice them. His love interest might as well have been left out because there isn't enough of her to make you care about their relationship, and what we do see is that he's kind of an arrogant douche boyfriend. Hard to relate to this type. There are good performances by the two characters, but that's the only thing carrying this movie. The writing is packed full with homophobic slurs that quickly tire out, and unconvincing dialogue abounds.I like drumming, I like jazz, and I respect musicians who work their asses off. But I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters. I found only superficial lessons (if "'Good job' kills artists" is even a lesson), and couldn't feel any heart in the music. I think most people were impressed with the well-acted shouting and fast drumming and "artistic insight". This is not how creative music is made, and, despite my hopes and wishes, this is not a creative movie.
My contrary reaction to the phony film WHIPLASH:1. Fake jazz: Jazz is the vehicle to tell this story, but what we get is not jazz but rather the academic teaching of big band/orchestral music, emphasizing arrangements and perfecting the technique of one's instrument. Same film could have been better scripted about a classical symphony orchestra at a university. Jazz is about improvisation and the interplay between musicians, as seen in a small group context. Big bands as seen here are more evident nowadays at sporting events. The only solo was the hero's mediocre drum solo at film's end.2. Fake theme/ending: Theme of the movie is the importance of motivation & rigor to promote excellence, in the context of a student, and the pitfalls of the martinet. In movies, for audience manipulation and dramatic purposes a theme is often betrayed at the end, most famous case being Alec Guinness's sudden reversal at the climax of THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI, because an audience expects the damn bridge to be blown up, even though his character spent the previous 2 hours with every fiber of his being symbolically building it. In WHIPLASH the finale contradicts everything previously in the script, not to be even-handed but to falsely convey a message that "maybe" true artistry and achievement stems from the horrible inspiration we've witnessed. Totally bogus and phony.3. Fake characters: Given jazz's history, the two major characters - protagonist and antagonist, should have been Black. The filmmakers have every right to make them whatever they want, perhaps a female teacher and a girl drummer would have been interesting, but that also would not have fit the use of jazz as movie's central core. My reaction to the whitened-up story was the same reaction as I would have to a '50s movie biography of Fats Domino played by Pat Boone, whose early career was essentially spurred by the industry (and specifically his record label) customarily ripping of a Black artist (Fats) with a white artist (Pat) singing his songs for a general audience. Same crappy approach here.4. Fake gimmicks: Many gimmick scenes in WHIPLASH would have been blue-penciled and not made it into the final script had this been a TV episode rather than an independent ("anything goes") feature film -the writers' room would not have permitted them to slip through. Most notable is the hero's car accident and arriving late and bloody to unsuccessfully try and perform at the big concert contest, when the band's other drummer was perfectly capable of going on in his stead. Not merely unbelievable but farcical as directed here. Final reel of him conned into appearing with no charts for songs he had never seen or heard before was an asinine gimmick, almost as stupid as him returning to suddenly lead the orchestra himself, all for fake-dramatic purposes. And maybe even worse the scene that made me want to leave the screening: his blow-off of his girl friend telling her his need to practice and succeed would not leave enough time for their relationship to continue. That must have looked bad on the page and it didn't play at all on the screen.5. Fake performance: I have praised J.K. Simmons many times, and you can read my rave review for him on IMDb for his role in the obscure comedy NEW IN TOWN. But his facile, surface performance here is just the kind that wins awards (it surely did), but pales into comparison to many others playing essentially the same role. I will merely cite Robert Duvall in THE GREAT SANTINI or Lou Gossett Jr. in AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN as the most vivid in recent memory. I found his playing closer to the psychotic of Humphrey Bogart in THE CAINE MUTINY than to what the role called for.6. Fake icon: Buddy Rich is elevated to god-like status in WHIPLASH, a reactionary and outdated concept that I reject entirely. In show biz history I would nominate Rich for iconic status as a jerk, not a musical artist. In jazz history, the logical icon and role model here would be Art Blakey, since not only is his importance in modern (post-WWII) jazz secure but more to the point he became the archetypal leader and inspiration to hundreds of musicians who graduated from his band, ranging from formative stints for Wayne Shorter and the Marsalis Bros. to little-known connections with artists as varied as Chick Corea and Chuck Mangione, both of whom I saw appear with Blakey's Jazz Messengers in Boston in 1966.. Unlike the teacher posited in WHIPLASH as a Dick Cheney-like nut, Blakey motivated rather than tortured his young acolytes. Buddy Rich and his mediocre '60s big bands yielded nothing, and as a drummer he was all technique and zero jazz.7. Fake porn: Categorically WHIPLASH (the title is perhaps the key hint) is a type of soft-core pornography, among other things. It's another movie example of the trends in recent years to substitute sadomasochism for traditional sexual porn - namely the thousands of horror films about torture and sadism appealing to the audience to alternately identify with and then hiss the sadist as protagonist, or more recently the oncoming trend that will be inspired by the success of 50 SHADES OF GREY. The movie's domination theme is obvious, but the submission aspect is way more subtle -masked by the hero's natural rebelliousness. Looking beyond him we have a score of submissives -his fellow band mates who are humiliated (a key element of BDSM cinema) throughout the film. This as entertainment is the definition of pseudo-porn, acceptable to the masses because it does not involve "money shots" and explicit penetration making it soft-core rather than hardcore. The absence of sex in WHIPLASH is no different than the absence of actual sex in most BDSM exercises.8. Fake setting: L.A. substituting for NYC = zero atmosphere.


                
Dreams of becoming the great jazz drummer seem bring Andrew (Miles Teller) to the prestigious east coast conservatory where he catches attention of the celebrated but fearsome instructor and conductor Terence Fletcher (J. K. Simmons), who invited Andrew to join the school jazz band.Critics and viewers alike praise Whiplash to the high heaven. It was nominated for five Oscars including Best picture and received three, with predictable best supporting role award for J.K Simmons as evil sadistic manipulative bully-jazz band conductor who thrives on terrorizing the students players, especially the main character, Andrew. It is not very often that my opinion about a movie would differ completely from the public opinion but the only impression I got in the end of the often-unwatchable Whiplash, that it proves an old joke: the best marriage is between a sadist and a masochist. They both get what they need but why has the viewer to suffer? The movie is not very long and acting by J. K. Simmons and Miles Teller is excellent, - intense and selfless, but it is essentially the scene after scene of never stopping verbal, mental and physical abuse that take place during the student jazz orchestra rehearsals for upcoming competition. More than anything, it brings to mind the first half of Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket with J. K. Simmons' Fletcher making Gny. Sgt. Hartman very jealous. While the Kubrick's movie was hard to watch, it was believable and true to the logic of the characters and the situations. The jazz boot camp in the prestigious music conservatory does not ring true neither as a realistic character study of obsession and pushing the limits in the pursuit of getting the dreams come true nor as an allegory of pure evil causing something good happen.The film director/screenwriter Damien Chazelle based Whiplash on his own teenage experience as a member of the high school jazz band with very strict instructor but he did not want to make a realistic film. He wanted to carry on screen the feeling of dread that has haunted him for many years. Early on Chazelle gave Simmons direction that "I want you to take it past what you think the normal limit would be" telling him "I don't want to see a human being on-screen anymore. I want to see a monster, a gargoyle, an animal." Chazelle exorcised his own demons and most certainly succeeded in creating a pure evil. Yes, Simmons has never been better but what is the point of film? By pushing so much further, making Simmons' character a monster of manipulation, hatred and sadism, Chazelle stripped the film of humanity, of joy that creativity and music offer. It leads to a loss of interest in what was happening on the screen and looks more and more like a very bad dream or illustration in the psychiatry textbook. To call this movie "inspiring" is an insult to creative artistic people and their instructors, mentors, teachers. What could it possibly inspire?
This movie delivers a truly disturbing and sick message to impressionable young people. The carrot that it dangles is "excellence:" and "immortality", but the ugly reality is that this movie is about a sadist, sociopath music teacher who enjoys mentally, verbally and to a lesser extent, physically, torturing his students. The supposed drive for excellence is only the rationalization that the douche bag uses to get away with it. Excellence can and has been achieved without resorting to this sort of mental violence.Even more disturbing than Fletcher is Andrew, his student. Only someone with extreme low self esteem would subject themselves to the level of abuse he accepts. Andrew obviously has some serious psychological issues because he sabotages himself at critical moments so that Fletcher can have more reasons to insult and demean him. He seems unable to set an alarm clock, pay attention when he is driving and even more preposterously for a person supposedly obsessed with becoming the greatest drummer the world has ever seen, he forgets his drumsticks at a critical moment. The only conclusion you can draw is that he is a masochist.This movie is really about homoerotic sadomasochism, complete with jealousy fits. It's not about music or the drive for excellence. Make no mistake about it.
Music school, competition, teacher-student relation : it's coming out that we are going to watch something strong and emotional (maybe something like the Dead Poets Society- a teacher- mentor and a student who seeks his appreciation and gets inspired by him).I was really waiting for something to happen. When the movie reached its 100th min, I realized that nothing was going to happen. Vapid; the word that accurately describes this movie. Seiously, don't waste 2 hours of your life watching a drum kit. Perhaps, only the jazz fans may find something remarkable, so if you're not one, do something else instead!


                
Whiplash is a messed up film, though not dull.I like the style of film in dealing with its subject matter, but I don't see how anyone could love it. A lot like "The Competition" with Richard Dreyfuss, though not good. The characters are complete a-holes, the fact that people could act this way with impunity is ridiculous. For Fletcher to get Andrew to be the drummer in the performance at the end makes no sense, as it would reflect poorly on him and there would be life altering repercussions if it didn't work out like it did. Then for Andrew to get up and come back, you'd have to be dragged away to let Fletcher get away with it. The audacity of Andrew to ask the girl out knowing he's a complete a-hole, to then break it off after putting her in that position, to then have the gall to call her later to ask her to go to his performance. How the hell can anyone write this crap? Serial killers have been nicer than this.
The good: The outstanding performances of Miles Teller as Andrew and J.K Simmons as Fletcher. They both were incredible in their parts and it seemed as if they gave their best in portraying the two male leading roles. The film surely wouldn't be the same if it wasn't for these two to lift it off. I also liked the fact that this film pays tribute to jazz music which is so overlooked in this age and time.The bad: Pretty much everything else. It seems like the initial goal of this film is for us to sympathize with the protagonist and share his ambition. We are supposed to like him, admire him for his persistence and cheer for him as he is trying hard to succeed in what he wants the most. But soon, we discover that Andrew's character is a self- centered, self-righteous, arrogant guy who thinks he is the best musician that has ever existed just because it is his ambition to become one. He hurts everyone else's feelings and diminishes them because he seems to believe he is more talented than them (as if it's him who decides that). For example, when he tells the girl he was supposed to be dating, that he does not want to date her anymore because she will slow him down, she asks him if that is because she said she doesn't know what she wants and he is positive. Which means that in his mind, just because he has found a thing he is passionate about, he is superior to the girl, who hasn't found a hobby or career path. Before that, when he is at the dinner table, he seems agitated because his family is not always talking about him and his drumming thing. He tries to change the subject back to his drumming and proceeds to diminish their talent because he really does think they will never amount to him. Which means that although he doesn't like the emotional abuse he is receiving from his teacher, he likes mentally abusing other people. Furthermore, I do not clearly understand what this film is trying to prove or make us believe. That it is okay to be emotionally scarred for life if some teacher says it's for your sake? Are we supposed to be relieved when the teacher reveals he is being cruel only to motivate the students to be the best and say ''Okay, he wasn't that bad of a person'' because I don't think that's a sane thing to do. The way to motivation should not (and is illegal to) include battering the students, calling them names, using their family background to verbally abuse them and insulting them in numerous ways. So, even if the teacher thought that was the way to make them better, it does not make him a better person. It makes him a monster. What's even worse is that Andrew seems to like his teacher in a weird way. He knows he is a good teacher and an even better musician so he is trying to look up to him and be the next Charlie Parker. Which means, he has to be as mean and as selfish as his teacher already is so that the teacher finally gives him his blessing. Is that what we want our kids and fellow men to do? Can't someone be the greatest musician ever without being an arrogant guy that puts other people down and admires the wrong kind of people? Couldn't Andrew just be humble and a nice person with the same persistence and drive? Another thing that really angered me off is how Andrew is indecisive. He swings from wanting to kill his teacher to cooperating with him to get him to like him. He confesses that his teacher is verbally abusing everyone in his class, he knows that the teacher's ways have led to someone's suicide so it looks as if he understands how bad of a person Fletcher actually is. Then he talks to Fletcher, plays with him at the festival as if there is nothing wrong whilst still admiring him as a teacher and musician. And after he finds out his former teacher has betrayed him by ordering a new song he didn't know, he leaves enraged, only to return to his drum set and give everything he's got....Is he suffering from bipolar personality disorder or is he just not sure of what he wants in life?Overall, I did not like much in this film. Sure the performances of Teller and Simmons were something else and the cinematography is brilliant but in the end, this film should not be anyone's favorite.
Two things make this movie worth watching: the great acting by J.K. Simmons, and the nice visuals and editing. These, not surprisingly, received Oscar awards.But I believe the movie fails entirely at its core: music. The story mixes Full Metal Jacket with Shine to represent a bullying music teacher mistreating young students in some supposedly reputable jazz music academy. The whole focus is on the brilliant leading character who becomes obsessed with perfection, and on his lunatic teacher pushing him harder and harder.The big problem for me is the total lack of credibility. Music, as it is represented in this movie, works like gymnastics where there exists some ideal perfect execution to be obtained by exercising more and more. I think, on the contrary, that (good) music is more like dance, where there is no "perfect execution" but rather it involves taste, sensibility, and different points of view.An example of this is the song Caravan that is played multiple times throughout the movie. As a fan of good ol' jazz, I have to say I never listened to a worse execution! If you do not know what I am talking about please just search "Duke Ellington Caravan" on Youtube and then compare with this movie: Caravan is NOT about super-speed and perfect timing, it is about mood, swing and atmosphere, all things that seem totally unknown to whoever run the music department for Whiplash.If you are looking for a good movie about obsession for music I would definitely suggest Shine. If you look for a movie about music as a way to obtain freedom and elevation of spirit (and also some good laugh) there's The Concert. Or try Kieslowski's Trois couleurs Bleu, Mo' Better Blues, or maybe the TV series Mozart in the Jungle. Whiplash does not add anything interesting to the long list of films about music.


                
Maybe I'm missing something here, but this movie seems to be promoting abuse as a method to achieve perfection. It is incredibly painful to watch...


                
I MUST have watched the wrong movie. The reviews for this film could in no way apply to the contrived claptrap I've just seen. Perhaps the positive reviews here were intended for that 1974 masterpiece House of Whipcord. The movie called Whiplash that I saw stars J.K. Simmons as Terence, a music teacher who can slap a face with such force as to make General Patton wince. The film also stars Miles Teller as Andrew, a student of Terence's who yearns to learn from him how to properly play the drums. Andrew accomplishes this by volunteering to let his teacher play the bongos on his face.I won't say that Damien Chazelle's direction is heavy-handed, but I would probably prefer to stick my head in Andrew's bass drum during the climactic scene than to endure watching said scene again.A word of advice to anyone considering seeing this film; go to YouTube instead and do a search for Buddy Rich. You will see the greatest drummer ever, and spare yourself the agony of viewing this over-the-top, trite, clichéd, eye-roll inducing effort. Your eyes and your ears will thank you for it.


                
Solid flick but not an 8.5. Currently outranking films such as Lion King and Gladiator.


                
