I don't care much for this show and this is coming from someone who's worked as a Trader. The dialogue is filled with cliched trader lingo, fancy, "rich people" stuff and the sick and twisted sexual habits of the 1% thrown in just to compel the other 99% to stay tuned in. Unless you are familiar with trading, the only time you'll understand what's going on is when one of the guys either looks crushed or has a poop eating grin. Great! Someone won for THIS episode. You look away and you'll miss the ENTIRE plot line within a matter of seconds because the writing is so full of itself. It's seriously written for folks that want to THINK they're smart yet couldn't tell you what happened in the episode. Is this what television has boiled down to? Cheering when ONE of the characters wins but not exactly understanding HOW? It's also pretty predicatable that the one upping and cat and mouse games of the Uber rich will get tired--no matter how many fancy boats, private jets and bondage scenes they throw in. I finding myself not caring about any of the characters and their thirst for power or the head games that rich folks play with each other and the law to stay rich. Most of the characters are one dimensional--but then POW! Wait...they have strange sexual fetishes. Bobby Axlerod is supposed to be "genius" but just comes across as a shallow man who one ups folks solely because he has the money to do so. The reason for his "genius" never quite resonates with the audience aside from the fact that he's rich and connected and somehow unbelievably makes the right moves at the right time EVERY time. That isn't "genius". It's just how insider trading and market manipulation works when you have enough money. Oh, and the sexual proclivities of an unattractive Paul Giamatti and his equally plain and boring wife with her deadpan line delivery is cringeworthy. I'm four episodes in and ready to leave this where it lies.


                
This is a television drama series starring Damian Lewis as an ambitious hedge fund king and Paul Giamatti as a relentless and tough U.S. Attorney.Just saw the (unaired) pilot and it is more than obvious that this series is designed to impress. There is a slow building of the set-up. Bit by Bit of information until you get the whole picture of what is happening and the connection between the main characters. Unfortunately is that connection that makes me hold a small basket. The relation between the characters is stronger than it first appear and makes it a borderline soap opera. I really hope it doesn't get into one.Anyway, you have some credible actors, you get to see glimpses on how the upper 1% of the world lives (which is always a selling point since Dallas and Dynasty) plus you may learn a couple of things about the stock-market and funds and other ...mystical things that most people don't know about and could make a guy billionaire in a day or so.Overall: Nothing spectacular so far, but the set-up of the pilot made clear what you are about to see in the 12 episodes of the 1st season. 2 men (yet not 2 different worlds) will collide in a pissing contest (as it is clearly said in the pilot). Who will win? Only one way to find out...


                
Season 1 escaped my notice. I saw the promos for season 2 and thought it reminiscent of House of Cards so I borrowed season 1 from a friend. I made it to episode 4 before I gave it back. 
OK, here are the issues I have with this series and what constitutes entertainment generally these days for what it's worth. 
The opening sequence depicts S&M and sick sex is a massive factor. The language throughout is foul. Go figure. The characters are a bunch of deviants. That 'fix-it' guy that worked for Axe implied that what gets him off is more twisted than the film he was using to blackmail the girl. A little later you see him after hours with a midget in suspenders. Oh jeez - how old are we?? That was embarrassing on several levels. Notice how I can't be bothered naming the characters? They're also the ugliest collection of actors I've seen since the Walking Dead. But that's just a personal aside. Here are my questions and thoughts;
1. Do the producers inflict this on us from the outset because they think that it will rate and get our attention? Maybe they're right but not mine.
2. Do they do it in the absence of a plot that works, a script that makes sense or a cast that fails to engage?
3. Is this a fair representation of workplace relations in the US? If so, it's no wonder they're massacring each other hand over fist. 
4. Isn't it essential anymore to find at least one character to empathise with? I thought that it was. Well it is for me - I hated them all and couldn't care less what happened to any of them. 
5. The psychiatrist character is a fiasco.
6. The scenes with Giamatti and the dog walker. Do I even need to comment?I've said enough. It's garbage and the only reason I'm taking the time to write this is as a protest to Hollywood. You're capable of so much wonder and you produce so much crap. That actually might say more about us than you so somebody please - wake up.
With all the glowering reviews, with all the talented actors involved (Paul Gimatatti, Damian Lewis, and David Constabile (of the late "Suits")), you'd think HBO could've made a better show. Nope. All you've got is two (!), only two people in almost any one single shot, bickering at each other, and, onto another scene. I mean, who the hell even writes these checks for such a pathetic effort? Or, does everyone work on spec nowadays?Come to think of it, the people involved should've paid you and I to NOT watch this crap.With this shitty writing, who the hell cares about good acting, or gorgeous backdrops, or even an occasional nude scene.Sucks. This, just, plain, SUCKS. Too bad, though...This really looked like it had potential.


                
(Many spoilers here)Watched Series 1 & 2 episodes of S2. Why? The high rating fooled me - yet again. Kept hoping it would get better. After all, there are some big name (usually pretty good) actors in the mix. It did not get better, certainly not for me anyway.I mean, just for starters, surely there would be a massive conflict of interest with the husband and wife working for opposite/opposing sides - this surely would not work at all in the 'real' world. It's not the least bit plausible, and very silly stuff. (*And yes, I am able to suspend belief for 'arts' sake, but on some things I just can't - not when everyone is taking things oh so seriously.) And everyone overacts - a lot. Especially the 2 male leads. And the main female lead, the lady who is the "person whisperer" or whatever the hell she's supposed to be? Now that really stretches the imagination (see * above). But the very earnestness of those scenes were quite funny and at least made me laugh. Said lady also plays the part of hubby's dominatrix - when he's not off at the S&M club finding someone else to fill in. Can she not work her magic and deliver her husband from the grip of his unfortunate proclivity - which you just know is eventually going to do him in bigly further down the track. Nope. When you are at the point where you are hoping all the lead actors die horribly, you've seen enough. I think the bit that actually earned my total and final contempt was the scene where Axelrod puts his feet up on his desk and the snowy white soles of his runners/trainers, front and (almost) centre of the screen, have not one tiny, teeny speck on them. Then I thought ... hey, maybe that was just the Director's way of taking the p**s. Because of course ... Axelrod walks on air! Now THAT I appreciate.
It probably had to happen sometime, as it did a few months ago to HOMELAND, but at least that series took six seasons, not a mere two, to get around to self-destruction.BILLIONS has always been a little too clever for its own good. Take the surreal dialogue, for example. Yes, the characters are supposed to be highly educated and accomplished. But the great majority of such people, in real life, don't talk like Aaron Sorkin high on cocaine and mushrooms, relentlessly dropping references and allusions and obscure foreign phrases which require internet searches to decipher them.For all of his screenwriter's experience, Sorkin seems never to have learned one of the most important principles of his craft, namely that you don't make all of your main characters sound alike - that is, you don't make them all sound like yourself, on or off drugs.And speaking of unbelievable dialogue, are we seriously expected to accept that, when referring to her pronominally in the third person, in or out of her hearing, all of the BILLIONS characters but one would call Taylor ("My name is Pat and I'm a very sexual being...") Mason "they" or "them"?In fact, Asia Kate Dillon, who plays Taylor, insisted that this politically correct nonsense be incorporated into the series, and Hollywood being what it is nowadays, the BILLIONS producers humored her. Compare this to what happened twenty years ago during the production of L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, when Kevin Spacey was told to cool it after threatening to walk off the set because the movie's dialogue is realistically peppered with pejoratives commonly aimed at homosexuals in the 1950s.But back to the shark...As some of the other IMDb reviewers of this series have cogently noted, the entertaining tension of BILLIONS derives from the sympathy and animosity which the viewer feels for its two main characters, the self-made man/ruthless billionaire Bobby Axelrod (Damian Lewis) and the trust-fund baby/ruthless prosecutor Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti).So what in the world were the screenwriters thinking when they involved billionaire Bobby in a plot to sabotage a fruit drink manufacturer's IPO, and thereby to bankrupt prosecutor Chuck, by tainting the company's product with a potentially fatal bacterium? Did Aaron Sorkin seriously think that we'd continue to be interested in Bobby's fortunes knowing that he's willing to stoop so low?And having been told for two seasons about Bobby's cunning and skill at covering his tracks, are we now to believe that, no matter how much he hates Chuck, he'd engage in a scheme which could easily land himself in a federal prison for decades if only one of the scheme's many moving and unreliable parts failed him?If the viewer were fabulously wealthy but nonetheless planning to poison a food product as comeuppance for a perceived injustice, would he or she turn first for help to a gaggle of indigent and compromised losers from the old neighborhood? Not bloody-stool likely!The episode in question is "Golden Frog Time" and refers to a South American toxin so deadly that an arrow dipped in it can kill a second victim after passing through its first one. But in this case, the venomous arrow hit an unintended victim - BILLIONS itself.
I just watched Season 1 and nodded off numerous times. You'll notice from the reviews here people either love this show or hate it, there seems no in between. I've seen a lot of shows that have had plot problems, character development problems, credibility problems, casting problems, script problems, yada yada. But this show takes the cake for BORING because it has been showcased as a compelling drama but it fails. It has ALL those problems! WTH?The writing is so weak, overflowing with platitudes, metaphors and utterances of Zen-like philosophy. Some of the lines are plain stupid such as a guy who came up from the street calling someone a "quisling." WTH! Someone is using a Word-of-the-Day calendar to write dialogue! Let's put aside the many financial games played here that don't ring true and look at the main characters. The married couple, Chuck and Wendy Rhoades, might be the most boring people on the planet. They go to work and play sex games and that's it. Their conversations with each other and everyone else are boring! Bobby Axelrod is a caricature of the kid who got sand kicked in his face who grew up to become filthy rich. Along the way he became a benevolent dictator with self-imagined God qualities and we are manipulated into sympathizing with him regardless of the cheating and law breaking at the base of his wealth. WTH? The script is a droning & predictable seesaw between two themes: insider trading and sex, neither of which is fascinating with these one dimensional characters. The Big Short did a supremely better job of making "follow the money" a gripping plot line with believable and interesting characters. And even better, that truth-is-stranger-than-fiction story was all about legal stock trading by risk-taking wizards and it showed you how they work.I also think this show was miscast. Paul Giamatti is a good actor but the constant hiss of his whispery voice coupled with his Milquetoast exterior was at odds with the traits one wants to see in a prosecutor. There was no energy or charisma in his performance so it became tedious to watch. Damian Lewis overacted most of the time and his wardrobe emphasized his little-boy body making him seem like a 12 year old at the helm of a Sherman tank. The good casting and acting was done in supporting roles which led me to another WTH? conclusion. It was the supporting cast that kept me awake. This gets one star from me and no interest in further viewings.


                
If season one's "plot" was moving with the speed of an old and sick snail, season two is simply leaning on a point from which is not moving, during 2-3-4 episodes, in no direction whatsoever.
Bringing new characters into the show is useless, because all of them (both the ones from season one and the new-comers) are talking in the same snobbish, pretentious and boring manner, written by the three Jews writers under Sorkin's wise leading (but already in inspirational crisis): they are jumping from one idea to another, very often without making any sense
"Billions" is already a motionless soap-opera, in the same category as "Suits".
Before going to sleep, connect the USB with "Suits" episodes to your TV and start watching. You'll be asleep in less than 2 minutes.


                
Although a bit slow, I did quite enjoy the first season. However, season 2 brought us the completely unnecessary, and totally over the top, whatchamacallit known as Taylor. I don't at all mind having special needs people or peoples with disabilities in shows, but it has to be somewhat realistic. That is, don't create a character with quirks or disabilities that serve no purpose other than to pander to a certain ,insignificantly small, group of sympathizers. Unfortunately I wasn't unable to make it very far into season 2 as the Taylor character is so pathetically over the top that she comes off more like a cartoon character than anything else.


                
In season 4, everyone is an extreme caricature of themselves. The polished, unlikely, overplayed mimicry, the mechanical punchline-based conversations and the hurried manner as if the writers have to finish a given number of scenes before being allowed to go to the toilet -- it´s nowhere near the previous quality.
Dialogues, contexts, heartbeat - all gone. This is pure lazy writing and "let´s get this over with so we can go home"-mentality and openly communicated.
You´ll only end up annoyed by this. Watch something else.


                
First couple of seasons this was brilliant, riveting, and fun. :Last season not so much. This season is one hackneyed cardboard stereotype after another tied together more so many cliches it is clear the script was created by AI. And to top it off some the finest actors of the past 40 years have been given the opportunity to deliver such nonsense that their performances will easily rank among their worst.
It's a sad shame.
This is the worst show I've ever seen on Showtime. I gave it a fair chance and watched three episodes of the first season. I was totally unimpressed. TOTALLY UNIMPRESSED! I could barely sit through it without just feeling ridiculous about watching it at all. It's embarrassing, the cast is mostly ugly, the acting is horrendous. I wasted three hours of my life on this show that I can never get back. Do yourself a favor and skip watching this show. It's not worth your time or the money you pay for your premium stations. Please. Heed my warning. This show is awful. Trust me. There have been better shows on Showtime. BILLIONS OF TIMES BETTER THAN BILLIONS. Showtime, please. Bring back Dexter.


                
Nodded off in several episodes. Don't waste your time.


                
Boy, how far can you fall. They have destroyed the characters, they have turned the story in to a caricature of what it was. Not worthy of 10 minutes of your time.
What a disappointment.
Did the writers, DP, anyone with a clue have nothing better to do?
I've been hooked, LOVE PG, def fell in love with you w the other characters, but did we really wait for the first 5 minutes of this?Yikes again. PG, move on buddy, you're way better


                
