This is a must see. The writing, the acting, the cast, are all perfect. It is so rare that you find a show with such a diverse cast coming together so seamlessly. Each character is perfectly cast. The writing allows you to live each chactors journey throughout each scene. You do not know who's side you are on; all you know is they are all "right" in their convictions in some way. The tension and life within this show makes you feel it as though you are there. Re- watch to find details you may have missed the first time. It is a thriller, drama, comedy, tragedy, and fairytale all in one. Watch the show to find out which character resonates with you ethics and morals. The lines may be harder to see than you think. The cast are living their roles and their conviction is riveting. Thank you for this show.


                
There are many series and movies about being a rich billionaire, many are set in California, a few are in NYC but, often they are clichés' and stereotypical representations of the man. Billions is so much different. A breath of fresh air. The writers intrigue you. Not a moment is wasted on reviewing the mundane! It's an edge of the seater and nearly impossible to look away...As an east coast businessman for 3 decades, I can appreciate what an utter BURDEN it must be to be a billionaire. The uber rich can be diabolical douchebags. But Bobby Axe brings it to a whole different plane...If only all Billionaires were like him, the world would turn around in no time.I started binge watching this show ( Billions) yesterday, 7 hours later into the seventh episode, I needed to pause it, and write this review...THAT is how brilliant this show is... Watch it, you'll be glad you did.


                
I love both leads in the show, Giamatti and Lewis are both amazing on their roles, both characters are I want to WIN ALL THE WAY but are broken inside with flaws they both depend on the same woman to try to repair. Imagine you get a TV show about The Wolf of Wall Street, with less profanity (I have nothing against, by the way) and mix it up with and equal opposite as the guy after him, both with money both with power but a big difference, the billionaire came from noting , rise up from a poor kid to the top. and the Public Officer (district attorney) is the one that grow up with money and power but have a hunger to be successful bringing down white collar guys.The show is amazing, cant wait till next season. Please take a moment and enjoy it yourself.


                
Billions has it all! Class, Style, Beauty, and best of all Brains.The battle of wits between Chuck (Paul Giamatti), and Bobby (Damian Lewis) is the heart of the show...and both men are riveting to watch.The other gem of the show is the fantastic and beautiful Maggie Siff as Chuck's wife Wendy, who just happens to be one of Bobby's oldest friends..not to mention..practically a co founder of Bobby's company. The sparks between Bobby and Wendy fly..but she is married to his greatest enemy. Lewis and Siff have such chemistry on screen...and Damian Lewis has an uncanny ability to make you root for him, no matter what he is playing. Be it a Wrongly Imprisoned cop on the equally excellent short lived show called Life, or the potential villain on Homeland..the man just has incredible talent..and with Bobby "Axe" Axelrod...it is no different. You never want to see one man win..because the Clash Of these two Titans is just too much fun!!


                
Based on the writing and characterizations alone, this show, right out of the box, would be a 9.That is a serious statement and I think it will hold up. Not only do these scripts go into areas of finance that the public has not been privy to (credit Andrew Ross Sorkin of TOO BIG TO FAIL fame) but, I kid you not, in this show the men talk like men and the women talk like bigger men. And it works a treat.They could have stopped there. But, no, they went for the casting coup of the century. Giamatti against Lewis. Giamatti, who could not give a weak performance if he tried, out-does all his prior film work. Which is also an amazing statement to make. It is as if he wants this show to replace his entire highlight reel.And then Lewis. How talented is this guy?? He not only played an American traitor -- brilliantly -- and had to work with Claire Danes (not as easy as it looks) but effortlessly switches to billionaire tycoon without missing a beat.The only thing missing from the IMDb profile page is a list of the awards this show won. Check back a year from now for that.


                
The only thing disappointing about this show is the fact that our government isn't going after Wall Street criminals as depicted in this great new series. The cast is stellar, the dialogue is top-notch, the story is complicated, and it is completely free of clichés. There are no cartoon villains in this story, something that is almost impossible to pull off in a feature film because there just isn't enough time. It's hard to know who to root for in this dog fight.This is shaping up to be one of the best series ever...no kidding. Five episodes in and all engines are firing perfectly without even a moment of less-than-great storytelling. I can't wait to see where it will go, sort of like watching two great chess masters slugging it out to the bitter end.Update to S01E10Billions is very good in my estimation. As I said, I think they make the rich dude out to be a lot less of a scumbag than these people probably are in real life. He's a criminal who steals money from middle class investors and I wish they would harp on this more. That in itself make him fairly evil in my book. I came close to giving up on the show when they painted the financier too favorably but then they turned a corner<U+0085>but now they seem to be veering back into placing him in likable territory. I don't care that he is uxorious and charitable; he steals pensions from school teachers. What could be worse than that?However, anything other than the usual Manichean good guy-bad guy scenario is a breath of fresh air. I'm glad that they haven't played up the kinky sex angle because that's pretty boring and his wife actually working for the rich due is a bit of a stretch but one that I can overlook<U+0085>for now. I hope that they won't work that too much. Another issue I have is that not a whole lot has really been covered thus far. It's not like they waste a ton of screen-time like in Better Call Saul with it's completely pointless points built on 2-5 minutes of film (an eternity) but as the season approached an end there hasn't really been much movement, at least with the prosecution. I think the writing has been incredibly skillful and it's obvious that they understand this world intimately, at least it seems like they do from my vantage point in the VERY cheap seats. Paul Giamati is pretty great as well as the ginger (don't know his name). The ginger's assistant (from Breaking Bad) is great as is his very creepy fixer (old guy in glasses, you know, the midget screwer).
What a start! WoW! After House a Cards, another whooping serial... It has been just a few serials and I am already hooked on to this! Great work by Chuck Rhoades & Bobby Axelrod! Magnetic performances! Wendy is more of an eye candy as yet, maybe her role would pan out later. Would love to see more of the sexy Lara Axelrod...The way Bobby and Chuck clash is surrealI would also like to see both of them in the same frame more often!The crazy sex act between Chuck and Wendy also seemed incomplete...Why is that here? Any background?


                
Simply one of the most creative, ingenious plots I've ever seen in a single TV episode, ever. There is at present so little remaining space in the field of original television programming, to anyone who comes up with something uniquely fresh, one must applaud. To the renown writers: you have truly outdone yourselves. Well done!


                
I can say with every confidence I am rooting for Axelrod in this series in fact I see him as a protagonist, not an antagonist, rather I see the US attorney chuck Rhodes as the bad guy, this show has it all, comedy, intrigue, manipulation. They two are extremely smart but Axelrod is smarter, he always has an agenda, he is the kind of chess player that gets you scared when he is making move. This show have very powerful and strong female characters, that still respect their husband totally, everyone wants to have a wife like Lara or Wendy that don't wait to be told what to do but do for the sake of the safety of their family. They are solid rocks that can be relied on at any time, the location for this series is wonderful, the writers of this story are extremely talented, this show is to real to be fiction, this show is like the joker versus batman. Hall's dark fantasies is something they should dive into more, this is an excellent show in every respect, this is the kind of show keeps on increasing in ratings because of how captivating and addictive it is. If you an adult especially in the financial sector watch it.
Two stellar actors and an intriguing plot results in a very fun cat and mouse TV series. But I would say the acting is what really blows me away. I've watched Damian Lewis in all his BBC productions before his American (Band of Brothers, Homeland etc) shows. He is likely the Dustin Hoffman of our times, that kind of caliber. Can make anything believable. And Paul Giamatti is right up there with Lewis. The two of them display such layers of complexity in their TV characters in Billions that on any given episode, you may find yourself rooting for one or the other. Brilliant show.


                
This show is simply excellent all around. From the fantastic aerial shots of the big apple to the tight witty writing and great acting performances this show fires on all cylinders with never a dull moment. Even if you are not fascinated with the ups and downs of wall street this show will entertain you.The only shows that are remotely comparable are The Americans and Homeland.


                
Having watched Season 1 & 2, Billions is the best series I have ever seen (and I've watched many) and the only series I have ever scored a 10. Great casting, great acting, great script, great story line and great characters (Axe, Chuck, Wags, Taylor, all of them. Not a weak one to be seen). Unmissable. Bring on Series 3 as soon as possible please.
Billions is easily one of the best shows on television. It is compelling and fun as well as having the best dialogue between characters in any show. Paul Giamatti is a force as always and Damian Lewis matches his talents. Well done Mr Koppelman.


                
It's fast....it's competitive....it's intelligent....its powerful...its hate and love on the same time......... and it just makes you want more.Paul Giamatti and Damian Lewis absolutely nails it.Great picture...Great sound design for a series...10/10 best show I have ever seen.


                
To be clear... Damien Lewis is the show. His acting is genius! Rarely will I watch an entire series 3 times. Sopranos, Game of Thrones and Billions!


                
The stunning genius of the writing of this show, and the production values, and the photography, and the world class actors have just made me realize that there are so many other shows that are such a complete waste of my time.This show is incredible. I just came to the realization at the end of the Apr 9 episode that TV this good is WHY I watch TV.I wish my praise of this show could match the excellence of the achievement of the producers of this awesome show. I watch way, WAY too much TV, so when I say that this show is in the top couple of shows out of the dozens and dozens and dozens of shows I watch - please accept my recommendation that you should start watching this show if you have not yet done so.


                
There are not many shows that keep surprising you like this one. the genius script allows for fluid characters that keep changing strategies in such way the enemies become friends and the honorable ones become the deceitful ones. likable characters become unlikable and visa versa. cant wait for season five.


                
Superb show that has the viewer craving the next episode before the current one is finished. The writing, the acting and the production are all terrific. The cast are perfect for their roles. I wish there were more episodes. A truly great show !!!


                
Love this show! 2 main characters who come from 2 different worlds and are very powerful. Chuck- Us attonery, born and raised in a family with power. Bobby Axe- smart, hustled life and became rich. Not going to give too much. I find this show to be competitive, entertaining, funny, and keeps you wanting more. Cannot compare to other shows like GOT or Sopranos. Totally different context in all 3 shows. Not even sure why some comments even compare it!


                
Love it I hate waiting for the next episode haha I love the fictional story lines and the acting is suburb I would love to do SA work with them wish my casting company worked with them it would be an honer


                
Normally I don't write reviews, but after watching last episode (s03e11) I am compel to do so, people don't miss this out, we are in era of GOT etc., may be this show doesn't provide the chills other shows does, but this is top notch, don't miss out on this.


                
Amazing acting, cinematography and most of all the writing. Keeps you wanting to watch the next episode till the end.
If you gave it a bad rating is just because you don't understand it.


                
This show is amazing. It's a success because you find yourself rooting for everyone and constantly trying to figure out which side you're on at every season.
I'm actually afraid of season 5. I can't wait to watch it, but I'm afraid. I know I'll be torn again. Should I be excited that Chuck and Bobby are now besties and Taylor is finding their own path ? Should I be worried about the newest conniving Duo maybe smashing little Taylor to pieces ? Should I be angry at our little Mason for leaving the nest ? Leave me alone, I don't know !
This show makes you fall in love with every character and then tries to make you choose which one you love most. It's excruciatingly genius !


                
Trama muiro bem amarrada. Personagens intensos e contraditorios.


                
A former student recommended Billions to me back in Season 1, and though I have a rather strict policy of not watching shows until a second season is ordered and shooting (to avoid disappointment), I watched and was hooked. For what it's worth, I worked on Wall Street and then later in financial services and wrote my thesis on carried interest. That said, this is not a brain trust show - you needn't have any experience with the Street to watch, any more than you needed to have worked in the Executive branch to watch West Wing or been an attorney to enjoy Suits. The first season was the best written, as is often the case, but the twists and turns in the second, and especially the third seasons more than make up for a little editorial slackness. Giamatti is fantastic. Damian Lewis is very good - better than he was in Homeland but still his performance seems a little forced. The characters and their relationships are the cornerstone of the show - Wags and Axe, Axe and Wendy, Wendy and all of the quirky worker-bees at Axe, etc. It is an excellent binge watch, so wait until the season is over, watch all 12 eps, and then cancel Showtime (nothing else is worth the price). Billions is guilty-pleasure at its best.


                
