To be fair, this has not been a bad show. But it hasn't been a revelation either.It promised universally attractive topics, such as "obsessed justice champion versus charismatic winner bad-ass"; a man-to-man frantic chase; traitors, moles and secrets; tons of money, tons of power; how the richest live, and so on.It promised an initially attractive cast, with both Lewis and Giammati being proved actors.But on watching the first season I have found some disappointing issues.First of all, the story is laden with clichés, such as "even the good guys have dirty secrets", justice overpowered by money, a too stereotypical portrait of the financial hedge-fund world, informants and lawyer maneuvering, and the like.Both leading actors overact their parts. This has been a bit of a turn-off to me.There are credibility issues all along the script. Financial decisions, psychological interventions and judiciary processes do not proceed as they are portrayed here.Even if you consent to believe that a US attorney-general and his therapist wife will work for adversary parts and the world will swallow that as a matter-of-fact, non conflicting reality (nah--), there is no credible way in which a wife and a husband serving opposite masters will share their work-computer passwords. Never at such a high level of professional expertise.Also, Showtime executives have a tendency to force-feed sexual kinkiness or perversion in most of their shows, which I find somehow cheap and diminishing to the viewers. It feels as if everything coming from them will include some degree of transplanted sexual extravaganza, no matter if it is a ballet TV show, a Miami mafia story or "Billions".More importantly, if the subject was hedge funds operations, the whole thing was quite trivialized as a shallow business.In 2014-2015, while the show was under development, a breakthrough UN resolution was taken to condemn hedge funds interventions in sovereign debt transactions all over the world. Billions could have taken a perfect chance to highlight the issue, unveiling international politics; US judiciary ruling in the clash between nations and hedge funds, and truly relevant ethical crimes in the financial global world.But both the chance and the perfect timing were completely missed. It was all about not paying taxes, pharma inside trading and bribing policemen. How disappointing in terms of the true state-of-affairs! I think the show should aim higher in terms of depth, tone down the performances of the actors, and work harder to make situations credible, if it is to improve in a second season and make it as a first-rate series.
Something felt wrong as l watched the pilot. It finally dawned on me that they mixed up the two main roles. Damien Lewis should be playing the DA and Paul Giamatti should be playing the rich guy. It fits when you think of their appearance and the others surrounding them. Lewis looks like a straight arrow, albeit a little uptight - perfect for a DA. The DA's parents also look a little uptight, not to mention they are lean and tall, like Lewis. Add to that the dark little secret like the one revealed and I'm convinced Lewis is the better fit. Giamatti would be more convincing as the avaricious and ruthless billionaire with the trophy wife. Anyway, I'll continue to watch and see if I can't warm up to the show.
It only dawned on me gradually as I watched this very enjoyable series (with a spectacular performance by Damian Lewis) that I was watching a remake of The Fountainhead, with the setting altered from architecture to high finance and with, of course, many plot alterations. It is an updated version of the now laughably dated novel, and it is accordingly far more sophisticated both in its story-line and its ideology. Yes, it's libertarian propaganda, and yes, it manipulates us into rooting for handsome, charming Roarke ( billionaire Bobby Axelrod)and deriding the repulsive Toohey (prosecutor Chuck Rhoades). But the updated version is far more subtle and complex than Rand's puerile vision, and Rhoades becomes a tragic Ahab-like figure. Ayn Rand does get a mention, finally, in the last scene. Just as I was taken in by the novel when I was fourteen, I was now (decades later) taken in by the series -- but at least I was aware this time of the twisted values on display, and I was amused and intrigued by my very willing suspension of disbelief. Sure, let's pretend these billionaires are lovely, for the most part, and that the rules are "random"... why not? It's more fun, and allows me to enjoy the series. But at the end I returned to stark reality, and remembered what the culture of obscene wealth entails, and where, in 2017, it has landed us.


                
I don't know why I am watching this show. It's like seeing the car wreck you can't look away from or something. The characters are all caricatures of caricatures that try to one up each other on their pettiness even as they should be dealing with bigger things. None of the characters are likable on either side. It is like a live action Minons. The characters look alike, dress alike, talk alike and even share their love of quoting movies. I am not a billionaire but I find it hard to believe they act and talk this way. I am still trying to figure if this is a comedy or drama because it us not engaging to me or funny.


                
I like Billions: the general plot line and the episode-long problems the characters mumble through are good. My only thing with Billions is it has many seemingly obscure New York-New Jersey references, right down to the music. There is nothing wrong with this, but its dedication to places in the plots and music would probably make some viewers feel lost at times and, unfortunately, they are not worth knowing either.


                
Its getting worse.The plot is getting dragged out and filled in with distractions.This past episode started getting me angry opposed to getting excited. I don't want to see criminal activities perpetuated by firefighters. They don't deserve it. I don't enjoy seeing it. As with any violent and criminal act by a civil servant I want it identified and corrected - even punished. Many a time I put the TV on pause while I walked away and cooled down only to find that it was happening again. I think the creator has gone astray or has lost control.From now on I am prepared to fast forward through these scenes and eventually, if this continues, turn it off and hope that the next episode will be better.Fair warning - you had me - and now you are losing me.


                
As with many very good TV shows over the years, Billions started strong but has strayed from the ingredients that made it a hit. The characters and themes are getting darker and more convoluted with each episode, there is literally no one to root for, and the show's underlying sense of humor is is slipping away. A similar pattern emerged with House of Cards, Catastrophe, and many others. For some unknown reason, the writers and/or directors can't seem to resist this, and it will kill the show IMO unless reversed.


                
Definitely a well acted show with a wonderful premise. The state against the magnate who is a clean version of a Capone. Everyone is a hard ass, every position extreme and full blown. Trouble is, the four letter words get tiresome and the extreme posturing and the extreme demonstration of the power of money. Money is what brings fame, power and glory to the key players in this show, a sad play on American society that this continues to be a popular view. Fortunately the actors are first rate and never disappoint. There is enough sex to keep it interesting, but not so much to become over rated. The intertwining story lines keep it interesting.
Enjoy this show immensely. Totally topical, great story, characters and character arcs. Skillful direction; top rated writing; music that must be there, but you never hear it; smooth subplots, in other words one of the best shows on TV today.Into this, someone tries to sabotage the show by casting John Malkovich as an evil, rich, Russian oligarch complete with thick accent who abuses women and causes children to disappear. I hope he takes him money out of Ax Capital soon and exits stage left. I can't imagine the original casting director made this gros faux pas and it should serve as a painful lesson to never ever cast a well known American actor in the role of a foreigner complete with phony accent. An unknown American actor, okay. A known or unknown foreign actor, better, but John Malkovich? Never


                
Initially, the show was interesting as a tug of war between good and evil on many levels. Unfortunately, the writers couldn't avoid doing what other shows, like House of Cards have done; having all the characters descend into a greedy or evil mess. There is literally no one to identify with anymore, and that just makes it dull.


                
I just finished the first season and have to say the entire arc was beautifully concluded with "The Conversation," which, beyond question, is the masterpiece of the entire first run. I won't give anything specific away, but my general observations are, nonetheless, that "Chuck" and Wendy are about the least likely couple on the planet. How my suspension of disbelief isn't fractured beyond repair is shocking in and of itself. This portly, pallid, hairy and under-compensated behemoth of a civil servant with a sadomasochist streak of submissiveness, is actually married to this totally hot, super wealthy closet dominatrix who works for his arch enemy is beyond any stretch of anyone's imagination this side of Pluto. I can't even look at them together without my finger on the fast-forward key. It's rough, man. This aside, the rest of the cast more of less works, particularly "Bobby" and his pit bull wife, Lara who together make a plausible Bonnie and Clyde. So the show is about a hedge fund guy who started his own firm on the back of 911, using the loss of his fellow employees as a means to an end. Again, I'll let you watch it for yourself. Bobby is always in the gray to darker gray zones of the law, but always man ages to come across as a good guy to the people around him, making one richer then the next. He is ruthless and arguably a sociopath like many in his field,but on a fundamental level has the capacity to feel, to empathize, to love. I find myself rooting for him time and time again at the same time realizing I'm rooting for a guy who should be behind bars. In this sense, what makes the show interesting to me is the seductiveness of Bobby and his world of excess. I found myself questioning whether or not i wouldn't take a job with the guy if I were on the receiving end of one of his offers. The show beats down hard on the lowly civil servant as it juxtaposes the excesses of the filthy rich and powerful against the backdrop of these well-educated, yet miserably compensated public servants who often find themselves amidst the trappings of a world they will never experience for themselves. This alone becomes the sort of crucible under which they conduct their professional lives and carves a razor sharp blade of focused objectives to come across as going just beyond their "jobs." In the end, I don't know who to root for because the alternative to Bobby is pretty bleak. Enjoy the ride.


                
