... or the highest intellectual level in soap you can get today.'Billions' is a great show for people who like fast and efficient dialogues or monologues, virtual knives thrown, great actors and some kind of 'insight' into both worlds of investments and politics, which actually means high-risk-capitalism and ransom.Basically it is the story of two essential bullies, who like to tease each other, but also have to struggle with their way of action, because they are manipulating everyone in their personal surroundings to achieve their goals - even their family, if necessary.It is shown to us, how two very opposing oriented men are using their position, their money, their power, to do the very same, which is, of course, gaining more power, earning more money, reaching a higher status....and hurt each other.Between them is a woman, of course, who should be on the side of one of them, but she isn't, she is on his opponent's side, but still working for the other man...'Billions' manages to portray all three main characters understandable, sympathetic, and also sometimes unlikable because of their actions and decisions. But you always know, why they do bad things.It is not entirely serious, but often funny like 'Mad Men', with which it shares similar drama, production value and greatness of main actors and supporting actors.What I have to criticize is that 'Billions' was very bold in the first episodes, or even the first season, but someone must have decided, that the sexual thing - the BDSM practices between Attorney Chuck Rhoades and his Wife - has to go. So it's gone in the second season. Too bad. Also, most of the conflict-bearing connections to 9/11 are gone in season two, for reasons unknown.Of course it is not an accurate picture of real live, or of the U.S. Attorney's office, or of the shady financial trading world. It is fiction, but well thought out and entertaining.


                
I just started to binge watch Season 1 and I must say am not disappointed. The 2 power couples in this reminds me of the Underwoods in House of Cards. Paul Giamatti and spouse however have some extremely kinky habits which up to episode 8 have yet to understand why he acts out such deviant behavior.Case in point episode 1 opens up with a woman dressed as a dominatrix and the man all bound up. She is smoking a cigarette and ends up putting it out on his bare chest and to relieve the burn she urinates on him! Have I lost you? Good.After this shock opening the show picks up a pace of normalcy in what seems to be a post-911 diary of the greed on Wall Street.Love the opening of the show a bird's eye view of southern Manhattan and a theme song that mimics a helicopter hovering not unlike the one we hear and see in Apocalypse Now.From there on in we see the cat and mouse game being played by the 2-power families esp because of the conflict of interest of the US Attorney (Giamatti) as wife works as a resident shrink for the megalomaniacs working at Bobby Axelrod's (Damian Lewis) hedge fund, Axe Capital. in addition the SEC honcho who seems to be a Greek (not unlike the Greek who was trying to expose Bernie Madoff) has a vicious back-and-forth power play with Giamatti's character.A personal highlight for me was definitely seeing Axelrod flying to Quebec with his pals in his private jet to see METALLICA. In fact we see Bobby hanging out backstage with James Hetfield as Bobby asks James how do you do it? James simply says: "I just play man, Just play." Needless to say the classic Master of Puppets figures big in this episode!Very well acted you will not disappointed at this roller coaster and at times adrenaline ride! Highly recommend this and can't wait until Season 2 begins.
Showtime's newest series Billions observes the super rich and the prosecutors that chase after them for their obscure crimes that never seemed to result in punishment. There are plenty of glimpses at the wealthy lifestyle and the struggle to keep that wealth while the line between legal and illegal is increasingly blurred.Plenty of great actors staff this series including Damian Lewis who had a brilliant performance in Showtime's Homeland. Lewis plays a hedge fund manager or CEO or whatever of Axe Corporation, his corporation. There is a lot of financial talk that I can't always follow but they do a decent job keeping it entertaining. Paul Giamatti plays a U.S. attorney who faces off against the corrupt financial system and investigates Axe corporation. Already in the first episode Giamatti and Lewis face off and I can only see it getting better as they get deeper into the show.After an interesting first season, Billions really raised the stakes with a great second season. The show always starts a little slower with a few episodes to reset the rivalry and establish what the characters are up to this time around. Bobby Axelrod (Damian Lewis) is still wheeling and dealing with the stock market but now he's taking extra vengeance against the district attorney Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti). Rhoades is mounting a campaign for governor and advancing his political future through big cases. Wendy Rhoades (Maggie Siff) looks for career opportunities elsewhere and flirts with other billionaires. Lara Axelrod (Malin Ackerman) takes a smaller role this season trying to start an IV business and growing angry with Bobby's shadiness.The supporting cast was really solid this season as well with new faces and familiar alike. Mike "Wags" Wagner (David Costabile) was one of my favorite characters with his swaggering braggadocio mixed with a deep doubt and insecurity. The newest most interesting character is definitely Taylor (Asia Kate Dillon) whose genius brain for stocks and gambling appeals to Axe's killer instinct. Wags and Taylor interacting makes for some great scenes. Even Taylor can't avoid the investigation as Bryan Connerty (Toby Leonard Moore) tries to investigate and turn Taylor with no luck.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Billions is an addictive TV show that follows a billionaire hedge fund manager (Damian Lewis), a U.S. Attorney with a spotless record out to get him (which is evolving into one of Paul Giamatti's greatest screen roles) and the attorney's wife (Maggie Siff) who works for the billionaire, caught in the middle. Most of performances are terrific and as in all corporate dramas playful dialogue is the greatest weapon of the show. BILLIONS is a notch or two above some of its peers. Highly recommended.


                
Season 3...Let me say I enjoy this show, I know nothing about the stocks and stuff but I enjoy watching rich people act childish. Well rich men I should say. I wonder, no I do not wonder, I am willing to wager that in real life billionaires act like little kids. Engage in contest that boil down to ego against ego, one man waving his p**** in the air to see if it's bigger than the next. I am sure there are people who would actually fix their mouth to say something as ridiculous as "350 million, how will we live off of that". This show is both a comedy and a drama for me. Some where there are people who are that rich, and that stupid. LOL.
 The show itself is very entertaining, but I must say I am not a fan of the guy who plays Axle. While I like Axe per say, I don't like the actor that plays him. That is how much I like the show that I can continue to watch it even though i can hardly stand looking at this man. He looks so weird to me. He looks funny, he walks funny, I don't know I never liked him. The first time I saw him was in that one tv show where he was supposed to be a terrorist (idc enuff to look it up). I can't remember the name of it, I stopped watching it after the 2nd season. Giamatti, I like. He is very hard to look at as well but I like him. I don't particularly care for "Chuck" all of the time. It is hard to figure out just what side of the law he is on. I end up feeling sorry for ole Chucky usually. He is such a punk. With that being said I must move on to Wendy.
 I can't understand her role on the show. I do and I don't. At the end of this season I felt like, why don't they just run a train on her and get it over with already? I don't see why so-called rich, and powerful men need to have a shrink with them at all time telling them how to make every decision. I am not against mental health. Therapy is great. Wendy's role is greater than that. It is like she moves them around the board like chess pieces. That may be great for Wendy, Axe is paying her a great deal, but it makes them all look very weak. As if they can't execute any decisions without her telling them how. I honestly don't see anything great that she does. She tells them to do things they should already know to do....
 I will say the show down between Axe and Chuck was not as great as I thought it was going to be. In the end it turned out to be nothing. All that build up and they didnt even have a real day in court. What a waste of 2 seasons. Taylor leaving I saw coming, Chuck being screwed I saw coming, I knew how it would end before it ended. I have to add this because it bothers me, calling Taylor "they" is just silly. 1 person can not be a "they" or a "them". It just makes people sound as nuts as the person who wants to be called that...I hope Axe knocks HER on her butt only because, young people always think they are smarter...they haven't even LIVED yet..
Such a great series if you can handle the constant dirge of corrupt big money battling a corrupt legal system. The constant behind-the-scenes finagling and intrigue is fascinating while each and every character is portrayed as rich, self-motivated individuals. The cinematography at times is inspired but then also veers into "we have 20 minutes to shoot this scene" territory. One shortcoming I can think of is the casting of warbley cartoon-voiced, manlet David Costabile as bad-ass right hand man to billionaire shark Bobby Axelrod. How that decision made sense, I'll never know, but every time he opens his mouth and attempts an emotive, alpha-male exposition, it's like watching a bird trying to roar like a lion.


                
I love the actors, but I hate the types of people portrayed in this series. It is almost too repugnant. I must admit the casting and performances are excellent, as is the production quality and writing. Nonetheless, watching the show leaves me feeling nauseated, disgusted, and depressed because deep inside I know that although this is fiction, this is probably more true than any of us want to imagine. I think this is why the 99% hate the 1% - because we know the only way to get there is corruption. And they are not merely corrupt themselves, they are corrupting others along the way. Corrupting and destroying all the possible good in the world. What's worse, they make grand charitable gestures to mask the greed and avarice.I am so sick of their truffles and fetishes. The only reason I rated the series 8 is because of the quality of production and performances. I think the writers can do more to make the series less depressing. These people have no redeeming traits at all. They're all jerks with no souls. That's too one-dimensional for me, but because I love Damian Lewis and the new character Taylor is interesting, and because I still have a tiny thread of hope in me that someone is going to do something redeeming - I just can't believe every single person is going to stay on their corrupt trajectory - surely one of them will say "this is all wrong and I am not going to let you get away with it!" I guess deep down I still have hope in humanity, though this show gives me little reason to think anyone cares about anything more than their ego.


                
I loved this show from S1E1 but wasn't a fan of the Ax/Chuck war. I found the last episode of S1 hilarious, specifically the scene where two actors are circling one another.Despite guffawing through S1 and being disappointed with Paul Giametti's character (too silly and overblown, not much exploration of what motivates his quest - no fault at all of Giametti), I was hooked on the flash, and Damien Lewis' ability to ground the show with substance among so much style.S3 is far better than S1 and 2, mostly because the writing is so much better, specifically the dialogue. Can't spoil anything so I'll mention in code: the TW dialogue, and JM's character's story and revelation, among many others. Plus the stories and characters overall are better, more complex.I hope we don't lose any of this in S4, and I'd like to see the Bryan Connerty character more involved in the story.


                
The roles seem reversed, Axel Freudman from AIG and Elliott Spitzer, both loved and hated by the public went to blows in 2008. AIG declared BK and the us government saved them.


                
This show provides very little insight into anything, really, whether into Wall Street or human psychology. But its examination of bullheaded alpha males is a lot more fun than House of Cards. The show is held together by outstanding performances and direction. The practice of using a slow zoom-in on the main characters' faces as they build up to a zinger reminds me of a graphic novel, obscene word balloons blossoming from the superheroes' mouths. The central conflict is a stylized caricature, but the cat-and-mouse game never gets dull because the editors are very good at using timing, cross-cutting, and musical cues. In the end, the key, however, is Maggie Rhoades, who is the most important, and the only psychologically complex, character on the show. At this point, halfway through the first season, it's not clear that she can maintain her delicate balance between her husband and her boss. She's fascinating to watch.


                
She wasn't for most of the season, but now she has become the most interesting character on the show. When this series started off, it wasn't a given that watching it to the end would happen. But it got better week to week, and now anticipation for S2 is very high. Where will she go, what will she do. Of course the other two will be at each others throats till the very end, but no one really knows (maybe not yet even the writers) how her life will play out. Most watching the show now have more interest in her at this point than any of the others. Good job Maggie.. you've landed another winning role in a very interesting production.


                
Like I said above overall good but too much colored language. I mean, is okey from time to time but there are moments where is too much, like board meetings, shareholder meetings, even negotiations and i find it exaggerated. Second thing which is making me rate it with 8 and not with 9 is the script which in some cases is too fast! Especially in the trading discussions the exchange of lines is too fast in order to make the traders in the eyes of the viewers SUPER HUMANS and way more intelligent than they really are. For who has been to any board meeting you know that any CEO, CFO or COO would never talk like that with the board unless he looks for a new job or some court time.the series is enjoyable and pretty catchy.


                
Great show, great plot and awesome characters. However, I think it should be a two season TV show and anything beyond the 3rd season would be spoiling the value it already has among its audience. I expected to see some fireworks by the end of season two but well we have to wait till 2018 to get a glimpse of what's running inside Chuck's and axel's minds. Chuck gets a 9/10 for me. Just an awesome character. Chuck and his dad have a bargaining dad-son relationship but hey I love it. Wendy get a 7.5/10 for her role too in the show! But the producers should sum up the events here in the next 12 episodes otherwise they would dilute its value!


                
Promising drama from Showtime. Strong dramatic presentation about the corrupt Wall Street culture and its relationship with the government and politics. We get to see the mechanics behind the headline prosecutions.There has to be shady deals and corrupt practices behind the success of the Wall Street hot-shots. Right? Paul Giamatti as the cautious crusading DA. The excellent Maggie Siff as his wife who also works for the DA's target. Damien Lewis as the hedge fund billionaire who gets into a testosterone-fueled duel with the DA. Only one will survive.In a uncharacteristic role, Malin Akerman as the tough wife of the billionaire.A competent narrative with an interesting plot.


                
This is a very good series. The acting by the two leads, Giamatti and Lewis is phenomenal. And the writing is also quite good.


                
Just amazing. How far it has come from season 1. It just keeps getting better and more intense. I can't stop thinking about that season finale. Just great all around!
But if they don't stop using "ask" as a noun when they're not specifically talking about a stock trade, I might be compelled to stop watching this. It's very very annoying and not at all hip. Stop trying to create trends, you dorky Billions writers.


                
