This forth and final series is perhaps the best of all the Black Adder episodes; it is also more of a tragi-comedy than just plain old slapstick perhaps because at the time (1989) the events of WW1 were very much in the minds of a lot of people, whether it be surviving soldiers or relatives.As such there was some controversy when it was first broadcast by the BBC for its apparent lack of respect to those who fought and lost their lives for the sake of freedom & democracy.However, in retrospect, this isn't strictly true because even with Episode One there is a tangible shift in tone from previous Black Adder series. Yes some of the slapstick tomfoolery is still there, mainly at the expense of poor gormless Private Baldrick. But in addition a lot of the supposedly funny lines do have quite serious undertones, and bely the real truth of the sheer lunacy & farce that went on during the real war.For those that know their 20th Century history, WW1 was seen as a complete disaster for all and sundry, especially for the British soldiers in the trenches, primarily because they were being commanded & told how to fight a war by the most repulsive upper-class morons that call themselves Generals that ever wore a uniform.This was plainly represented by the bumbling fool, General Melchett (a wonderfully bemusing performance from Stephen Fry). Melchett simply has no idea of what life really is like for the troops on the front-line while he prattles on 35 miles behind the front-line in some safe palatial mansion where the most dangerous hazard to his life is whether he can unscrew a cork out of a champagne bottle without it hitting him in the face.Melchett is a complete buffoon but only Captain Blackadder realises this; everyone else thinks the General knows what he is doing purely because of his rank & social standing. So it is no wonder that Blackadder wants to mutiny because it's a hard choice deciding who the real enemy is - the Germans or his own Generals. For example:-General Melchett: Are you looking forward to the big push?Private Baldrick: No sir, I'm absolutely terrified.General Melchett: The healthy humour of the honest, Tommy. Don't worry my boy, if you should falter, remember that Captain Darling and I are behind you.Edmund Blackadder: About thirty-five miles behind you.This dark humour is wonderfully interwoven with the usual witty lines thanks largely to the writers, Richard Curtis and Ben Elton. It is typically anti-war but with good reason, as Blackadder declares in one episode:-"with 50,000 men being killed every week who is going to miss one dead pigeon!"The madness of this war also draws our attention to those very same front-line troops such as Blackadder, Baldrick & Lieutenant George. Their living conditions are disgusting & the fear of being shot or bombed out of their trench a very real possibility.The humour is just an adjunct to the real horrors that are going on in their lives, and this is beautifully concluded in the very sad finale. No longer did the critics argue this series lacked any respect because come the final few minutes of Episode Six we were treated to the sad demise of all those soldiers fading into time and replaced by the infamous poppy fields that strewn Northern France.Blackadder Goes Forth is far more intelligent than a lot of sitcoms; the writing and acting is exceptionally good, and also underpins the true human sacrifice the millions of soldiers gave to their King & country while the smug & arrogant Generals went home to more medals, honours and riches than ever before.School children of today find reading about history boring & not very relevant. But thanks to this series I am sure young & old alike will find this far more interesting, absorbing, damming & shocking than any written word on the subject could ever say.War Is Hell!****/*****


                
On only a few occasions have I ever been reduced to tears by film or television - Blackadder Goes Forth is one such occasion. The first five and a half episodes are however pure comedy of the highest order. Whenever I watch Blackadder I simply do not stop laughing throughout the whole thirty minutes, the jokes come thick and fast, in fact they probably come a little too fast since quite often you'll find yourself in stitches at one joke and be laughing for so long you'll miss the next one.What is so brilliant about Blackadder Goes Forth though is how the gags cut right to the heart of the such sensitive material the stupidity of the British tactics and commanders is mercilessly exposed - and rightly so - with brilliant lines such as "a war that would have been a lot easier if we'd just stayed at home and shot fifty thousand of our men a week".In terms of acting as well Blackadder Goes Forth is way ahead of the usual standard for comedies. Rowan Atkinson is at the top of his game as the uber-cynical Blackadder still reeling from the shock of having gone from fighting colonial wars to fighting the much more heavily armed Germans. Melchett and George are done in a wonderfully over the top (no pun intended) manner by Fry and Laurie whilst Tim McInnery is absolutely stunning as the sly Captain Darling who'll do anything to avoid fighting. Baldrick is perhaps at his weakest in this series and at times seems like he is only there to deliver his (albeit great) catchphrase "I have a cunning plan". Meanwhile stars of previous series appear in various episodes adding variety to the show - they too put in strong performances especially Rick Mayall and Miranda Richardson.About half way through the final episode though the whole show changes and suddenly it dawns on the viewer that this is THE end. The tone is radically altered, Blackadder's sarcasm remains but it's not funny now, well at least not in the same way as it was before. It is at this point that Blackadder Goes Forth becomes more than just a comedy and completes it's brilliance as it now touches the heart as well as the head.
I first watched this show ten years ago, when I was only 6 years old. I have watched it once or twice a year ever since then and it is still hilarious. This show has done more to shape my comedic identity than anything before or since. Over the years the show seems to have just become funnier and funnier. On top of being one of the greatest comedy shows of all time, it also has the best ending of any show I have ever seen, one of the only television scenes to ever make me cry. A brilliant, hilarious and eventually heart-wrenching piece of comedy history that I recommend very, very highly.If you like good comedy you will not be disappointed.


                
Out of all the settings in the BlackAdder series, this one had by far the boldest. It was really different to have it set in a war. Yet by doing so it creates the sordidness, and barbarity of the medieval times. More than any other war in history, World War I had captured that. Despite its grim subject matter, "BlackAdder Goes Forth" makes for an excellent war comedy and a satisfying end to a great series.This time the gang is all here. All major cast members that have appeared before in previous BlackAdder series are together. In this final installment, Rowan Atkinson is Captain Edmund BlackAdder along with him is Tony Robinson as Private Baldrick and Lieutenant George played by the delightful Hugh Laurie. We also see Stephen Fry again as Melchett and Tim McInnerny makes his return as Captain Darling, a last name that makes for a constant running gag. The fine tradition of both sardonic and situation humor continues here. All the performances are superb. Fry in particular is an absolute hoot as General Melchett and Tony Robinson is at his best with Baldrick at his most stupid. All of the episodes are extremely funny. "Corporal Punishment" and "Major Star" are top notch but "Private Plane" is my favorite as Major Flashheart steals the show. However, it is the last episode, "Goodbyee", that is the most special as it is both hysterical and haunting.Underneath all the laughs in Richard Curtis and Ben Elton's scripting lies a biting anti-war message. When put into perspective WWI was nothing more than a folly between nations that cost many lives. This series really highlights the propaganda that had been spread, the ridiculousness of the warfare, and how upper class twits who call themselves "Generals" sent young men to their deaths. The final episode was so sublime because it was able to convey this so well.All in all, it is a fine end to one of the greatest British TV shows of all time. The BlackAdder series proves that comedy need not be bland, dumb, or formulaic, like so many of today's American sitcoms, but audacious, witty, and sophisticated.
The first and essential element is the set of actors and first of all Rowan Atkinson. That is pure English comedy based on totally anachronistic and crazy situations, on witty puns that nearly or most of the time have to do with what is generally under the belt of most people but that is floating on top of the mind of these comedians. It is supposed to make you laugh and nothing else and it ridicules all historical characters and situations: Elizabeth I, Queen Victoria, Georges VI or some other Prince of Wales, the First World War, Robin Hood and I guess they avoided Peter Pan because he might only be marginally historical, though Pitt Junior is a real hit, definitely under the belt at the level of the comforter, if you see what I mean. It even turns upside down the famous Christmas Carol. As for the Time Machine it is completely twisted around in all directions, back and forth for sure, to make a sort of self-centered social climbing, politically opportunistic remake of Back to the Future more than the Time Machine, but the principle is the same. So Sir Edmund Blackadder finishing King Edmund I is at least hilarious. H.G. Wells is betrayed since for him you cannot change the past and Zemeckis is betrayed just the same since you are not supposed to use your time travelling to recuperate some personal advantage from it. I must say though this type of comedy is light maybe slightly too light, but it is good indeed.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
The first time I saw BlackAdder I was six years old sat watching it with my grandad I watched not understanding the jokes but watched my granddad laugh till his sides hurt I asked about the first world war and what it was like he told me many stories some sad some funny and uplifting those are some of the best memories I have with him and whenever I watch this show now as an adult I now understand the jokes and the situational comedy I laugh everytime like I'm hearing the jokes for the first time again if you haven't seen this show I highly recommend you give it a watch just beware your sides will hurt from laughing so much.


                
This is a very funny series but please don't confuse it with a history of WWI. David Lloyd George (The British Prime Minister) and Douglas Haig (The General commanding the British Army) hated each other and after the war DLG got his memoirs into print very quickly - this led to the myth that the British Army was led by bungling officers and sacrificed for nothing.This show plays on that myth - In an extremely funny way. Alas - it also helps rob the British Army of its finest victory. Despite that I love this show - they visit so many of the controversial sides of this conflict in what is at times a side achingly funny way. The end is especially poignant.


                
The last part of the Blackadder series, this is almost my favourite, due to the brilliant performances of all the actors (especially Stephen Fry, Tim McInnerny and Hugh Laurie), the hilarious jokes and the plots of each episode (even the last one - which is rather dire). Like all the Blackadder parts, this series has a very good intro and credits, in this the intro is the best. The World War I theme works very well with the three companions. All in all, a very entertaining finish to the Blackadder series.This has a rather grim World War I theme, but luckily there are brilliant jokes and plots to brighten up each episode. Blackadder is cynical and grumpy as usual, Baldrick is his stupid self and George is still very stupid and positive in this terrible war. General Hogmanay is also rather stupid and keeps making sure they are on the right track and doing what he wants. Captain Darling always has something sensible to say but the General never lets him. He has very strong opinions but is not very strong himself.The cast:The cynical, intelligent Blackadder: Rowan Atkinson. The lovable, stupid, hopeful Baldrick: Tony Robinson. The stupid, jolly General Hogmanay: Stephen Fry. The weak but strong-minded Captain Darling in the background: Tim McInnerny.Recommended to anyone who enjoyed the previous Blackadder parts, anyone who likes British humour and anyone who likes good grown-up humour. Enjoy! :-)


                
