How on earth is this film attracting so much criticism?! This is one of the best films of 2014 and people are labelling it "utter tripe", "an enormous heap of illogic and nonsense", "wish I had missed it". Are these people serious? Can we no longer appreciate - or even identify - a great film?!Gone Girl is a peerless plot-driven story about a wife who goes missing. Seems pretty ordinary, right? Well it's not. And it doesn't take very long at all for any sane viewer to recognise this. You start watching and - as you do with any mystery - you start collecting the clues and piecing together an explanation for the events which have taken place. But no sooner than you have formed the perfect explanation in your mind is it immediately swept away in the most overwhelming twist of the year. And it only gets better from there.Gone Girl is a roller-coaster; only you're riding it in the dark. You don't know where the next turn is, you can't see where you're headed, and you have no idea how many more ups and downs you're going to experience before it's all over. It's a film that keeps you guessing and just as you're beginning to (once again) think you've got it all figured out, the game changes and it's all up in the air once more. The diary-exposition format is also very clever and was executed perfectly. Many films fall victim to losing the viewer when jumping back and forth between past and present, yet Gone Girl - you guessed it - does it just right.This film ranks high in the mystery/thriller genre. It is just as compelling and perplexing as Shutter Island - if not then moreso. And let's not forget: the acting. Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike do a phenomenal job in their roles as husband and wife. Not a line feels out of place and both seem as though they were born to play Nick and Amy Dunne. By the end of the film I felt so immersed in their story that I found it hard to believe it was just a film. All in all, I for one am thoroughly pleased with Gone Girl. I knew from watching the trailer it would be something I would like, I just never imagined it could thrill me this much.A very underrated and overwhelming story that should be enjoyed by all.
The first act of the movie is the run-of-the-mill wife gone missing, the husband accused of killing her plot. This is clearly established in the theatrical trailer and may have thrown off some potential viewers. To the people who are familiar with David Fincher's work, this is not the case with Gone Girl.Yes, the first act is very ordinary, but the second act uproots whatever ever considered dull about the movie as it takes a rapid turn into thriller stardom, resembling something taken out of a Hitchcock movie. Only a handful directors can completely enhance the movie's narrative through editing, and Fincher is one of them. I know there is a lot of praise around Rosamund Pike's performance, which makes it easy to overlook Ben Affleck. He plays the tired, oblivious and boyish really well. This may be the very reason why he is completely overlooked.And in a time of sequels, prequels, remakes and biopics, finally a contemporary piece of work! Stellar!


                
Having read the book, it was not an easy feat who will be able to bring to life the leading character of the book, which is Amy Dunne. Her character is so complex, that Rosamund Pike deserves all awards that will be coming to her. She was able to give Amy the mysterious vibe but likable aura of a socialite New Yorker.The score of the film is perfect, as it builds up suspense and the tone of the story. Great supporting performance by Ben Affleck, and the actress who plays her sister. Great ensemble cast who works together to delivery the dark humor lines in the film.This movie will definitely be an instant classic and I cant wait to watch it again!


                
Gone Girl marks Fincher's tenth feature film and his most mature work since Fight Club. Centering on Nick Dunne, a husband desperately trying to find his wife all while having police and media accuse him of murder. The story sounds straight out of the Scott Peterson case and the film looks unlike any film I've seen in recent years. Lead by an all star cast featuring Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Tyler Perry and Neil Patrick Harris, Gone Girl rises above the pack with smart storytelling, phenomenal pacing and perfect performances. What Gone Girl does so brilliantly is taps into the audience's psyche regarding marriage and the ideology behind a sanctioned union that is corrupt. It is really heavy stuff when the story really gets to the meat and bones of it all. With plenty of twists and turns, Gone Girl keeps you, not only second guessing the whole idea of marriage, but the intentions of every character in the film. It is truly one of the most twisted films adapted from an even sicker and twisted book that's out there right now. Gillian Flynn does wonders with her adaption from her own novel. The dialog is crisp, the characters are multi-layered, it truly is a pitch perfect script that doesn't have one false moment in it. Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike are EXCELLENT in this film. This is a different Affleck, a very human and realized Affleck. Nick Dunne is a wonderful role for him and captivates just how good he can be with a terrific director. Harris and Perry give well rounded performances as well but are nothing compared to Affleck and Pike. David Fincher and his long time collaborator and cinematographer, Jeff Cronenweth create a dreary, horrific tone for Gone Girl that makes every twist and turn that much more gut wrenching. Every shot is meticulously planned, showing each shot as if it were a still frame that spoke a thousand words. It is truly gorgeous filmmaking. And now for the score...Trent Reznor and Atticus Finch deliver a perfect score, besting their Social Network and Girl with the Dragon Tattoo score. If Reznor won for Social Network, I fully expect not only a nomination but a win for this film. Overall, this is a mesmerizing film that demands multiple viewings to truly get the full experience. It is impeccably made, beautifully acted and an all around near perfect film.


                
My first exposure to Gone Girl came when I devoured Gillian Flynn's  critically acclaimed novel in less than two days, frequently succumbing  to thoughts of "just one more chapter" and finding myself still  engrossed some 30 minutes later. With its captivating characters and  painstakingly constructed mystery, Flynn's complex, multi-layered  thriller was the very definition of "page turner," and when news broke  that David Fincher was interested in bringing the novel to life, I  couldn't think of a better pairing.   On the morning of his fifth wedding anniversary, Nick Dunne (Ben  Affleck) comes home to find the front door open, the glass coffee table  in the living room destroyed, and his wife, Amy (Rosamund Pike),  nowhere to be found. Detective Rhonda Boney (Kim Dickens) and Officer  Jim Gilpin (Patrick Fugit) are the first responders, and they  immediately get the sense that Nick isn't telling them everything - for  example, if the living room was the scene of a struggle, then why  aren't any of the photos on the mantel turned over? That's just one of  several unanswered questions that begin popping up as Nick is  scrutinized, first by the police, and then by the media as Amy's  disappearance quickly becomes headline news. Nick certainly doesn't  seem like a guy distressed about his missing wife, and as Amy's diary  entries (presented as flashbacks) begin filling in some of the blanks,  we start to wonder just what else Nick might be hiding, and if he knows  more about Amy's whereabouts than he's letting on.  In a wise move that pays dividends in the finished product, Flynn  herself was tapped to write the adaptation, stripping the story down to  its most important elements while still maintaining the frequent  juxtaposition between Nick and Amy's conflicting points of view. While  some purists will complain that the film lacks much of the novel's  nuance and subtleties, it's hard to find fault with a screenplay that  was written by the author of the source material, particularly when the  results are so impressive.  Fincher's involvement is another necessary cog in the machine, as even  with Flynn's screenplay this film could easily have fallen apart in the  hands of a lesser talent. Never one to shy away from the darker side of  humanity, Fincher obviously feels right at home playing in this sandbox  and exploring the terrible things that a once-loving couple can do to  each other in times of duress. This also marks Fincher's third  collaboration with Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, whose original score  once again perfectly complements the visuals by accentuating, but never  overpowering, the on screen proceedings.  But even with all these elements in place, Gone Girl still wouldn't  work without being anchored by absolutely stellar performances across  the board. Pike is at her career best, particularly in the film's  second half, and should find herself positioned as a major contender  for this year's award season. Affleck is no slouch either, being tasked  with a lot of the weightier moments and nailing them like a seasoned  pro. Affleck expertly plays up Nick's winning smile and boyish charm,  but there's also an almost uncontrollable rage bubbling just beneath  the surface, and his portrayal should give those Batman v Superman  detractors plenty to reconsider.   Some audiences may balk at Gone Girl's 149-minute running time, but the  film is so meticulously paced that it never really slows down long  enough for moviegoers to glance at their watches. Each scene is allowed  just enough time to breathe before we're rushing onward, and every  single component is so incredibly, undeniably good that you won't want  to miss a single second. Pound for pound, Gone Girl is 2014's best  offering thus far, and should prove to be stiff competition for the  rest of the year.  -- Brent Hankins
2014 has had it's good share of movies and good movies for that matter, we've had the Nolan's Mind boggling interstellar to start with and then the grand Budapest hotel which got much of the appreciation by all and sundry. We had our good share of sequels and prequels ranging from The Planet of Apes series to spider-man, X-men, Hobbit, how to train your dragon, 300, Hunger games, 22 jump street, horrible bosses two, dumb and dumber two, transformers, expendables and.... *Sigh* it doesn't stop here there's more to them a lot more but it isn't about all of these.The movie starts as a normal murder mystery and somewhere 15-20 minutes in the movie you'd be like what makes it deserve all that appreciation? But wait, it hasn't even started yet. It isn't all what it seems like and one surely can't judge the book by its cover in this case. The movie is fully of surprises and at the end of it you'd be all smiles that's all i can say!I'm not here to give away spoilers but if you haven't watched this masterpiece yet just rush back home and order it on Netflix or buy the DVD.


                
As if it wasn't safe to say already, but after Gone Girl there is  little doubt or argument to be made against the fact that David Fincher  is one of the most consistently great directors working in the industry  today, for Fincher's latest efforts behind the camera with this  meticulously made, perfectly paced and often thrilling story is  movie-making of the highest order. Gone Girl (exactly like it's source  text) is a mystery/thriller that steadily morphs into what can equally  be described as a darkest of dark comedy, a searing account of married  life and an edge of your seat police procedural, all elements that  combine to create one of the year's best films.  Fincher from day one has shown an uncanny ability for visual atheistic,  haunting and atmospheric surrounds and with the help of his composers  (this time once more teaming up perfectly with Trent Reznor and Atticus  Ross) finely moulded musical accompaniments and Gone Girl shows off all  these skills once more. The suburban surrounds of the world of Gone  Girl shun the safety in numbers feel that they provide these residents;  it's not dissimilar to a world akin to Blue Velvet where beneath the  grassy exteriors lies deep seeded secrets that threaten to tear at the  seams of idealistic marriages and those double lives we people lead.  Fincher relishes every element of Gone Girl from the mysteries through  to the reveals and like only a handful of movies each year this project  feels like the perfect meeting of subject and maker who meet in synch  to create such a finally tuned product. Fincher really has become the  master of the thriller genre, much like Scorsese with his mob pictures  and after Seven, Fight Club, Zodiac, Girl With the Dragon Tattoo and  now Gone Girl, there is a legacy to his directional work that will  forever be hard to match much like Fincher's continued fine work with  his actors.  Much noise was made initially by rabid fans of Gillian Flynn's source  novel about the casting of leads Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike as Nick  and Amy Dunne but after witnessing first hand one of the year's best  double acts by the two on form actors there will be little doubt that  the casting choices were staggeringly spot on. Affleck is at his  polarising best at Nick Dunne a man we as an audience are unsure of, do  we like this man or do we loathe him? It's refreshing to see Affleck  put in such an assured turn, from inappropriate smiling through to  outright rage, Affleck's turn is an award worthy one that in a less  standout year for the male acting category would be a turn featuring  strongly come February. While Affleck once more showcases a talent we  all know he has, the breakout turn from Rosamund Pike is the films  largest revelation.  Finally given a chance to chew through not only a high profile but  layered role, Pike excels as the "amazing" Amy at the centre of this  twisted and depraved tale. Pike truly creates one of not only the years  but modern day cinemas most memorable and unique leading ladies, a  creation who at any given time can be compelling, outrageous,  disgusting and calculated, it really is a stunning turn to witness and  it would be unwise to suggest that Pike isn't now head and tails ahead  in the female acting awards circuit. Surrounded by quite amazing  supports from Kim Dickin's dogged detective Rhonda Boney, Carrie Coon  as Nick's twin sister Margo, Tyler Perry (proving there's more to the  man than Magdea's fat suit) as high profile lawyer Tanner Bolt and  Barney Stinson himself Neil Patrick Harris in a box cutter sharp turn  as creepy rich man Desi Collings, Pike and her on screen hubby Affleck  are encompassed around by one of the years strongest ensembles.  Without spoiling any of Gone Girl's many varied and unexpected twists  and turns (this is the type of movie best seen with as little knowledge  as possible), this is a movie thriller of the highest order that  shouldn't be watched by those expecting an everyday murder/kidnapping  mystery, for what transpires throughout this tale is anything but your  run of the mill narrative. One of the most involving movies of recent  memories, Gone Girl is bitingly funny, white knuckle tense, starkly  violent and as we've come to expect from Fincher, quite brilliant. Gone  Girl is without question one of the year's best films, one of the  year's most unique films and one of the films of this year that you  can't dare to miss.  5 Gummy Bears out of 5
*Big Spoilers*I give it a 1 not because it this movie was dreadful from beginning to end but because it was engaging for most of it then the last half an hour was so unrealistic that the investment you make as a viewer to that point is completely trashed. By early in the film (if not the trailer) it is apparent that Amy had been keeping a diary/journal of her marriage to Nick which went from fairytale to horror story over five years. What is also really obvious is that the police do not have this diary at this point so will eventually find it and that it will incriminate Nick. So the obvious conclusion is that it is a set up. That is not a bad thing as long as the story is well told and for the most part it was. Several characters were of interest. Super lawyer Tanner Bolt comes in to help Nick with his case. Unfortunately that thread is a waste of time as Amy returning makes his involvement of no real service to the story. Officer Jim Gilpin who was suspicious of Nick through the film could have been a more interesting character when confronted with new information simply remains a one dimensional character who therefore serves no significant purpose and was never intended to be a real person. Toward the end when Amy comes back Nick is having a drink with his hotshot lawyer and the police officer who had been investigating her disappearance and tells them that Amy had confessed to him to murder (she had ripped a guys throat out) as well as having set him up. No issue with that except the police officer says there is nothing she can do now and the lawyer makes a joke and leaves smiling while another police officer jokes that Elvis is leaving the state. So for most of the movie we are given the impression that it is grounded in reality. Events that could happen. Then to wrap it up the writer just gets lazy and creates a scenario that would never take place. I have heard some say that the film is a statement on marriage but who cares. It still needs to be told within the framework or the rules for which the rest of the story has been set. I read someone else say that it is OK to switch your brain off for a movie as long as that is established early in the film but not in the last half of an hour. The ending ruined several story threads and made them pointless. If anyone seriously thinks the film was some serious commentary on the state of marriage then I think you are kidding yourself in the hope of convincing yourself that you are smarter than you are. But even if it was no excuse for dropping the ball to get the story over with. I have no issue with Amy getting away with it or being convicted or being killed or whatever end the author chose but that needed to be done well. Instead it ended in the laziest way imaginable and therefore ruined the time I had invested in watching the movie to that point. I don't expect every film to be a winner but this dropped the ball so badly it is lucky to get the 1 out of 10 that I gave it.
I would like to start out by addressing something I find totally unfathomable- the sheer volume of criticism the film has attracted here on IMDb. Though, I cannot say I am completely unsurprised by it... after all, this site in particular seems to bring out the worst side of people, and attracts many of the "Negative Nancy's" of the internet. Still, it's rather disheartening that so many people are being so dismissive of this film over trivial or even objectively incorrect perceptions of it's "weaknesses.""Gone Girl", directed by modern cinematic mastermind David Fincher, is one of the most stirring, mind-bending and thrilling mystery/dramas in years. Elevated thanks to Fincher's expert guidance and universally incredible performances from it's expansive cast, the film is very much the perfect modern thriller, delivering enough edge-of-your seat twists to keep you enthralled and still pondering the implications of the film long after it's finished...Ben Affleck stars as Nick Dunne, a man whose seemingly "perfect" marriage has been crumbling for some time, culminating in the disappearance of his wife Amy (Rosamund Pike) the morning of their fifth anniversary. Nick soon finds himself at the center of an enormous cluster of problems, including the growing media circus surrounding the case, uneasiness with local authorities who are trying to find Amy, and his own inconsistent attitude, which is painting him in an increasingly suspicious light. What happened to Amy? Is Nick truly the loving husband he wants to work to believe he is, or is he the sinister sociopath that media wants to paint him as? And, most importantly... did Nick in fact kill his wife?While I cannot give too much away as to avoid spoilers, I must say the casting and performances are incredible, and absolutely spot-on. Affleck knocks it out of the park as a troubled man who may not be the figure he outwardly tries to portray himself as. Neil Patrick Harris and Tyler Perry make for thrilling supporting roles that take you by surprise, especially considering their predominately comedic backgrounds. Kim Dickens gives a great turn as a local officer who is simultaneously one of Nick's biggest assets and also one of his biggest detractors. And Carrie Coon shines as Nick's sister, who serves as his moral support, despite not always telling him everything he wants to hear.But it is Rosamund Pike, the titular "Gone Girl", who shines the brightest. This is her film. Everything about her role is intriguing, troubling and keeps the mystery and suspense alive. In particular, her journal entries which comprise the backbone of the film... and also lead the audience to question whether she or her husband had their own ulterior motives in the marriage, and warps the perception of the story. Pike deserves so much more recognition for this role. Because this is the role of a lifetime.Writing duties are handled by Gillian Flynn, whom also wrote the novel upon which the film is based. While I have not read the book (and therefore refuse to compare it), Flynn constructs a tight, concise, yet also deliciously mysterious tale, and some of her framing devices and artistic flourishes help elevate what could have otherwise been quite the routine film. I'm excited to see what comes next for Flynn, because this film has definitely made me want to keep my eye on her work in the future.Director David Fincher continues to prove his status as one of the great directors working today with this film. As he has with previous works, he soaks this film in his deliciously dark, twisted, sometime nihilistic visual and storytelling sensibilities. And it fantastically compliments and augments the uneasiness of the story, and the unsure relationship the audience has with the characters.And finally, there is the remarkable score by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross. My god, this is one of the most unique and fascinating musical scores I've heard in some time. I've been increasingly interested in the duo's work, especially after their last collaboration with Fincher on the "Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" remake (which I will admit, I think has a slightly superior score), and they once again provide the perfect audible backdrop to the visual experience of the film. Bravo, Reznor and Ross."Gone Girl" is easily one of the best films of the year, in my opinion. It's a stellar example of modern mystery and tightly- assemble character drama. And it's a film that will haunt you long after it ends. It's a perfect 10.


                
David Fincher for the longest time now has been one of my favorite directors and this film just reassures my admiration for him. Fincher is responsible for masterpieces like seven and fight club, If you know and have seen these films then you know both films are very elaborate and result in a mind being blown. This film shows that Fincher still hasn't lost that great touch of taking very clever stories and bringing them to the big screen. So basically in conclusion to this thought if you are a fan of David Fincher's past work like the 2 I listed or you just like films that keep you guessing then I recommend this film to you.Although the film has good performances especially from Rosamund Pike (who definitely deserves her Oscar nod) the film isn't made to be enjoyed for its performances, it's actually made to be admired for its unpredictable and twist filled story. The story (originating from a novel written by Gillian Flynn) is very well executed revealing just the right things at the right times to keep the story pretty much constantly unpredictable along with some rather shocking moments.This review is kind of hard for me to write because even though I really enjoyed the film through and through I just can't find the exact words I want to use to express why I enjoy it, so for that I can't guarantee all these words are useful for everyone. There also seems to be a surprising number of people who hate the film but to be honest most of these people seem to be trying to hate the film by nit picking and desperately trying to find reasons to dislike it for reasons I have no idea why (no offense to the nit pickers I'm sure you have some kind of reasons). As long as you are not one of those nit pickers then I'm pretty sure you will enjoy it or you will end up hating it for some other reason.In conclusion my only complaint is that the ending was a bit weird but still worked. This film is also one of my favorites of the year and I have been able to get through a number of re watches without being bored. I don't think it will win the Oscar for best supporting actress but if it did I wouldn't be disappointed. I'm hoping you enjoy this film like many others and myself have and believe me you will know if you enjoy it. However if you aren't as fortunate and end up disliking the film for some reason then I'm sorry my words weren't useful to you and that you ended up wasting your time. That's all I can think of to say for this film, thanks for reading my review.


                
GONE GIRLBased on the critically-acclaimed best selling novel of the same name by Gillian Flynn, here we have a thrilling, engaging picture that will keep you constantly doubting yourself just when you think you've sussed it out.The story, for those that haven't read the book, revolves around the disappearance of Nick's (Ben Affleck's) wife, Amy, with Rosamund Pike playing the titular role. Split into a solid three acts, each one will have you confused - in a good way - more than the last, with you either rooting Team Nick or Team Amy for who you think is in the right - or the wrong. Some powerful narrative is provided by Pike, which only aids in the deep story and gives insight into the characters inner thoughts. At two and a half hours long, it's a lengthy sitter, but being so engrossed in the film as you are you will hardly notice, so an achey bum shouldn't be a worry.Each member of the cast are fantastic in their roles, especially praising Pike who - really stealing the show - convincingly shows us her idea of 'crazy bitch wife'. Brilliant, none the less.Neil Patrick Harris, of How I Met Your Mother fame, also gives a great side performance as ill-fated, creepy stalking ex Desi.This has to be one of, if not, the film of the year. No fantasy, no science fiction, this is something that could happen, which makes it all the more compelling. David Fincher - director of Oscar winners The Social Network, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and nominee Fight Club - adds another picture to his impressive portfolio and with it, a sure Best Picture winner.


                
Quite honestly, this was one of the best movies I've ever had the privilege of seeing. Not sure why there are so many negative reviews.. It seems to me that most of the negative reviewers are trying not to "follow the crowd," and seem unique in their unrealistic absolute hatred of this film. Everyone is entitled to their opinion.... But jeez, even if this film isn't your cup of tea, it is incredibly entertaining. And this is coming from someone who usually is one of those "don't follow the crowd" people. I reluctantly took my girlfriend to see it a week after release since she had been begging me since we saw the previews. The theater was entirely sold out, even having been out a week at that point, and the entire theater was on the edge of their seats and gave quite the standing "O" at the end. I'm just saying, in my humble opinion, even if you don't like the movie, you certainly won't feel as if you've wasted your time.


                
Ben Affleck stars in this twisted thriller, based off the best selling novel by Gillian Flynn and boy was it perfectly adapted to the screen. Now Ben Affleck I thought was gonna shine over everyone, but Rosamund Pike's twisted, dark performance improves this film to a near masterpiece mystery. I thought Ben Affleck was just great, but he didn't get the Oscar nom, well there was just way more competition. The David Fincher direction is very noticeable in the film and he has perfectly made another dark mystery, making it more effective with every twist. Rosamund Pike, she very well gives the best performance of the year for a female, also just acting in general. This woman knocks it out of the park and she embodies the twisted, insane darkness of Amy from the book. Tyler Perry was a huge surprise of all and he didn't ruin the film and actually improved it. Neil Patrick Harris was OK, but he just wasn't the right guy for this role. This film was snubbed by the Oscars in the Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Original Score categories. Let's just hope they reward the only thing nominated; Ms. Amy Elliot Dunne.


                
Gone Girl could be the best film so far this year but Viewer discretion is DEFIANTLY advised. The film follows Nick and Amy Dunn a newly wed couple settling into life in Missouri. But it that all changes when Amy goes missing. The entire country jumps on board to try and help find Amy. And slowly everyone starts turning on Nick. The Back nice guy that is pretty oblivious to everything around him. But if you think you have this movie figured out, think again. THE GOOD STUFF! It's directed by David Fincher. One of the most ambitious dark directors of the modern age. And he's done it again. The script is very tightly written. Movies based on books tend to either flop or are critically praised. But when you have the author of the book writing the Screenplay not much can go wrong. The Dark humor that is sprinkled in is perfect for the scenes that its used in and is often hilarious. The film has a mood surrounding it that is unlike any movie you will ever see. Through out you are at the edge of your seat yet also constantly looking behind you as a deeply unsettling feeling creeps over your body. This is in large part thanks to the performances by the leads. Ben Affleck and Rosamund pike are so terrific in there roles as well as just about everyone else. THE BAD STUFF... Well like I said there isn't to much that can go wrong when the books author is on board helping write. There is really only one thing that I didn't like in this film. Near the beginning there was a lot of nudity. Now don't get me wrong i'm OK with it as long as it helps to obtain what the film is going for. Which closer to the end its used perfectly. But the nudity at the beginning feels completely unnecessary and forced. And there wasn't much shortage of it either. The Verdict Gone Girl is without a doubt one of the best films of the year. Featuring outstanding acting, superb writing, and just an overall mood to it that is unlike anything in film. But some of the nudity took me out of the movie because of how forced it felt.


                
well I was afraid that it would be boring or something because it is 150 minutes but surprisingly it was the most joyful movie ever. I didn't feel the time at all and I was totally interested in every scene and every single detail in the movie. The story is beyond amazing and the acting was spectacular. So intense and it keeps you guessing all the time and what is more beautiful is that it makes you always guess something and then discovers that you guessed wrong. Ben Aflleck was amazing. I really don't know what to say more, I just adored it, it is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. it that type of movies that affects you in a very beautiful and deep way and you keep on thinking about it for so long and could never forget it,


                
Amy and Nick Dunne are young, stylish and charming. The immaculate dream couple? It seems so, at least on the face of it. But infidelity and financial troubles let the glamorous façade crumble. One morning, Amy disappears without a trace, and Nick becomes suspect. Did he kill his wife? The media depict him as an uncaring husband, and he's trying desperately to correct that image. But what if he really is the murderer everyone believes him to be?"Gone Girl", based on the Gillian Flynn novel of the same name, is a masterful thriller, a sharp-sighted media satire and a cynical analysis of modern marriage. Flynn herself wrote the screenplay for the movie adaptation, and David Fincher turns the already disturbing story into something even darker. "Gone Girl" is a perfect fit for Fincher, as it is concerned with two of his favorite themes: gender issues and modern media. The main topic here is how the media are shaping our own identities. Nick Dunne has to adapt to the expectations of the public in order to survive. As his lawyer Tanner Bolt puts it: "This case is about what people think of you."Amy and Nick both just play a character. They pretend to be a perfect couple. The movie suggests that pretending and being are not as far apart as we tend to think. When everyone plays along, the shallow masks are going to work. The much-maligned ending underlines this insight perfidiously. It's the point where "Gone Girl" becomes a pitch-black social satire. The last act isn't a thriller anymore, it's a grotesque caricature of modern relationships. I've never seen anything like it, and I can't praise Fincher enough for the risk he took with the last half an hour of this movie. Ben Affleck is great as the insipid husband Nick. You love to hate him. Rosamund Pike is simply mind-blowing. You'll also see Neil Patrick Harris and Tyler Perry in unusual roles. My personal favorite is Carrie Coon as Nick's caring yet foul-mouthed sister Margo. She's the heart of this movie, because unlike everyone else, she genuinely speaks her mind. Kim Dickens as the clever detective Rhonda Boney is pretty approachable, too."Gone Girl" might be Fincher's most splendid masterpiece yet. This movie is so unsettling and cynical, it feels like it was directed by the love child of Alfred Hitchcock and Lars von Trier. If that's not awesome, I don't know what is.


                
David Fincher is one of those directors I get excited for as soon as a one of his films gets released. He just knows how to make a bloody good movie. His track record of films is just getting better and better with time. So Gone Girl based on a book by Gillian Flynn is probably the best film I have seen this year so far. It keeps you on the edge of your seat for so long and while it may not have a ground breaking original idea (Nothing really does nowadays), it does it well. Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike do great jobs as well as the rest of the cast. Especially Rosamund who really does smash it out of the park, I got the same feeling off her as I did from Rooney Mara from the Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (Hey look another film Mr Fincher Directed).Its just an intense thriller with themes that go along with it like marriage and relationships and how we portray ourselves for people in our lives and the public. Not much to say really apart from WATCH THIS MOVIE!The only criticism I can find with the film it is quite long and the opening is slow a build up to a great pay off. I feel the book would fill any gaps that other people may find with film and I heard the book has a different ending also so if you do not like the ending maybe read the book for a more satisfying conclusion? The ending for me made sense and maybe open up for a sequel? Meh who knows....Anyone watch this film!Thanks and hope this was useful for anyone who reads this.


                
David Fincher has outdone himself with his cinematic adaptation of Gillian Flynn's bestselling novel. With a screenplay by the author herself, Fincher leads the viewer down a rabbit-hole of a marriage gone way south. Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike portray Nick and Amy Dunne, a seemingly happy couple living in rural Missouri. However when Amy vanishes without a trace to her whereabouts, police and residents deduce that Nick has done away with Amy, but the truth is far stranger than elaborate fiction. Affleck is in top form as Nick, a man who had it all: a beautiful home, a bar run by his smart mouth sister (Carrie Coon) and the ultimate trophy wife, but when evidence points to him having possibly murdered Amy the viewer begins to despise him as his dirty little secrets begin to surface. As the manipulative and scheming Amy, Rosamund Pike gives a bravado performance that has netted her an Oscar nod for Best Actress. She is the seemingly perfect wife, but as her web unravels we learn there is more to Amy than a wealthy woman with a gorgeous facade. Under the direction of Fincher, the atmosphere is dark and brooding, full of foreboding as we step into the mess of Amy and Nick's five year marriage. With a sparse melancholy score, the mood stays dark and mysterious as Amy's demeanor. Flynn's screenplay is full of surprising twists and turns, keeping the viewer on the edge of his or her seat.
Love love loved this movie. Read the novel by Gillian Flynn and was amazed by how sick and twisted the story line was I could not stop talking about it and the fact the movie was coming out shortly after. Let me start out by saying the book to screen adaption was SPOT ON. The movie did not leave out a lot of information from out of the books which normally is the case. Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike were the ideal couple I had pictured from the novel, their performances couldn't have been done better by anyone else. Very happy with the casting. Kept my attention the whole time, and could not wait for that twist. It was everything I had imagined. Very impressed with this movie. One of my favorites most definitely. Go see this and watch it 100 times more after that if you love the kind of movies that f#$% with your mind.


                
David Fincher has done it again! And on a whole new level. Gone Girl is a masterpiece which includes everything you would expect from a Fincher film, mainly the overall visual image of the film is classically Fincher (beautiful, stunning & cool). Gone Girl plays with the viewer, from start to finish you don't know what to expect next, there is no moment of relief where you feel safe that nothing significant is going to happen, real edge of your seat stuff. The two main characters (Ben Afleck & Rosamund Pike) steal and throw away your allegiance more times then you can count, the film makes you want to choose a side and sympathise with a specific individual, however it is almost impossible to do so. You will: hate, love, feel sorry for and be surprised by both lead characters many many times throughout. (I would also like to add that Neil Patrick Harris gives an amazing performance, the best acting I've ever seen him do)It is like no other film I've ever seen before, and to top it off I cannot find any aspect of the film that I didn't think was perfect. This review is from the perspective of a viewer that has not read the book.


                
If there's someone inside the film industry, which is capable of depicting in a beautiful, dark and cold cinematography, stories filled with plot twists and fairly implausible characters, that is David Fincher. An obsessed retailer that in over 120 minutes can carry out scripts that nobody else could. Gone girl is not the exception. Bringing out the best from Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike teaching us that she will be one of the most sought actresses of the following years and giving dark challenges to Neil Patrick Harris, Tyler Perry and Emily Ratajkowski, Gone Girl gives us one of the most immersive thrillers of the year, and several years back. Being true to his style, Finchi- Noir does it again in theaters, delivering with a dark picture and a haunting sound, one of the most complex and sociopathic marriages the history of cinema has ever seen. In 149 minutes, we have the opportunity to be part of the investigation of a crime with a ton of faces, filled with several decisions to make and with two sides to choose from. You really want to keep watching those turns, that sometimes make sense and sometimes don't, for about 149 more minutes.David Fincher in my opinion.1. Fight Club. 2. Seven. 3. The Social Network. 4. Gone Girl. 5. Zodiac. 6. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. 7. Panic Room. 8. The Game. 9. The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo. 10. Alien 3.


                
(DISCLAIMER - This review contains potential spoilers. However, if you've read the book or watched the movie, read on!)David Fincher's GONE GIRL is nothing short of a cinematic masterpiece!The acting is superb. Ben Affleck plays Nick Dunne, the likable asshole so well, to the point where it made me uncomfortable to like him. His actions and reactions in the film are ingeniously timed, wonderfully realized, and real in every way. Rosamund Pike, however, is the true standout. She absolutely steals the show as Amy Dunne, the psychotic wife. Her portrayal of the sociopath is so cool, calm, and collected - it comes off as much more realistic when she does break down and go ballistic. Even when you know her motives, she keeps you guessing the WHOLE time. Desi Collings is creepily and wonderfully brought to life by Neil Patrick Harris. Carrie Coon is awesome as Margo Dunne, the unglued sister of Nick who has a front row seat to all the action. Tyler Perry is another hilarious standout performance as Tanner Bolt, defensive attorney for Nick. Also worth mentioning is a star performance by Kim Dickens as Detective Boney.The movie is beautifully rendered on screen. The lighting, color palette, and cinematography are all wonderfully beautiful.The screenplay, written by the author of the book upon which this movie is based, sizzles with wit, snappy dialogue, and narration that feels real and conversational.The music is so perfect for the situations it's put in. One of the best uses is towards the end, when Amy seduces Desi into sex and then kills him. The music pulsates and pounds, and the whole time they have sex, you are totally on edge. However, when the deed is done, and she kills Desi and completes sex with him as he bleeds to death, the music crescendos and the terror is fresh. Even though you knew something was not right, the music prepared you for it and elevated the scene. There is literally nothing they could have done better for this movie. It's dark and twisted, macabre and humorous, sexy and violent - everything a modern thriller should be. 10/10 - Would Highly Recommend


                
Nick Dunne(Ben Affleck) returns home from "The Bar", a local pub owned by him and his sister, to find his wife Amy Elliot Dunne(Rossamund Pike) missing. As police investigation looks further into the case, Amy's disappearance becomes a country-wide issue when disturbing evidence begins to point towards her husband Nick. As more evidence rises against him, this once "perfect" man is now being seen as a disturbed sociopath as everyone asks him the ultimate question: Did you kill your wife?In probably one of the most disturbing movies of tbe year, Gone Girl explores the definition of "marriage" and what leads to a corrupted one. Nick and Amy are seen as the perfect couple, picture-perfect and rich. However, this quickly changes. In the matter of 5 years, Nick and Amy become incompetent of maintaining this marriage as we see Nick unravel as an evil, lecherous man through Amy's eyes and thought. Most people seem to judge the performances in this film, especially Ben Affleck's as Nick, but in my opinion, he did an amazing job of picturing Nick. His evasiveness towards Amy's disappearance, his naivety towards everything and most of all his arrogance/ignorance towards Amy. While I don't want to completely spoil Amy's character, I will say this: She is one of the most well crafted, and deceiving sociopaths ever created in film or literature. Her horrifying interpretation of revenge and marriage is disturbing yet fascinating at the same time. While Gone Girl is most definitely not for everyone, it is truly an amazing film. It is dark, incredibly well acted, a faithful adaptation, and most of all, it try does deliver. Lifetime movie? I think not.9/10
I think Gone Girl is the best movie in 2014. I enjoyed watching every second of it, in fact, I watched it again couple times.Gone Girl is that kind of movie that leaves you with wow impression. I am so glad I have not read the book yet when watched this movie, so the twist in the half of the movie is mind blowing surprise.Rosamund Pike and Ben Affleck are brilliant in this movies. Actually I watched Rosamund in her other movies before, and I think she was all right, but in Gone Girl, her acting is amazing. This is her best role, Oscar worthy, its kinda pity she did not win the Oscar thou.David Fincher is also amazing, like always. Almost all his movies is my favorite, except for The Social Network. He did a great job in Gone Girl. Good story telling, good pacing, every seconds is enjoyable, really there is no boring part in this movie.Overall the acting, writing, and the cinematography are stunning, this is a beautiful movie. Like I told you it's the best movie in 2014.


                
There is not a thing I did not like about this film. I watched it winter 2014 at Avenue Mall's Cineplexx in Osijek during its release date in a Croatian European Union part. This is, according to my opinion, Ben Affleck's acting of a lifetime. I was astonished by Rosamund Pike's marvelous acting as well. The plot was greatly interpreted by David Fincher even greater than he did in a 1997 The Game film starring Michael Douglas. I adored the scenery in the film and the overall atmosphere was spooky in a rather good way. I will never forget the posh scenery in and around a stone house with a wine cellar and Rosamund Pike's throat cutting.


                
