I really cannot figure out why this movie is so highly reviewed. Everything it sells itself as is a lie. For starters, it is portrayed as this suspenseful thriller where there are constant twists and turns and you never really know what is truly happening. Well, that is a total lie. There is no suspense, there are no serious or intelligent twists, just a litany of idiotic contrived absurdities.Spoilers below: You clearly see what is happening in very beginning with Nick (Ben Affleck) and you pretty much know he did not kill his wife 30 minutes in. Your initial sense is that she is not dead and he did not kill her, and you are right. There are no more "twists. "The "twist" is that she is insane, and the movie descends into 2 more hours of ever increasing idiocy and farcical garbage. Amy (Rosamund Pike) goes off into a series of illogical and irrational behaviors, including consorting with some random trash at a trailer park, despite having faked her own death and being the subject of a massive manhunt. The story just gets more and more absurd, with more illogical stupidity and unbelievable actions by other characters, which include police getting a search warrant on a house based on an "anonymous tip," Nick and his sister being apparently the dumbest people on Earth who would not move any of the loot out of the shed before the cops find it, the police engaging in the largest manhunt ever for a missing person after about 6 hours, etc. The movie starts out decent but gets continually worse as it goes on, and just starts getting worse and worse at a faster rate as it continues.The acting is decent to middling, with Affleck probably giving one of the better performances overall, and Tyler Perry actually being an enjoyable aside. The other characters are largely unlikeable, unbelievable or just stilted caricatures.The last 30 minutes are, as others have noted, unbelievably ridiculous and moronic. The woman who so carefully plans out her own death with a massive amount of preplanning, somehow commits a savage crime of passion, which is a story FILLED with holes, but somehow is supposed to have gotten away with it. Also, apparently even though she plotted all along to have her husband executed, she somehow had the presence of mind to save the sperm sample, keep it, then AFTER he is exonerated and she has to alter her plans to return to him last minute after murdering someone else, has the means to get it successfully implanted in herself. Oh, she is an absolute psychic apparently.The ending is ludicrous, the characters are unrealistic farces that only someone who desperately wants to love this movie would believe, the story is overrun with artificial plot devices and deus ex machinas that serve only to advance nonsensical story lines, and the movie is in no way a twisting, changing thriller. Its just a predictable drama where the only "unexpected" things are unexpected because they are absolute nonsense that are make about as much sense as random dog running on stage and relieving itself. One of the worst movies I have seen in years.
"Gone Girl" is a contrived, exploitative, pretentious film that aims for the middlebrow audience and hits its mark. The filmmakers insert – no pun intended – a sex scene every ten minutes or so, and alternate those with buckets-of-blood scenes of violence, and utterly predictable flashlight searches for clues of a Nancy Drew level of sophistication. If you want to see someone stabbed to death while climaxing during sex and bleed out like an upside down pig, this is the film for you. The dialogue is pseudo-clever. Example: a man compliments a woman seated at a table full of strangers by informing her that she has a "world-class vagina." She smiles girlishly. The film is capped up with a plot twist so implausible it blasted me right out of the movie onto the moons of Jupiter by the author's straining, sweating, thuddingly manipulative hand. And then the movie piles on the single most unbelievable ending I have ever seen. There are movie surprises that rearrange the furniture inside your head and make you shout, "Oh! Of course! How could I not have seen that? Now everything makes so much more sense!" The best such surprise is in the film "Sixth Sense." "Gone Girl" surprises you by showing how desperate a writer can get.Warning: The rest of this review will reveal the ending of "Gone Girl." If you don't want to know the ending of "Gone Girl," stop reading now. Nick (Ben Affleck) is married to Amy (Rosamund Pike). They live in Missouri, the show me state. Amy disappears and Nick is under suspicion. Did he kill her? So, now, you are thinking that "Gone Girl" will explore the interesting question we all ask when beautiful young women disappear and their husbands are suspected of murder. Those questions are: How could a loving marriage go so wrong? How could a marriage look perfect on the outside and be rotten on the inside? How could a loving husband murder his own wife? Does our 24/7 media coverage encourage us to form lynch mobs? Forget it. "Gone Girl" explores none of this. Nick had cheated on Amy with one of his students. Hurt, Amy faked her own disappearance. Amy is incredibly beautiful, the star of a series of children's books, a sexual Tantric master, a psychopath, and a criminal mastermind. Heck, the filmmakers may as well just added invisibility, flight, and the ability to conjugate Polish verbs at will to Amy's list of superpowers. She is that unbelievable. Amy just wants to hurt Nick, because he hurt her. So she flawlessly fakes her own murder. Amy seeks shelter from Desi, an old boyfriend, Neal Patrick Harris, whom she had accused of stalking her. Desi makes Amy his virtual prisoner in his lake house. He, too, is a criminal mastermind, psychopath, and Tantric sex master, and his lake house is carefully designed to prevent Amy from escaping from their hot sex, good food, and discussions of opera and philosophy. You had no idea Missouri was this interesting, did you? You'll never call it "flyover country" again, will you? Amy stabs Desi when he is climaxing during their hot sex. Buckets of blood gush out of him. The director wants you to see all this – this is what you bought your ticket for, is it not? Certainly not for intelligence or heart. Amy returns to Nick. No one bothers to indict Amy for Desi's murder, because she is incredibly beautiful, famous, and a criminal mastermind. And because the plot of this movie holds together like a wet Kleenex. Nick knows that Amy is a murderer and that she attempted to frame him for her murder and only returned after that went wrong. Nick hates and fears Amy. And Nick stays with Amy, as her husband. The End. I think the author of "Gone Girl" was trying to use flamboyantly exaggerated premises to comment on a few themes: none of us can fully understand what keeps marriages together, women are terribly hurt by infidelity, beautiful women can use manipulation and sex to get what they want in life. All of these themes are genuinely interesting, and good art inspired by them is compelling. I kept thinking of "The Country Girl," a brilliant treatment of a complex marriage that outsiders don't understand. TV coverage of the Laci Peterson murder was ten times more watchable, interesting, and educational than the idiotic "Gone Girl" could ever hope to be. "Body Heat" was a hundred times better as a depiction of a hot blond wrapping a big, dumb, handsome guy around her finger. And "Body Heat"'s plot twist leaves "Gone Girl" in the dust. Ben Affleck's broad shoulders and chest look really good here. His acting is vapid, absent, and clueless, appropriate to the part of a man manipulated by a woman. Rosamund Pike's performance as a human who could never actually exist is good. Basically, she's playing a Star Trek space alien, and she does it well. The excellent Tyler Perry is wasted.
The ratings were so high for this movie.I was sure it would be a great film. What rubbish it was. For the first hour I kept looking at my watch,it was so slow moving. Ben Affleck was average in his performance. The acting of Rosamund Pike was way over the top,even though she played a psychopath. There was so much sex,oral sex,suggestive sex in this film for pure shock value or maybe to make a boring movie more interesting. But nothing could help this moronic film.At the beginning I couldn't even hear the dialogue between them.It was so garbled.The plot was silly in my opinion. There are more fascinating plots in real life. And the men portrayed in this film are spineless weaklings while the women are tough and crazy.For example,the crime stories of killers Jodi Arias,Casey Anthony,and all the other crime plots on 48 hours or Dateline are mysteries which are fascinating,as well as being true.Thankfully,I had a gift card to this mess of a film,so paid very little. Why it is considered the best new movie out this week doesn't say much for the calibre of movies made today. Do not waste your money on this very bad crime mystery.Better to watch 20/20,or 48 hours at home. I like David Fincher as a director but nevertheless was extremely disappointed.The lesson here is don't believe the critics, audience and/or ratings all the time. Do some research.This film is a waste of your time and money.
So here's the thing. The setup for the movie is very engaging. It's a fascinating story told with an interesting plot sequence.I've seen reviews here, and they seem to run the gamut from amazingly good to amazingly bad. It is the latter, and yet I say two stars because the story of how their lives got to the point of the disappearance is fascinating, but even while watching the movie, questions entered my mind that I just couldn't answer, even after knowing the ending.Why did Neil Patrick Harris' character show up so early in the story? Once he showed up, why did he appear to actually work against our protagonist? How could the feds be so mind numbingly stupid? You've got a police officer in your midst with valid questions: why would she be ignored? And the worst offense: that ending. Not since "Solitary Man" have I seen the credits appear, and I felt the need to complain out loud in a movie theater about the ending. Boy, was that a stupid ending! I've already noted that this review could include spoilers, but I feel the need to not spoil too much (if you're a sucker for punishment, by all means, spend the money: it's tripe, but it's pretty tripe), but oh, how I wish I had someone else to talk to about how stupid this movie was in more detail.
There are what some will call spoilers contained herein, although I consider it next to impossible to spoil this roadkill turkey.They had all the advantages. Money, good actors. Ben Affleck being slightly less wooden than usual. Suspense. A good musical score. And still, they made a turkey.First, in any good whodunit, you need to be emotionally invested in the hero, even if it turns out "hedoneit." I couldn't get behind Affleck, no matter how hard I tried. He exudes no warmth and generally seems to be such a self- absorbed slime-ball, it's really hard to care if he gets framed for a crime.His wife is portrayed as a closet self-absorbed sociopath. After planning a meticulous frame for Affleck, she plans on killing herself, one thing a person like she is would never do. But then, she changes her mind at almost the last moment and decides to live on. This, from a woman who has been living for her master plan for months. Totally unbelievable.Finally, her plan is on the cusp of succeeding. What happens? This woman, who can come up with a detailed, flawless plan to get hubby blamed for her nonexistent murder, and who later proves she is as capable of murder as a black widow spider, herself, allows all her money to get stolen by two rednecks with the combined IQ of a pint of potato salad. And does nothing to retaliate.She is then forced to go to her first boyfriend for help, after spurning him for years following false claims about him, too. He softly, gently, abducts and virtually imprisons her. Suddenly, we have a totally new bad movie. As if the first one wasn't bad enough.Then she runs him through the vegomatic (it slices, it dices) and it becomes a THIRD bad movie, a Slasher movie, with enough gore to satisfy Quentin Tarantino. By this point, I was looking hopefully at my watch, but the movie runs too long, anyway. It takes a long time to roll three bad movies into one.I haven't touched on all the plot holes. I figure others have done well enough by them.The acting was pretty good, it was the story and script that I consider awful. I can only explain the high rating by guessing Affleck or the studio have a large staff. Or perhaps "wrasslin" and American Bachelor Idol Survivor wasn't on that week, and people desperate for entertainment who had never seen a proper mystery movie chose to rate this one.It's pretty much out of the theaters. If you really insist on wasting this much of your life, wait until it show up on cable.Or, better yet, rent "Laura" or "The Maltese Falcon."
To everyone1)The acting was very good-Affleck plays a dumb guy like a natural - is he really acting? The rest of the cast was very good. Neil Patrick Harris was great as always. 2)Fincher did his best despite a terrible plot and bad editing.Had this movie ended with Affleck getting the death sentence and the wife getting captured or killed by Neil Patrick Harris and just ended instead of giving us 30 more minutes of a crazed lunatic women plotting a way to undo her original plot that she was murdered by her husband, then you would have a great movie here with a great dark ending.This movie though has a women plotting the death of her husband by framing him for a murder that clearly we knew he did not commit. The guy was a drunken loser from the start of the movie after all. Murderers don't play xbox - drink at a bar the day he commits murder, is corgile to his nosy neighbor, ups a life insurance months before a murder from 1m to 1.2m, not to mention go on a spending spree and hide all the items in my sisters woodshed, etc...There was no mystery that he was guilty - sorry people - maybe the book had a mystery here, but not in the movie!He was clearly innocent and acted that way. We knew it unless your head was in the sand!Then halfway through we found out he was innocent by seeing her and finding out how crazy she is, which validated 100% of what he said.No mystery there either. The only thriller aspect was, how was he going to get out of being accused of her murder!This would have been good if he did get framed for murder and convicted, then I would say bravo to a smart lead female character!BUTShe fell apart when she did her road trip of hate towards her husband by getting caught up in the media and his appeals to her! Emotion got the best of a heartless CRAZY WOMEN??? Is that possible? She got emotional?So she decides she now wants to undo her murder? How do you undo your own murder that she planned for months or years?YOU DON'T! This movie jumped the shark at that point - the thrill was, will she get him convicted of murder or not.That thrill ended as we watched the last 20 minutes of him letting her back in his life after all she put him through!It was like going to the dentist and having a cavity filled! Really - He takes her back????????WORST MOST UNREALISTIC ENDING IN A SERIOUS MOVIE EVER!!!!He takes her back!!!!!Is this a best selling book for Americans today - which I am, but am afraid of how easily duped we can be!Again, - had he died by the death penalty - and she got trapped by her stalker, then you have a great ending, but a just wait and see how dumb these two people are taking each other back into their lives ending is 1 and a billion - and reality TV at it's worst!I know a lot of you people who liked the ending love this kind of nonsense endings that only happen to 1 and a billion and is on all those dumb TV show drama's, but that is not for me! Sorry!1 last thing - she leaves a clue to the woodshed where he had all kinds of expensive stuff hidden in, but never opens it or uses it? Why would a guy who murders his wife do that? Why????? Why spend them into more debt and bump your insurance by a simple 200k, to prove that you are a murderer? Who does that?The wife reads books on the perfect crime - and she comes up with leaving clues that incriminates herself more then him! Sorry for the rant, this movie sucked and the people who liked it are off the wall with tabloid bs!A note for Fincher lovers - The Sixth Sense was a classic by M Knight Shamalan - but really - they are different movies to follow - so let's take this piece of crap Gone Girl and let it Get GONE!!!!
I have never reviewed a movie before but after watching Gone Girl, I couldn't prevent myself. I am a big David Fincher fan but this movie literally made me angry in the end. First to start with the positives. In the reviews, the appreciations were focused more on Rosamund Pike than Ben Affleck. I think Affleck was simply exceptional and perfect for the role. As for beloved Rosamund Pike, I will never watch her the same way I used to. The supporting cast played their parts well, especially Margo(Affleck's twin sister). Moving on to the negatives, which were many in my opinion. Not spoiling anything for the viewers, how can the authorities be so inept at the end? There were so many flaws in the story told by the one of the lead characters. It seems everyone was so frenzied by the dumb wit media that they forgot to check the facts. The kidnap story was complete rubbish; tying marks were not accurate with the story, nobody checked the alibi of the perpetrator, nobody focused on the history of the so called victim(It happened before, didn't it??) and nobody saw anyone leave or move. Finally, nothing disappointed me more than the the end. How can someone live with that? What was the point of all this? I love David Fincher movies and can watch his dark classics repeatedly. But will I watch "Gone Girl" again ? Never !!


                
This is a terrible film. There are many, many things wrong with it - preposterous plot, miscast lead actress, excessive running time, excruciating soundtrack, etc. - but overall the key flaw, present from the first scene, is that it never manages to cross the line between feeling like we're watching some actors (not to mention a director) working, and being immersed in a story. It just doesn't work.We're clearly supposed to view this as a big zeitgeist capturing movie,what with all the 'trial by media' shenanigans; but this is neither new nor innovatively handled: in the end it amounts to nothing more than sensationalist TV hosts and vans on the lawn. As a thriller, it doesn't work either. We don't care about the characters, and the plot is so ridiculous it overwhelms everything else. OK, we don't expect total plausibility - look at Hitchcock - but there has to be a limit. Finally, the ending is, if anything, even worse than the book, which, by the way, has been inexplicably well reviewed: it is trash literature.The two star, rather than one star rating, is for Kim Dickens, the only good thing in the film.Avoid this junk at all costs.


                
OK. 2 votes, only for the beautiful lead pair and strong performances.. strong performances in an absolutely trashy, ridiculous heap of a movie. 149 minutes of sheer nonsense! Given a score of 8.3 on IMDb, I really expected a gem of a movie; I couldn't have been more wrong! Throughout the movie I kept expecting a breakthrough moment, a moment, a frame that changes the course, shocks me, delights me...anything..but no. All this movie got out of me was confusion that never went away even after the credits started rolling. The only normal character was the woman who plays detective Boney (why that name?).In so many parts, the movie is just so lame, I cannot begin to imagine why the creators must've made those parts. For instance, Desi's lake house, the fake rape claims and the funniest part being the FBI blindly believing or blind FBI members conducting the investigation. Either way, it was stupid. And what's with the tag line? 'You don't know what you're missing'..The man bloody wanted her gone! And would've been happier had she stayed gone.I'm glad I haven't read the book, because that would take me longer than watching the movie and that would've been worse. In conclusion, I'd like to congratulate all the people who disliked this movie. You rock!
This movie's rating on here has also been artificially inflated by people rating it 10, and it is easy to see the common thread of these people, usually about David Fincher being amazing. In this movie, the direction was the least of the problems.This movie is bad. Very, very bad. It is so full of holes, and not little holes that are easy to let go, but massive, gaping, sucking black holes where some sense of logic should have prevailed but none did, that it is impossible for any person of sound mind and logic to accept all the impossible and implausible outcomes.I won't bore you with details or spoil the excruciating pain of the length of this drawn out movie that starts off interesting, shows some early promise, then gets caught up in its own plot twists that have no plausible premise, and finishes with some of the most absurd scenes and leaps of faith I can ever recall in any movie that is termed "drama". An easy cop-out seems to be some reviewers (those rating it 10) referring to it as "the blackest of black comedies", but this is just an attempt to subvert the reader from the simple fact it was so bad we couldn't even really laugh at it.It's truly a ridiculous film, a total slap in the face for an intriguing book. The first half was acceptable, but the second half was an absolute mess. This movie should offer refunds to those who paid money to see it. Maybe even give them some extra dollars for the time they had to sit through just to get to the cringe-worthy ending that resolved nothing.


                
Does anyone, anywhere genuinely believe that Gone Girl is representing reality? It's completely over the top in terms of it's plot and what the characters do. I won't spoil it, but it's hardly reflective of someone making a false allegation. People simply don't do what the characters do, and I'd question anyone's grip on reality if they thought it was feasible. It's completely bizarre that what is effectively nothing more than a classy thriller is being deemed to making any comment on rape or domestic violence, and even more so to personally condemn the actors for being in it. I could perhaps get on board if criticisms of the book or film were made in a context of how Hollywood portrays rape or violence against women (and am sure there are criticisms to be made), but this direct personal attack on those involved in the film based on something that no one has claimed seems misguided at best. Awful Overrated (as well as HOUSE OF CARDS).


                
This film wanted so bad to be a Hitchcock film, I thought I was going to see Ben Affleck in a dress by the end of it. Not that I'd want to, and thankfully I didn't have to endure it. However I did have to endure this painfully bad film nonetheless, seeing as how I went to see it at the theatre with friends. Anyway, calling this film the worst Hitchcock film I've ever seen is about as much praise as it's going to get out of me. Nearly every scene in this film seemed overly forced and ridiculous to me. The entire film felt like a sarcastic farce, as if the filmmakers themselves felt their audiences were just a bunch of morons when they made this crapper. Maybe they are right for the most part, judging by the ratings on here. Oh well, each to their own. If you liked it, you liked it and good for you. I for one felt it was one of the worst big budget mainstream thrillers I've ever seen, in fact, maybe THE worst! I was wishing I conned my friends into going to see The Judge during and after watching this garbage. Honestly, what separates this film from your average Lifetime movie? Not much, slightly better acting and much better cinematography, that's about it. I couldn't wait for this overly long and incredibly dumb film to end. It seemed for a while as if it never was going to end, and I was stuck in some sort of movie hell. Don't waste your time. 2/10


                
This movie reminded me why I seldom attend movies anymore!I was excited with anticipation to see this film and I must say I was left feeling extremely disappointed. The acting was sub-par, the characters weren't believable and the story was far to drawn out and became almost laughably ridiculous as it evolved. I won't spoil the plot but I will say that if you watch this movie and haven't figured it out shortly after "Amy" goes missing than you should stick to watching Sponge Bob. Isn't Hollywood capable of producing a captivating film anymore? The story was also unbelievable. No way in real life would the suspect not be arrested much sooner giving his highly suspicious activity and behavior. Gone Girl = 2 wasted hours gone!


                
What a mess! If the concept of the "faked murder" appeals to you, skip this train-wreck and go watch Ashley Judd, Bruce Greenwood and Tommy Lee Jones do it somewhat well. It's not happening here. The hidden baseline is a parody of what TV "reality news" does to shape public opinion, most of which is consumed as the truth by the ignorant masses. That I can agree with. Heck, it describes all of politics today. But the story itself is such junk - especially how the cops are complete idiots - and this woman's crazy schemes are consumed as truth. My favorite is when the investigators who question her toward the end "hush up" the cop pointing out the huge holes in her nonsense story, because of all she's "been through". C'mon guys, you can't write better than that?? If you want something suspenseful that will exercise your brain this will completely disappoint you. If it wasn't for some decent acting of this garbage script I'd award it zero stars. IMHO.
I am surprised that this movie gets more than 5 stars on average and am simply amazed that it gets over 8 stars total. It is a stupid movie with merely competent acting, silly direction, and abominable writing that includes a routine plot and truly obnoxious dialog.I won't bother going into all the details about why the plot is so bad. Other reviewers already have done that very well. I will just summarize the main points. Worthless, unappealing guy meets overbearing, unappealing bitch at party. They get married. Because of who they are, the marriage fails. He cheats, she schemes. Somewhere around the middle almost all doubt about what is going on has already become obvious, but just in case you didn't figure it out on your own, the movie spills the beans. It's all old stuff, seen many times in low-budget TV shows over the decades. The rest of the movie is an exercise in coming up with a slightly different ending. The chosen ending is simply idiotic. To get there, the plot cannot avoid a large number of holes big enough to drive a truck through. The ending is the most preposterous part of the whole story. After one faked homicide is followed by a real homicide committed by the person who faked the first one, the cops just drop the whole thing, and Mr. & Mrs. Wrong are reunited to live unhappily ever after.And the dialog! No wonder Mr. and Mrs. Wrong don't get along. They are too busy engaging in preposterously clever and cool dialog with each other to ever have a real conversation.The characters are all cardboard cutouts with no life and no depth. None of them is anyone I would care to know or would care about.Terrible movie. The only reason to see it is to marvel at the bad taste of so many reviewers.
I have seldom watched a movie where the script writer took as many random shortcuts as those taken in "Gone Girl." I've seen this before when a writer -- either because of laziness, lack of talent, or time pressure -- simply has the character do something which advances the story, but without any foundation or rationale for that action. In "Gone Girl," each scene failed to supply sufficient information or motivation for what each character did next. At the beginning of the movie, this was merely annoying, and I thought perhaps it was being done deliberately in order to provide a simple sketch of the characters' backgrounds and then quickly get into the meat of the movie.Unfortunately, those "sketches" turned out to be essential to the rest of the movie, and because these scenes were not completely fleshed out, much of what followed rang hollow.It is a complete mystery to me how Gillian Flynn, the screenplay author, could have been nominated for any awards for this mess, and yet she was. This makes me very suspicious of the awards process.The script is so bad that, as the movie progressed, I kept thinking perhaps they had filmed the "treatment" (the script outline used to sell the movie idea) rather than an actual, finished script.By the time the movie stumbled and lurched to the final, totally unsatisfactory conclusion, I found myself almost angry at all the holes in logic and motivation, and the completely inexplicable things each of the two main characters said and did.I don't mind endings that are unexpected or unusual, but I do mind endings that feel as though the writer copped out because she lacked the creativity to come up with a much more interesting, clever, and logically consistent ending.This ending was none of those things.The only reason I gave the film two stars instead of one is that the basic production values are quite good


                
I will start by saying that I did indeed read the book. I read it in two days, the week before the movie came out. My husband did not read the book, he never goes to the movies, but was excited to see this one.It was BAD. The acting was bad, the story was bad. There were jokes, a lot of uncomfortable laughing. No suspense, no thrill. Every part of the book that had me staying up late reading was glazed over or entirely left out. It actually felt like I was being punked. At one point my husband was holding the bridge of his nose and the guy next to me had his hand on his forehead sighing. I would compare the hokeyness to that of the twilight movies. I don't understand how anyone could find this to be over a 5/10. Do yourself a favor and watch it at home, so you can laugh out loud at just how bad it is.


                
Not much to like about this movie. Two seriously unlikable characters, one totally unbelievable plot, and about an hour too long. The main actors are practically emotionless and move like robots, I was so disappointed. The most interesting character (and well acted) was the lawyer. And there is NO WAY anyone could believe that a woman who arrived at a hospital covered in her kidnappers/rapist's blood, was examined, dressed in scrubs, appeared in a ridiculous press conference the same day all while STILL COVERED IN BLOOD - just so she can do a shower scene at home! That and so many other awful scenes and dialogue ruined it. I never once believed that the main characters even fell in love, let alone spent 5 years together. Waste of time.


                
Well,this is just another one with a high rating on IMDb not deserving it for real.In short words,the movie felt like one of those programs on the criminal TV when they talk about some crimes and than some actors play the scenes.Actors did the job really good but the story is really poor,couple of twists than make no sense and an ending that just messes it all with how stupid it was.I prefer movies that actually left you something in the end to think about or entertain you.This one felt like I couldn't switch the channel for almost 3 hours or as if I was listening to the neighbors fighting ,feeling uncomfortable.I appreciate all the good comments but just NO from me:)


                
There are times when a bad ending ruins a decent film. That isn't quite the case, here.In this movie, something much worse takes place. An insulting, ridiculous, completely implausible, ending makes a poor film utterly execrable.SPOILERS.The thing is, Amy is more like Basic Instinct's Catherine than she is like Nora Charles. She is pretty much a psychopath, and by the end of this movie, she's gone off the rails; she is just plain GONE.Here's how another reviewer put it: "...she (Amy) tries to frame her husband for murder, which would get him put on death row, when someone else gives her shelter she murders him, but only after she uses him to get pregnant so she can guilt her husband into getting back together. She is unapologetic about all of it, and at the end, THEY GET BACK TOGETHER. And it's not even like Ben Affleck's character is just oblivious, he knows everything, right down to the fact that the kid isn't his! But he lets her get away with it because... I dunno, because she makes great gnocchi! Better answer than the movie will give you! Considering she admitted to murdering Neil Patrick Harris in front of him..." At the end of this movie, Nick is telling his sister that he has to stay with Amy, because REASONS.After this scene with Nick and his sister, I was ready to throw things at my hi def TV. And I actually like my TV. I watch worthwhile shows and films on it, usually. And, it would cost much more than I paid for it to replace it, these days. I say this to demonstrate how put off, let down, and truly disgusted I was by this film and its so-called script.Do not waste two hours plus of your life on this poor excuse for a psychological thriller.
Gone Girl: Psychopaths And Woman Beaters. The first segment in the movie, shows Nick and Amy Dunne's marriage, played by Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike. One day Amy mysteriously disappears, all attention is on Nick as his reactions to the disappearing of his wife are distant and unsettling. After Nick is almost proved guilty, it is revealed that Amy planted all of the evidence in an attempt to get revenge on her husband. We were all on her side at this point. Amy's diary revealed that Nick had beaten and sexually abused her as well as used all of her savings on senseless buys. And then the film completely lost me.Amy reveals she faked the entire thing. Nick was not an abuser. It is further understood Amy has a history of making false rape accusations, and more. The film makes you sympathize with Nick, as he has become a victim of a psychopathic wife. However, Nick still remains an incredibly unlikeable character who was taking advantage of a 20-year-old.Amy then returns to her dissatisfied husband. At this point, I had completely given up on the film and was just waiting to see Nick leave his psychopathic wife. Of course that won't happen, instead the film ends with Nick being trapped with Amy after she confesses that she stole his sperm and impregnated herself. "Gone Girl" had great potential, but its plot twists ruined the film. The acting was decent, but the direction completely blurred the message, if there even was a message. At times, even the actors looked like they couldn't believe how terrible the film was.Ultimately, "Gone Girl" was unsatisfying and deeply disturbing, but not in a good way. The film tried way too hard to shock the audience, but simply left us confused and deeply regretting ever even watching it."Gone Girl" was simply a huge waste of two hours.
Words cannot describe how awful this film is in terms of an interesting and engaging story plot and holes within said story plot, especially toward the end, which in my opinion, was all over the place. Although I won't spoil anything, I will say that there were some areas of the film that felt unrealistic to me when speaking in terms of common sense, the overall intelligence of some people and real world scenarios. What happened, Affleck? I thoroughly enjoyed "Argo", but this one just didn't keep my interest at all. I guess I'll check one more movie off in which I didn't go with the critics on. Oh well, hopefully he'll redeem himself with Batman vs. Superman.


                
I was looking forward to watching this having heard good things. I tend to enjoy most films Ben Stiller appears in so why would this be any different? The story gets going slowly but surely with little hints of what is going on. Rosamund Pyke looks her normal gorgeous self when we see her. About half way through I suddenly realised, "I'm only half way through! - This had better get better!" Despite a few twists and turns I was constantly thinking there are so many holes in the plot that you could make up your own ending. In fact, that's what it felt like at the end. The director couldn't decide on the best ending and just pulled an idea out the hat.At the end, I looked at my wife and we both commented that we couldn't understand how on earth this is rated at 8.4. I've given it 2 to flag to those who want to hear, give it a miss!


                
I'm not sure how this movie could have such a high rating. I suppose it had its moments, but surely there has to be some, however thin, connection that allows the audience to suspend belief enough to go with the movie. That connection in Gone Girl is stretched beyond breaking point pretty early on and never recovers.The performances are good - I'm not saying it is a total stinker, but it just doesn't stand up to even the most casual reality check. If you want to know some of the particular points that I refer to you can look at some of the recent reviews which outline them in great detail. But then of course there are many spoilers to deal with - so here is a non spoiler warning - This Movie Is Just Too Far Fetched to suck you in so why not give it a miss?


                
Well that's two and a half hours of my life I won't get back. Settled down to watch this film with high expectations. I love a good, clever thriller which has you guessing all the way through. This one is not. Its dreadful. Half an hour in, you realise it is meant to come across as an arty, intelligent piece all about control rather than the 'edge of the seat' thriller it is billed to be. We persevered, still thinking it may improve and half way through it picked up a little and left us thinking if the ending is good it will have been worth it. It wasn't. Loose ends all over the place, poor plot and merely acceptable acting will leave you scratching your head and still asking questions, even at the end. Mainly along the lines of 'Why did I bother?'


                
