After watching over the first hour of this movie I just couldn't stay interested in any of the characters or even in the plot for that matter. In fact I was kind of hoping that his wife was dead and not just missing. I really hoped he killed her because I didn't like her character and I really hoped Affleck would die too in a shoot out with cops; and I kind of hoped he would get lucky and kill them also. Well maybe not the sidekick, he was cool. I just couldn't relate to all of the pretentiousness of the wife's family or even Affleck himself. I mean, I even hoped her parents would die because they were jerks too. About the only person in that movie I found interesting was Affleck's sister, I think her name was Margo. The movie just failed to hook me in an hour and fifteen minutes. No plot twist can recover the amount of boredom I had at the one hour mark. Plus there were some very graphic scenes that didn't really add to the movie (not all, some very well expressed how disturbed individuals were). I don't need to see Affleck going down on a chick on his first date to kind of figure out they bumped uglies. Graphic scenes have their purpose but when you over-do it, you lose value.
Spoiler Alert -- In a time when we are supposed to be more aware of mental illness, along comes this highly-crafted movie with high production values and a big budget whose whole story is based on the machinations and manipulations of a psychopath. Really, what would Hollywood do without psychopaths? They might have to come up with an original story that actually had something to say about life, the state of the world, etc. This movie is purely a fiction to waste a few hours, it won't make you ponder or reflect on anything, save the bizarre ending and the inevitable question: why did Nick stay? It doesn't matter. This story has nothing to do with real life.
All my stars go to the actresses and actors. Acting was not exceptional, but to the standards. The script, however, is all over the place.The film starts out as a suspense movie, only to become a metaphorical literature about marriage later on. However, the transition is abrupt and awkward. It fails as a suspense movie, and the discussion on marriage is very little developed, if at all.It fails as a suspense movie because half way through suddenly the audience becomes aware that the wife is alive in a way that undoes all the previous efforts of building up the suspense. After that audience would expect a plot twist that at least connects and completes a good story. That is not delivered either. In fact, the twist is so implausible that the film becomes comic and almost laughable towards the end. The lawyer, the police investigation and all that becomes complete redundancies under this plot structure. Too much time and attention are devoted to building up the intensity that later is destroyed. The real important characters are left underdeveloped.In the end the movie seems desperate, trying to cover up the failed storyline by shifting the attention onto a topic that many can relate- marriage. However, we do not know what exactly the movie wants to talk about, since most of the time the focus is not devoted on the marriage/relationship. The audience learn about the interactions of the couple mainly through the description, or rather, opinions of the wife or the husband on events, and that clearly is not enough.Not a good film. I do not recommend it.
There's really very little to like about this movie unless you are new to movies and haven't seen directors work a camera before... Like all of David Fincher's movies there is a decided like of real substance. He tells stories with visual and auditory gadgetry. Some people are probably wowed when the director calls attention to himself with an endless array of moving shots, weird angles, and quick cuts, that end up basically turning a movie into a long commercial spot. While it doesn't quite go on forever, it does seem long when sitting in the theater, and that is because honestly, not a whole lot happens in this movie. They get a horse to run (OMG she's a crazy b*** of a wife!!) and then they kick it and beat it to death... So... Fincher starts off the movie by constantly swinging the camera around, and of course, while keeping everything perfectly framed, he IS a master at this you know! (And don't you ever forget it!)Yeah, yeah David, congrats, you've mastered film school 101. Good for you.The whole movie is predictable, absurd, and comes across as some sort of listless metaphorical commentary on marriage. Oh, that IS literally what it is. The idea that in marrying someone you are destroying yourself. And that you have to go through a variety of spiritual convulsions before you finally understand what it is you want in life. I GET THAT! Why that needs to be told amongst scenes of wine bottle self rape, or ejaculation while throat slitting, or any of the other absurdities presented to the viewers in Gone Girl is a mystery that only lasts as long as it takes to tally up the $$$.Here's a metaphor from the movie: WOOD STOVE = HOT VAGINA. She puts her DIARY in her WOOD STOVE and BURNS IT. But NOT completely, just singes the edges. AND everything in the diary is a lie. GET IT?!?!!?Anyway, have fun watching David Fincher's latest self-commercial!
I really like David Fincher as a Director and some of his previous movies are my favorite (e.g. Seven). Gone girl is a dull movie with totally no surprise or tension. Everything in this movie is so predictable. Actually from the very first minutes of the movie you know that the wife is responsible for all what is happening and that she faked it all herself to make the husband look bad - as a revenge for their unsuccessful marriage. On top of that we have really, really bad, fake acting (especially Ben Affleck). The story isn't realistic and sometimes behavior of the characters or their actions seem simply stupid. The idea for the movie is actually quite interesting and could turn into a really great movie. But well... it is what it is
'Gone Girl' is one of those films in which I have no guilt feelings whatsoever in giving away the plot. If you must see it, wait until cable or when it comes to Netflix. The first third however, actually isn't that bad. Ben Affleck plays Nick Dunne whose wife, Amy, lived a sheltered and privileged existence after her parents created a series of children's novels entitled 'Amazing Amy', based on her life as a child in NYC.We learn in a series of flashbacks from Amy's journal, that when she first met Nick, it was similar to a perfect, whirlwind romance. Eventually, however, the couple is forced to move back to Missouri, to take care of Nick's mother, who has cancer. Amy is forced to give back a substantial sum of money to her parents who basically bankrolled her career, when they go into debt. Amy pours the remaining money into a bar, which is run by Nick and his sister.One fine day Amy disappears and the investigating detective, finds a series of clues purposely left there by Amy (including her journal). Soon, Nick fast becomes the prime suspect in Amy's disappearance. Nick tries to keep himself together, despite the media circus right outside his door. Eventually we learn in a twist, that Amy is a psychopath who seeks to humiliate Nick. This basically is where I lost interest in the film. Amy is too much of a bizarre character to be taken seriously. Her main motivation for wanting to do her husband in, is that he cheated on her. The way in which she tries to frame him, seems too complicated to pull off in real life; one also wonders if she was so enraged at him, why doesn't she simply try and kill him by making his death seem like an accident?The plot becomes even more bizarre when Amy allows herself to be ripped off by two rednecks who learn that she has a lot of cash on her, while they're all staying at a motel. For a clever psychopath like Amy, it seems a little too easy for her to be ripped off so easily by the two low life's she encounters. Now penniless, she contacts Desi Collings (Neil Patrick Harris) who stalked her in high school. Now rich, the one-note Desi believes this is his chance to help Amy, while attempting to woo her again. Desi comes off as an equally unbelievable character as Amy, since there is no reason why he should have remained obsessed with her for all this time (not to mention the restraining order that Amy took out against him years ago). Amy ends up murdering Desi (in a very gruesome and unpleasant scene), slashing his throat with a box cutter. Before doing so, however she pretends she's been raped by Desi in front of a surveillance camera..The last third of the film features the last and equally noxious twist. Nick ends up 'lawyering up' by hiring the big media attorney, Tanner Bolt, who encourages him to be interviewed on a Nancy Grace-like show. By owning up to having an affair, Nick improves his media image after his girlfriend came forward to reveal their affair. Suddenly, Amy decides to nix the original plan to frame Nick and returns home, much to everyone's shock across the country, who have been following the case incessantly for the past few months on TV and social media.Somehow, Amy gets a hold of Nick's sperm in a sperm bank and impregnates herself. Much to his sister's chagrin, Nick decides to stay with psycho Amy, and raise the baby together.'Gone Girl' for me is a poor man's 'Fatal Attraction'. Somehow, Rosamund Pike's 'Amy' doesn't compare to the much more chilling, 'Alex', excellently played by Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction. Here Amy is practically a comic character, who gets away with both an attempted frame-up and murder, and ends up humiliating her poor schlub of a husband, who is forced to go back to her, under duress. 'Gone Girl' is not to be taken seriously and those who admire the absurd characters and plot, to my mind, have low standards indeed.
VERY MINOR SPOILERS BELOWThe first half of the film is pretty nice: it builds tension, mystery and manages to grab the viewer's attention. However the second half quickly undoes everything that's been shown earlier.What's worse, the second part becomes incredibly implausible, very tedious, and lacking any interest because it ventures into so unlikely situations and reactions, you cannot help but wonder why people act like they act. For instance the police, who are very captious in the first half of the film, later believe everything they're told without doubting. Other people similarly and drastically change their mind and we are not given any reasonable explanation.To give the film due credit, it's impeccably played, it has, like many other Fincher's films, its very likable palette.Probably this film is about all sorts of psychos, at least its lead characters are. However the film doesn't give a chance to root for any of them due to their faults.
When Nick Dunne (Ben AffflecK) meets Amy Oliver (Rosamund Pike) at a New York City party, the attraction is instantaneous. She is smart, witty, and beautiful. Nick is handsome, and funny in his own right. Amy is the successful writer of the Amazing Amy series of books, and has a trust fund. Nick writes for a men's magazine, the future looks golden for both of them. They get married, it starts out well, but in five years, the magic is gone. Amy is writing quizzes for a women's magazine Nick is unemployed, the trust fund money is gone, and they have moved from New York City to Missouri to care for Nick's mom, who later dies of cancer. Nick opens a bar with his sister Margo (Carrie Coon) the bar is losing money. On their fifth anniversary, Amy disappears. Nick is immediately suspected, but did he actually kill Amy?I did not like the book, and I do not like the movie Gone Girl. There is a reveal in both book and movie. After the reveal, both book and movie grind to a slow and painful stop. It's supposed to be an indictment of the reality show, feeding frenzy court TV mentality, every time there is a murder of the century in America or worldwide. But this is more a parody of the American realty TV culture than it is a serious indictment. There are many clichés in this movie, I won't bother to name them, but even the characters fall into cliché territory. The Tanner Bolt character is Johnnie Cochran, the Ellen Abbott character is Nancy Grace. The tone of the story is inconsistent, is it a suspense movie, or is it a dark comedy? What I like least about this story is that it savages both lead characters, if neither character is sympathetic, the viewer stops caring about either of them, and that's exactly what happened here. I will lay all the plot flaws at the feet of author and screenwriter Gillian Flynn, who created a carbon copy of her book with the screenplay. A better, more satirical version of this movie is To Die For, with Nicole Kidman. Watch that instead.The acting is not bad. I don't like Ben Affleck, when Tyler Perry, playing his lawyer, gave him a direction not to be so wooden, it is ironically funny. But Ben uses what I dislike about him most, the glib, smug, pretty boy to good effect here to play a pretty despicable character. Rosamund Pike is very good at maintaining a cool and calm exterior while constantly thinking to stay one step of the collapsing situation around her. She makes her character almost believable, and that is saying something. Tyler Perry also does a pretty good job of playing a cartoonish character. Neil Patrick Harris does not fare as well playing Desi Collings another poorly written character.Part of the responsibility of the profoundly poor quality of this film resides with the director David Fincher. Fincher has directed some really good films, like the Social Network and the Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, but this is not an epic story, and does not require a 2 ½ hour running time. Fincher could have easily edited the running time by a half hour or 45 minutes and not lost the essence of the story, but he did not, and so the story drags.Fincher also gave the film a dark look trying to make it feel more sinister, but maybe because of the gallows humor or because I knew the story from the book, the movie never felt sinister to me.Before your movie ticket money is Gone girl (or guy) check out my blog reviewswithatude.wordpress.com.
With all due respect, I have come to the conclusion that I really disliked this movie. When I got home from the theater, people asked me and I said, "It was pretty good", but the more I thought about the more ridiculous things kept coming to mind. The stereotypes of the cunning women was unwelcome. Amy's sudden turn to violence was absurd. Prior to slashing Doogie Howser all she'd been guilty of was fraud. How do you go from fraud to cold-blooded (and very bloody) first-degree murder without batting an eye? Also, all the cops were skinny dudes with ordinary haircuts. Been up close to a police force any time in the past 30 years? They're all skinhead bullies nowadays, not clean-cut gee-whiz do-gooders like in this movie. And then Nick wordlessly ends up staying with Amy? Just awful. The only mystery here is why people thought this was any good.
A valiant attempt at film noir, on the usual trope of male naiveté and female cunning. The satirical cameo critiquing reality t.v. and CNN is effective. There was other interesting stuff for about 100 minutes, then the film spiraled into absurdity. (spoiler alert- basic plot) This is the tale of a perverse and sociopathic woman who has spent years manipulating men. Dangerously -- for Hollywood -- her key manipulations involve deploying feminist tropes against men, the better to get away with the crime. Well, that couldn't be tolerated for long, so 30 ludicrous minutes are tacked onto the film, to make us feel neutral about her and less sorry for the male victims. Secondary plots are silly and generally pointless, and some of the action is pure varnish. Enough grandiose discourse on Gender is offered to fill a dozen college courses, which is why this will never be a classic film.
This starts off like a Lifetime thriller - Drew or Scott Peterson come to mind. But it's got a more A list cast and is slickly filmed with slightly too attractive household interiors and a black comedy vibe that gives it a big screen style.Ben Affleck looks quite weighed down as the unhappy husband. Rosamund Pike's with her blank rather cold expression finally finds a role suited to her as Amazing Amy.The different perspectives and plot twists keep one interested and entertained for over 2 hours but the murder is just too much, more shocking than plausible. Something less brutal but more clever would have made a better story.Overall entertaining for its style but the story doesn't come together in a believable way.
The story is just full of contradictions, obscenely loses touch of reality. What happened to all the misleading evidence and the notes that Amy left? Why the diary ended up in the fireplace that had nothing to do with Desi?The cast and the plays were fantastic, alas this work will not leave a good mark.The last 15 minutes was a mix of joke and question marks and killed whatever could be accomplished by the climax.
Gone Girl despite of names like Fincher and Affleck is nothing but a big disappointment. Everybody is entitled to their opinion. But from a technical standpoint it is a poorly written screenplay an even worse movie.1. First, you don't have a hero. Ben Afflecks character at first comes across as let's just say not very nice guy. This is intended but gives us nobody to root for. And since he is portrayed as kind of a coward and cheater when you find out his wife is alive you still do not really care for him. When the movie comes close to the end and she goes completely bananas we finally care a little bit for him, but that leads to problem number 2.2. Ben Afflecks Performance: I am really an Affleck fan...as a director. Gone baby gone, Argo, good movies. But as actor he is just not good. There is a scene close to the end where is sister is crying because of his predicament. And its kind of funny because you would have expected that from him. I mean his life is living hell, he must live with a killer and he is not able to pull that desperation off.3. Why is she like she is? She is unhappy with her marriage and decides to fake her death in order to kill her man and than herself. Are we supposed to believe that? 4. The movie never takes anything serious so can't we. The way the characters are played like the blonde show host, the dumb neigbhour or even Afflecks wife and the the way marriage is portrayed is very exaggerated the whole time which leads to too much comedy and less drama. Rosamund Pike is the best example which leads to my last point.5. Rosamund Pike is the only good thing in this movie, amazing performance. But that creates a problem. Because she plays it so exaggerated it becomes kind of funny and cool. Which it maybe is supposed to be but till she cuts open poor Neil Patrick Harris with a knife we kind of root for her because she is the cool bad guy. All this planning, and the "switch" she pulls whenever she needs to act innocent is just too cool for the "bad guy". And this where we have come full circle: We have a movie without a hero who has to overcome a personal conflict. Affleck tries to be that guy but its hard to like him because the first half of the movie he is portrayed otherwise. To have a even more likable hero we need to have a really despicable bad guy. Which we don't have because when we learn that she is alive the movie shows us how she planned it like the clever planning from oceans eleven. So we have a cool bad guy half a hero and what do we learn? What's the message? Be always good to your wife or she will frame you for murder?? Which by the way I was wondering the whole time. The writer must have had some bad relationships because this movie goes on and on about how marriage really leads to complety apathy and hate for each other.And this one of the movies where people who now find it so cool in a few years won't remember why. It is different but its different because the story and the way the characters behave doesn't really make sense.
In one scene the word "fucking" was used over and over and I wonder where American movies are going to go next, some of the language was disgusting. I had to engage subtitles to understand much of the mumbled dialogue, Rosemund Pike has a lovely natural speaking voice what a shame to see her speaking like she does in this movie How on earth does this get a good rating? As for the story it is so improbable in parts as to be laughable, we used to have some great movies from America but things are gradually getting worse. It seems only money matters in Hollywood now, thankfully the odd one still pleases but not much to look forward too, I prefer to watch a top British series on TV


                
'Spoiler alert'- the ending of this movie sucked harder than a Dyson! Many of us watch movies for entertainment and some of us in the audience also crave escape from reality. If you want to suspend your normal/intelligent life, this movie (notice I did not say film) might be for you. Early on, I caught myself thinking of Ben Afleck as the new Richard Gere, a guy who made good in one film and has now gone on to star in B-grade flicks thanks to his looks, but that is a slam to Ben, who likely just needs a better agent or help managing his cash. The acting from Ben and Carrie Coon (plays his sis in movie) is good and the staging of a tired (TV drama) plot is decent enough. Sadly, as the action escalates towards a climax, it becomes far too obvious that the intended audience is the somewhat brain addled bunch who enjoys daytime TV 'talk' shows and hyped-up news shows which hype up crime stories. If you can suspend reality and forget that cops (especially detectives following up on a possible murder/kidnapping and rape) check for fingerprints, dig through computer/cellular records, and follow up on even small leads, you might yet give this 'roll of celluloid' a five or more of ten. But that ain't me: I give it a 3!
Reasonable plot development that builds in intensity throughout, with strange and interesting elements added and developed as the movie progresses.....culminating in a crap ending. I don't care about book comparisons because a film should stand on it's own merit. Neil Patrick Harris is a bright spot in this whole effort and it surprised me that he was so good. As an actor, unless he's portraying a cigar store Indian, Ben Affleck should stick to directing....which he's pretty good at. Rosamund Pike was good but it is not an Oscar winning performance. Others in "cameo" supporting roles were just OK. It gets pretty intense and somewhat gory as the plot unfolds and I found the film to be overly long, unnecessarily.


                
"The whole movie is predictable, absurd, and comes across as some sort of listless metaphorical commentary on marriage"- a fellow reviewer wrote this here and I back it up 100%. I honestly cannot understand the buzz about this movie... The first part is OK (a really big OK), but then the second part comes with a bunch of loose ends and unexplainable actions taken from the characters, all together with really unnecessary scenes (actually didn't add anything to the history except making it too long) that destroys the entire movie. It's a really good idea that it's not well developed... Actually isn't well written to be fair. Rosamund Pike is not convincing AT ALL and so goes Ben Affleck... Actually the best actor in the movie is Carrie Coon. I have NO IDEA on why David Fincher directed this movie, after masterpieces like Fight Club. I honestly can't.


                
Thanks Trent Reznor for making this movie worth the price of admission.With all the pre-release hype I can see how it topped the box office. Great components: Affleck, Pike, Harris, Fincher, Riley, Perry. Too slick! These days with the price of admission, a $40 million weekend doesn't seem like a great accomplishment.Sorry to go against popular opinion but I thought this movie was way far fetched. Too far out there to keep my interest.It should be classified as fantasy - that way I wouldn't expect it to make an attempt to be a realistic story.It is far, far below my top 20.


                
Hate to burst the bubble (IMDb top 250, average mark over 8), but I just didn't get this David Fincher thriller at all. With its combination of unsavoury lead characters, jaundiced view of television reporting and fantastical plotting, I found it unengaging, unbelievable and I'm sure many more "un's" I could think of if I put my mind to it.I'm guessing the main theme here could be the unravelling of a modern marriage in the face of the recession but no, on consideration it just seems like another study by director Fincher of a psychopath. Just what the movies need today. Nothing is credible here, the relationship between brother and sister, the husband's casual attitude towards his wife's unexplained disappearance, his revealed-out-of-nowhere fling with one of his class students, the wife's misadventure with trailer-park trash, her jilted high-school lover-become-Howard Hughes who gets a poor reward for his admittedly somewhat possessive assistance to her at time of need (seems to me she should have gone after the two who rolled her at the caravan park rather than her ill-fated worshipper). If you're wondering how these random sounding events link together, then, even after watching the movie, so am I. It takes forever to reach a conclusive act of bloody violence which even then isn't worth the wait.As for the acting, it was no big deal. Ben Affleck looks and acts like a slobbish Hugh Grant and to be honest does so with about as much depth as the Englishman. Rosamund Pike wants us to think she's a latter-day Hitchcock mystery-blonde but she can keep wanting. Almost the only things I liked about the film were Trent Raznor's atmospheric soundscapes in the background and the fluid camera-work throughout.Otherwise, for me this was a major disappointment and demonstrated no real progress in the genre by this "name" director going back to "Se7en". The emperor's new clothes methinks.


                
This movie was honestly among the worst and most over-hyped pieces of garbage I've ever seen. Politically/morally repugnant in its irresponsible, misogynistic stereotypes, yeah, but almost as repugnant is the unendurably bad delivery of an abysmally written story. The sound was good, I will give it that, but everything else about it was terrible. Just terrible.I suppose I shouldn't be surprised that it's so well rated. Given the audience for this type of drivel, I suppose there are plenty enough people to enjoy it and rate it highly. That fills me with existential dread. Beam me up, Scotty! ASAP.


                
Just a tick above awful for me, and that's being kind cause it's Christmas. I hardly fought to make out any meaning out of this commercial-filled 160min. waste of life.The script is totally detached from the un-realistic characters, and the flow of the story is for the most time boring. I admit to the nice twist but that's about all that this movie has to offer. Those 5 minutes where the whole 'mater-plan' is being revealed. Sorry for the short review, I just think I already forgot it, just half a day after watching it. I do feel quite annoyed by the '8.4' (!) score shown here on IMDb though - even more annoyed that i fell for it :)don't waste your time, please.
Now I know that the average film viewer isn't the brightest person, which is why making a movie can be successful (Jesus Christ it's in top 250).Now I have watched my fair share of movies and I have never seen a movie with SO MANY RETARDED Plot holes. I have gathered a favourite top 3.3: Who would leave a book that you really want to burn, so UNBURNED..? I like that the police actually try to cover up this plot hole in the movie (I guess the writers already knew it was absolutely retarded)2: How come the police take no interest in watching the footage of Neil Patrick Harris house (oh boy is he miscasted, maybe just me)? Wouldn't it be a little odd that he and her disappears out of frames, only to enter them brief moments later (when he's not even in the house) covered in blood?1: The last one isn't really important to the movie, but who on EARTH would send a woman home SOAKING in the blood from a man she murdered? Oh right - so they could have that conversation in the shower.The list is long with things that make no sense and with things that were add quite comically to make the plot continue, for instance the scene with the selfie and the "smile".If the movie would just have ended with them either of them killing each other or a zombie-like Neil Patrick Harris avenging his murder (that's a good idea actually) I might have given it a little higher rating. Instead we're left with this ridiculous psychological crap ending and the first thing I did after finishing this movie was throw up. Now I need a new computer.Gave it 3/10 for seeing that hot brunette's tits. I liked her.
It is way too long and has gotten so many great reviews. My main question is "why great reviews?" I don't know why since it is to long and slow paced to pay close attention to it. The best part is as Rosamund Pike does her character she is a total psycho. The ending is not with waiting for. I was hoping for great trailers but there is nothing there. My understanding is the person that wrote the book stuck straight to here story in the screenplay and that reminds me why I read so few books. This is not "Oscar worthy" in any fashion. The only award it should get is a raspberry award for a really crappy film. Other than that, I would see Maze Runner, Dracula Untold, The Judge, or anything else other than this. Not worth any money to sit for three hours to get through this.


                
Ben Affleck has a few compelling, convincing scenes where his boyish innocence and modest charm are exploited to considerable effect, as though daring me to believe anything coming out of his mouth. Rosamund Pike's performance is much more ineffectual and troubling; Miss Pike is clearly just as new to and unfamiliar with the character she's playing as we are. Rather than eliciting profound wonder at the impossibly fickle and treacherous mystery that is the scorned female psyche, Pike's portrayal only manages to provoke some mild ire and a lot of disbelief. I simply couldn't tolerate what that scheming spouse--as well as the rest of this dumb movie--was demanding of my patience. Too much, man.The production values are sufficiently high that its appearance and soundtrack are both fairly seductive. I was drawn in more by the luxury of their lives than through the lead characters' personalities. Almost right from the start I wasn't buying what this disingenuous and manipulative film was emphatically, desperately selling.I was initially interested, mildly, with how this lumbering, plodding schlock fest would resolve itself only because I quickly became aware that it would require a tremendously skillful and tactful twist to bestow any sort of honor upon itself, but no, it merely continues to lamely drone on and on, wallowing in its own inflated sense of importance. It's a clunky, corny, spastic, tone deaf, silly sham of a cinematic experience. If you're entertained or even amused by this overly clever, self fascinated triviality then that says some pretty unappealing things about you. Perhaps you enjoy being cynically conned and openly mocked? Me, not so much. Sitting through this too-ridiculous-by-a-half stunt of a film is more daunting than actually being married to the cunning manipulative psychopath into which Rosamund Pike's stoic anti-hero methodically morphs. "You're delusional!" Ben Affleck's outwitted, out maneuvered husband accuses his crafty spouse, as though the thought hadn't already occurred to us. He complains that their relationship has become something very bad, something very nasty--I dunno exactly, I stopped paying much attention by that point--and she replies so mechanically "That's marriage." Wow, hysterical. Or not. Who knows, or cares. Not me.
Gone Girl is one of the few movies I can recall that I completely hate. It is 2 hours and 39 minutes long, and felt even longer than that. Evidently it is based on a novel, so the director should have known what a load of bullshit he was dealing with from the onset. The movie begins as a police procedural complete with the "victim" voicing over flashback scenes showing the married couple's progression from young lovers to boring married people. The first 45 minutes play out like one of those Lifetime movies where it is obvious to everyone (even dumb males) that all men are assholes and deserve every bit of misfortune that comes their way. Around the 1 hour mark, the story takes a remarkably sharp turn and it seemed as though there was hope for it being a good movie. Instead, the movie devolves into a steaming pile of bullshit. Let's put it this way: I have seen soap operas with more realistic plot-lines.Ben Affleck leads a cast that tries its best to trudge through the ridiculous screenplay. There are a few good scenes, but they are as hard to find as an honest man in Washington D.C.This movie reminds me of that one person who comes over to your house for a party, makes everyone uncomfortable, then stays way past his/her welcome. Knowing now what a shitty movie this is, I would have been better off watching the grass grow for 2 hours and 39 minutes. 3 out of 10 stars because I am feeling generous. If this movie gets nominated for any award besides the Golden Raspberry, the nominating organization should be outlawed.


                
