I have not read the book so I cannot compare this movie with the book. But judging from the fact that Gillian Flynn has also written the screenplay of the movie I trust that the movie has done justice to the book. Which might not be a very good thing to say about the book because I wasn't very impressed with the movie. Please don't get me wrong, I like David Fincher's works. He picks up off-the-line subjects and execute them very well. Sometimes he also leaves loose ends. Loose ends are not bad because sometimes they get the audience to think more than what the movie is trying to convey. Unfortunately, this movie has too many loose ends and turns. The movie starts as a psychological thriller then turns into a treasure hunt with well-planted clues which are easily understandable; then into a war between a smart psychopath wife and a clueless husband. In the end, the movie turns into a common hate story of a husband and a wife.What surprises me in the movie is that the wife is a smart psychopath, the philandering husband also gets there gradually, being smart. But the general public, media and FBI are just dumb. How is it that FBI is not able to understand that a man gets enough time to go to his father's house to burn the diary but does not have enough time to burn it completely and still leave pages which can get him caught? How it is that FBI cannot find the missing wife? Now I am not a detective but I do know the general modus operandi of any detective agency - keep a tab on the previous acquaintances of a missing girl. Might not be a bad idea to pay a visit to one of her ex-boyfriends and Viola, there she is, living a good life. Found and case closed. More surprisingly, when the missing wife has decided to come back nobody even wants to re-look at the clues that she had planted against her husband. After all, everyone had started to doubt him. The list does not finish here. How come the camera at Desi's house can only catch her alone, evidently tortured. But there is no video of Desi actually torturing her. But no one wants to ask these questions to the wife. Only a few questions and FBI just lets her go. How come doctors forgot to check her so called bruises which she was supposed to have when her husband was supposedly dragging her?So there are too many loose ends. Is it that the makers of the movie think that the general public both within the movie and out of the movie is so dumb? Within the movie, the general public thinks of the husband as bad guy when the wife is missing. But when she is found nobody is questioning her motives and now the poor-dead-ex-boyfriend is a bad guy. On top that, there is a supposedly smart lawyer (Tyler Perry) who is of no help to the husband besides making few funny comments.On the good side, Ben Affleck and Carrie Coon still managed to be convincing. Rosamund Pike is Okay. But that's the only good part I could see.All in all, I am a little disappointed with David Fincher. Se7en, Fight Club and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button were really good movies and had given its audiences lot to think about. Unfortunately, this movie does not do that besides giving message that every man is a sex maniac and women are psychos. What surprises me the most, the book and the movie are getting good ratings. These are only my opinions but if you still want to watch it please go ahead. After all it is your money. It does have few funny moments.
Gone Girl is a mixed bag of good and bad. It features some fine performances and a mildly interesting plot but has some weak casting and clichéd character archetypes. It is definitely entertaining, but ultimately unconvincing in its plot. The acting is generally good but hardly perfect, and the movie is longer than it needs to be. This meandering movie features a frustratingly ambiguous ending that feels like a cop out. In terms of acting, Ben Affleck and his sister are both very good, as is the lead detective. Various supporting actors cast as members of the sleazy mass media and Tyler Perry as Affleck's attorney are also fine. However, Amy, the "gone girl" is far less convincing, and I found Neil Patrick Harris' character Desi to be artlessly stilted. The worst casting was the white trash couple who relieved Amy of her travelling funds; conceptually they came off as a low-rent rip-off of Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis' characters from Kalifornia-utterly unoriginal. Amy's parents were annoying, in part by design no doubt, and again the casting felt lazy and obvious. The plot holes were massive in this movie, far too much suspension of belief was required of the audience. Whether it was the faux rape in Amy's past, the faux pregnancy and its supposed legitimacy on the basis of a contrived urine test or all that time Amy spent at Desi's lake house that would have shown her to be moving about of her free will and completely contradicted her one staged scene she got on camera where she was supposedly injured by Desi, I wasn't buying any of it. I am not sure if this was handled more adeptly in the book or not (haven't read it and not likely given the author wrote the screenplay I doubt it) but I sure hope so or the reading public that made this book a hit has some explaining to do. Overall, there was a Lifetime movie with a big budget feel and unrealized artistic aspirations to Gone Girl. The movie's attempts at being philosophical (people in a marriage being someone they're not and all that) rang hollow and phony, again I hope these were better handled in the book. Having written this review, I am trying to reflect what was good about it, and apart from a few strong performances and decent production values I am having some trouble. I give it 4/10 stars on the basis of some solid acting and its fair share of semi-mindless entertainment value, but there are far too many negatives to consider this fine cinema or a must-see movie.
Luckily I watched this soulless piece of crap as part of awards season screenings, which means I didn't pay for it. I cannot believe this is the shooting script they signed off - the amount of plot holes and continuity gaffes is staggering. I cannot believe that all these highly talented people agreed to be in this hollow piece that uses all of its 148 minutes to say absolutely nothing. David Fincher is clearly a talented director, in full technical control of the medium, but after watching this, and having watched most of his previous films, I have to conclude that his films very often have nothing relevant to say. Technical prowess counts for nothing if the film has no soul, which is what I think of Gone Girl. I gave it a 4 for the acting, it is the only aspect worth noting here. The end is absolutely appalling, character development is shallow, and that graphic extended murder scene was pretty gratuitous, horrid and unnecessary. But what else could I expect from a director who chose to remake an already perfect film (Girl With The Dragon Tattoo)?
Great acting for everybody except Affleck, he seems wooden, without any humanity (is that the way the part was written in the book?). The plot holds your attention for the whole time, very engaging but somewhat contrived, some events just don't make sense. The biggest problem was the ending, very unsatisfying. It seems like the screenwriter just got tired and gave up.This movie was like driving the lead car in major auto race, leading for the majority of laps, then running out of gas, coasting to a stop within sight of finish line and not having the guts to push the car over the line, just walk away. That's how I left the theater, very disappointed.


                
You know, I was ready to give this movie a good review. It was going along, I was enjoying things, but then they had to go and ruin it. This movie has one of the worst endings I have ever seen in my entire life. While it might not top Monster A-Go Go (and nothing ever will), as a fan of MST3k, this is not a statement I make lightly. I mean, I don't like endings where the antagonist wins to begin with, but it takes more than that for an ending to genuinely anger me. This movie has the antagonist win for unbelievably stupid reasons. I mean, she tries to frame her husband for murder, which would get him put on death row, when someone else gives her shelter she murders him, but only after she uses him to get pregnant so she can guilt her husband into getting back together. She is unapologetic about all of it, and at the end, THEY GET BACK TOGETHER. And it's not even like Ben Affleck's character is just oblivious, he knows everything, right down to the fact that the kid isn't his! But he lets her get away with it because... I dunno, because she makes great gnocchi! Better answer than the movie will give you! Considering she admitted to murdering Neil Patrick Harris in front of him, Ben's character comes off as being literally too stupid to live! And you know what the worst bit of it? The ending draaaaaaaaaaaaaags. It's not just stupid, it takes time to drive in just how stupid it is.You know, I can forgive a movie, or a TV series or whatever for a lot of things, and this movie certainly had flaws to begin with (Ben's sister is the only likable character, the news anchor is such an over-the-top caricature of feminists that I'd almost call it sexist, the police charge someone with murdering someone they can't even prove is dead, etc.), but if there's one thing I think is unforgivable, it's an ending that leaves you angry.
I didn't read the book but everyone says it follows it to the letter. Well it was just OK. It was too long, contrived, and Ben Affleck is a horrible actor with one dimension. He acts the same no matter what character he is playing. I didn't like any of the characters so consequently I found myself bored and really not caring what happened to any of them. There were so many stupid incidences that would never happen when investigating a murder I lost count. It was way too long and although the directing was good and there were some good moments I didn't find it as "awesome" as everyone said it would be. I left the theater wishing I had waited for the DVD.


                
I want to say at the outset I am not a Ben Affleck fan but went to see this movie anyway as I had been told the book was very good. Despite my prejudice and a slow start, I found myself enjoying it much more than expected, but sadly the finale was a real let down that left the main protagonists all looking much more stupid than the film had, up to that time, made them appear. It turned a believable plot into an unbelievable one. The ending was so bad that it retrospectively downgraded the first three quarters of the film which had me wondering how it was going to end. I should know better by now; few films these days end well.


                
Remember when a movie was considered good because it made you feel something? What has happened as of late? I don't understand why this movie has gotten so much praise. I had been looking forward to seeing this since I first saw the trailer. The preview made it seem like a deep psychological thriller with similarities to Gone, Baby, Gone. Boy was I wrong. It was a cheap mystery which wasn't even suspenseful because the answer is revealed in the middle of the movie. I can't stand the lead actress. She is so wooden. I didn't feel whatever great love they were trying to portray in the beginning of their relationship. I didn't like the way their relationship fell apart with very little visual explanation. They said it fell apart because of a, b and c but there was only one scene when she kind of got a tiny bit bitchy about him playing video games. That was supposed to show the deep hatred that developed between them? It was more interesting and believable when I thought he may have actually been abusive. Then it's revealed later on that he actually wanted desperately to have a baby with her after he had already started an affair with a student? OK...I won't go into all the other super obvious holes in the plot because many other reviewers have already pointed them all out. It seems like the story outside of her plot only evolved to make her plot possible. Like they were making it up as they went along. I didn't care a bit about any of the characters. There wasn't enough character development for that. I didn't even care about the creepy twin sister who seemed to have no life outside of what was happening with her brother. When the big reveal happens at the end, I wished his sister had just killed him herself to put him out of his misery. And don't get me started on Neil Patrick Harris in his role. That was a terrible choice. Was he or wasn't he actually a stalker? I still don't know.I gave this movie a 4 because it wasn't completely terrible. I was somewhat entertained. I just didn't feel a damn thing about it and when it was over, I had wished I had chosen to watch a TV show on Netflix instead of wasting 2 hours and 5 bucks renting it on Amazon. It was just blah.
This movie wanted it all: the plot where the insane woman frames her husband for murdering her (she framed the lover for her husband's murder in "Body Heat," but same idea), and the plot where the insane woman keeps her husband in the house against his will (it was a crazed fan and a famous writer in "Misery," but same idea). Instead, the sum of the parts is much less than the individual parts.I have not read the book, and so I must hope that its logic is constructed above the five-year-old-level. That's certainly not the case for this film. Its first two overly long acts work pretty well, gradually revealing the husband's sleazy behavior and downfall to (undeserved) murder suspect in act I, and then the wife's adventures on the lam, when she ironically gets fleeced by low-lifes in act II.In the third overly long act, the screenwriters have written themselves into a ridiculous corner: Accused of his wife's murder, hated by her parents, his adultery exposed on TV, with plenty of circumstantial evidence that she is a murderous psychopath and the police investigator on his side now, hubby Ben Affleck has nothing whatsoever to lose by dumping her. Au contraire, his life may be on the line. Yet he plays along with his insane wife's 'I'm coming home' ploy! He's motivated by an implausible explanation of how she owns his bar and might be pregnant with his child - the latter a situation that only arose in the first place because he took her back in! We have investigators who let her back to her home within a few hours of her mysterious reappearance, still drenched in her dead captor's (really: her dead victim's) blood, no need to investigate! There's plenty of additional silliness, but this shall suffice.To make a long story short: in mindless action movies, I wholeheartedly forgive plot holes. In a thriller, not. The last 45 minutes of this film are some of the silliest nonsense I have seen on the screen in a long time. Go see "Body Heat" (1981) instead for a well done version of the first part of this movie, and then see "Misery," with an unforgettable performance by Kathy Bates, for a well done version of the last part of this movie.4/10 for strong acting by Rosamund Pike, who plays the girl turned into a nut job by her parents because they marketed her childhood as a children's book. Affleck also did a solid job, and an excellent supporting cast is at hand. If only they had gotten screenwriters of the same caliber on board, it could have been a 7: I am assuming the novel, with more space to explain and finesse the plot, does not descend into a pile of nonsense at the end.
8.6, people? Really? This has to be some kind of joke. Reading all the other reviews its clear that people are rating Fincher and not the film. This film was a solid 4, 5 at best. It is absolutely riddled with plot holes that make it so unrealistic that its infuriating. Yet it seemed to blow over 90% of your heads. Hmm. Let me say though that it is directed very well and has great music to make it intense, but thats it. I thought the performances were good, but Rosamund Pike was just so monotone and boring. Reminded me of Julianne Moore's performance in that god awful film about nothing... Safe. Creepy, yes, but very boring and uninteresting. I thought the sister did very well though so good for her. Honestly though, every performance should be good in every film. Thats why those actors make it to Hollywood in the first place. Right? I feel like people are rating this so high because of its shock factor. "Oh I didn't expect that to happen, 10/10!!!!!!" Like, what!?!? Lets make every plot less predictable and every new film will make it in the IMDb top 250! Hurray! Ugh. I truly cannot comprehend how this is so high. Its blowing my mind. Its higher than bloody Lawrence of Arabia! (at time of writing) Which is the best film evaaaa. How? Who? Ill tell ya who. Fincher! If people would stop touching themselves over the thought of Fincher and his past work than this film would be in the 7 region where it really should be. If you want to see this movie go for it, but don't be blind. Open your eyes please.


                
hm....well, what to say, I even don't know why I gave it 4 since it deserves more of a 3.Fincher is a good and well respected director, thats for sure, but I don't think he needed this.I'll try to be as brief as possible in this review, so here it goes: - horrible acting, and I do mean horrible - moronic excuse for dialogs - poor soundtrack - story without much sense and logic in it, or maybe better without itI managed to fall asleep in the cinema, the movie looked like a bunch of scenes random scenes stitched together with a glue, filmed only to fill the runtime of the movie. The whole story could be fitted into 45 minutes if you ask me.At the end, I really can't understand why did this movie got so much praises, just because it was made by Fincher?advice: if you skip this movie, you won't make a mistake.


                
I've never written a review on IMDb before, but I'm taking the time to do it on this one!My wife and I just spent what felt like 3 hours watching this movie, that once it ended, left us staring at each other, until we began laughing.What a piece of crap! We like all of the cast, and typically they star in above average movies.Not this time. So many holes in the plot, too many things that just didn't make sense, and the ending that was impossible to believe.How on earth could this have an 8.2 user rating (at the time of this review)?!?!?!Great acting, good drama, stupid plot, original storyline, horrible twist that was way too unbelievable.


                
Although the film contains several gimmicks which have apparently attracted the attention of the easily entertained, the plot and story are deeply flawed.The plot contains numerous gaps in logic which are so obvious that there are already several threads about this.Basically, the story involves a recently married couple. The husband is clearly not as enthralled with his wife as he was when he proposed. The wife, who is aware of this, has become a psychopath and will do anything to damage her husband.The biggest and most ridiculous flaw in the film is that the wife, among other things, has decided to kill herself so that her husband will be accused of murder and, she hopes, get the death penalty. This is much like the joke of the robber who tells a victim: "Give me your money or I'll shoot myself."
This is what movie's all about...twists? The plot and the script (which are at the service of the "twists") are not credible, so the movie provides the same features as the typical after-lunch entertainment TV movie.It is a shame that a director such David Fincher could have plumbed such depths. Furthermore, it seems logical to satisfy both adapting to the times and practical needs. Even so, Fincher still remains one of my favorite live directors. But it's fairly common that early movies (in most cases), are the best. To maintain quality over time it's beyond the reach of most. Only directors as Peter Weir, Andrei Tarkovsky, Krzysztof Kieslowski, Joseph Losey...to name just a few, are able to keep with that level of excellence.4/10


                
First of all, let me say, I am fan of David Fincher. I like his films a lot. But I cannot get behind Gone Girl. No, I have not read the book, and I don't care. Movies are free-standing, and it is not their job to be an addendum or a companion to the source material. The film should work on its own. If it doesn't, it only has its makers to blame. This film has a too many flaws to ignore. First, the beginning setup back story was pretty bad. I understand all the flashback stuff of Nick and Amy when they first met and started dating is important to the story. I am just saying that it was bad. Some of the dialog was so stupid, I wanted to laugh out loud in the theater. If the dialog was taken verbatim from the book, well, its the director's job to see that in film form it doesn't work. And for me, it did NOT work. It was just so contrived and unbelievable as to be <U+0085> well <U+0085> dumb. That is the only word for it - dumb. And this back story, in the form of flashbacks, litters the first third of the film. But the film finally starts gaining steam, overcoming the cookie-cutter mundanity of the first act. Amy's framing of Nick is being revealed. Nick is now being looked at hard by the police. The physical evidence is starting to pile up. Yet they still have no body to charge him with murder. Nick must run to a fancy lawyer. He is being slayed in the media. Perhaps that is the strongest part of this film <U+0085> how the public is so impressionable and so deceived by the media. Most people will believe almost anything they are told on TV or read on the Internet and become overly emotionally involved. It's pretty disgusting. We obviously have seen that numerous times in the past 5 years or so. So, it's inevitable <U+0085> at some point Amy is going to be found alive or she is going to come home. You just know that is coming. And come home she does, after murdering poor Desi Collings and framing him for her abduction. So you think the movie is going to end soon. Nope. What we are lead to believe is building up to some awesome, climactic ending slowly drips to disappointing dud. And no, I don't care if this was how the book was written, and when you read the book, "it's awesome." This is a film, and it has to work on it's own, as a film. To me, it didn't. Look, I don't mind unresolved, unconventional endings. I am fan of art films, so this is not some plebeian movie-goer here complaining about how the ending "sucked bad, bro." But it just didn't work in this case. It was not THAT type of film for the entire runtime. You can't just tack on some awkward ending and accept the audience to accept it, when the rest of the film was trying to be something else. To be blunt, the ending was just awful. If Gone Girl was not based on a book, I would have assumed that they didn't know how to end it in the writing process, so they just tacked on some awful ending that was thought up in a production meeting or something like that. It was that level of bad. And speaking of awkward. The score just didn't work for me. It seemed like Fincher once again teamed up with Reznor and Ross because he uses him on all his films now. The score was good on it's own, but it seemed out of place in this piece to me. It made the whole thing, cinematography included, seemed forced and out of place. Affleck was okay. The best acting in the film came from the female cop, the twin sister, and of course Rosamund Pike, who played her character to perfection, even if a lot of her dialog was contrived and unnecessary. Anyway, I am sure a lot of people will disagree, but but that is how I see it.
Many of Shakespeare's plays are two and a half hours long. Some of the really great classics: Richard II, Macbeth and others that due to the complexity of character, action and language have provided audiences with psychological insight and the pure artistry of English in full flow.Then there is Gone Girl, of similar length and yet; it's capacity overwhelms its creators, it's ambitions are smug and most certainly self-satisfied. It is a long arduous, monotonous endurance of platitudes which are flecked with motifs which shimmer on the vapidness of contemporary life, yet are themselves of such shiny magazine superficiality they condemn the authors of the same mediocrity.It is over an hour before really anything of substance occurs; it breaches the protocols of the genre and taxes the humor of the viewer who are left with the wooden-faced Affleck to carry the story, occasionally interspersed with the off-screen wife.Meanwhile we are fed clichés and stereotypes on modern media, modern marriage, the asymmetry of male and female relationships all delivered with the gusto of the new college student who has just learned of these elements in adult life.The entire masquerade doggedly plugs on with the stamina of oxen ploughing a field. The characters do not change, the language in the script is common and forgettable, the pacing is akin to a stopped clock and when the final credits roll, it is almost impossible not to give up praise that time is still moving and that the potential for real life may still be possible.The easiest way to make this work is cut at least fifty minutes and it becomes, what is really is: not a very original domestic thriller and not very memorable. Making it long does not make it excellent, not when the basic material is so thin.


                
Too much was said about this movie so let's get to the point. 1. Granted that Amy was a troubled woman (we discover that when we find out how she framed her ex lover as being a rapist) but there was never a profound problem in her current marriage to summon such intense action. Don't forget that she officially and supposedly forever killed herself as Amy before she had to change the plan and she was not nobody but a successful writer from a rich family so if she was Amy the maid who wanted to kill Amy the maid after running away with some serious cash to re-invent herself as lats say Jane, I would buy the story. But Amy the successful writer from a rich family killing her name for a husband way inferior to her in social class, physically torturing herself, hitting herself on the cheek with hammer and to live in a cabin swarmed with bedbugs... that's just ridiculous! Nick appeared to be a good husband, actually he never wasted her wife's money as she claimed. All he did was having an affair which looked pretty normal given the state of their marriage. 2. VIDEO CAMERAS! We saw some scenes that she tried to play victim in front of the cameras but to make the scheme work, she had to access the records, modify them and etc, pretty much something like the "Rising Sun" movie which was obviously out of the scope of her ability in this movie. The movie could work beautiful without those stupid and ridiculously plotted video cameras.3. Amy was recorded in the casino, a redneck couple just robbed her, a costumer in casino almost recognized her... so many traces left behind could easily lead to and expose her.4. The ending were the worst. My guess is that in original script, she was supposed to get caught but David Fincher decided to give it an intellectual ending and as a result, the script was hastily edited and of course some holes in the plot left behind. Probably he wished to aim for Oscars with this move which I hope he never wins ans he greatly ruined a could be great movie.
The last 15 minutes of the movie were rushed, either they ran out of money or the director was bored to tears. Lame. "The Judge" was a far better film, much better acting and a better ticket for the money and time spent.Aflec appeared bored and wishing for something better to do. Characters had no depth. If this gets anyone a SAG nod, I'll lose all faith in the film industry. Deserves more Rotten Tomatoes than stars.This has all the attraction of a carousel with no horses. If you saw the trailer, you saw the movie. If you've read the book, don't spoil it by seeing the movie. If you haven't read the book, read it... if it only has twenty pages, it will still be better than the movie.


                
Let me start by saying the film held my interest for most of the movie. It becomes a mystery we want to solve when the protagonist's wife disappears and his own innocence is called into question. At its core the film posed a basic but intriguing mystery as to the disappearance; viewers certainly wanted to know what happened to the Gone Girl, whether or not the husband was involved and, if not, who or what was the culprit in the unfortunate incident. But the story began to break down, became less plausible, as the nature of the wife was slowly revealed over the second half of the movie. This began to deconstruct the image that the husband's memory poses of her in the first part of the film, making the entire first half of the movie, somehow, false or misconstrued. The protagonist- husband's judgement is called into question, and the viewer him or herself must begin to wonder what had genuinely transpired. This may sound intriguing as a story, but there are certain aspects of the wife's character that should have been visible to the husband, or to anyone else who spent time with her at work or at school, and apparently this never happened. The husband is kind of a slightly-above-average common guy; he has to be above-average to marry a PhD from an ivy- league school. The problem is: ruthless, amoral sociopaths have distinctive features to their personality, particularly those who would manipulate, lie, use sex and even murder to achieve their goals. The distinguishing personality feature of the sociopath, (once called "psychopath"), is superficiality. In other words there is no true intimacy in the usual sense of the word. Establishing meaningful, long-term relationships is not the forte of the sociopath. (Think of Ray Liotta's character in Goodfellas. Yes, he has a wife and children, but he is unfaithful to her during their entire relationship, until the deluded wife finally comes to her senses). Most people eventually become aware of this superficiality, of the lying and manipulation that forms the essence of the sociopathic personality. Yet in this film the unsuspecting husband seems oblivious to the dominant personality trait of his wife. In the narrative describing their path to marriage at the start of the movie, the viewer is led to believe the relationship is almost ideal, and satisfying to both husband and wife. The later revelations at first make Ben Affleck's character seem a little dull, or even insensitive, but we have no reason to assume this to be true from the first half of the movie's narrative. The final, compensatory attempt to fill-in this blank comes when it is reveled that the husband had a girlfriend, that he has lost any sense of true intimacy with his wife. But it is a little late and the screen-writer cheats the viewer with this information, all in the effort to make plausible the film's final revelation. Regardless of the the quasi-references to feminism, or to the struggle in boy-girl relationships for power and control, the film is actually a kind of cheap set-up for a completely unexpected outcome, and leaves the viewer wondering what, if anything, the movie really wanted to say. Or, what, if anything, the film can contribute to better understanding human relations. Not much, I think.
What makes a "B" movie? And is a B movie still a B movie, if it has "A" performances by first ranked actors? That is the question.It's hard to review this movie without including spoilers, because it is the end of the movie, indeed the last half of the movie, that is so poorly done. Let the viewer beware. If you don't mind contrived plots, jarringly inconsistent characterizations, and phony denouements, you may indeed like this movie. I even liked it, just like I enjoy some of the trashy B movies I may wander into on the TV at 3 am. We've all seen these movies. They favor a trick of plot at the end, something you never saw coming, if only because the actions are totally inconsistent with the character they had developed, and duped you into accepting. They favor gratuitous sex and violence, even if totally our of character, and unlikely to succeed in the real world we live in every day. They favor incredible (literally) twists of plot, innocent people being persecuted by bad people, who in the end turn out to be good, and the good people bad, or vice versa, or whatever. I enjoyed the movie. I'm just sorry I paid 10 bucks to see it in a theater. I could have waited a few years and seen it on TV. At 3 am.


                
I admit it's a great movie ! I loved so much .But ,Eventually this bad girl wins ?!! are you kidding me ?It's ..."bad word"No hell no ,he should have Crushed her head .:(What an Ending is this ? Bad ? The guy deserves to leave her if he Doesn't like her . Simply she ** him up . I am confused :( ,She is a killer and she forces him to live with her ,*** NO.In a nutshell It's a bad movie .... It's good simply because it keeps you awake wanting to find out what's Next ...More than that it's Nothing .Sad for me to say so... Ugly\Nasty Ending . go *** yourselves


                
The misanthropic ingredients in the "Gone Girl" blender result in an unappetizing drink smacking bitter."Gone Girl" is what stoners call a 'Goof,' i.e. a stupid joke played on those high to have a laugh at their expense. A step further; "Gone Girl" is self-reflexive and abets itself. The script for the film is part of the story of the film which is a soapy, broad slice of rancid Americana.Simply, if Affleck/Pike were to snuggle and watch a film within "Gone Girl" it would be "Gone Girl.""Gone Girl" is a social/media satire, and could have been one of the best ever except it both takes itself too seriously and relentlessly rubs the audience's nose in ugliness and extreme cynicism.The filmmaker's tongues are also too far in the cheek. There are dumb as posts Ozark Dwellers/Thieves. A caricature 'Bad Girl' who gets away with murder. The insensitive, cheating dumbbell hubby. The beyond-catty Nancy Grace stand-in Missi Pyle. Even the choice of openly gay in non-cinema life Neil Patrick Harris as an obsessed former suitor underscores the satire. Like what you see? According to the filmmakers they're you.Those who rant and rail about the lapses in logic, nuances of plot, and motivation miss the point. There is no point except to allow junk-media-obsessed America a cold hard look in a mirror. Stand back and inspect the story. Scene after scene, this film is so over-the-top as to be laughable. Except the joke, told by elitists, is on you. Though meant to be acerbic, this satire bites too deep into the hand that feeds it. "Gone Girl" is terribly misguided. It misses greatness through lack of restraint and balance.
It starts off fairly well and proceeds steadily downhill into a horrible mess. An incredibly overrated movie. Rosamund Pike's worst performance ever - including hideous overacting.David Fincher has directed some of the most amazing movies such as Fight Club and Se7en, to name a couple. Gone Girl is utterly disappointing and is nothing like his previous work.Ben Affleck does okay, I think from the anguish on his face at times he understood that it was a lemon. It is just unbelievable that critics / voters have not seen it that way - did they watch something else or were they blinded by the hype?Highly NOT recommended.


                
I'll cut my typically long review style short to the center of the complaint common among the bad reviews: Gone Girl had been undermined and demolished by the ludicrous plot twists in the last half hour, which un-do the premise and set-up, that incurred a bitter disappointment in me as though the viewer has been toyed with in the last minutes.Yes, Gone Girl has some gaping plot holes visible in the last half hour, so gaping it caused a vexed, infuriatingly frustrated disbelief in me. The way it happened in the movie doesn't work in the real life, because forensics police investigation is painfully thorough with improvements and reforms following the botched LAPD investigation of the double homicide that could pinpoint O.J. Simpson's culpability.Good attributes of the movies are good acting across the board -- even the actor Ben Affleck whom I loathe; moody atmosphere with the spectacular cinematography, set-up with the slowly-unfolding plotting (until the last half hour), and the compellingly written and paced mystery thriller aura that is rare in modern movies.However -- it pains me to say this, knowing David Fincher's prodigious talent but never expected him to bungle so bad as agreeing to film Gillian Flynn's screenplay adaptation -- the last half hour became too much to bear with inane twists and turns that devolve the entire movie to the equivalent of Basic Instinct 2.0, updated and revised for the 21st century. Gone Girl lays out the standard work in that the plot lures in steady motion, hooks with suspense and intrigue, only to bait with the inane and illogical twists that would be laughable if it were not infuriating for some analytical viewers knowing the basics of detective and forensic investigation.Like the absurdist spectacle Basic Instinct as the predecessor, with its problematic and ludicrous plotting and idiotic Hollywood logic, the seasoned and learned detectives, agents and forensic/behavioral scientists will have a field day ridiculing Gone Girl pointing out inconsistencies, impossible placements, procedurally oblivious and offensively stereotypical characterization (e.g., trusting idiot detective and the group of idiot FBI agents in one scene), glaringly obvious clues, and behavioral science holes.To think David Fincher accepted this movie project to direct, ignoring its astounding plot holes among other vexing crises delineated above, is disappointing in view of his somewhat stellar filmography. It's apparent Mr. Fincher badly needed a directing job instead of marooning in boredom at home so he jumped into Gone Girl project with haste without measurably judging the script and even the novel, by the same author, to discern it's agreeably ludicrous for his liking so he could have turned it down and pick another project that's not just as ridiculous.David needs to be discretionary in choosing the scripts, now that he directed what could be his worst movie since either Alien 3 (not his fault given the history of studio interference, but shows his amazing visual and nascent film directing talent) or Fight Club (unrestrainedly self-indulgent, mean-spirited and ludicrously perplexing). Panic Room is arguably Fincher's weakest film, not to mention illogical, fake and pretentious. Ultimately, it comes down to the screenplay that could correspond with the director's strengths or frail due to indecision, confusion and laziness. Gone Girl is certainly an embarrassing misfire, as the meandering and inanely twisted last half hour effectively destroyed the good portion of the entire set-up that dissipated the mysterious aura with the reach and conclusion that are so ludicrous the audience is flummoxed with vexed contention, being insulted to a degree as if the movie expects to be plausible.The movie is entirely implausible made by the ill will (mocking the audience) of the last half hour, which reflects Gillian Flynn's attitude that tries to pull the trick off the sleeve in a homage to Alfred Hitchcock and Brian De Palma, but comes off as rather inept, not to mention impossible.Indeed, to reiterate, Gone Girl is a spiritual successor to the semi-classic erotic noir mystery thriller Basic Instinct (disregarding the sequel said to be an abysmal failure), given the similarity of the plot line with Michael Douglas character substituted as the husband and Sharon Stone character as the disappeared wife. Not a whole lot of original, either. And it should never have been made into the movie; leave the novel unadapted as a Basic Instinct ripoff which it is. Dave, try again and choose scripts wisely. Your choice of Gone Girl with its chasm-wide plot holes is unbecoming your body of script literate-quality work and even your literacy intelligence. Excellent visual flair, always, but juvenile high school story that gets a C minus.** of 4


                
Gone Girl is a well-crafted movie, well-shot, well-played, and... and I guess that's it. It's also quite long, rather dull despite its pretense to be a thriller. All of it is, in the end, quite hackneyed - all the characters are stereotypes rather than actual people, and it's hard to care of way or another what's going to happen next. The fault lies mainly with the scenario (I haven't read the novel the movie is adapted from). The whole story is supposed to be about ambiguity: whose fault is it when a marriage spiral downwards? Are we dealing with a disappearance, a murder, or something else? Can a normal-looking person be evil? This is the type of stories Patricia Highsmith, amongst others, made a living out of: just think of "The talented Mr. Ripley". But Gone Girl is just flat: the problem is not so much that the two main characters are not likable - they are much worse: they are not believable. And most secondary parts: family, police, media... are also caricatures, something created to fit the story purposes rather than how actual people behave in actual life. This is the stuff that makes acceptable TV shows on rainy evenings. It's not good enough when you sit for two hours and a half in a movie theater.


                
