I never wrote a review before in my life so please excuse my poor attempt, but after reading some of the reviews I just felt I had to give it a try.I really thought this movie was very good. It's starts as the typical "missing wife, husband main suspect, no body yet found" tale we all have seen once in our lives. But after the first act it really gets extremely unsettling and special. I felt sick in between because of the horrible, frightening character of Amy. I can't describe it any further and think you should simply give it a try.SPOILERS!!!!I now would like to address certain plot holes many people have been pointing out. First of all, every movie has plot holes. I'm usually the first to notice, and even though there were some things that bothered me I got over them quite quickly since the movie had a tight grip on me.Many are mentioning to different cameras in Desis house. First of all I know that many surveillance cameras overwrite their data after some time, so it is very likely that only the last few days (where she never left or entered the house) would be available to the police. Second of all, as far as I could see, the cameras only showed the outside of the house not what was happening IN the house. That's why she went near the window, which was within the perimeter of one of the cameras, to do her screaming attack. If you pay attention, you never see Amy appearing on any of the cameras when she checks them, only when she actually wants to be seen.I could address many other so called "plot holes". I don't think they actually were plot holes per se, but made intentionally in order for us watchers to go..."But wait, how does she get away with this??". Think of the police officer who is in doubt of Amy's statements or even the lawyer.What Fincher in my opinion wanted to demonstrate is the exemplary control Amy had over the public, were no questions were asked, nobody ever doubted her. It is kind of symbolic for witch hunts we ourselves have witnessed on TV or social media, were no second opinion is sought, nobody looks at the story from a second angle. Amy is the personification of the American Sweetheart, and is treated as such. It just shows us how blind and angry the crowd gets when you push certain buttons, Amy herself actually talks about that in the car scene. The pregnant intelligent wife, who was cheated by her husband. Or the poor girl next door who was always nice to the strange kid. Or the rich guy who thought he could have everything. That is basically the story and that's why this film is so intriguing in my opinion. It's a mirror of how our society in the age of internet, social media, TV etc. functions. How we can be tricked into anger or sadness, and how little people actually question certain statements.
David Fincher is a phenomenal craftsman. His visual style dominates every inch of the frame but why is it that I left the theater so untouched, so unscathed. I told the story to someone over dinner and I couldn't do it without laughing. This is no comedy, or is it? So, what is it about David Fincher's movies that include some shocking stuff without shocking me. I can observe without participating. Cold, maybe that's it. The passionate story is told without passion but with a feverish attention to the cosmetic veil that covers or masks the real story. I wasn't bored, just impatient and a bit put off. I admired the performances and wondered about the casting of Neil Patrick Harris and Tyler Perry. I suspect is code for something but I can't imagine what. After all said and done, goo see it.


                
Gone Girl features an astonishing performance from British actress Rosamund Pike as a former New York socialite Amy Dunne who one day suddenly disappears on the day of her fifth wedding anniversary.Her husband Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) becomes a suspect, the media circus descends and demonise him, neighbours turn on him and skeletons pop out from his cupboard but not his wife's body. As Missouri has the death penalty and Amy's diaries reveal an unhappy marriage, Nick needs the aid of an ace criminal attorney.The film has a tangled plot because it has an unreliable narrator. What starts as a missing person's case becomes more complex, as Nick fights for his liberty we find out what really happened to Amy.Director David Fincher directs a muscular taut thriller with dark comedy elements. It does have flaws especially with the supposed abduction part involving Neil Patrick Harris's character which does not come across as plausible.


                
If you watched the movie and didn't read the book, movie is then left better impression on you. I first watched the movie, and i think it's a great, unexpected story and gave 8 to movie. But, after reading the book, i must decrease vote to 7 because book is much better than movie. I don't really like Ben Affleck, not because of his acting, it's just unlikeable to me. Maybe because of that, but i don't think that he is present good Nick Dunne as a character. On the other side is Rosamun Pike who is very beautiful women, and she is a way better than Affleck in this movie in my opinion. Movie has one nomination for Oscar, and that is for Rosamund Pike as a leading role, and she could won that if you ask me. She was great. I've felt hers emotions even that is hers lies. Story is very good, i like every unexpected part, and this movie have a lot of that things. I don't like the story of her and hers ex boyfriend, and his house in the woods. They could make something better. That parts looks like just wasting time in the movie. All in all, it's a good movie, pure 7/10 in my opinion.
@Points worth to mention.~A new way of storytelling. The way Director approaches the script is engaging.You keep on guessing who is positive or negative.Some scenes are brilliant towards end. As an audience ,I found sometimes when scenes switches is difficult to keep up(visual adds like date etc).~Story we can easily see the amount of detail research team has done, Script is able to pull off both the dark and bright part of the lead characters,It never allows you to settle down,events are well placed in between.~Acting Both the lead actors are brilliant.Specially I like to mention 'Rosamund Pike' She is amazing and beautiful.Now: Why to watch-If you are looking for Engaging Encounter. -Good acting. -Good Storytelling. Why Not-weak ending -Sometimes difficult to relate with the emotions of the character in some scenes.


                
Calculated, meticulous, and completely engaging, David Fincher tackles one of his freshest and stylish films of his career with the adaptation of Gillian Flynn's novel "Gone Girl." Intelligently structured by novelist Flynn herself, the film features a mannered turn by Academy Award winner Ben Affleck while the absolute success of the picture is indebted to the lavish and grandiose performance of Rosamund Pike. If you are unaware with the story, stay clear of any plot spoilers as possible. Obviously I always respect such a demand. Simply put, the film tells the story of Amy Dunne (Pike) who disappears from her home on the day of her fifth wedding anniversary to her husband Nick (Affleck).We have to applaud Gillian Flynn, a novelist turned screenwriter that composes a tense and mystery story that evokes a fascinating social commentary on marriage and media. A taut thriller, some of which may find bloated, but still satisfying by credits end. There are quibbles you can find in certain character motivations or certain events that lead to our ultimate resolution but it's not enough to ruin the experience. Flynn launches herself in the Oscar race for Best Adapted Screenplay with a very good chance of standing on stage this year.On one hand we have Ben Affleck, an actor of considerable talent that showcases another notch in his belt for his career. Reserved and orchestrated with impressive restraint, Affleck keeps the audience on the edge of their seats with audible suspicion. We've seen him in movies like "Hollywoodland" and "Argo," both of which brought him great acclaim. This will likely be one that will follow suit.Unfortunately must admit that I discovered the beautiful Rosamund Pike in Lone Scherfig's "An Education" over five years ago. Since then, I've only gotten glimpses in features like "Made in Dagenham" and "Jack Reacher." A career topping turn as evolved in her newest work as Amy Dunne in "Gone Girl." I don't think I've seen a more complex female character that allows an actress to go places we haven't seen in quite some time. Pike is a revelation, an actress that should run the gauntlet for every Best Actress award in 2014. She's passionate, intense, and damn near impenetrable, taking risks that pay off for every single movie moment she's involved in. I absolutely loved her.You can't deny that meticulous and craftsman genius that is embedded within director David Fincher. "The Social Network" and "Se7en" have been prime examples of how to tell a well executed story. Stylistically, "Gone Girl" offers nothing amazingly new for his repertoire. Director of Photography Jeff Cronenweth uses his same techniques that have made him one of the most exciting cinematographers of today. The real technical highlight is the score of Oscar-winners Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross. Balanced, unsettling, and musically tense, the duo develop another stunning score for the year.The supporting cast all have high points, most notably the spunky Carrie Coon of HBO's "The Leftovers." Her quirk and ferocity stand up as an unforgettable highlight. Tyler Perry gives the world a terrific example of life outside "Madea" and by God, I want some more. He steals many of his scenes shared with his co-stars. Neil Patrick Harris also delivers in his brief amount of screen time, one that will channel a new generation's Anthony Perkins. Kim Dickens, Casey Wilson, Patrick Fugit, and ESPECIALLY Missi Pyle make their marks accordingly. Don't be surprised to see the Screen Actors Guild cite this for Best Cast Ensemble.As a vehicle for awards players, the big chances will stand for Screenplay and Best Actress, both of which are win-worthy. In some ways, I feel Fincher has crafted his equivalent to Martin Scorsese's "The Departed," and obviously that worked out for very well for the overdue director. This is something that audiences will eat up, talk about at their water coolers, and probably revisit for years to come. It's hard to imagine how an awards member will see it but it will definitely appeal to many out there."Gone Girl" is an undeniable winner. Haunting, unpredictable, and completely unforgettable, Fincher's film stands tall as one of the best things to be produced this year. Their might be similarities to "Prisoners," maybe even "Psycho," but "Gone Girl" has enough going for itself to stand on its own.


                
This movie was very well done in terms of acting by all parties concerned, and the story was very creative - it was a "non-Hollywoodish" film in that the characters are not likable, and SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER - it doesn't resolve in a way that you can say "justice is served" so it is the antithesis of a Hollywood movie (or TV show). I kept making a mental comparison to Criminal Minds in which you can count on easy resolutions, a clear path from A to Z (or A to B more likely), and the bad guys getting caught. That type of crime story may be fun to fill 42 minutes with, but one can easily recognize how empty it is.But in Gone Girl, the opposite was true; it was complicated, it was hard to figure out what would happen next, it was full of surprises, the acting was not one-dimensional, and to many people's annoyance (including mine), justice was not only served; in fact, injustice was "heartily rewarded." My husband and I talked a lot about the movie afterward trying to pinpoint why we both disliked it. The main thing, I think, was that after investing 2 and a half hours we both went away with a "sour taste." That is largely because of the ending - SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER - which not only didn't resolve, which I can appreciate, but which did not make sense in the larger context of the film. Long story short (SPOILER) when Affleck's character decided to live with his returned wife after she had shown herself to be a dangerous psychopath who had, earlier, specifically tried to destroy his life, I could not understand why he decided to make a go of it anyway. He hadn't shown himself to be madly in love with her, so that didn't seem to be a motive; and the threat she hurled (he'd be publicly reviled if he left her) was much lesser of a threat than being around a creator of diabolical plots who he knew had destroyed several others and tried to destroy him as well. Having that having over one's head would seem intolerable.So, I simply could not understand how that fit and it was a disappointment after enduring so much time spent wondering how things would go for these generally unlikable individuals caught up in an admittedly intriguing story.I give the film a lot of credit for the creativity of the writers and acting skill of the participants, but in the end had to admit it was a largely unenjoyable experience.
Well, how's this for a terrific soap opera..... all too clever by half, and with so many new century thriller films, paints itself into a corner that cannot be redeemed in the running time. Here is a great modern destructive thriller with an ending that completely undoes the whole film. Drone character husband meets cryptic woman manipulator who scores a 10/10 for bitch mayhem. Wealth allows plot points and absurd new characters to be hired to glance sideways. In-joke about deception sees gay actor hired as hetero obsessed stalker lover. Ice blonde proves to be better temptress than all the men mired in ghastly double dealings. Oakie rednecks prove to be the smartest characters in WASP thriller. Stay gasping until the 139th minute. Admire the Frank Lloyd Wright architecture. Toss food at the screen. Shake head as credits roll.
Gone Girl seems to me like a "Basic Instinct" or "Fatal Attraction" for a new era. It has the same psychopathic woman using situations to keep a man under her thumb of control and also to get away with the evil she has done. It does slightly stray from this in the fact that she is committing these awful acts against her husband. To make things even more complicated, she seems justified in the beginning with her plan because of her husband's infidelity. The real story is revealed throughout so you know what is going on, but you never really know what the outcome could be.One of the problems I saw was that much of the plot working out the way it did relied on the presence of poor police work and our main character withholding information from the authorities about his wife. It ends with a cliffhanger, them staying together not knowing what they will do to each other. But why? In the end why is he still afraid to expose her? What control does she have over him? He feels responsible for their child? A good response there would be to prove the atrocities that she has done and get the child out of her reach.David Fincher is an excellent director as we have seen many times before and it is always nice to see an author adapt their own book for the screen. Gillian Flynn wrote an intense and all around screwed up story that is sure to mess with peoples emotions and moral responses. The acting was reasonable and even though the seriousness of the matters at hand, I found it surprisingly funny which was one of its strongest points in my opinion. In the end I thought it was a descent thriller about something we have kind of already seen before but it's not really what it is all cracked up to be.
Its a little tough for me to watch/review "Gone Girl" seeing as how I had already read the book. For a plot that relies heavily on surprise and misdirection, I already knew what was going to happen, and that obviously makes it a different viewing experience. I was very impressed, however, by how the film was able to capture the basic essence of the Gillian Flynn novel (maybe it helped that Flynn wrote the screenplay herself!).For a basic plot summary, "Gone Girl" tells the story of Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) and his wife Amy (Rosamund Pike). One day, Nick comes home and finds his home a crime scene and his wife gone. Lead investigator Rhonda Boney (Kim Dickens) immediately suspects Nick, whose Ivy League nature and shadowy past make him seem like a viable candidate for the crime. Despite initial support from sister Margo (Carrie Coon) and Amy's parents (played by David Clennon & Lisa Banes), the case against Nick seems to keep getting worse and worse. Could he really have killed his wife?This movie excels in a number of different areas. Flynn is able to seamlessly move the plot from book to screen (no easy task) while still retaining its creepy nature and haunting themes. The casting is also spot-on. Affleck is playing practically the role he was born for (good-looking suave guy who may just be a complete slimeball) and Pike is similarly perfect in her own way. I can see why this one was nominated for a number of Academy Awards.Of course, probably the hallmark of "Gone Girl" is that besides spinning a great mystery, it also provides some subtle (or not-so-subtle) commentary on the institution of marriage. I wish I could say more, but to do so would be the ruin the surprises for those who haven't seen it yet. For lovers or young newlyweds watching this movie, I can easily see it producing either deep conversation or very awkward moments.Why not a five-star rating? Well, my exact ranking would be 4.5 stars. I have to go the other direction, however, primarily because I HAVE read the book previously. If there is one thing that doesn't transfer over it is a little bit of the deep commentary on relationships in general. "Gone Girl" is a psychological thriller, so some of that is probably better examined in the slower pace of the novel. While reading the book, I was completely sucked in and entranced. Most of that carried over into this film, but not necessarily ALL of it.Of course, I can easily see someone who doesn't know the plot ranking this a five-star effort all the way. It manages to tell an individual mystery filled with over-arching themes about relationships and marriage. A truly haunting tale.


                
Gone Girl director David Fincher is no stranger to twisty tales that are heavy on the moral ambiguity. (Also see: Se7en, The Game and Fight Club.) His latest movie is two-thirds of a thriller that is successfully tense, though you are likely to figure out where the story is headed before it arrives there. The last third of the film however, makes things convoluted, exits reality and ends up somewhere silly. By the time the credits roll at the end of the overlong journey, your eyes are likely to be rolling in disbelief.When Nick (Ben Affleck) comes home to find his home empty with signs of a struggle, he alerts the police and a manhunt starts to find his wife Amy (Rosamund Pike). Soon suspicion turns towards Nick, and he finds himself being scrutinized by both the police and the media. Where is Amy? Did he kill her? As the story progress, new revelations surface and the viewer's expectations get toyed with.The movie is well-shot and well-acted overall, though subletly goes out the window near the finish line. Affleck is kind of a blank for the first half of the movie, but this works well for the intrigue as you can project your suspicions on him, like the media do within the film. An interesting angle here is the examination of how the media manipulate public perception in a high-profile crime.For the screenplay, author Gillian Flynn adapted her own bestselling novel. Word spread that the ending of the book didn't match the ending of the film, which upset readers. But after some research online, it seems that actually the endings match pretty closely. And it is indeed a satisfying ending, it's just a shame that the film takes such an over-the-top route to get there.If you haven't seen Gone Girl by now, despite all the hype surrounding it when it came out and if you somehow avoided spoiling the ending for yourself online, it is still entertaining enough to experience. Get settled in though, as the journey takes an unnecessarily long two and a half hours. The movie is too goofy to be especially memorable, but apparently Affleck's endowment can be spotted for half a second if you pause at just the right moment during a shower scene. So we'll always have that.More reviews: @PopCultJunk / popcultjunk.com
I found it entertaining. It is the story of how men can also be manipulated by their women. About men and women as antagonists, that is so fashionable.
The ending disappointed me at first, but then I found myself thinking that maybe it's about how the woman can extort the man to leave him captive in an unhappy marriage, a look that is almost untreated in this century marked by a strongly feminist point of view .


                
I really like this movie although I do understand why all the people hated it. That's because of the huge plot holes and too many mistakes included. I get it. It's not hard to read all the goofs and plot holes in the movie's description on IMDb.I didn't expect it to have a Sherlock Holmes facts and detail pinpoint accuracy but all the blunders were fading away one at a time because of the very good acting. It's like the director had already identified these errors but kept going because he wanted to tell this rather unusual and gruesome story. It just had to be made one way or the other.It's not a bad film at all. I wouldn't call it entertaining either, very hard to be entertained by a dark, psychotic and violent movie such as this. By violent I mean psysical and psychological violence. And I think the pcychological violence was way over the top with this one. Which is a hard thing to do these days. But the director had a lot of help from the actress who played the wife and Ben Affleck. Ben could have done a much better job but in the end he plays out his character perfectly.I wouldn't recommend you go see it with your soon to be your wife girlfriend. If you do watch this with your girlfriend, listen carefully to what she says about this movie after it's done. If she loved it, maybe you ought to rethink a couple of things about her. Second thoughts never hurt anybody. Ha Ha Ha.Jesus Christ with all the people not liking this movie because of the plot holes. It's a psychological thriller not a CSI episode. Jesus....
This lurid tale told from an unreliable narrator, has a solid 'did he? didn't he' hook - a man's wife goes missing and he becomes the target of public scrutiny when he becomes the prime suspect. Fincher classes up this trashy story and it's both a strength and a weakness, as he wisely never lets this become over the top sordid garbage, but also never allows this to be as fun when it wallows in its sleazy storytelling. Even still, the story is so emotionally cold and misanthropic, that there's fun aplenty from how twisted and mean Gone Girl becomes. Ben Affleck does good work, under playing his role, while convincingly carrying the weight of the stress of his bizarre situation. Tyler Perry's dialogue delivery as a high priced lawyer is sharp and witty and pulled off with his stunt casting. Rosamund Pike plays our Gone Girl who you will most likely not forget for quite some time. Gone Girl is a clever film, with an ending that falls a little too easily into place, but it's always entertaining and definitely worth recommending.


                
I'm always skeptical about movies that last more than 2 hours. If it's not a blockbuster kind of film, the chances are that it will be boring. I saw yesterday "The equalizer" with Denzel Washington (2:12 duration) and it was boring as hell.Surprisingly enough "Gone Girl" in its almost 2 and a half hours it's far from boring. I dare to say that it was really interesting until the end, and that says a lot.So if you want my quick recommendation: Go see it.I'm not a Ben Affleck fan but he is good in this. In my opinion he is no cut to play heroes. He is more like a regular Joe, with human weaknesses, so this role suits him. Rosamund Pike looks crazy enough, "trapped in her own world" so she's a good cast too. Same goes with the rest of the cast with the exception maybe of Neil Patrick Harris.The direction is not boring and keep you interested through its whole length. Some randomly added flashbacks help the narration, and are not confusing as in some other films.The atmosphere of the movie is great. It's a thriller that it can go both ways (and maybe even follow a ...third option).The music score is more like a music pad of electronic music (made by synthesizers and not an orchestra), and it is present all the time adding to the mystery.The movie it's not only about thrills. There is some substance too. About marriages, about expectations, about the world of electronic media, about how your public image can affect your life nowadays.Oh. And you get to see a glimpse of Affleck's "average" member (if you care, which I seriously doubt) in a shower scene, obviously made as a publicity stunt. Overall: Recommended as a good solid thriller. Good, but certainly not among the 100 best of all time, like IMDb rating suggests.


                
David Fincher is officially my favorite director. Several of his films would make it into my lists of my personal favorite movies; Fight Club, Zodiac, The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, The Social Network, and now Gone Girl. I used to say, "The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo was the best mystery movie I've seen in I don't know how long." That title now goes to this film. After just watching it for the second time since opening night, I believe this is Fincher's finest film. One of the things that makes David Fincher such an enjoyable director is his attention to detail, it makes the littlest differences so significant and boy is this man attentive to the most minute aspect of every single shot. I don't think I saw a single continuity error. Every actors performance in this film will go down to be a highlight of their career. Including Tyler Perry, who I was pleasantly shocked to see in an actual good role with equally good acting. As per usual, Trent Reznor brings an absolutely stunning soundtrack to the theater, helping hand in hand with the director to make some of the most intense scenes I have ever seen. I don't remember the last time my jaw completely dropped and stayed like that for over a minute. The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo is my #4 personal favorite movie of all time; but I am more than pleasantly surprised to say that Gone Girl is Fincher's finest and most unexpectedly exhilarating film to date. What more can I say- The guy really knows how to direct a mystery thriller.


                
Let me start by saying this is not a terrible movie by any means. However, I am astonished by the number of people who rate this movie 10/10 and put this movie above all of David Fincher's movies. I would say Girl w/ the Dragon Tattoo is equal, The Social Network better, Curious Case of Benjamin Button equal if not a little better, Fight Club equal if not better, and Seven better than this movie. The cinematography of Gone Girl is undeniable good, and Ben Affleck's acting exceptionally well. However, after seeing the movie, the plot is definitely better as a book. It seems that the first half of the movie is rather suspenseful, until it's revealed that the wife is actually alive and has planned her fake death to gain revenge against her husband. From that point on, there are really on two things that can happen: The wife can reappear and Affleck's character be publicly/lawfully cleared of his wife's murder, or she disappears forever and he's sentenced to death. In this case she reappears, and then the movie wraps up in 15-20mins of the wife gaining what seems to be a rather weak upper hand in the marriage, forcing Affleck's character to stay with her even after the wrong doing (all because they're having a kid). While many believe this is symbolic of today's society, the simple question is....."How?". Yes, marriages fail, couples are unfaithful, children are used as leverage etc., but never to this extreme and bizarre extent. The end of this movie leaves those that understand typical plot conclusions asking the question "That's it?", because this movie has a relatively unimpressive ending. Conclusion: Rating this movie 10/10 is a joke. Expectations must be a pretty low at this stage in cinema if this movie is receiving a perfect score. I'm glad I saw this movie, if you'd like to see it obviously have at it. In hindsight I wouldn't pay to see this movie, and I'll probably never watch it again.
There was a point at which I thought, "This movie is brilliant! I never saw that coming!" It had me second-guessing my own perspective as a viewer. The plot was incredibly well thought out. Then, it went to far. It wasn't just too long in terms of run-time, it was too long in terms of the number of plot twists before the end. It got too incredibly outlandish, cliché and sensational. In the end, I had no idea what the artful manipulator's end game was. What was the motivation? I don't know what you want! This movie, like it's character, should have quit while it was ahead. Still, I think this is one of those stories that's going to stick with me. I'll find myself mulling over it in my head for a while to come.


                
spoiler alert ............ ..... ......... the movie is great actually , it kept me going for the entire two and a half hour , I stayed up until 3 am to finish it , and I can see the temptation to make the end like this but , come on , It screwed the whole movie for me . I was expecting a better ending at which this witch , evil , sadist , murderer psychopath would get what she deserves but she got away all clean , MY GOD , this is disturbing on so many levels ... good drama , good thriller , good cast . got me disappointed at the end a little and disturbed also from that evil b*tch ... but at the end all I can say is " close one guys , you almost nailed it " ......................
14 November 2014. I suspect why this movie is getting rave reviews and good box office turnout is due to its sustained measured suspense as a dramatic thriller where the who done it element becomes convoluted and layered with great emotional intensity as the audience is seemingly and subtly manipulated throughout the movie as to Ben Affleck's character and the apparent absence and presumed demise of his wife. Things become extraordinarily complicated that gives the audience a continuous shot of neurological brain transmitters of titillating endorphins.
One other pertinent fact that impacts my own personal experience watching this movie is that living in Utah where Susan Powell disappeared who lived in West Valley City, Utah and whose body was never been found and Josh Powell, her husband, was suspected in her disappearance and who later killed himself along with their two children. There were many parallels between this real event and Gone Girl.
But perhaps I am getting old; and watching this movie I'm reminded of Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner in The War of the Roses (1989). If the movie had stopped two-thirds of the way through the movie with the first major twist, I might have really enjoyed this movie in its totality, but it continued with this odd twist that seemed like a guise for greatest as a film. Needlessly the audience is forced to watch a rather predictable sequence of events that seem creatively amazing but somehow it just seems tacked on with the appearance of genius. I can understand why this movie would seem innovative and offer up some new revelation of the human psyche not see before on the big screen.
Perhaps its just I was unfortunately lucky to begin to put the pieces of this mystery thriller together too soon, but this overly long, in places overly slow paced movie became too predictable, foreshadowing its scenes and the ending. For awhile the plot and characters were fascinating, the plot intriguing but eventually, the movie just seemed very good. Others might conclude this movie portrays a rather unique, albeit rarely seen complex characters who diverge from the ordinary two dimensional personas. While this might be true, there is something off-balance but not in aesthetic way, but detracting way. What David Fincher is striving for is one of the most difficult achievements in film directing. His effort is commendable, if somewhat unsatisfying for me. If the movie had been shot in the style and tone of say cerebral spy thriller The Russia House (1990) or Ben Affleck's The Sum of All Fears (2002), Gone Girl would have come across more in keeping with the icy, frigid psychologically tension and dramatic tone of the theme of the movie. One of the best examples of this conflicted tone might be Brad Pitt's character and performance as scripted in Interview with A Vampire (1995) or his scripted performance in the dramatic crime thriller Killing Them Softly (2012) or even Nicholas Cages scripted portrayal in The Weatherman (2005) or Daniel Day-Lewis in the drama filled There Will Be Blood (2007). Even the classic bitter sweet relational drama and alcohol-riddled theme of The Days of Wine and Roses (1962) has the oil and water imbalance that however is deliciously sweet and sour tone that this movie might have been well to have captured. Or take Nicole Kidman's harsh but memorable role in Margot at the Wedding (2007) or her role in Dogville (2004) or what happened to Brad Pitt in the superb mystery crime thriller Se7en (1995). Other edgy movie themed and uneasy but dramatic riveting movies that capture the paradoxical tone of beautiful ugliness include William H. Macy in Edmond (2006), Sam Rockwell's fascinating character in Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002), the dysfunctional family of American Beauty (2000), or Tom Cruise in Collateral (2004) even whose title is reflective of the dissonance of a battle where innocence is destroyed. Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman in director Stanley Kubrick seemed to capture both the cinematic beauty and the uneasy alliance between the unusual, fantastic in an artful and sinfully beautiful way with characters that sometimes lack in moral turpitude in his Eyes Wide Shut (1999) or take the sociological business war with its incumbent cold calculating businessmen of The Social Network (2010). Even Leo DeCaprio seemed to capture the decadent attractive sleaze character in The Great Gatsby (2013) or his performance as Howard Hughes in The Aviator (2004). What seems to be missing is the more balanced background of the development of the relationship, a better visceral sense of the characters as they evolve which is conveniently missing during the movie, except with deliberate shocking sometimes unflattering flashbacks which was seemingly achieved with one character played by Christian Slater in He Was A Quiet Man (2007). The real fault in this very difficult film is that absence of the depiction of the behind the scenes of the false facades and the real persona essences of which even the characters themselves are unaware so as to reveal the hidden pane in Johari Window.


                
'Gone Girl (2014)' is a long yet consistently interesting and evolving picture that manages to distance its core characters from the audience just enough so that, though they are still empathetic, our opinions of them are constantly changing with each twist and turn of the tightly-woven and wonderfully layered narrative. It also represents a keen commentary on the vulturous nature of the media in situations such as the one at the core of the story, wherein public conception of both the victim and possible perpetrators is more important than actual evidence or proper investigative journalism. It's interesting stuff deftly explored. The feature's frustrating final act contorts itself into a dark, domestically disturbing ending that will stay with you for quite some time. 7/10


                
'Gone Girl' is a hard movie to review - I really don't want to give away too much, because the less you know, the better. I'll say this much - it's a very engrossing mystery/thriller, that's for sure. Certainly lots of twists and turns that keep you guessing and engaged throughout.The main problem is the length - at over two & a half hours, I feel like it could have been wrapped up in a double 'Law & Order'/'CSI'-like episode (i.e. one & a half hours). Sure, it's moody and suspenseful, but it definitely drags at times. The ending is a little ridiculous, but fits with the rest of the film.On the plus-side, the acting is superb, with Affleck & Pike doing the majority of the heavy lifting and truly lending gravitas to their characters. The support cast is also great - Coon as his sister, NPH as the ex-boyfriend, Perry as the lawyer and Dickens as the detective. The Trent Reznor/Atticus Ross score is again ominous and fitting, if a little bland at times.


                
If someone carefully plans to attack someone, there is no other way to avoid it. Especially if the person planning the attack is considered socially weak, for example, a woman, an elderly person, or a child, no one would doubt it.This film shows how shocking it would be if a person who was regarded as a socially weaker was identified as a sociopath or a psychopath.In the last scene of the movie, it is not a little unreasonable for the wife who returned home to set the case to end without suspicion by the FBI. Because it turned out to be true that her husband, Nick, made statements about amy, and Nick heard about other men who had been set up with amy, but nevertheless the investigators could ignore them.
It involves a lot. Great drama / suspense film. Is a rather effective and somewhat sombre book adaptation. One of the themes of Exemplary Girl is precisely this: the opposition of journalism to sensationalism. The need for newspapers and TVs to exploit every fact and to set up a condemnatory structure at any cost, based on any "evidence."


                
David Fincher works wonders with a seemingly-difficult literary adaptation once again. Here he keeps us impaled on the hook through a twisting, thrashing, contorting murder mystery where nothing, not even the victim, is remotely as it seems. It's a great ride, one which delights in misleading the viewer into endless amounts of incorrect assumptions, while also managing to spotlight several timely, pertinent thoughts about the excesses of a 24-hour news cycle and the public's gullible yearning for their next big chance to cast shame upon a pariah. Gone Girl is effective, dramatic, gripping and entrancing for most of its duration, but does overstay its welcome and begin to unravel in the last twenty minutes. With most of the answers already on the table, it's strange that the film lingers for so long after the fact, neurotically toying with its own plot holes and giving its audience time to do the same. That's not enough to completely undo all of the good that had come before, of course, but it's plenty to cast a little doubt.


                
