Wow, actually a thriller that's pretty good. Yes, it's fair to say that 'Gone Girl' is a really engrossing film. As with almost every film, it's based on a book. And, as with most films based on a book, I haven't read the book, so I haven't got a clue how well the film relates to the source material. But then I don't care. I just enjoyed the ride.'Gone Girl' is one of those films where you don't want to say too much about for fear of giving things away and spoiling it for people who haven't seen it. Ben Affleck plays a (reasonably) decent husband whose well-to-do wife disappears. The media circus that follows then starts to reveal that the truth is far more complicated that it first seems (not to mention the obligatory police investigation). It's fair to say that what follows is a film that twists and turns, so you only really get one chance to watch it and not know what's coming.Many people don't really like Affleck when it comes to acting (even less now he's due to don the Batsuit!), but I think most people will relate to him as he gets pursued and hounded (unfairly? You'll have to wait and see!) by the media. Rosamund Pike plays his (gone!) wife with a flawless American accent. Again, you'll have to see whether she's found alive or dead. The story bounces around back and forth in time, making sure you're just confused enough never to put too much together before the film's ready to reveal what's happening.If I had one complaint it's that the film is a little too long. Perhaps ten to fifteen minutes could have been edited out at around the three quarters mark, just to speed it up. But that's a minor gripe. Basically, if you like your thrillers twisty and turny (and have a couple of hours to spare on a film that you really have to concentrate on) give this one a go.


                
Two movies for the price of one. That's a fairly glib start to a review of a movie that I really liked, but it is true. The first half of Gone Girl is a fairly standard "did he or didn't he" mystery thriller. Then, about an hour in, the perspective shifts entirely and suddenly you realise that you're watching – perhaps – the most pitch-black comedy that you've ever seen. Despite the abrupt shift, I still think that Gone Girl holds together extremely well as one whole movie. Ben Affleck's Nick manages to inspire sympathy without ever being truly likable while Rosamund Pike's Amy (the star of the show in my opinion) is brilliant, terrifying, hilarious and despicable in various combinations and occasionally all at the same time.David Fincher's direction is both classy and clever (as usual) and several scenes are particularly outstanding due at least as much to his brilliance as that of the actors involved in them. My one complaint would be over the length – it really didn't need to be two and a quarter hours long. There were certainly a few moments, particularly in the first half, when I wished that the movie would hurry up and get to the point just a little more quickly.Gone Girl is a movie unlike any that I've ever seen before and as such largely defies further description. I would recommend this movie to all (with a warning that the adult rating is well earned) but especially those with a dark sense of humour. The darker the better.


                
The basic premise is as old as the movies.An abduction leads to a media-circus. Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) comes home one day to find his wife Amy (Rosamund Pike) missing. The ensuing search and all the subsequent events, which shall not be revealed here, draw the viewer closer and closer into a complex world of everyday suburban reality and everyday suburban horror.As if it needed to be pointed out, this balance of reality and horror, or horrendous reality, is the domain of Mr. Fincher. In his clear-cut no-nonsense style he has fashioned a powerful mystery-thriller that lands somewhere between Hitchcock, Lynch, Bergman and Chabrol. Although vastly different directors, they have shared an interest in dissecting reality and human nature. Profiting from two exceptional lead actors (doubts about Mr. Affleck's acting abilities will hopefully be dispelled), it is Ms. Pike, who reveals herself as an immensely versatile and unpredictable force in this movie. Over more than ten years Ms. Pike has played big parts in small movies, or small parts in big movies (such as <U+0084>Pride & Prejudice", <U+0084>Wrath of the Titans" or <U+0084>Jack Reacher"). Under the guise of Mr. Fincher she excels in every aspect and if any contenders for awards are to be named so early in the season, hers would be one of the first names (next to the outstanding cast of Richard Linklaters <U+0084>Boyhood") to be written down. Visually stunning as one would expect from Fincher, with an immersive soundtrack by Trent Reznor & Atticus Ross and an editing rhythm that cuts like a knife through the tissue of the story and its characters, <U+0084>Gone Girl" leaves no doubt about its craft and the deceptive nature of its source novel by Gillian Flynn. The author adapted her book into a tightly wound screenplay, that adds fuel to an already burning analysis of modern marriage and human frailty.The themes are familiar to Fincher, but he assembles them in an expertly fashion. And we are left wondering, amidst the suspense, about many of the so called estimable American values of the 20th century, that have now come crashing down under the weight of an economic, political and spiritual crisis.


                
David Fincher has done what i thought was the impossible, by making a movie from a book, and it actually being good, i'm even going to say better than the book, and i don't give that out lightly.First off, the use of sound within the film, both diegetic and nondiegetic really sell this film to me, it does a great job in unnerving us as an audience and its just a little off, if i looked at the score of the film, i wouldn't be surprised if it comprised of tritones (For those who don't know, tritones make music sound just that tad off), and the synth sorta sound reminds me a lot of Alex Forrest's signature tune from "Fatal Attraction (1987), Adrian Lyon"The Story is fantastic it really shows the disconnect between people in the modern day, and how the media influences everything so strongly.In Summary this movie is a great watch, and if you enjoy the genre, or just trying to put together pieces of a metaphorical puzzle you will enjoy this movie.


                
I watched this film today and when I came onto IMDb to write a review, I was assaulted by many reviews of one star. I changed the order to prolific authors and found that they really liked it. I'm a prolific author and so did I.A woman (Rosamund Pike) frames her husband (Ben Affleck) for her own murder, even though she's simply disappeared.The first part of the film is the investigation and finding out what really happened from the wife, Amy, herself; the rest of the film covers what happens as a result.Most people hated the ending, which felt ambiguous to some. I thought it was okay.The cast is excellent, with Ben Affleck doing a good job in the lead. Talk about turning your career around. Rosamund Pike is excellent as the treacherous Amy, and Carrie Coon, as Affleck's twin, does a wonderful job. On hand is also Tyler Perry as an attorney, Neil Patrick Harris as Amy's ex-beau Desi, Kim Dickens and Patrick Fugit as the police investigating the case, and Sela Ward as Sharon Scheiber.This is another winner for David Fincher, who proves again that his casting is as skillful as his directing.I'm not familiar with the book. I found the story intriguing. As far as plot holes, more often than not, there are plot holes. For a movie like this, I usually just let everything go and get into it so I can enjoy the film. I watch movies for entertainment, not to rip them apart. When they are badly done, I happily trash them. But with a well-done film, I'm pretty forgiving.
Gone Girl is a 2014 American psychological thriller film directed by David Fincher and adapted by Gillian Flynn from her 2012 novel of the same name. It stars Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike. Set in the Midwestern United States, the film's story begins as a mystery about a man, Nick Dunne (Affleck), whose wife, Amy (Pike), has gone missing, and depicts the ensuing events that arise.In Carthage, Mo., former New York-based writer Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) and his glamorous wife Amy (Rosamund Pike) present a portrait of a blissful marriage to the public. However, when Amy goes missing on the couple's fifth wedding anniversary, Nick becomes the prime suspect in her disappearance. The resulting police pressure and media frenzy cause the Dunnes' image of a happy union to crumble, leading to tantalizing questions about who Nick and Amy truly are.


                
"Gone Girl" (18) Directed by: David Fincher. Starring: Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Tyler Perry, Neil Patrick Harris, Carrie Coon and Scoot McNairy. Rated: 18 for containing strong bloody violence and very strong language. Running time: 148 minutes, 51 seconds. Released in UK cinemas from Thursday, the 2nd of October, 2014. Earlier this year Gillian Flynn's best-selling novel, "Gone Girl", left me devastated. It was a paperback which led me to believe that it had great potential, yet it only managed to provide riveting entertainment throughout its first two thirds. However, it was the ending that spoiled a perfect novel. An ending so inconceivable, that I refused to read another book by Gillian Flynn. Since then I've contemplated why I felt that way, and have graced Fincher's adaptation with gleeful abundance. But, the novelist lied. When Flynn promised a different ending to the film adaptation (which she has also scripted) I was overjoyed, but it turns out that there is no difference whatsoever between the ending of the book and the film.Personal ranting aside, Fincher's attempt at another critically acclaimed novel is exceptional. It opens with the idea of a perfect marriage, and descends into a convoluted series of mind-games and elements of social commentary, based upon the media's idea of what it is to be accused of murder, and how to deal with their wrath. Nick Dunne (Affleck) is a thirty-something writer who lives in the heart of Carthage, Texas, alongside his beautiful wife Amy (Pike), who is a writer of the "Amazing Amy" book series. All is well in the Dunne household until one day, when Nick returns home from his morning errands to find that Amy is nowhere to be found. With smashed objects lying around the living-room, Nick discerns that his wife may be missing. Upon notifying the police and his family, the media swarm upon Nick like a pack of wolves, aggravating him at every turn. Soon through Nick's albeit strange behaviour, the public perception of Nick's intentions begin to change, with many people asking the same horrifying question: Did Nick Dunne kill his wife? You think you know the story? Think again. Sticking close to the source material, Flynn has allowed for Affleck's best performance in many-a-year. Portraying a potential murderer has allowed him to expand his acting talents, with added humour and bite, putting behind his previously disappointing performances and adding this latest role to the shelf of his recent successes, emerging a fully- fledged actor.Without Affleck's participation the film wouldn't work with another actor in his role, and it's the same case in relation to Pike. Ever since she was viewed in Pierce Brosnan's "Die another Day", she has continued to excel in all of her films. Here she plays with the audience's mind, allowing us to encourage her character at one moment, and hate her, the next. It's a strange quality, but her performance is a quiet, yet absorbing one, eventually revealing how talented she really is. A career best performance, I have no doubt. Apart from the two leads, the film also benefits from a constantly intriguing cast, full of actors who show a side of themselves that didn't deem possible. There are two actors in particular: Tyler Perry and Neil Patrick-Harris.Yes, Tyler Perry has finally delivered a solid supporting performance that doesn't involve dressing up in a ridiculous stereotypical costume and requires him to actually act. And that he does. Every detail is understated, but he is surprising. As is Harris, who also astonishes within the film, as a constant reminder that he too can actually act when not required to be starring in "How I Met Your Mother", delivering a peculiar performance that's both creepy and comforting. Scoot McNairy also appears within the film as a troubled ex-boyfriend of Amy, who, when confronted about Amy's past relationship, creates a dark presence which suits his style exceptionally well. He may only appear for one scene, but it's definitely appreciated. Gillian Flynn may be adapting her own novel, but why not? She's the perfect candidate for the job. She has spent countless hours carefully crafting these characters and events for her novel, so she should know them from the inside out. That itself is evident. For each scene the audience are treated to characters that are written with affection and the idea that they are actually worth caring about. It's a skill that is worth having, and shows that Flynn may be more than just a novelist, despite her decision in regards to the film's finale. As always, Fincher is a master behind the camera. His ability to get the very best performances out of his actors is phenomenal, and he does it again here, in a thriller that seems as if it was written especially for his mind. Perhaps it was, and along with his camera angles and general skill in the art, he produces a sleek looking film that mirrors his vision of "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" (2011). As most recent Fincher films have been scored by Trent Reznor & Atticus Ross ("The Social Network" and "The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo"), the pair have returned to produce a strange and absorbing soundtrack, which fits the tone of the film perfectly. In particular, their track named "A Reflection" is a splendid example of how talented they are, and how dark the film actually becomes. It couldn't be better.Fincher's latest film is an unflinching rendition of marriage in its true form. Darkly comic and boasting some of the finest and most unanticipated performances for many years, "Gone Girl" is a thriller destined for 'vintage' status.
Gone Girl starts just as good as it ends with an unforgettable bang!If you're unfamiliar with Gillian Flynn's book Gone Girl, Gone Girl is about Nick Dunne's wife (played by Rosamund Pike) who suddenly disappears one day without a trace and a subsequent search ensues. It's a pretty basic story and premise on the surface but under the surface, the film touches on themes such as marriage, trust, perception and how we view people through the media.Gone Girl is beautifully crafted by the master of deep moody films David Fincher and that essence is present in this almost masterpiece. The cinematography by Jeff Cronenweth is spellbinding and almost revolutionary. You can expect to see praise at the upcoming Oscars for directing and cinematography.The score by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross was so pulse pounding and riveting that it gives the movie an entirely new meaning and feeling. Once again expect an Oscar nod for these gentlemen.Finally the magnificent acting. The acting all round was just brilliant with no one lagging behind. However, the best performance of the entire film and possibly the entire year is the magnificent and awe inspiring Rosamund Pike. Her performance just took the film by storm! You can expect some Oscar recognition for her this year. My problems with the film are to do with the script. In some scenes (which are as rare as a good M. Night Shyamalan film), things just fall flat. I also disagree with the ending - I thought it ended a bit too abruptly for my liking. I highly recommend you check Gone Girl out - it's an impressive and unforgettable film that will be recognised at the upcoming Oscars and that will stay with you long after the credits have finished. <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> or 8/10


                
Good suspense thriller and well worth watching. An ex Irish football legend mentioned this wasn't great so I had low expectations. I think he was wrong now after seeing it.It is actually a very smart film, it is good in suspense, story line, does not go down predictable lines, has the stupidity and smartness of people crafted into it, and as a thriller I thought this was good fare with a superbly manipulative character in it.It touches very well on relationships, domestic bliss, different demands, infidelity, secrets and does not paint a picture of all is easy in love.Good characters, good acting, good build up and thoroughly enjoyable film.


                
A drama in the beginning became a thriller by reasoning. The best muse I felt was the setting which provided the inspiration for the switch. The best actor in the movie was Ben Affleck with best face - confused state of mind. The story-line really I felt catered to the well-informed because it changed. It's meant for those that anticipate watching the whole movie not just parts. It requires attention and attention to detail; thought provoking. It used a favorite quality of mine called "thinking outside the box" with a retrospect to the innermost thoughts of a killer. The metaphor and plot formed in the folds of that relationship making this a unique book to movie thriller


                
How well you will like or love this movie depends on your experience in life; or you have a passion for the intricacies of human relationships.The pace of the story/plot is subtle. The twists and turns are totally unexpected. The timing and cadence of this movie is precise. It never felt like a screen play written on a software program telling these artist when and where to make shifts/changes.There is no area in the movie (acting/directing/settings) that stands out to break your attention (speed bumps); so you are totally immersed in the movie. At the end I literally was on the edge of my seat wanting to see more.The story isn't one dimensional; the husband did things that I didn't feel was right, no matter what the circumstances. Moreover, for example, women bad men good or vice versa.Based on my experience in life; this was a great movie with the element of truth that makes it phenomenal. For example, people in a relationship do get to know and anticipate what to do or say to get the other person to reveal a little of what they are thinking (their agenda).For men who have gone through a traumatizing relationship; this movie can be therapeutic, and women can substitute the man being the wife. I identified completely with the husband at the end that until she's done with me; I had better take my chances with her in the same house than to have her out their plotting against me. Also, there is no telling how many land mines she has laid out for me or for how long. Once she leaves I could be dealing with situations that blow up in my face for years after she's gone. It is the ultimate no win scenario where you have to go with the lesser of two evils and suffer.I have no conflict of interest and I will be watching this movie several times over this year (2015).
I usually have to watch Fincher movies a few times before I can formulate my thoughts. His movies are jam packed with information, either verbally or non-verbally or as part of the scene or in the background. He demands your full attention. Yes, even Alien 3 was wonderfully gothic.Let's start with Amy. She comes from a wealthy background. Her mother was the writer of a series of books called "Amazing Amy" for which Amy is purportedly the inspiration.Her husband is Nick, a lowbrow failed writer from the Midwest.It is insinuated that Amy has a history of being a fake, lying etc. because she's not as Amazing as Amazing Amy and if she's the role model for Amazing Amy, then why isn't she amazing?They've been married five years, they both lose their jobs in the Great Recession of 2008 and move back to the Midwest (in this case, Missouri Ozark land).I'll let others comment on the plot, but needless say "Gone" is in the title. The case goes nationwide because of the Amazing Amy celebrity angle and a Nancy Grace-ish TV journalist. In desperation, Nick hires a celebrity lawyer who specializes in defending his clients on TV.By the end of the movie, we realize these two winners actually deserve each other - neither one is a sympathetic character.Since the audience already knew she faked her death and Nick was framed, what is the point of the story? I believe the point of the story is that it takes a lot of lies to keep a marriage going. Marriage makes you an unreliable narrator.
This is a 2.5 hour movie and sometimes these days it's difficult for me to stick with the longer movies but this never felt long. You were always curious what was going on. Let's just say it didn't quite go the way I expected but I was intrigued the whole time. The acting was great. This could for sure be considered a slow burn and I'm actually currently watching the TV show Sharp Objects by the same author and this is paced much better than that. There's a couple things I didn't particularly thing got solved or like how they went at the end but overall a great movie.


                
Extraordinary interpretations of the cast. Good script, From the principle the film offers a very good atmosphere that keeps it to the expectation, its development and history is very entertaining since The madness shown is very subtle. You must see it. If you really value the good cinema, you have to enjoy this work.


                
The movie has had a lot of bad reviews because I presume it wasn't what most viewers were expecting.The movie is very thought provoking in terms of how the media can easily jump to conclusions and how these biases can play into an on going investigation. A lot of movies develop characters and the villain is meant to be a character to be hated. In this movie, you will hate the movie to your core and you will wish something somewhere will happen to this character. Fincher is an amazing director who believes in meticulous details and repeating until perfection. No shot is taken out of place. No cut is too short or too long. If you feel it is, then that's how its supposed to be. If the story is too absurd to believed and people are believing it. Then that's the message he wants to send. I gave this movie an 8 because it inflicted emotions of distress and hatred.Watch this movie on an empty stomach and if you can with your wife/girlfriend (It has to be of the female gender not significant other)


                
Gone Girl (2014) This is a psychological thriller set in Missouri.The mystery surrounds a man who becomes the main suspect in the sudden disappearance of his wife. The film was praised by critics and audiences alike. It received multiple award nominations. The casting was superb. Rosamund Pike received an Oscar nod as the wife. The first hour sets the stage. Then the fun really begins. Good fun for those who like twisted humor. Regardless, it's really entertaining. The way it ended is priceless.


                
David Fincher has delivered once again. His latest masterpiece, Gone Girl, is an uneasy thriller based on the novel of the same name by Gillian Flynn, (who also wrote the screenplay for the film). I won't go over too much of the plot here, but the basic premise is about married couple Nick and Amy Dunne (Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike). One day Amy goes missing and Nick is the prime suspect. But all is not what it appears to be. The less I say the better regarding the events that unfold.The film is very much a character driven piece – the many layers of the characters' personalities being revealed slowly and purposefully, and as the movie goes along you grow more and more curious and intrigued by what has happened and what will happen.There are solid performances from all involved. Ben Affleck in one of his best roles ever, gives a strong and studied performance. Rosamund Pike is absolutely stunning, and deserves an Oscar nomination. The supporting cast including Kim Dickens, Carrie Coon, Tyler Perry and Neil Patrick Harris are all fantastic.The cinematography and editing are perfect, the production design slick. The score by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, marking their third collaboration with Fincher, is chilling.David Fincher is one of the most creative and innovative directors of our time, and although Gone Girl is not my favourite Fincher film, he never fails to bring to the screen a unique and stylish cinematic experience.Definitely worth seeing on the big screen, Gone Girl is dark, beautiful, terrifying, tense and at times humorous. It's a film you'll be talking about for days afterwards.


                
This film wasn't as bad as some people say it was. It was actually good. It was a pretty nice psycho thriller. It had me guessing at times and there really weren't any dull moments. This film was well done with just enough suspense to keep me interested. The acting in this film was great as well. Now, I'm not a big fan of Tyler Perry's films but his acting is good. He had a wonderful performance in this film playing Tannor Bolt, Nick Dunne's (Ben Affleck) lawyer. He was really perfect for the part. For me it was kind of weird seeing Neil Patrick Harris playing a serious roll as the crazy ex boy friend of Nick Dunne's (Ben Affleck) wife, Amy Dunne (Rosamund Pike). Rosamund Pike and the parts she were in were well done! I mean she pulled that roll off! Amy Dunne (Rosamund Pike) was allegedly killed by her husband Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck). From the beginning Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) is the suspect and the craziness starts from there. If you like mysteries/thrillers you won't be disappointed with this one.


                
the story has revenge , meticulous planning , cruel manipulation and lies everywhere . the lost lady looks very charming in first meeting . i would blame husband for disappearance of his wife . the news hungry media tears apart husband under investigation . the message is - it is human nature to take advantage and nobody is a saint . also laws are in women's favour who can frame their husband or lover if they don't obey . example - consensual sex can be reported as abuse and alleged offender has nowhere to go . there are some marriage lessons here - first, don't take your partner for granted . second , stay faithful . parents should give little freedom to children lest they feel burdened under ideal behaviour expectations .


                
Reviewed by: Dare Devil Kid (DDK)Rating: 3.9/5 starsSuspense, social commentary, a breakout performance from its leading lady, and a seriously twisted outlook - "Gone Girl" is one killer movie. It's also a pitch-black satire of modern marriage, and one of the most unsettling films of the year: The premise is flat-out creepy. Make sure you're game for that before you see it.Directed by David Fincher and based upon the global bestseller by Gillian Flynn, "Gone Girl" unearths the secrets at the heart of a modern marriage: On the occasion of his fifth wedding anniversary, Nick Dunne (Ben Affleck) reports that his beautiful wife, Amy (Rosamund Pike), has gone missing. Under pressure from the police and growing media frenzy, Nick's portrait of a blissful union begins to crumble. Soon his lies, deceits, and strange behavior have everyone asking the same dark question: Did Nick Dunne kill his wife? But there's more to this darkly twisted scenario than meets the eye.Fincher and Flynn (adapting the screenplay from her own eponymous book) have fun playing with both our expectations and our sympathies. As they peel away layers of their story, a feeling of dread grows; it's like pulling moldy leaves from an artichoke that is rotting from the inside out. With the close-knit psychological ambiance, the film paints American middle class as a blood-curdling, emotional danger zone. It's a testament to David Fincher's skill as a filmmaker that he makes something as complex as "Gone Girl" feel so effortless yet riddled with palpable suspense and spellbinding twists.Couching its commentary in a propulsive pulp tale, "Gone Girl" is a genre triumph - at once scary and deceptively sly. Dark, clever, twisted, and stylish, this riveting thriller plays to director David Fincher's sick strengths while bringing the best out of its female lead, Rosamund Pike.
American producer and director David Fincher's tenth feature film which was written by American author and screenwriter Gillian Flynn, is an adaptation of her novel from 2012. It premiered in USA, was shot on locations in the U.S. and is an American production which was produced by American actress and producer Reese Witherspoon and producers Joshua Donen, Ceán Chaffin and Arnon Milchan. It tells the story about a former writer named Nick Dunne and his girlfriend named Amy Elliott whom has moved from New York, USA to his home place in the state of Missouri in Midwestern USA where he owns a place called The Bar with his twin sister named Margo. Distinctly and precisely directed by American filmmaker David Fincher, this finely paced fictional tale which is narrated interchangeably by and from the protagonists' viewpoints, draws an interpretative and unwaveringly riveting portrayal of an American man who one day discovers that his girlfriend is missing. While notable for its multiple and significantly atmospheric milieu depictions, reverently precise cinematography by cinematographer Jeff Cronenweath, production design by production designer Donald Graham Burt, costume design by costume designer Trish Summerville and use of sound, this narrative-driven, at times character-driven and dialog-driven story about a relationship, depicts a rarely diverse study of character and contains a great and timely score by composers Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross.This somewhat absurd, nonjudgmental and satirical thriller which is set in the United States in the 21st century and where an American woman disappears, an investigation is initiated and her boyfriend is interrogated, is impelled and reinforced by its fragmented narrative structure, substantial character development, rhythmic continuity, masterful style of filmmaking, extraordinary dialog and character drawings, cinematographic and literary coherence, comment by Amy: "I can't say I didn't enjoy some of it." the versatile acting performance by English actress Rosamund Pike and the involving acting performances by American actor, screenwriter and director Ben Affleck and American actresses Carrie Coon and Kim Dickens. A distinctly humorous, psychologically romantic and exceptionally mysterious narrative feature.


                
I really enjoyed this movie, in a world where there is a never-ending splurge of comic book films, it is nice to something with a bit more bite. I said I had to defend it, it was getting some slack, I have read some of the negative reviews and I feel they are completely missing the point of the story. The "gaping holes in the plot line" so many refer to, are people being extremely pedantic. It doesn't matter why these things occurred , or how for that matter, the main protagonist was a psychopath who orchestrated her own murder. You know at the end of the film that the detective KNOWS she is lying about her story but no one is going to look into it anymore. She gets away with it because she is going to have the husbands baby so he is choosing to stay with her. It's fiction! Let's just answer some of these holes 1. The book, the husband found the book, thought it was incriminating, went away from his house (which was being searched) and tried to burn the diary but was interrupted by the police. She never said the other guy did that. 2. There aren't always witnesses so cars, people leaving, etc., can go unnoticed all the time- what time did your neighbours leave this morning? Haven't a notion! The neighbour was old, maybe he came out a specific time everyday. 3. Who says there no further investigation? The FBI were looking into it, yeah I did wonder about the cameras in the lake house but meh feck it, it's fiction, it's her word against the other guy and he's dead. They could have been in his other house that doesn't have cameras.The only discrepancy that bothered me was how she went from a definite beer-bellied size 12 to an 8, in a seriously short space of time. It would have been good if they'd delved into the relationship she had with Desi a bit more.All in all, a good watchable movie.
The argument over the best suspense thriller director in recent times ends with David Fincher. After successfully directing The Girl with The Dragon Tattoo, Fincher presents another unpredictable thriller, Gone Girl (also adapted from a book with the same name). Gone Girl starts with a cozy pace gradually getting the audience interested with a story based on disappearance of Amy (inspiration to Amazing Amy series). Amy's husband falls into the suspect list as their bad marriage relationship emerges. As the movie progress the captivated audience is made to believe in something absolutely defying added with an even more dubious ending. Fincher intermixes tense relationship with violence to create a spectacular mystery. The show stealer performance by Rosamund Pike is notable and justifies her character beautifully. It feels so good that Fincher never disappoints with his work!


                
This is a thriller/mystery movie that has quite a lot of cool twist and turns and shock value. Sure, there are some plot holes and certain areas that just doesn't make much sense. But when it comes tot he overall package of the movie, it's actually crafted very well. It's one of those movie that when you think you have everything figured out, it makes another turn...In a good way. David Fincher is a great director and I was impressed with his movie "Zodiac" which this has a similar vibe going for. Except with more immersive elements and less detective aspects going for it. Without giving much away when it comes to the plot. This is a movie that is worth seeing, especially if you are a audience member that enjoys watching mystery/thrillers.8.4/10


                
Surprisingly, i was not as spooked as my sister warned me it was going to be. The movie is well-made backed by a strong story, and some great performances. I could not predict where the story was going throughout the time i was watching, which made for a great movie experience.


                
