I have watched the series several times now, and I still find it pretty engrossing. It was made by German filmmakers for a German audience, ostensibly to nudge the fast passing away generation of eyewitnesses and veterans and the generations of their children and grandchildren to use the last chance time will give them to break the wall of silence and talk about their wartime experiences. The series has a whole lot on it's platter, arguably more than enough to cover in a meaningful way in 4.5 hours: the enthusiasm of youngsters for Hitler's war; the obvious persecution of Jews and the developing genocide in the East; the nature of the Nazi regime, the unprecedented savagery of the war, the commissar order, taking casualties from partisan ambushes, savage counter insurgency warfare, the dehumanization of the populations of the conquered territories at the hands of the Germans, plans of colonization and ethnic cleansing, battle trauma, the disillusionment of the soldiers, what it was like to fight a losing total war, denunciation, finally the savagery of the soviet troops. In the end, everything is in ruins, countless are dead and the survivors emerge as deeply scarred personalities, each of them having to live with personal guilt and the ghosts of the past.Granted, the numerous chance encounters of the lead characters may be unlikely but they are an acceptable plot device. What can't be seriously disputed is that the mini-series takes great pains to put the audience in the shoes of the five young Berliners on their journey through the madness of total ideological war. The dominant question looming in the background is not so much the well known question, asked in the comfortable situation of a stable post-war order <U+0084>How could you be such a criminal tool of Hitler's genocidal war?" but rather <U+0084>Damn, what would I have done in their position and where do I take the smug conviction from that I would have done so much better?". The overall approach is not a conversation stopper between the generations but an outstretched hand, not a tone of indictment and condemnation but one of empathy.I came across two major groups of audiences who got all worked-up and downright mad about the show: German internet-Nazis and patriotic Poles. The former were foaming at the mouth about just another installment of guilt-worship and defilement of the supposedly heroic and noble German soldier of WWII (and the millions of German civilians who got killed, raped and expelled from their homelands). The latter were upset that a German show about WWII in the east doesn't center on the suffering of Poles at the hands of Germans and even portrays Polish civilians and partisans as ardent antisemites.Both camps, even the internet Nazis, have some points, I believe. When Friedhelm says in the first part that the Russians <U+0084>are learning from us" about atrocities, it's a fair objection to point out that Stalin's mass-murdering terror regime in fact didn't need any lessons from the German invaders about committing atrocities, be it politically motivated mass-murder, genocide by famine, ethnic cleansing, etc. At the time the film starts, Stalin and his countless henchmen still had much more blood on their hands than the Nazis and their helpers – which was going to change, however<U+0085> For a good account on this, read Timothy Snyder's Bloodlands).By the way, a legal fact which is apparently too unpopular nowadays to be mentioned ever is that customary international law at the time of WWII allowed quite far-reaching reprisal actions of occupying forces when attacked by irregular forces. Even the US Army field manual of 1937 deals in detail with the accepted practice of hostage shooting and the burning of villages as reprisals<U+0085> Collective punishment had been commonplace in the soviet union since the revolution, and the British applied collective punishment in their colonial rearguard fights even throughout the 1950s. (Sadly, that list is far from complete: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_punishment). That doesn't undo German atrocities but it's not helpful either to view those completely out of historical context.Polish criticims, as mirrored in several reviews here, centers on the fact that the show depicts the war against the Soviet Union and therefore leaves the Polish campaign of '39 and the subsequent German occupation of Poland largely out of the picture. What makes countless Poles then totally snap is the double dip of being once again portrayed as antisemites (remember the bitter reactions in Poland to a brief scene in Spielberg's Schindler's List or to the favorable reception in the US of books by the Polish-born author Jan Gross) and then, of all people, by Germans. While I believe that the subject of antisemitism among Poles could have been portrayed in a more balanced fashion, especially by blaming someone else than the AK who evidently helped Jews and even supplied weapons for the 1943 Warsaw Ghetto uprising, I think it's time people in Poland start to accept that todays's Germans have a right as anyone else on the planet to include Polish antisemitism in their renderings of history. As for brave Polish resistance to the Nazis not having gotten more screen time, it's the decision of the makers of the show what their story focuses on. I was also disappointed when AMC's Hell on Wheels reduced Plains Indians to mere plot devices but I guess that I just have to live with it that Hell on Wheels is about people building a transcontinental railway and not about the plight of the ethnically cleansed Indians. Same applies here.Summing up, if you have seen enough comic-book Nazi villains on screen and are curious about the German experience in WWII, this mini-series is a pretty well-made, honest and quite engrossing attempt.


                
I found this series very interesting for multiple reasons. First of all it's very refreshing and interesting to see the German side of the war. Most of the movies depict the American or the allied side. That it only took part at the eastern front isn't illogical because 85% of the German soldiers died at that front and not in the west or the south (Italy and Africa). It also shows that antisemitism was widespread in Europe and not something that only existed in Germany and that a lot of eastern-European peoples assisted the Germans (in many ways off course, being in the SS is the worst of many possible ways to collaborate). What a lot of Poles (who act like they've been stung by a bee) don't seem to get is that these series is NOT about Poles. It's about how average Germans underwent the war, why they did what they did and most of them (those who survived at least) didn't talk about it for decades. Yes, it shows that there were antisemitic partisans, but that's a fact that also polish historians don't deny. Nobody claims that all Polish partisans/Poles were antisemitic or that they build the concentration camps. In my opinion the series was very well made, from a unique point of view, the uniforms and locations were very good and accurate despite some minor flaws (MG42 in 1941?) and all of the actors did a really good job. Especially the role of Friedhelm and the evolution his character went through was superbly done. Although it's a German production, it avoids no topics. We see German protagonists shooting prisoners of war, shooting and hanging innocent civilians (even children), burning houses, hunting people through a minefield,.. It's idiotic to say they 'whitewash' history. What IS shown is, that under given circumstances, ordinary people do terrible, terrible things. People and life are not black-white. What would you have done?
The most significant thing for me about World War 2 is that it was an extraordinarily huge moment in human history, it's still in living memory and bitter rivalries have yet to die. That being said, the dust may finally be settling and it's now time to look upon the Second World war much like any other period of history with an unbiased and impartial view that does not emphasize nor downplay the atrocities or achievements of either party involved. This is how we look at every period of history and it seems we can finally begin to look at the Second World War the same way.This TV series is visually stunning, it aims for historical accuracy while still having decent amounts of action and excitement. It doesn't feel so much like the war propaganda from the earlier post-war years or even more recent films like Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers where the Germans are depicted as evil Jew hating monsters with no compassion. Those films themselves were not bad, but "unbiased" is not a word that could ever be used to describe them.Another wonderful aspect of this series is simply that it's taken from the German perspective, with German actors speaking German instead of American or British actors with some speaking with German accents and some not. It adds to the overall look and feel of the series. It also doesn't constantly have sad violins playing to black and White images of the holocaust. as if to say that anyone living in the West has not heard about the holocaust at least once every single day of their lives. Band of Brothers for example has an entire episode dedicated to just the holocaust.Overall this series is deeply engaging and a breath of fresh air, you're not constantly beaten over the head with reminders that Hitler and the Nazis were cartoon super-villains and the holocaust was the single most important event in human history, completely overshadowing mush less significant events like the Holodomor, the Soviet massacres and the Communist Chinese massacres to name a few. It also gives a rare glimpse into the German side of the story, remember what I said about being impartial?For similar films I would recommend Das Boot, Cross of Iron and Stalingrad.


                
--Spoiler Alert-- This is an incredible piece of work. This is a highly controversial film and many reviewers believe that it lets the ordinary German people off to easy for the crimes that were committed in their name. I do not agree. Starting in May 1941, these young people undergo a series of events that force them to make moral choices that in the end leave them compromised and complicit in the system that they are defending. Viewers watch them experience a spectrum of emotions beginning with triumphalism and optimism toward their bright futures due to The Third Reich's victories, to alienation, to fear, and ultimately to shock and oblivion.Almost uniquely among war movies, this miniseries to try to allow viewers to imagine what it was like to be one of the five main characters who experienced World War II in Europe on the losing side. A viewer may not sympathize with the main characters but the film forces one to try understand what he/she would do under the same circumstances. It is a very unsettling and depressing since there are no easy answers. I highly recommend this film to everyone.
Apart from the excellent acting & shooting, 'Unsere Mutter, unsere Vater' (= German for 'our mothers, our fathers') stand out for its honest & realistic scenery about ordinary young Germans in Hitler's days.Its plot is centered around five youngsters, three of them joining Hitler's army because they had to do so: conscription. Which is precisely the reason why most of the world's youngsters join any army. Number 4 opted for a modest artistic career, and number 5 was a Jew.Honest & realistic, I said. That also goes for the battle-scenes, which may be too much for some viewers. At the other hand, these scenes are very recognizable for those with military experience.Further 'Unsere Mutter, unsere Vater' exclusively deals with Hitler's war in Eastern Europe. From 1941 up to 1945. Which is only too right, for Hitler was beaten + broken by that other fierce dictator, Communist Joseph Stalin. Although we like to believe otherwise, it essentially were Stalin's Herculanean efforts in Eastern Europe that allowed the Americans, English and Canadians to invade Western Europe in 1944.
Finally a WW2 movie from a German perspective without depicting the Germans as brainless monsters. The story and motivations of the characters are very close to reality. Very captive and emotional. And of course a very lovely cast.


                
Due to historical reasons (the Nazi's lost so they are the baddies, America are the goodies) and economical reasons (American and British productions get more money than German ones) our cultural approach of World War II has mostly been one sided. There are several good and excellent "allied" productions in all the genres, from comedy to drama. Yet, they are overwhelmingly in one perspective and tend to show the Germans as Disney-like villains. In the best case we see nuances that are often based on impressions and real-live events from veterans and the like. The mere fact that we see the conflict from another perspective alone is reason enough to watch this series. But there is more, much much more. Even American or British series have lower budgets than most movies, so action isn't always what it should be. Band of brothers and the like are rare gems on that issue. Here, for a European series in a relatively small language-reservoir the action is very, very well done. Besides that, we have a fantastic view from several people with a diversity of opinions and features who get caught up in the waves of history. The character development is captivating and credible. We see how ordinary people with ordinary lives do what they do and we understand it, even when we don't agree. It's so very human. Instead of villains and thugs, we see how rhetoric, political realities and power relations mold people and peoples. Everything they do, everything we see, it's all very credible and realistic. If you want to see how people lived there and then, you definitely need to watch thisFor the rest, on a technical point of view, it's all top notch: the acting, the screenplay, the directing, the sound, etc etc. This is a German classic that can stand next to the great movies Stalingrad and Das Boot. A real must see. By all standards.


                
I was shocked and repressed.The war will take the worst to everyone, we can see the struggle, the dark...It needs a lot of courage and tolerance to face the history


                
This series actually takes us into the WWII and makes us feel how it was to experience that war being a German.


                
Watched this series on Netflix after watching a few clips of it on youtube and being impressed. This series is literally the only other thing I've seen apart from Downfall which successfully portrays the war from the German side. It does contain some great action but it's not overly heavy on it and the action is more there to further the narrative than for sheer entertainment value. Generation War does not shy away from the atrocities committed by the German army nor does it try to make it's characters seem exempt from the crimes committed by the Nazi's during the war. I found each of the 4 characters interesting and memorable with the exception of Greta. I really liked the way throughout the series it always shows how far they are from a destination. Starting 700 KM away from Moscow and ending up within just 50 KM of it. Then as Germany is losing the war you get to see how close the Red Army is to Berlin. I was happy with the ending and thought it was satisfying. The score is really well done and I'd definitely recommend giving the soundtrack a listen. Overall I thought Generation War was a refreshing new perspective on World War 2 as we get to see it from Germany's perspective and not just through the eyes of soldiers but of German nurses, Jews and other types and how the war effected them. Definitely give it a watch. Absolute fantastic.


                
Perfect, like Band of Brothers, The Pacific or Genertion Kill It is everybody's right to tell a story about what is interesting to him or her. And make a background plot just useful thing without going into any details - just make it flat as in this film. But when those who are responsible and guilty transfer their main crime (hate to Jews) to others it is morally doubtful and, to me, disgusting. Someone from Chine above mentioned that Nazi hurt other nations: Poles, Russian and even Germans. I ask you: Who were Nazis then? Some other nation? NO! NO! NO! They were Germans!!!! Not some virtual Nazis. Nazism was just a political form of government in German, that is all.


                
Well, I just watched this and have to say, this movie is far by the GREATEST war movies I have ever seen before (including Bandnof Brother, Saving Private Ryan,Fury,....etc) Some scene are maybe unrealistic with someone, but I am very glad to find a great war movie like this so I forgave them all, like the Fredhelm charge. Anyway, keep voting for it and everyone should know about this movie, its AWESOME!!! I kept talking about it last two days and now all of mu friends knew it.It's even suitable for a female to watch, since there is not so much too violent (but I like violent). Great story about friendship and courage, better than Hollywood ones (example Fury, it far by the most unrealistic film I have ever seen before)


                
I finished watching the last episode yesterday evening and couldn't help being moved by it. So much attention has been given to details, the story line and the casting - it really is outstanding. I can imagine how it has contributed an insight into the "parents's generation" who were involved in the German side of WW II. It also shows that you cannot predict an outome of who will, in the end, do what. Very highly recommendable but bear in mind that this is not something casual.


                
It will always be in my top 10 list i have no words how much i liked this series.Its awesome great acting,great script and hats off to those 5 friends acting


                
The first realistic film of WW2 in the view of Germans! Awesome! 10/10 Wilhelm the older brother is a hero in the first part of the film, he makes a lot of brave things. At the end of the war, when the Russians came, Germans aren't like heroes, but they make cruel things, they are murders in the second half. In this period Wilhelm recognizes that the war is lost, God isn't with them anymore and he escapes from the bloody slaughter with a friend. Friedhelm is Wilhelms younger brother. He didn't want to go to the east front. He is against war at the first period, he makes stupid thing too, like smoking cigarette at night when the Russian planes came... I think in Stalingrad hes brother injures in a fight, Friedhelm thinks he is dead. He kills many Russians alone for revenge. It's the point when he became a real hero. His father doesn't want to see him again to arrive from the front, he likes more Wilhelm. At the last scene Friedhelm dies like a hero: in a forest around Berlin he and HJ childes got captured by Russians, and he achieves with his death, that his young comrades keep alive by surrendering. Only 3 of the 5 friends live the war trough.


                
Generation War was with Stalingrad probably one of the most realistic war movies, that I've ever seen.


                
No great spoilers, just comments. I understand, I really do, the criticism by some that this film doesn't much address the Holocaust but I don't think every WWII movie is required to do so and some focus on battle. Maybe I am too sensitive to the issue and I will fully admit that fact, but I also have studied extensively on WWII and the Holocaust so I am not discounting that being omitted. Not all Germans in the WWII era were Nazis. My grandfather was a Berlin based resistor and has been mentioned in a couple of books trying to help people get out of the country. This was a good film with strong character development whose experiences and thoughts changed over the course of 4 years. The timing was definitely off since the war did not start in 1941. My only real criticism was it makes it appear that it's a true story at the very end.


                
It is said that in wars, the Victors always write the histories. I grew-up on the American and English war films always showing the Germans as monsters. People without emotion other than hate (most of the time). So much of that history was written by THAT generation that lived through the war with all the attendant hate. As I became an adult I knew there was of course another side. It was impossible for all on the OTHER side to be monsters. So much simplification. War is full of good and bad on both sides. The victorious can hide their monsters and ignore them. Not all Germans were monsters. They were HUMAN. This wonderful mini-series shows that humanity. Some think that it shows the Germans as being so nice. IT DOES NOT. There is kindness hate love cruelty and compassion in this. There are haters of Jews and those that change their minds about Jews. There are ALL sides of the German of that time shown. The acting directing and writing are very good. It lacks the polish of a Hollywood big budget film but it tells a fine STORY. STORY is what this is all about. There is an even handedness about it all. I felt they tried to show all sides of what happened complete with the torture murder and rape of Jews to a few scenes of compassion for them. Not all are the same in Wars. Just as there were murderers and rapists in the ranks of the allied military. Just not done on such a horrific mass scale as the Germans did.


                
First of all, people seem to get extremely upset because of historical inaccuracies. Remember people, this is about a WAR. There will never be a movie that perfectly reflects what happened in a war whether you were an American, German, civilian, etc. Even with veterans/survivors sitting and helping the writers WRITE the script, it will never truly reflect what happened because everyone involved all had their own experience and you can never bundle those experiences into one movie perfectly. No one can ever fully understand what those people went through and the ones who went through it can probably never fully describe their experiences/emotions/thoughts. I loved this movie. I loved that it was from the German perspective. I was on the edge of my seat practically the entire movie. I would highly recommend it to anyone. It is definitely for adult viewers.


                
I felt like someone had to add some good things here. The Nazi regime was pure evil. But unfortunately the Wehrmacht regular army was manned with people like you and me. They were led to believe they will win and that they are the greatest people on the face of the earth. Tell me about someone who won't fell to that illusion at least for a short time. Basically they were kids in their 18 till 30 which were mislead. But I can tell you a story about Wehrmacht. My wife's grandma which was an opera singer recounts every time that German Wehrmacht soldiers were always giving the kids candy and nurturing them because they also had kids at their home in Germany. While when Russians entered their village all kids ran away and hide. She even tells me that Russians did cook a chicken from their backyard with feathers. Her older sister (was 14) had to hide for as long as 2 weeks until the Russian army moved. You can understand why. So let's be fair. Wehrmacht was the regular army composed of regular people and the SS "c&ocks1ckers" were another story.


                
