I have just watched the final episode of the mini series (shown in Ireland with English subtitles). To be honest, I understand why some reviewers are angry at the depiction of the AK's anti-semitism. There is no doubt that anti-semitism was prevalent throughout Europe (and still is to some extent), lets not forget that local support was essential in the Europe wide round up of the Jewish population. This was certainly true in central and eastern Europe. However, the scene where the AK partisans cruelly left a consignment of holocaust victims locked in a train was simply an unnecessary and offensive exaggeration. The AK leader is a poorly and lazily drawn caricature, and this is my problem with the series as a whole; the writing is simply awful. The plot depends on a series of most unlikely chance meetings on what was a crowded, chaotic and fast moving front. The story develops with coincidence following coincidence, in an almost childish manner. It was truly farcical and detracted from the intent to depict events in gritty realism (ala Band of Brothers). As regards representing the historical context, I think it was fair enough (with the obvious exception of the AK extreme anti-semitism). The German people in general supported the war (not just Nazis). The war in the east was most brutal and barbaric with no regard for the Geneva Convention.. The Wehrmacht were guilty of war crimes (not just Nazis, SS and Einsatzgruppen) . The Red Army also committed war crimes. Anti-semitism was widespread. Pity about the writing.


                
Till watching this movie I only suspected that, now I'm sure. It must have been Ukrainians and Poles who invented Holocaust. The only group of Ukrainians shown is a bunch of primitive murders. The only shown group of Polish resistance (AK) troop isn't any better. They recognize Jew "by smell", they can fight shoulder to shoulder with Viktor as a German, but they demand his execution as a Jew . Will they help Jewish prisoners from transport to KL Auschwitz ? Don't be stupid, such bastards will shut the wagons door in the blink of an eye. What's worth to mention - they are also golden teeth collectors of course.Deep representative characters. Finally fair and balanced picture of 'Our Mothers, Our Fathers' as if killing them wasn't for Germans enough. Only during Warsaw Uprising in 1944 we lost 200,000 people, mostly from mass executions. Native Poles, because Jewish residents (300,000-400,000) were starved to death or gassed in KL Treblinka earlier. In slow, cruel way because exhaust fumes from engines of captured Russian tanks were less efficient but cheaper than Zyklon B. It wasn't Ukrainian invention and it wasn't Polish resistance who killed rest of them during house-to-house clearances.But who cares, out of topic, my bad - it's not a story about Nazi fanatical monsters. It's written and served as a story about German young generation, 'typical' I suppose group of young friends. Sure, why not - cheated and betrayed by their leaders, shocked, defeated (by Russian winter of course), lost at these boundless steppes even more then survivors from ABC "Lost" series on their island. Thats cool! Any chance for next seasons or prequel explaining the mystery circumstances which led them there ? Charlotte impulsively betrays a Jewish nurse, and immediately regrets it. Friedhelm shots civilians but its automatic - he has no choice ... so he has no soul. While Polish AK commander has the choice (lucky guy) but he hates Jews and want's them to die. Ukrainians are cruel just for fun. Feel of guilt, humanity are reserved by authors only for German side. 'Nur für Deutsche' once again. Let's share with our young heroes their helplessness, hesitations and pain. More then that. Let's give them Jewish friend so they could sacrifice, risk their lives and shoot officers to save him. Sure, antisemitism was wide-spread in Eastern Europe (not only) these years. But somehow better or worse we managed to live together. Also with Ukrainians, Lithuanians etc. Until Wehrmacht brought us "higher culture" with their tanks and their bombs and unleashed the beast in people's minds and hearts. Giving power and law to criminals and bastards. Hunting for decent and brave who risked their lives and families trying to save victims and their own humanity. Thousands of acts to be proud of, thousands of sins to be confessed. Still one constant - we don't need German help.To learn how on pretext of confession sling mud at victim - a MUST SEE
Right tittle should be <U+0084>Nazi mothers, Nazi fathers"<U+0085>. This saga is German attempt to change the historical facts. By this saga Germans falsifying the image not only their own history, but also Polish and Jews. And they do it in a very cynical way – not the first time. Producers not showing German "Killing Industry" – German Death Camps in Poland, murders, rapes done by Wehrmacht and SS on civilians, etc. They doing different – they showing martyrdom of German soldiers forced to kill another peoples<U+0085>. They showing Polish AK Army like a murders, like people from the forests, without any sensitivity to the suffering of the civilian population, more even, the showing AK Army killing Jews!!! – for you, who don't known AK Army history I recommend to learn about Witold Pilecki (AK Army Solider, who volunteered to Auschwitz trying help prisoners to make insurrection against German death industry)<U+0085>.One sentence to German citizen – Nobody form Poland, except "Volksdeutch" do not forget your crimes committed on Polish nation during II World War. And please stop saying that II World War was the result of Nazi – no, Nazi was result of German colonialism and German loss during I World War.Despite enormous historical hypocrisy, from a "technical" perspective saga is filmed well. If it was not what I wrote about historical facts, I would give a 6 points for creation, good shots, excellent characterizations. But producers are telling, that this saga is way to show feeling German soldiers during II World War – if they trying to say about II World War, they shouldn't trying to change historical facts, and shouldn't denigrate all the other nations (Polish) that were affected by the Germans at the expense of whitening and pinning the blame from themselves.


                
