Well produced account of 5 German friends from 1941-1945, a Jewish tailor (pretty obvious, but never mind), 2 brothers who are just about to enlist in the campaign on the eastern front, a nurse and a hopeful singer. Some die, some survive with their souls in ruins. The primary problem for this series is that it is way to short. Most of the five lead characters have unexplained motivations for their various actions because we don't know enough about them. One can make educated guesses, but these does not make a lot of sense from a storytelling perspective. This is especially unfortunate, when a lot of the supporting characters have much more clear-cut motivations and are played by better actors. A lot of the power that could have been derived from telling a WW2 story from the German side is lost when our protagonists are this flat. The story is fiction, but are supposedly inspired by stories from several survivors. If you would like to see a better story from the German perspective, the movie "Stalingrad" or the Epic TV-series "Heimat" (1984), which deals with the entire period from 1919-1982, is much better than this. So we are still waiting for a really good German antiwar series that explains what the hell went wrong back then... This is not it, but it is still worth a look.
The mini series is by no means an accurate historical narration, and certainly not perfectly logical, yet it is a good piece as entertainment. A movie is not a documentary, and this subjectivity allows more freedom to develop characters, plots and expression of social critique. Unfortunately the film fails to exploit this advantage, instead giving too much attention on building the tension to create strong emotional reaction, even sacrificing common sense to accomplish that goal. The probability of many events in the movie are so low (e.g. meeting each other in such a huge battle field, surviving events in which the protagonist could have easily got killed) that towards the end I could not engage emotionally with the story anymore. The transition between story lines and scenes are not always smooth, and it is plagued by cliché and corny conversations, and By Hollywood standard this is completely normal, but I expected a bit more from a German production on this topic.


                
The German experience in World War Two differs from the British one in two primary ways: the moral complicity of involvement in atrocity, and the disillusionment of defeat. 'Generation War' is a major German drama about this experience, made in a country perhaps naturally somewhat shy of revisiting this aspect of its past. It's not awful, but it's a little unimaginative, as it sets out the varied stories of five friends, one Jewish, and not one true Nazi among them. The scope is epic, but somehow I didn't feel truly engaged with the drama, or that I cared overly about the characters. Yet the piece still throws an interesting light on an aspect of war, the growing sense of looming catastrophe, absent from the usual stories told by the victors.


                
A good series was sad for d day to be called the American landings. The British,Canadian's,free french and Polish seem to be forgotten..In no way was d day a mainly American affair..Ships landing craft and equipment was overwhelmingly British. Numbers involved was very equal and overall casualty's..Other then Eisenhower being overall in command, most commanders were British..So this thing of d day being a majority American affair is unbelievably misleading..If anything it was a mainly British affair with around 80% of vessels, equipment etc being from the UK.I feel with many documentaries, mini series and Hollywood movies always go down as Americans fighting the Nazis's and it seems to still be the case.Im sure ww2 was 1939/1945 not 1941/1945


                
This TV movie was enjoyable to watch thanks to the ambitious young actors and actresses as well as the money poured into the sets and costumes. I'm vulnerable to melodrama in my older age, even when I'm aware of such sloppily gnawing at my heart strings. But what GENERATION WAR proves is that today's young German folk are apparently as far removed from the true brainwashing and horror of the Nazi Third Reich as are young Americans. GENERATION WAR's fab five characters are conveniently drawn with little genuine responsibility and -more critically- appear blissfully ignorant of the ideology that would have had to permeate their young minds through Goebbel's manure. Indeed people of that age at that time and place were entirely victims of a political phenomena that, given the right circumstances, could happen anywhere at anytime (yes, in America today, just look around you). But to suggest that none of our five twenty-somethings picked up the Third Reich's banner to any significant degree is disingenuous. Charley's character is a bit too sweet to be credible. There's a young German actress named Anjorka Strechel that would have been a perfect fit.
