I started watching SB with great expectations after seeing it praised to the skies in other Wilder reviews, and favorably compared with flicks such as Ace in a Hole, but I gotta say I'm disappointed. Now, I'm aware that saying that SB is anything less than a masterpiece is a heresy for many, but I'll say it anyway. This is a mediocre movie, even a bad one at times, especially during that hideously contrived, overacted, ending.Yet the movie was going pretty well until the party. Until then I was well disposed, willing to be seduced, even if up to this point all what I had seen was a delusional has-been of an actress and a penniless, opportunist, scriptwriter stumbling into each other. But then the whole thing sinks into mediocrity. Actually, what really ruined it for me was Gillis' frantic race back to the mansion, into Norma's arms. That's the most unrealistic bit of bad melodrama I have ever seen. The only way Wilder could have convinced me of such a thing really happening was by developing a psychological portrait on Gillis as a deeply disturbed man, carrying a humongous mother fixation; one who as a child was tortured by a monster of a mother, which withheld food from him until he did what she told him, usually something as humiliating as, for ex., licking her feet. That would have made it for me, it would have given sense & coherence to what comes next. But the way it is shown, Gillis' behavior makes no sense at all. Also, freelance writers are the most independent minded people, the last human creatures still in the wild. To any of them, even death would have preferable to the lifestyle he chooses. There is no logical reason why he doesn't simply leave and goes to work as a dishwasher, waiter, whatever, instead of allowing his own emasculation by the hag. But he does even worse when he sends Betty packing, to make that grotesquely contrived ending possible, when in his case any normal man would have thought: what do you know; I got love when I least expected it. Maybe the rest is on the way. But that would have been just too logical and logic doesn't have much place here.This is one film that doesn't touch me at any level, that leaves me totally indifferent. And don't call it a cultural thing: I've gotten aboard every other Wilder flick--The Apartment, Ace In A Hole, Stalag 17, DI, SLIH, Lost Weekend, Sabrina, etc. I can easily get into the story of a reckless reporter who'll do anything to get the big scoop or that of a moral degradation of a man caught in the web of a black widow, or in a bottle of booze, but I can't picture what may be touching about a crybaby of a woman who once got things most people can only dream about--a $18.000/w. salary, a wardrobe the size of a city block, the adulation of millions--and who didn't have the maturity to go with calm and dignity into retirement when all that, except the money, was gone. I don't know why this Hollywood fixation with the "tragedy" of its retired stars, anyway, about them suffering the same fate that every other thing, human being, will suffer with time. Are we supposed to join them crying and moping? Pull-heeze! Tennis stars are seen also as temperamental and showy, but I can't imagine a 50 year old Sharapova or Williams crying and bitching because the crowd doesn't go wild every time they enter a court to hit a few balls. Grow up, Hollywood! And accept that SB is not the classic you say it is it is but just an overdone, navel watching, schmaltzy soap opera that only moves those fireflies caught in your glitter and hoopla.Truth is, this movie didn't even need to be done; if only Max had had the fortitude to claim his cojones back and told Norma the truth: Girl, you got your 15 min. but now it's gone. But still you have your money and me. Live with that. Instead of that we are treated to a 2 hr. soap opera about people we don't really give a hoot about.Resuming, I don't see anything remarkable about SB. Cinematography is standard. The atmosphere right, but mostly in the depressing confines of the Desmond mansion. Outside of it, it doesn't exist, except for the bit in the De Mille sound stage--the best part of SB along with the blooming Gillis-Betty relationship. A movie focused on this last theme would have been far better and more interesting. Acting goes from good—-Holden, Olson--to wooden--Von Stroheim--to bad and then to worse—Swanson—-to hit rock bottom during her hideously over the top caricature of a washed up actress at the end, which every former female thespian should find deeply offensive. If that's what Hollywood calls good acting, God helps them. 1/10OK, OK, I got it: Hollywood is BAD. But I don't see them raiding the countryside to abduct folks and making work as slave actors.
A scriptwriter who has not earned money for a while and has difficulty of keeping his head above water turns into a drive way while he is trying to escape from two repossession agents who asked for his car back! When the scrips writer turns into that way in Sunset Boulevard he finds himself in an old mansion which seems to be deserted at first sight but when he walks into mansion he recognizes a woman as Norma Desmond, formerly one of the great stars of the silent screen. She offers him a job reading the script she has been writing for her planned comeback(a return by her original words), and the writer accepts that offers as the only chance of making some money.Soon the former star will entrap him into her fantasy world in which she made herself believe that she is still big, there is no need for dialogues in the pictures, she is still a real star etc..Well I just wanted to give a mental picture of the movie for people who have not seen it yet! Well I don't really know why people just loved such a simple,bosh plot which has nothing exciting about it! Maybe it was a great plot for 50s but I don't see nothing different,original,unique about it! Gloria Swanson seems to doing her job well to portray that Hollywood lady who is entrapped in her glorious past but I don't see any other good performance in any players. Even Max-her servant display a poor performance. I am not surprised that in 1998 the movie was ranked number twelve on the American Film Institute's list of the 100 best American films of the 20th century either after all they think "Citizen Kane" is the best movie off all times. Well I am just tired of saying that top 250 is a list blown out of its proportions.It is not a list good movies but only a list of popularly-voted movies. I am just sorry I wasted my time on such a un-original and bromidic piece of crap!


                
