Director Billy Wilder probably at his best. Shot in black, white and shades of gray; the screen sparkles with the brilliance of the script and very good acting. William Holden plays a once successful script writer down on his luck. He finds himself at the mansion of an aging silent movie star played by Gloria Swanson. She was kind of spooky and a whole lot crazy. Her butler and former husband is played by Erich von Stroheim. A true classic worth watching again.


                
Hack screenwriter chances upon mansion of a faded Hollywood silent screen star who 'hires' him to ghost-write her return project "Salome", but who really wants him for her lover. Poor Norma Desmond: she's 50 years old and over the hill! Literate, but queasy black comedy has a great script and majestic performances, but creeps its way to the depressingly inevitable. The palpable aroma of vintage cigarettes and the smell of rosy perfume hanging in the air permeates this incredible Billy Wilder film; yet, the deeper it crawls into its dark corner, the more repulsive it all seems. It can easily be called a masterpiece, but is it an entertaining movie? Great to see Hollywood circa 1950, with Schwab's Drug Store still there, but it's sad to think that even in 1950, stars were being discarded, replaced by the new and the younger, and even a star like Norma Desmond couldn't get a picture made. Thank goodness she had those oil wells in Bakersfield ("Pumping...pumping."). There's a lesson to be learned from the film: invest! *** from ****


                
Dom De Luise once uttered a line I use quite often:"Nice, not thrilling, but nice!" That's exactly how I feel about "Sunset Blvd.", because as much as the first 30 minutes of it were extremely promising the overly long and much less entertaining middle just slowed the pace a gear to many. I somehow hoped that Joe Gillis would get himself mixed up in a murder case or something, when in fact he wound up being a victim of one in the end. Good performance all around, although not really Oscar worthy(maybe the fact that I saw "A Man For All Seasons" just a couple of days ago speaks for itself). I truly hope it wasn't the murder plot or shall I say the final "twist" that impressed so many viewers, because as much as it is unusual (and for that time perhaps almost revolutionary) I saw it coming a mile away, which is the main reason with my disappointment with "Sunset Blvd." Once I knew exactly what was going to happen there just wasn't any fun in watching the lonesome and forgotten old silent-movie actress tormenting herself and others anymore. I can't figure out why this movie stands so tall in the IMDb 250 greatest; a great beginning, a nice ending and some of the best narration(By William Holden) ever put onto the big screen, but the predictability of it all made "Sunset Blvd." overly long and not nearly as pleasing and good as it could have been. 7/10


                
I found Sunset Boulevard to be pretty alright, personally. There wasn't anything that I found particularly jumped out as wild or interesting, but that might just be my view from here in 2019. Back in the 50's when this was released, I'm sure it was a lot more nfluential and out of the box. It did a good job of the Film Noir style, with the main character not being the 'shiny perfect' guy, instead having flaws and not exactly being the most likeable. But all in all, there was nothing very memorable about it. The plot fell flat, and I didn't find myself caring about the characters as much as I should have.


                
Although I found the plot and lines of Sunset Blvd. to move very slowly, I can't help but to admit how well the film aged. It tells the story it portrays in a creepy, gruesome manner which makes it that much more engaging. Honestly, if Joe left with Betty, I think I would've been slightly more satisfied with the ending even if it is cliche. The happier endings may be less exciting and interesting, but happier endings are better for peace of mind. That being said, I did enjoy the shock of the ending. They showed Norma's true psychotic break when she shot Joe and was still on about being a star. I also really enjoyed Joe narrating the whole thing even after he was dead, because I often wonder about the characters and what they think after their death. Overall great movie, just a little too slow-paced for me.
I've heard the name Sunset Boulevard repeatedly over my life, but I hadn't seen it until now. Since I'd heard it heralded as a classic, but didn't know much about it, I was excited to see it, and it was an interesting film to finally watch. However, I found it a little difficult to get invested in the film since neither of the main characters seemed particularly sympathetic to me. This made some scenes feel dull or unappealing to watch because I didn't really care what happened to the characters. That being said, most scenes were still interesting, and it was still fun to see a "classic" old film.


                
I really enjoyed this movie for what it stood for and represents. Swanson does an amazing job portraying a woman with personal issues. A timeless movie in my opinion.


                
I really enjoyed this film, it starts off with telling you that the protagonist is already dead. Then goes on to tell the story of the time leading up to his death when he stayed with an older famous actress from the silent era. The movie uses lots of narration so we get to hear what the main character is thinking constantly, this works really well as they use this in comedic ways constantly. It is ultimately a tragic story of an actress who is dying to make a comeback after 20 plus years away from the film industry. The story was so engaging i honestly forgot that the main character had been murdered in the beginning, so it really brought the story full circle when we see his downfall.


                
When I first viewed this film I did not know what to expect. It turned out to be a very ominous and dreary film. The acting isn't the best but the story makes up for that. I had seen many quotes from this film but didn't actually know it was from THIS film which was shocking but great. Overall it's decent.


                
I would like to preface this review by stating I fully realize that as a person of the contemporary times my conception of pace and story development certainly conditions me to favoring a swifter more fluid progression in a film's plot. So older films will often tend to feel a bit slow. But then again "It's a Wonderful Life" is one of the top films I've ever seen despite being 5 years younger than this and about 20 minutes longer, so the point here is there's no excuse for something perceived as a flaw, not its time not anything.During some stretches the film will lack a bit of content and could've been filled with more intricacy when the narrative is clear enough to the viewer. All in all, it's obvious what the director is conveying during each section from the very start of the scene, it appears the film could've benefited from perhaps 15min less with more effective playtime. The conclusion also leaves something to be desired and contributes largely to that notion of being too self-explanatory and a scene which point is too obvious from the start. The Norma Desmond character is probably overplayed a tad (especially towards the end), which further contributes to that obviousness factor and pushes the movie towards looking like a movie rather than genuine and subtle.Of course it's still a very good film - especially if compared with the films of today it feels like a masterpiece of rare occurrence. It's strong in plot, psychologically intriguing and well crafted with several interesting developments (rather than feeding off one single idea) and the narration is just superb for about the two thirds of it before dropping to a more normal level in the last part.7.5/10.


                
Watching this 1950s film was actually interesting acting so dramatic including the female who acts as if she is nothing without her husband. There was a very common scene where a character falls into the pool. This film/movie gives a realistic view on how a Hollywood movie is done. One scene sort of gives the audience a crisp view of Norma Desmond face as the camera lens zooms in giving a three dimensional view. The lighting within the film was pretty blurry yet gave a Film noir appealing look to it where the female is edgy, seducing, and don't go along with it.
As I unwrapped my Blu-ray to re-watch this old favourite I thought I was in for a real treat. Perhaps I should not have watched it so soon after seeing Aronofsky's mother! That film is full of terrifying emotions and selfish actions supposedly in the service of selflessness. And here, something not altogether different but so mannered, so other worldly. The beginning is great, all mystery and ambiguity, the scene where we visit Paramount Studios and meet the real Cecil B DeMille directing while a spotlight is turned upon our crazy heroine is fantastic. But so much of this is mundane and repetitive. I understand Mae West was considered for the role and at first I thought, what nonsense, but on reflection perhaps playing this for laughs would have been preferable to this arch campiness. Holden is fine, not someone with much charisma, and I've certainly seen him better. What he lacks here is any sense that this is really going on. I know in 1950 a bed scene between the two would probably have been too much (though goodness knows there were enough film folk of maturity bedding nymphets at the time) but maybe just an unmade bed or something to indicate he had some connection with this wretched creature.


                
The voice narration that speaks by the main actor throughout parts of the film was deep and well spoken. The narration helped make the film feel like a crime movie throughout the film. The cinematography through the film was good. The slow montage that was used to show the title of the film was suspenseful and dramatic. There are many uses of scenes fading in and out of the bedroom scene as the screenwriter is alone writing the actress' screenplay. The acting in this film was played out well, although sometimes overreacted.The movie kept up its suspense and drama through its great acting, lighting, mood, narration, and music that made the movie good. I would recommend this movie if you're interested in watching great Film Noir films.
Billy Wilder directed this dark comedy/drama that stars William Holden as hack writer Joe Gillis, desperate for work who agrees to see former silent movie queen Norma Desmond(played by Gloria Swanson) who has dreams of a big comeback in a picture directed by Cecil B. Demille,and wants Joe to write it, but in reality has become a delusional, even insane woman who lives in a self-contained world in her Hollywood home with her butler,and former director & husband, Max(played by Erich Von Stroheim) who remains steadfastly loyal. Joe and Norma start a relationship(she is still wealthy) but her jealousies grow out of hand leading to the inevitable outcome... Nancy Olsen and Jack Webb play Joe's concerned friends. Legendary film has many interesting and accurate things to say about that self-contained world called Hollywood, though only quibble is that this film is a little too out there, to the point it affects credibility by becoming a self-parody. Still, a witty and memorable film regardless.


                
Sunset Blvd. is a excellent murder mystery thats leaves you guessing until the end. There is a great shot right in the beginning where the camera is underwater looking up at the dead body directly above face down in the water and the detectives looking down upon him. This scene is actually the end of the movie. Then the movie starts from the beginning and shows you how the body got there. The film starts off fast with a great car chasing scene. There great sound effects off tire's screeching around turns and eventually one of the tires even pops. The main character Joe soon arrives at a mysterious,creepy,and what seems to be abandon Maison. This mansion gives the perfect creepy vibe to the movie. Right away there's a very scary shot of Norma looking down at him through an upstairs window, a very classic shot to warn the audience something just not right with the house. The inside of the house is even creepier with tons of weird directions and organ music playing in the background. One of my favorite parts of the film is when Norma is standing in front of the projector light and it looks as though smoke is coming off her head really signaling to the audience of her evil mysterious ways.Norma's character overall is great she did a very wonderful Job of play the crazy old actress from Hollywood with priceless facial expressions. I think without her strong acting it definitely would not have been such a good film. I didn't enjoy how Joe and the younger Women fell for each other so fast and didn't really understand the scene where they looked like they were going to make out in the bathroom of her boyfriends party. It was very awkward and strange, as well as the rest of the film but I just didn't think it made sense to put in. Overall its a good film and would recommend it.


                
Its funny how some movies never seem to become dated. I guess Hollywood doesn't change. Neither does our impression of it. The idea that people played by the actors today do still exist today isn't so far fetch.I think the acting was on point. People picked up upon the highs and lows of the characters they played.Sometimes we wonder if life is imitating art or is art imitating life. With the way the world is today, there are some movies like this when you really do wonder what the basis is. Things in Hollywood were hush hush back then, I guess we'll never know.


                
Sunset Boulevard is universally acclaimed. It is one of those films which should you dare suggest it is not among the greatest films ever made people think you're an idiot. Well, at the risk of being labeled an idiot, Sunset Boulevard is not among the greatest films ever made. It is a good film, certainly captivating in its own unique, macabre way. But is a film for which reputation outstrips reality.Most everyone is familiar with the story of Sunset Boulevard, that of faded silent film star Norma Desmond. The faded star lives in an equally faded mansion, plotting a comeback which is far-fetched to say the least. Failing screenwriter Joe Gillis stumbles into Norma's bizarre world and, at the price of his dignity, feeds her delusions. A man's gotta make a living and Joe will make his by brushing up the godawful script Norma has written as her comeback vehicle. Joe will soon realize Norma wants him as more than a script doctor. He is to be her lover, a kept man living in her grotesque mansion, surrounded by the relics of Norma's past, reminders of a life which for her is gone forever. Of course in her deluded mind Norma is just as big a star as she ever was. It's the pictures that got small.Gloria Swanson turns in a performance for the ages. Her portrayal of Norma does match the hype, even if the film as a whole may not. The descent into madness is breathtaking to watch. Yes, Swanson is a little over-the-top at times but that is who Norma is. Especially as Norma begins to lose all touch with reality. William Holden, playing Joe, is not bad but certainly not up to the level of Swanson. Joe is a bit of a dry character, he could use some more personality. Holden doesn't make him into as much of a presence as he really needs to be for the film to truly grab you. Erich von Stroheim, playing Norma's ever-faithful butler Max, does have a presence, a quite ominous one. But as we learn more about the character Max becomes less ominous and more sad. It's a sad world Norma Desmond lives in and that sadness grabs everyone who falls under her sway. Joe knows he has to escape. He tries to find happiness with beautiful young Betty Schaefer, with whom he secretly works on a script. But nobody escapes Norma Desmond easily.All in all Sunset Boulevard tells a very sad tale, centered around the quite pitiable Norma Desmond. Norma longs for a world which is forever gone. She won't accept it and nobody will try to make her do so. Max, her only companion before Joe shows up, allows Norma to live in her fantasy world. She retreats so far into her fantasy there is no way back to reality. Norma cannot be saved. She has lost her mind. And despite the fact she does some truly loathsome things you can't help but feel sorry for her. For you saw those moments where the old Norma Desmond shined through, where you could see her for the great star she once was. But those moments are fleeting and ultimately those moments are gone. Only a sad, pathetic shell of Norma Desmond remains. It's a sad journey the character takes, a journey Swanson captures ever so well. You just wish the rest of the film was up to Swanson's standard. Holden can't quite match her. Nancy Olson brings a desperately needed breath of fresh air to the film in playing Betty but the romance between Betty and Joe never fully sparks to life. von Stroheim is memorable in his own way but his character is ultimately almost as sad as Norma. So much sadness in this film. Sunset Boulevard has a captivating story to tell but in the end maybe there is a little too much sadness. And madness. By the end it veers dangerously close to parody. There is much to appreciate about the film but to label it as one of the greatest films ever is to give it more praise than it deserves. It is a good film to be sure. But perhaps upon close examination Sunset Boulevard is not quite ready for its closeup.


                
This film was suspenseful but at times did seem to drag on. At the start of the film the viewer is introduced to the main character and the narrator of the film, floating dead in a pool. Right off the bat the audience is waiting for his demise during the whole film. Norma Desmond played by Gloria Swanson is one of those characters that the audience is just waiting to break. The entire film she seems to be on the brink of a meltdown and her obsession with reviving her movie career and her romance with Joe always seem to be pushing her closer and closer to the edge. In a way I found myself loving and hating Joe, at one second I would rooting for him to escape and be with Betty but at the same time he was stringing Norma along. The use of dark and light in the film give a real feel of what life was like for everyone inside Norma's estate. Most of the scenes inside her home are quite dark and gloomy while any of the scenes in which Joe escapes are bright and jovial. This reflects Hitchcocks use of dark and light in his film Notrious. Although the audience knows the whole time that Joe is going to be murdered and the film does not let you forget it, it really draws you in with the acting and camera-work.
this was a great movie it started with a flash forward. the camera man narrates us through the movie until the main character takes over.great lighting and shadows, clear picture liked the way they told the story. They had a fake background while driving the cars that was really unrealistic. Loved the staircase design in the womens house but the pictures of herself were a bit much and it almost always seemed dark in the house maybe because of her attitude she seemed to be a dark sad woman. music went with everything especially when it was dramatic like when the man finally got mad at the end. There were some things that caught my ears not my eyes like the verbal usage the rainbow was the bathroom, he used the word gilluopie (sp) to refer to his car and the white elephant to describe her house. overall this was a good move I enjoyed it very much. Meg


                
I may be alone in my review of this Gloria Swanson, but I thought she was absolutely horrendous in this role. I don't recall seeing anyone overact the way she did in this movie. Every word seemed to be the most important word ever spoken. How she was nominated for Best Actress in a Leading Roll for this movie is beyond me. I think many actresses from that time period, including Joan Crawford, could have done a much better job.Holden, as an actor and narrator, did a great job as usual. I also thought the movie was a little too long. And Erich Von Stroheim, nominated for Best Supporting Actor also did a good job.


                
That's how I felt about the movie overall. Certain aspects of the film seemed dated. But there are many aspects that are quite relevant too.It has an interesting premise. A struggling screenwriter Joe Gillis(William Holden) starts living with an old star of the silent era Norma Desmond(Gloria Swanson) in order to write a screenplay for a movie she wants to act in(which is supposed to be her big comeback). Joe is amused by Norma's behaviour. She still lives in an illusory world in her mansion where she is still a big star. Her faithful servant Max Von Mayerling also feeds her ego and keeps telling her that she is a big star. Norma begins falling in love with Joe and gives him presents in order to keep him. The movie then follows Norma's degeneration and the final over the top conclusion. The situation of old actresses who were stars in the past is very well portrayed in this movie. The dry humour and sarcasm in this movie is also an aspect that raises it above the other classics of the Old Hollywood era. It can also be seen as a satire of the Hollywood system. The scene where the director tells his assistants not to call her again - the same director who had once promoted her heavily - is a sad scene which shows the fleeting nature of showbiz. The portrayal of Norma's obsession with Joe is also excellent. The way Joe gillis uses the opportunity to his own advantage is also quite funny in a sad depressing way.The attitudes of the people reveal a somewhat dated attitude that doesn't quite fit in today. The scene in the shop where the shopkeeper says "Well, as long as the lady's paying for it, why not take the vicuña?" shows a somewhat derisive attitude towards a woman having a "trophy man"(while the opposite has been accepted). The attitude of Joe Gillis also seems dated. He behaves as if he is embarrassed that an older woman is interested in him. The line "I had to be with people my own age." shows the derisive attitude he has towards Norma's love towards him. I felt that the movie was a bit behind the times in these aspects. The ending was also a bit too over the top for my liking.The performances are top notch. The laidback acting style of William Holden is complemented by the over the top performance of Gloria Swanson. The over the top performance was appropriate in this movie, I guess. In many scenes she even seemed cute when she proclaims that she is one of the biggest stars. There is a likability to her character even though she seems a bit unhinged throughout. Nancy Olson is gorgeous and she is adequate for the role. Erich Von stroheim is very good as the faithful servant Max and it is surprising to note that he wasn't a professional actor while doing this film. Cecil de mille's cameo is actually quite good.I liked the movie but felt that the movie seemed a bit too dated for my taste. It can be taken as a stinging critique of Hollywood that is relevant even now. The dated aspects prevent it from becoming a great movie though.7/10


                
Billy Wilder always liked the obvious and easy things. For instance, Jack Lemon is the "middle American everyman", Marilyn is the dumb girl, Stanwyck is the blonde wicked vamp, Stroheim is "one of the three grands directors of the silent era", Swanson disguised as Chaplin, etc. His films are often overwritten (lines like "next time I'll write "The naked and the dead", "who wants to see a film about the civil war?", etc.). "Sunset Boulevard" is a typical Wilder film, full of obvious and overblown things like that, but is a film that it gets better as the decades pass by, I don't know exactly the reason. It is a film that is "so bad that is very good". Perhaps in ten years, another awful "wilderiana" as "The big carnival" (almost worse than SBoulevard) will be also redeemed by its campy flavor.


                
The movie I thought it was ok. Maybe a little bit boring, also I thought that it happens to much stuff and that I wasn't able to follow all that it was going on. But I need to say that I really appreciate that they made that movie because we can really tell how it change the movies from then to now and i t's really amazing how much did improve the cinema from those times


                
This film was a great commentary on the superficial and fleeting nature of fame. Joe Gillis, a down on his luck screenwriter, happens upon the one-time Hollywood Gem Norma Desmond who sees Gillis as a way to relaunch her flagging film-career. Hollywood Boulevard brilliantly portrays the harsh and brutal nature of Hollywood. It is pathetic seeing Norma Desmond, sitting in the dark watching her old films, but it is also poignant and sad too. She was once a massive Hollywood star, but now everybody has even forgotten that she existed. To be launched into fame and then to have this fame taken away from you would be difficult to deal with for anyone let alone a has-been actress like Norma Desmond.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/GpaqvS


                
"Madame" is still living in her movie which is also her own world. This hits he audience in the end of the movie in the creepiest way possible. However, until the audience gets to the end, they are given some clues to what kind of a woman this "Madame" is. She is a worn out star who is 50 and lives alone in a house which reminds us of Ms.Havisham from Charles Dickens' "Great Expectations". This bit of comparison is actually made by the narrator of the movie who is also one of the main characters, who is also Madame's platonic crush.The movie actually starts off with a death scene and then is narrated by the victim himself. Then goes back 6 months and is oddly narrated by the dead character. Joe is a writer in Hollywood who is after his Hollywood dream. However, he has realized that it is just a dream for him unlike Betty who is a script reader who has a passion for her job and later for Joe. They start working on a script together while Joe is in a complicated relationship with Madame. Things get tragic in the end because the movie ends in a traumatic way for Betty and Joe. Madame on the other hand, is just starting her own movie which Max is directing for her.This movie does the justice of putting a few smiles on the viewers face. In fact, in the end when you feel like you should be crying, you end up smiling because of the ridiculous feelings Madame and Max make you go through.So if you would like to see a fake movie within a real movie then this 1950s wonder is the right "picture" for you.
