I have yet to see a Billy Wilder film that I haven't loved, and Sunset Boulevard is definitely one of those films.  It's interesting to watch the film during different times in one's life <U+0096> when I was a child watching this film, I thought the story was good and that Norma Desmond (Swanson) was a pretty scary lady.  In my teens/college years, I appreciated it as a certified classic and for its commentary on Hollywood.  Now, in my late 20's and early 30's I found it to have a different impact on me <U+0096> I was saddened by Desmond's mental illness, and when she makes her final descent down her staircase and utters her famous line as the camera pans the faces of the people around her, so full of pity, and the care her butler/ex-husband takes to make sure she's happy for maybe the last time in her life made more of an impact on me than any other time in the 20-odd times I've seen this film. There are only a small handful of central characters in Sunset Boulevard and they are so richly written that this film will remain timeless.  There are not a lot of `dated' themes in this film <U+0096> the circle of life that is Hollywood isn't going to be much more evolved in 2050 than it was in 1950. If you haven't seen this film, watch it because there is something for just about anyone in this film.--Shelly


                
Although at that time she hadn't appeared in a film for several years and wasn't to make one for several for several more, Gloria Swanson remained a presence in the Hollywood of the thirties, the only legendary silent star to sustain an image and continue to interest the film studios, which put her under contract and announced her to star in a series of projects<U+0097>none of which were realized<U+0085> While she wasn't to regain her former eminence until her celebrated comeback as Norma Desmond in Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard," a scathing satire on Hollywood and the self-delusions of its former heroes, she maintained her silent-screen image as the personification of glamor, and as such wasn't the initial choice for the role of the faded silent star<U+0085> Like many small people who achieve greatness, Swanson was a powerhouse of energy, vitality, ambition and shrewdness, untroubled by insight humor to slow down her pace<U+0085> The key to her success, the charm of her personality, the glamor of her career and the secret of her survival was superbly captured by herself in one of the best autobiographies, Swanson on Swanson<U+0085>
Gloria Swanson, William Holden and Erich von Stroheim star in this Billy Wilder cinematic masterpiece about an aging essentially forgotten silent film star who has delusions about returning to pictures. Made in 1950 this film will capture the viewer each time it is seen. The references to the bygone silent movie era are somehow chilling. Much like when a person walks around ancient Rome or Egypt wondering how something so powerful and advanced could come to an end. Both Swanson and Stroheim were of course giants during the silent film years and their performances is this great movie even seem to show their perhaps real life animosity toward talking films. Holden as Joe Gillis a rapidly becoming down on his like screen writer who stumbles into Swansons world is fantastic. This is certainly one motion picture that could never and should never be remade or colorized, as the Black and White photography is brilliant. It didn't make AFI's top five of all time and perhaps should have. You can't consider yourself as one of "All those wonderful people out there in the dark" if you've never seen Sunset Blvd.


                
Billy Wilder and Charles Bracket got the definite ghost story about Hollywood broken dreams. There's something vicious about the place and, on the other hand, this movie means the end of an era: Hollywood up to 1950. That year means, in my opinion, the last curtain for the so-called dream factory. And in that dream Norma Desmond and Joe Gillis become crazy. She becomes a fiend and he a pimp. The horror is that after 1950 Hollywood would never be the same and we can say that it's the end of the modern era and the beginning of postmodernism -what with the idiocy of the 50's era-? ABEL POSADAS


                
Spoilers. Sometimes lousy movies can be redeemed through means of a plenitude of epigrams sprinkled on the script. This one has all the classic tag lines. "We had faces then." "I am still big; it's the pictures that got small." "Ready for my closeup, Mr. DeMille." "The audience doesn't know that someone writes the words; they think the actors make them up as they go along." And some lousy movies have little, barely noticeable touches that redeem them. Gillis storms out of Norma Desmond's house on New Years Eve after an argument, leaving his kept existence forever, but his long watch fob gets caught on the doorknob as he exits. (He'll be beck.) Norma visits a set on the Paramount lot for the first time in twenty years and, asked to sit and watch a rehearsal, the microphone on its boom brushes against her feathery hat and she shoves it away with irritation. And that last devastating dissolve.But this movie doesn't need that kind of redemption. The script -- the entire film -- is a classic that stands on its own two feet. Gloria Swanson's performance is overblown, as it should be. Von Stroheim -- or, let's call a spade a spade, plain Stroheim -- brings to his role the starchy oblige that he showed in "Grand Illusion." Holden will be remembered probably for three roles: "The Bridge on the River Kwai," "Picnic," and this. Brackett's script is well above average, even with its use of a voice-over, given by a dead man. Pat Olsen is mouth wateringly beautiful. She went on to make several other movies with Holden, none of them as good as this. The photography and art direction also stand out. This is one REALLY rotting mansion. Everything is out of date, from Buster Keaton to the tiny roach clip Norma Desmond wears on her finger when she smokes.Amid the bizarre melodrama there is one quiet, simple scene I always find appealing. Holden and Olsen are on a dark, deserted city street on Paramount's back lot, and she tells him she once had her nose fixed. He playfully leans down, examines it, and kisses it lightly. Then he backs away a few inches and warns her never to let him get closer than two feet. If he does, she should hit him with her shoe. Holden never indicates more than a momentary physical attraction, combined with a realization that he'd better not push the envelope. He later tells us he's "crazy about her" but we don't believe him. But in this effective and signal scene, Olsen's expression never changes. Her smile is sweet, agreeable, alert, and curious -- without in any way welcoming more intimacy. It all sounds rudimentary but it's tough to put this kind of exchange over and both performers do it splendidly. The story is elementary. Gillis, a failed screenwriter, is adopted by Norma Desmond, a rich but forgotten star of the silent days ("Oil wells in Bakersfield -- they keep pumping and pumping and pumping"), and he succumbs to greed, letting her buy him vicuna coats and "evening clothes" and whatever, in return for which he supplies the only thing she needs and he has to offer. But he doesn't do so without loathing himself. And when he falls for another girl, he decides to reject everything, Norma and girl friend and vicuna coat included, and go back to Dayton, Ohio. He doesn't make it. Everything about the story, Gillis's death included, is comic in a way, acerbic may be better, but very dark too. Wilder could be a phenomenally good director when the right script came his way, and this is an instance.
This is often cited as the first and sometimes the best of explicitly folded films. That's where you have a film within a film and the two merge. It isn't the first or nearly the best of course, but because it was made by a slick Hollywoood director is seems simpler than it is.The setup is simple: the outside movie is the one we are watching (obviously), reinforced by the control of a voice-over. The movie within is the fantasy world of an aging actress, "directed" by her husband-butler-director (played by a real director. They are missing a writer which is where the crossover occurs. We watch as the writer becomes engaged (literally as it turns out) to write the inner movie. He escapes at night to write a third movie, presumably all three to be produced by deMille who plays himself. The three merge at the end, resulting in the writer's death.We know something is up at the very beginning. The original "writer" is portrayed as monkey, literally. On the monkey's death, they expect a replacement and prepare a room. The machinery of noir fate directs our hapless writer to that room (a hack plot device having to do with a car repo).Folded films don't often provide room for folded acting, usually the two are are distinct. Most viewers of the film will think it merely an opportunity for an aging actress to play an aging actress, something like "All About Eve" of the same year (and which influenced this project).Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
I have seen this movie perhaps 10 times and it never fails to get to me on so many levels.  The jaded newsman played by William Holden, the star herself, Gloria Swanson who just about steals every scene she is in, William does an excellent job in holding his own.  This is the ultimate comment on Hollywood by Hollywood. And it holds true even today when we observe so many has beens behaving so inappropriately (Goldie Hawn, pushing 60, giggling like a crazed 15 year old comes to mind) because they cannot let go of their days in the sun and keep projecting their younger selves to us as they have not come to terms with the people they have become. My heart aches for Gloria in this, though she is most unlovable and treats people abominably. The old bit players shine in this also, and of course Eric who continues to worship her because he knows no other life but that of sycophant.  A great, great movie. 9 out of 10 ( And I was so disappointed in the stage remake a few years ago.  Nobody can top Gloria.


                
The advent of the talkies created possibly the biggest-ever upheaval in the history of Hollywood and the impact it had on the careers of a large number of the industry's popular stars at that time was enormous. Many whose voices seemed unacceptable because they were incompatible with their image or because of a heavy foreign accent, found themselves out of work as did others who were simply unable to adapt to the demands of the new era. Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard" provides a fascinating insight into some of the more ruthless and unpleasant facets of the Hollywood system in a style that's witty, cynical and realistic and also features a number of actors whose careers were profoundly affected by the arrival of the talkies.Joe Gillis (William Holden), a struggling Hollywood screenwriter with more debts than he can handle becomes involved in a high-speed chase when he tries to avoid the attentions of a couple of guys who are intent on repossessing his car. When one of his tyres blows out, he swiftly turns into the driveway of a run down mansion and successfully evades his pursuers. After parking his vehicle in the garage, he's surprised that the occupants of the mansion seem to be expecting him. It soon transpires that they'd assumed that he was the mortician who was due to deliver a coffin in which the lady of the house's dead chimpanzee was to be buried. Joe recognises the lady as Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson) a former silent movie star.When Norma discovers that Joe's a writer, she seeks his opinion of a script she'd written for her comeback movie ("Salome") and then hires him to edit her work. In his financial circumstances the offer of this lucrative job is too good to refuse and at her request, he agrees to stay at her mansion to complete the task. Joe recognises that Norma is a delusional has-been who lives in the past and discovers that the fan mail she receives every week is actually written by her devoted butler, Max (Erich von Stroheim). The very wealthy Norma buys Joe expensive new suits and coats and together they watch her old movies a few times each week. Even more bizarrely, on New Year's Eve, she holds a party at which there's an orchestra but no other guests! Joe feels he needs to escape from Norma who's obviously fallen in love with him and so goes to a friend's party instead.Artie Green (Jack Webb) agrees for Joe to stay over at his place and Joe soon gets into conversation with Artie's girlfriend, Betty Schaefer (Nancy Olsen). Joe already knew Betty who worked as a script reader for Paramount and the two of them subsequently start to work together on one of Joe's unfinished scripts. When Norma discovers what's going on, she becomes incensed and determined to bring their association to an end.The most striking feature of "Sunset Boulevard" is its sharp dialogue and numerous quotable lines which vary from the purely witty to the deeply sardonic. The fact that these lines are delivered by a screenwriter and a particularly flamboyant retired actress makes their exchanges seem perfectly credible as both characters would naturally have developed a way with words during their careers.The film's opening scene in which Joe is seen dead and face down in Norma's swimming pool is brilliantly shot and the off-beat device of having a dead man narrating the story is typical of the cynicism and dark humour that runs through everything that follows. At this point, when objectively talking about himself, Joe in typical style remarks "the poor dope. He always wanted a pool. Well, in the end, he got himself a pool".The casting of Gloria Swanson and Erich von Stroheim who both had careers in silent movies, invests the events depicted with a great deal of realism as do the cameos in which Cecil B DeMille, Hedda Hopper, Buster Keaton and others are featured. Shots of Paramount studios and Schwab's Drugstore and the inclusion of an excerpt from "Queen Kelly" (1929) in which Swanson starred and von Stroheim directed also blur the lines between fiction and reality and add greater authenticity to the whole production."Sunset Boulevard" focuses on some of the more unglamourous aspects of Hollywood and must've made uncomfortable viewing for some people in the industry at that time. Its blend of biting humour and tragedy is very effective and the performances of its exceptional cast are consistently good from start to finish.
The movie is still big. It's the pictures that got small. There is nothing like watching Sunset Boulevard. It's a great movie that need to be in the center of attention. Name after a Boulevard in Los Angeles, this film noir was directed and co-written by Billy Wilder who destroy forever the iconic Hollywood image with his dark tale of greed, and the lust of everlasting fame. The film stars William Holden as Joe Gillis, an unsuccessful screenwriter who happen to come upon, a faded silent movie starlet, Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson) who draws him into her fantasy world where she dreams of making a triumphant return to the screen. William Holden is great in the role as a man struggling to keep his masculinity. I like his moral decision in the end of the film. Serve them right. In a way, this movie was indeed William Holden comeback film as well as he fallen from the starlight after 1939's Golden Boys. Gloria Swanson is scary, charming and brilliant in the Femme fatale manipulative role. She does over act a bit, but that comes with the part. She's pretty much playing an extreme version of herself. Gloria, herself was trying to have a comeback with this film, after a number of fails films, include one with Director Erich von Stroheim in 1929's Queen Kelly. Art is mirroring real life, as Erich von Stroheim stars as Max Von Mayerling, her butler and the director that discovered her. There is even a chilling theater scene with all the main characters watching the film, Queen Kelly. Erich von Stroheim is just amazing in this film, and I have become a fan of his works. I didn't like Nancy Olson so much as Betty Schaefer as I felt she was way too chirpy for my taste and in your face shouting acting. I do like the silent film stars cameos like Director Cecil B. DeMille, Buster Keaton, H. B. Warner and Anna Q. Nilsson. I do like the cameo of the set of 1949's DeMille's Samson and Delilah. It makes the film seems more real to Hollywood, to know that another real life film was really taking place there. While, the characters could had been nearly unlikeable, Billy Wilder's comedy charm gives this movie some room to breathe. I have to praise the writing. It's amazing. Yes, some of the jokes went over my head, but the film was balance well enough for the drama and the comedy, not to feel overloaded. The narrative of film noirs are usually characterized as multifaceted and often confusing. It does commonly entailing the use of flashback and first-person voice-over narration. I'm pretty glad they open the film with the shot of the swimming pool, rather than having two corpses talking to each other at the morgue. I think it does sound stupid so I'm glad they use the dead body in the swimming pool idea. The corpse floating in the pool in the film's opening scene. The desired image proved difficult to achieve, and the problem was resolved by placing mirrors on the bottom of the swimming pool and filming from above. The underwater shot was pretty impressed at the time. The visual effects are amazing. Sunset Boulevard uses a lot of high-contrast lighting in Norma's house that creates dark shadows that works well. The lighting and the setting is to show the character is suffocating in their life. Norma is ever looking for the light. I love the foggy blur that it create when people get near it. It's symbolism at its best. The film also contains some German-expressionistic element such as the oblique vertical and horizontal angles. For some interior shots, the crew sprinkled dust in front of the camera before filming to suggest dirty or unclean. The house was old, and nice. The way the photographs were surrounding. It look like some odd Gothic church. The house was later used by Nicholas Ray's 1955's Rebel Without a Cause. It was pretty interesting. The score was composed by Franz Waxman was pretty good. Nothing worth noting compare to today's standards. It was just OK, at best for me. Here are some faults in the film in my opinion. The narrating goes a little bit too long. Show, don't tell. Plus, how do dead-men can do a narration anyways? Aren't they dead? The whole blooming Gillis-Betty relationship seem out of place as well. I know it's needed for the plot, but it's seem forced. I just don't see Betty having much interested in a man, she barely sees. The story was a bit influence by the real life tragedy of Mabel Normand and William Desmond Taylor, in which William Desmond got shot and killed. This film marks the first time that Hollywood was view in a negative light on film. The theme of this movie is that Hollywood creates dreams and stars, and then leaves them with nothing but their own outdated fantasies. In the other side of the coin, some people are so hungry for the fame, that they are willing to do anything for a shot at it, even destroying lives. Hollywood still love and hate the film for its criticism of the movie industry. It's still a bit controversial, ever today. Wilder show us the real Hollywood where few people had success and many fails. People mustn't starve for fame too long, else they risk being trapped in a world of their own making, a world where they become bitter and delude.
Gloria Swanson must be commended for her bravery in taking a part which may or may not have echoed her own Hollywood career. William Holden took a role which required him to be a kept boy; and he's not the nicest guy in the world either. If this had been made with Mae West and Montgomery Clift, I would probably not be writing this and no one else would give a damn about this movie either.Both of them got Oscar nominations and I am sorry both lost. I am also sorry that "All About Eve" won Best Picture that year.  Of course "Eve" is a great movie, but its not this.This movie is part of our collective memory and most of the dialogue continues to be quoted even today. Thank God for whatever it was that brought Billy Wilder to Hollywood. I can't think of anyone who did such a wide variety of movies so well.And please, no remakes.


                
They don't make movies like this anymore. Great dialogue, well-rounded characters, excellent direction, a nice pace, and fantastic acting. I've never really followed Holden's career and I've never seen Swanson before in a movie, but these two are phenomenal.Holden is a hack writer, Joe Gillis, who literally stumbles upon washed up actress Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson) in her creepy mansion. They form a bond borne of both desperation and neediness. He needs money, she needs attention. Along the way, Joe meets Norma's butler/companion, Max, a fellow writer, Betty (Nancy Olson), and Joe's buddy, Artie (a pre-Dragnet Jack Webb).At first Joe sees this as a great way to get some money (his car is about to be repossessed). But as Norma slowly descends into madness, she starts pulling Joe with her. Ultimately, Norma completely loses her senses and Joe suffers for it. Holden and Swanson make the slow, painful descent completely believable. I'm sure there are other actors/actresses out there who could have pulled off these roles, but its hard to think of any. Holden is a smart aleck who makes jokes and writes dialogue with equal talent. Swanson is downright scary as the actress Hollywood wants to forget, but she refuses to let them off easy. She reminded me of that girlfriend who you break up with, but she refuses to accept it.I really loved the dialogue. Joe narrating the proceedings is an interesting quirk if you know the beginning of the movie (everything is told in flashbacks). The banter between the two is sometimes caring, sweet, and loving. Other times its harsh, angry and downright ugly. They both need each other, but being together is the worst thing for them.Hollywood has made some really great movies over the years. However, CGI, sex, and explosions have taken the place of great plots, dialogue and acting. Even though I was not born until 1966, I love these old movies. You just can't fake this kind of talent.


                
This movie deserves all of its fame. It is the creepiest movie I've seen in recent memory, but not in the usual way. In fact, it is a perfectly believable story about perfectly believable people -- no supernatural stuff. And yet, man, what a draining film.I could go on and on, but I'll keep my review covering just the most salient points. Perhaps the most important of these is that the movie explores the concept of wealth combined with loneliness better than any other I've seen to date. Norma's desperate cries, the large house they live in, the strange things that seem to always be happening; I think whenever I think of the combination of wealth and loneliness again in the future, Norma Desmond is the character I will have in my mind. This is one of the great movies about Hollywood. Even if you're not interested in that stuff though, you'll still find something to your liking here. Just watch it.


                
A story right out of Hollywood that some thought sacrilegious, others poetic. The players are all playing themselves in many well documented ways: Willam Holden, a career dip into mediocrity (failed writer), Erich on Stroheim (discarded director serving his past) and, of course, Gloria Swanson (faded silent movie star) whose reality diminishes down the famed, framed and fated staircase spiral into the bright lights of madness.Director Billy Wilder understood what he was doing in cinematically putting this all together in every aspect the film offers and yet it is the overly dramatic "Norma Desmond" that haunts afterwards. Film-noir may be hard to define, but you know it when you see it. Others have taken this story concept and soul it as their own, (for me) most memorably in David Lynch's Molholland Dr. which served as my gateway to this film. Desmonds' museum to herself: of photos, movies, props (both dead, dying and somehow alive) decorate her world trapped in exile (both in career and protection of her mansion). The film experience leaves you wistful, suspicious and awakened all at the same time.And that's a rare treat to be savored!


                
WILLIAM HOLDEN really hits his stride in the role of Joe Gillis, the down-on-his-heels writer who just happens to be drowning in debt before he comes upon a secluded and decaying mansion that is about to change his life. Wilder's script gives him plenty of opportunity to shine. His typically witty quip to servant Erich Von Stroheim is: "I sure drove into an interesting driveway" (after realizing Swanson intends to hold a funeral for her pet monkey). It's the kind of remark that stays with you through the entire story.Holden inhabits the role so perfectly that we can be thankful Montgomery Clift turned down the role at the last moment. And the screenplay by Billy Wilder provides plenty of other cynical and observant wise cracks that give his character of Joe Gillis such depth, conviction and truth.And, of course, GLORIA SWANSON, as Norma Desmond, in what has to be regarded as her film swansong (she did very little thereafter), is every inch the faded silent screen star who lives inside her rich imagination, inflating her ego with self-important phrases like: "It's the pictures that got small." With her cat-like eyes and claw-like hand gestures, she gets every nuance out of a role that is theatrical and larger than life, right up to the fantastic ending. One can almost sense why Andrew Lloyd Webber would fashion this into a terrific Broadway musical.Her meeting with Cecil B. DeMille on the set of a Paramount costume epic is priceless for the way it is written and played. When, at the conclusion of the film, she says: "I'm ready for my close-up, Mr. DeMille", it's a truly poignant moment.All of the supporting players are excellent, including NANCY OLSON, as the writer girlfriend that Holden shields from the truth until that final scene where he invites her to come over to the Sunset Blvd. mansion and exposes the sordid truth of his relationship with Swanson.As the man servant who is Swanson's loyal protector and was once Swanson's first husband and director of her early films, ERICH VON STROHEIM easily matches Holden and Swanson with a fine characterization of the patiently devoted butler.Swanson plays the demented star like a more glamorous version of Miss Havisham in GREAT EXPECTATIONS, the woman who lived among the cobwebs because of a bitter disappointment when a lover jilted her on her wedding day. And like Miss Havisham, she refuses to deal with the reality of her situation when the going gets rough--as it does when it turns out nobody wants her at the studios any more, they were only interested in her antique auto.Some old time Hollywoodians get some cameos (Buster Keaton, H.B. Warner) which give the film added interest and even Hedda Hopper is on the scene as a brusque Hollywood reporter. All of the technical details are perfect. Franz Waxman's score has a Salome-like flavor, especially toward the end when Swanson is in the full throes of her delusions.Expertly photographed, written, directed and acted, this is a film that has to be watched closely to fully appreciate every detail. With its superior script, it mixes film noir, black comedy and dark melodrama with a nice blend of shadowy noir B&W photography, that has that Paramount sheen. A viewer is immediately drawn into the story which gets off to a brilliant start with Holden's brittle narration, the kind that strips all the phoniness away from any Hollywood pretension of glamor. Summing up: Highly recommended for mature adults. Holden's corpse floating face downward, eyes open in the water of the lighted swimming pool, is the stylish stuff that film noir addicts dream of.And Swanson's brief moment mimicking Charlie Chaplin is priceless.Trivia note: Holden's performance is right on target--the perfect degree of cynicism, disdain and self-loathing. He should have won an Oscar here.


                
Sunset Boulevard (1950) is one of the most admired classic films of all time. It deserves all the praise that it has received and will always receive. Every facet of the film is done so well, especially the performances by the ever talented actors. Gloria Swanson absolutely made this film, her performance will blow you away. She commands every scene she's in, she has to because of her character. Her character is so complex and interesting, so much so that it's impossible to look away. The story revolves around a man who stumbles upon an old seemingly abandoned mansion and meets a middle aged washed up actress named Norma Desmond. She showers him with lavish gifts and lets him stay at her Hollywood mansion in exchange for him reading a script she wrote and editing it for her. Eventually, things become very complicated when other factors are thrown into the mix. And then that's where we get the real meat of the film. It really is a great film that is very entertaining. It may be very old, but it'll never lose it's quality or it's well deserved place on the list of the most famous films ever. 9/10


                
Sunset Blvd. had to have influenced the Eagles classic hit, Hotel California. Parallels exist throughout, including the enchantment.Consider: 1) A man compelled to stop for the night, as did Joe Gillis, whose face showed his puzzlement and hesitation upon viewing Norma Desmond's estate on Sunset Blvd: "This could be Heaven, or this could be Hell."2) "Then she lit up a candle..." Norma lit many.3) "Her mind is definitely twisted," as was Norma's, and, "she's got the Mercedes-Benz." Only in Norma's case, the Isotta-Fraschini.4) "She's got lots of pretty, pretty boys that she calls friends." Norma had gone through three husbands and lured Joe into an intimate friendship.5) "How they danced in the courtyard..." Joe and Norma danced in the great room.6) "Some danced to remember" (as did Norma); "some danced to forget" (as did Joe).7) "So I called up the captain, 'Please bring me my wine.'" Max Von Mayerling served as butler/wine captain.8) "Pink champagne on ice." Lots of champagne consumed in the film.9) "We are all just prisoners here of our own device." That's the theme of the movie! Every character is trapped in his and her own way.10) "Last thing I remember, I was running for the door." Joe did also to "find the passage back to place I (he) was before." 11) Finally, "You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave." Precisely the fate of Joe.If this fine film didn't inspire other artists, I'd be very surprised. It adroitly captured the mood and seductiveness of Hollywood and California of the early '50s.
With a medium like cinema, which had such a distinct and holistic culture all of its own, it is bound sooner or later to lose itself in nostalgia. Either that or cynical self-parody. Sunset Boulevard is not about the way motion pictures were – it is about the way motion picture people were, and continued to be.Indeed, the style of Sunset Boulevard was the very epitome of modern film-making – voice-over narration, fluid camera-work, crisp cinematography. These contemporary trappings really serve to deepen the contrast and sharpen the disrespectful onslaught upon the olden days. Take the protagonist voice-over, something writers Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett really made an art of. It may often be functional, cutting corners in the narrative or elucidating on screen events, but more often than not it is superfluous to the story, and acts as a kind of enjoyably wry commentary on proceedings. It's a stylistic layer as much as the overstuffed set design and chiaroscuro lighting.Director Billy Wilder is often said (by Ed Sikov for example) to be someone who "does not call attention to the shot". On the contrary, he actually constantly grabs us with the images. While he was never fond of obvious trickery, Wilder loves the weirdness of natural effects – such as Swanson's face skull-like in her sunglasses, or the close-up on her spinning parasol which begins the bathing beauties routine. He is great at filling the shot with "clues" and reminders, bringing them to our attention at the right moment – such as those holes in the doors where the locks should be, which a line in the dialogue has made us associate with suicide attempts.But this is really a movie about stars, and central to Sunset Boulevard is the performance by Gloria Swanson. It was incredibly brave of Swanson to play such a brazen caricature of the kind of woman she could have become. But she brings all her long-standing talent and the knowledge of experience into the role. Norma Desmond is as much a creation of Swanson as she is of Wilder and Brackett. She has the kind of sleek, animalistic movement of a silent-era vamp, but tinges it with a frank depiction of middle-aged indignity. Her acting may be exaggerated and far from realistic, but remember she is playing a woman for whom life has become an act. Swanson is hammy because hamminess is real for that character. She clearly knew exactly what she was doing and what the pictures was about. Compare that to DeMille, who really had no sense of irony, and it's amazing he agreed to appear here. His performance is assuredly naturalistic (and ironically far better than most of what passes for acting in his own pictures), although that is also perfect for the part he plays here – being himself! Whether or not he had agreed to appear, DeMille would have been a central figure to this story. He was really the sole survivor of the silent era; the only individual – star, producer or director – from that time who was still a top dog. And although Sunset Boulevard sets its sights on the Hollywood of yesteryear, it was really the Hollywood of 1950 that Wilder and Brackett were gunning for. Like Norma Desmond, the post-war industry had passed its heyday and was really living off the receipts of its past glories. The studio system was crumbling, and TV was encroaching on its territory just as sound had encroached on Norma's thirty years earlier. It was now the more modest productions by younger, free-spirited filmmakers – productions like Sunset Boulevard itself – that were beginning to rise to the surface.


                
This movie is so prophetic that it amazes me.  It showed how much Hollywood has turned into a monster by chewing up people and spitting them out like yesterdays newspaper.  It seems little has changed.Gloria Swanson as the star who has been, is flawless in her role.  At times you hate her for her arrogance, then Wilder makes you feel pity for her when you find out that all the doors in her 60+ room mansion have the locks removed so that she can't lock herself in a room and take her life.The butler also does well as he atempts to shield her from the reality of her cruel world, by writing letters that she thinks is fan mail.Wilder did such an impressive job with this film, even including actual actors in the 50's at the time (even including director Cecil B Demille as HIMSELF) to play roles.  The scene where she returns to the studio and an old stage hand shines a light on her but then only for a fleeting moment. We all remain in the spotlight in the centre of attention, for only a short time.Brilliant filmRating 9 out of 10


                
Sunset Boulevard is a real classic I first learned about from parodies on The Carol Burnett Show in the 1970s. I didn't see the film until some 20 years later, when I found it fascinating. William Holden (Rachel And The Sranger, The Earthling) plays Joe Gillis, a bankrupt B-movie writer who drives his car into the garage of an apparently abandoned mansion on Sunset Boulevard to dodge the repo men. But the dilapidated place is occupied by two fascinating but weird characters, former silent screen star Norma Desmond (Goria Swanson) and her butler, balding, German-accented Max (Erich von Stroheim). Norma hires Joe to ghost-write a screenplay for her come-back, but he soon finds he's as much a kept-man as a writer, enabling more than one of the has-been starlet's delusions. The characters of both Norma and Max are fascinating enough to keep the movie going, and their relationship turns out to be more than it seems. The cast includes a very young Jack Webb, actually speaking like a human being, and appearances by Buster Keaton, Hedda Hopper, and Cecil B. DeMille as themselves. Carol Burnett made great fun of the role with Harvey Korman in the Max role 2 decades later, but the movie (directed and co-written by Billy Wilder) remains a grand drama, character study, and serious comment on the Hollywood star system.


                
I have no problem with the acclaim Billy Wilder has received for this movie but I would like to call attention to Charles Brackett, probably the main writer. In particular I would like to see his "To Each His Own" a very fine tear jerker, made into a DVD. Brackett had a deep sensitivity to the older women he wrote about. He should be rediscoveredAll the usual kudos about this movie are well deserved. I don't personally enjoy it that much because I find it hard to react to creepy characters even when I can understand them and my head tells me this is true and well done. But as a character Norma Desmond is unforgettable, powerfully executed if unappreciated by me.


                
Joe Gillis (William Holden) is a faded screen writer whom is at rock bottom when he fortuitously falls upon faded silent film star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson) after his car gets a blow-out outside her house after he is being chased by a couple of dudes from the finance company. A co-dependency ensues between Gillis and Desmond, but Desmond didn't bank on Gillis falling in love with Betty Schaefer (Nancy Olsen) an aspiring screen writer who threatens to interfere with the relationship that has been established between Gillis and Desmond....Billy Wilder is an odd sort of director to me, because out of the films of his that I've seen it seems fairly evident that he can do 'COMEDY ONLY' well i.e 'SOME LIKE IT HOT'. He can also do drama only well i.e 'ACE IN THE HOLE.' However, the meld is when he falls into trouble - think 'THE APARTMENT.' But SUNSET BOULEVARD is definitely an example of an excellent drama like 'ACE IN THE HOLE' ...It's hard to know where to start with this wonderful film, but I think initially we need to start with Holden and Swanson; Holden gives a nice, ill-at-ease quirky performance, although the cynic in me couldn't understand why Bogart wasn't cast in the role? He would have been perfect. This isn't helped by Holden's performance which felt very Bogart-lite. OK so the film is also creepy and kooky, mysterious and spooky, but it's not the Addams family... Having said that I felt that Holden underplayed wonderfully allowing Swanson to shine whom it has to be said was truly exceptional.I must admit though that I liked Max - he's Norma's butler, but there's something very Bondseque about him; I couldn't make my mind up whether he was a poor and stunted relation to Lurch from the Addams Family or a Bond villain's henchman from the 1960's or 1970's - answers on a postcard for this one please....I've joked about the above and yes at times it is hard to take some of this seriously - it is a tad theatrical and cheesy at times, but when it comes to its critique on Hollywood it is practically spot-on and for true cinema buffs this is an absolute must watch.


                
The narrator, Joe Gillis, is the most well-rounded character and experiences the most change by the end of the film. He begins as a struggling writer trying his best to escape paying his debts, then capitalizes on Desmond's offer to live with her and supporting him financially and acts as her lover, then eventually repents from feeding lies to her to start anew with Betty, which leads to his eventual death, arching back to the film's opening. The stand-out character is that of Norma Desmond, a faded silent film star who is drowned within her own delusions and narcissism. She does not change much at all throughout the film's duration, but her levels of pride, manipulation, and insanity come to surface the more Joe Gillis, as well as the audience, gets to know her as a person. While maintaining a great fortune, she still seeks work in the film industry to gain none other than attention from fans and moviegoers alike. She does not seem so much interested in playing a good role as much as she obsesses for attention she once had. It isn't just global attention she desperately seeks for, but also romantic attention from Gillis. Desmond is a wreck, and as the movie progresses, the more her craziness shines through, eventually reaching a point of no return. When the film comes to a close, so does her sanity. The monster she truly is comes to surface clear as day when the film closes with her posing in front of the camera with a clawing hand and a wide open mouth like a roaring lion. The film approaches its 1950 LA setting with a darkly bleak tone as it features the realities of how Hollywood can affect its own people, most notably, Desmond and narcissistic and delusional characteristics. A large majority of the film takes place within the mansion of Norma Desmond, which seems to change to match the moods of the character. For example, the mansion first appears dark, messy, yet seemingly empty and abandoned, much like that of Desmond's persona. As the film progresses and she begins to believe she is make a "return" to the screen, the mansion becomes more cleaned and lightened, as Desmond believing her dreams are soon to come true. The set design itself is rather engaging as the crew behind the picture blended with the film's main direction and cinematography really brings viewers into the foreboding world the film portrays. The small attention to detail includes the up-close shot of an empty pool full of dirt while the expensive Hollywood locations certainly expand the scope. When the characters of focus feel small, they are often in smaller environments then the larger- than-life characters inside large sets. The pool and house of Desmond looks glamorous the end of the film, as does the studio of Paramount Pictures. One could also question what is taking place solely for the viewer and what takes place within the world of the film. An example of a transition from diegetic to non-diegetic elements includes that of the opening title "SUNSET BLVD." stenciled on the curb of an L.A. street within the films world transitioned to the opening credits in the same font on the road, not within the film's reality. The film utilizes music, both diegetic and non-diegetic to convey subtle emotions of the characters. In one scene, Joe Gillis awakens from a dream stating he can still hear the organ song from the dream in his head, the audience hears this song transition briefly into non- diegetic score and then transition once more into diegetic piano playing by the character of Max. An example of music being excellently played, that can be questioned as to whether or not is diegetic, is the scene in which Joe Gillis quietly judges Desmond after her self- mutilation and contemplates his position with her, as the quiet music matches the feelings of the situation. The narration is arguably diegetic as the dead protagonist occasionally speaks directly to the audience using the word "you" such as in the closing narration. This narration throughout the film often contrasts the character's thoughts that are not being verbally expressed, such as his disdain towards the quality of Desmond's script. The film does not contain narration in every scene featuring Joe Gillis, but he is present in every scene leading up to his death with the odd exception of the scene in which Norma Desmond visits a studio and gains brief attention from fans. The narration aids in allowing the viewer to skip through time and back to tell the unique narrative structure. Before explaining the events that unfolded which led to his death, the character's body is shown floating lifelessly in a private pool. This beginning gives the audience something to anticipate and keep themselves guessing for throughout the run time. After hooking the viewer in with its opening, the narrative kicks off by establishing characters and leads into the inciting incident in which Joe Gillis hides his car at Desmond's mansion, agrees to work for her, and then move in. As the film progresses, he begins to feel disgusted by choosing that lifestyle, but makes the mistake of essentially becoming Desmond's lover. He breaks through this by sneaking out at night to write a script with Betty, which changes his arc, he begins to want nothing to do with Norma Desmond and threatens to leave which leads to the climax in which he is murdered. As Joe Gillis' character evolves, more is revealed about how strangely Norma and Max live and how delusional she truly is. There is foreshadowing throughout the film, including Norma's dead monkey hinting that Joe will be made a monkey out of himself, as well as the two main characters getting what they wanted, but not in the way that would be expected, for Joe, a pool, and for Norma, being in front of the cameras and becoming relevant once again.
I have always had a soft spot for films about filming, and another for Hollywood satires, so is it any wonder I thoroughly enjoyed Sunset Blvd.?Other than the personally-compelling story, there were some great shots in the film, most notably the shot of the body from inside the pool (in 'Sunset Blvd.: A Look Back you can learn that is was shot with a mirror while keeping the temperature of the water at 40° to keep the distortion to a minimum). The sets are great and really shine in the deep-focus cinematography that reminded me of Citizen Kane.Gloria Swanson plays her role with authenticity, it was a version of herself she played, as her last great role stemmed from the thirties. The fragment shown in the film is Queen Kelly, directed by Erich Von Stroheim, another actor whose role was close to reality. Above all Wilder showed a cynicism far ahead of its time, sure it was already present in films such as The Life and Death of 9413: a Hollywood Extra in the late twenties, but such films were not made by the great directors of Hollywood itself. This sharp depiction of the darker sides of Hollywood, i.e. the corruption, the exploitation of people, the Machiavellian attitude towards personal gain, is a big part why this film did not win the Oscar for best film in 1950. The reasons why the academy disliked it are the same reasons why I love it.I can finally see why David Lynch referenced this film in the beginning of Mulholland Dr..
Obscure screenplay writer Joe Gillis isn't able to sell his work to the studios, full of debt and thinking of returning to his hometown to live a mundane life. While trying to evade his creditors, he gets a flat tire and parks in a decadent mansion in Sunset Boulevard. He meets the owner and former silent-movie star Norma Desmond, who lives alone wit her butler and driver Max. Norma appears slightly deluded and believes she will return to the silver screen, and is isolated from the world by Max, who was her director and husband for a while. Norma proposes Joe to move to the mansion and help her write a screenplay for her comeback and inadvertently becomes her lover. When Joe falls in love with up and coming writer Betty Schaefer, Norma becomes jealous and and her madness leads to an underlying meltdown.....When the term 'they don't make them like this anymore' this is one of those films that easily fits into that paraphrase. The film has two narrative structures throughout, and they fall into two genres, Film Noir, and Psychological thriller.To be once the biggest star, and then to fall into obscurity must be every celebrities nightmare, so this film must be the perfect horror film for all stars who grace the titular location. For Norma, her wealth and her belongings are her prison, because no matter hoe delusional she appears to be, she knows that outside in the real world, she is long forgotten in Hollywood, and age is definitely one on her side.So Joe is like a breath if fresh air to her, and reignites her obsession for stardom, and in many respects, her obsession with Joe, which leads to the Film Noir element of the story.Swanson and Holden are spectacular, but Swanson, her on screen breakdown is a revelation, and the final third of the movie is as haunting and as harrowing as to what is going on in Norma's head when she is alone.It's a landmark movie, deserved of all its plaudits and fans, and it's a stern warning to anyone who is thinking about a career in Hollywood, the paves maybe paved with gold, but you are risking rats in your pool.Essential cinema in every way possible.
One of the most beautiful movies that I've ever seen is "Sunset Boulevard". It is a 1950 Billy Wilder's masterpiece with an all-star cast. This movie is about a silent-screen star, Norma Desmond, who lives in a mansion with her butter. Living in her own world, Norma cannot come to the term with the fact that she is not famous anymore. Her butter, who used to be her husband and director in the years of her reputation, also helps her to be in the illusion that she is still a famous actress by showing her photos that are asked to be signed by her. The stage of being self-absorbed and losing touch with reality is to the extent that even after being charged by the police because of murdering her beloved screenwriter, she still sees everything the way she likes as she makes a speech in front of the police about how happy she is to be in a film again, ending with "All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up"
