Now I know that 'The Departed' is based off of the Hong Kong movie 'WuJianDao', but Scorsese really grabs hold of a great story and brings it to the American Screen. My father grew up in Boston and when we walked out of the theater he couldn't stop talking about how authentic the environment and attitude was. Then there's the acting in which the lead actors (Nicholson, DiCaprio, Damon) not only give stunningly entertaining performances, but you become engulfed in each one's perspective and dilemmas. The smaller roles that of (Baldwin, Walberg, Sheen) are supporting roles that remind me of Jesus Quintana from 'The Big Lebowski', by this I mean that their screen time is limited but they make lasting impressions that you cherish each and every scene they are in, Alec Baldwin especially. The story itself starts off with the basic intro of the players and the setting, but you'll find yourself slowing following each and every plot twist and rooting back and forth for the good guys and for the bad guys. If you're a Scorsese fan, which I am, I think you will appreciate this film. You can clearly see the Scorsese touch ranging from the cinematography and of course the music, it's great to hear "Gimme Shelter" again, but "Comfortably Numb" played in so well. It's another gangster flick from Scorsese, yet this one stands alone because feels so fresh and most would agree Scorsese does gangster films the best; so why not let him. Oscar worthy, the acting I certainly hope; this is DiCaprio's best role since 'The Aviator' which was his best role since 'Gangs of New York', am I seeing a pattern here. But my lasting impression wasn't concerned with the politics of the golden statue; my lasting impression was that I had sat through 2 and half hours of brilliant and especially entertaining storytelling. Thank you Mr. Scorsese.


                
First off, this is an American stylized remake of the Hong Kong hit, Infernal Affairs. I have to give credit to that, a good film. I have seen both Infernal Affairs and The Departed. I personally prefer The Departed, and I think because of one thing: Martin Scorsese. This is the master behind such greats as Taxi Diver, Raging Bull, Goodfellas, and he's at it again. The film has an all star cast with Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Martin Sheen, and Alec Baldwin.The Direction was amazing. (maybe one of the reasons why he won the Oscar for it) I loved how some of the scenes were shot and set up. Especially regarding the Chinatown, and police interrogation scenes, among many others. The film is perfectly set up with intense, suspense scenes while adding in amounts humor at times. It works really well. The script is top notch. (Also Oscar winning) Realistic strong dialogue from scene to scene.Another thing I liked more in The Departed, as opposed to Infernal Affairs, was the acting. DiCaprio really seemed to earn a lot of respect from this role. Here, he takes on the tough guy persona so well. Sure it was known he was a good actor from his Oscar nominated performances in What's Eating Gilbert Grape and The Aviator, but he really takes it to another level here. I can't see anyone else as the character, he fits so perfectly with it. Matt Damon and Mark Wahlberg, being Massachusetts natives, also give solid performances, with their natural accents. Nicholson works well in his role, as well. Everyone was extremely solid and everything seemed so real.Set in Boston, The Departed takes in all the Boston like atmosphere. Beautifully shot scenes of the Massachusetts Golden Dome State Capital building is just one part of the landscape. The Dropkick Murphys song "I'm Shipping up to Boston" really fits, great use of songs. Scorsese usually works music into his films really well."Cops or Criminals. When you're facing a loaded gun what's the difference?" This quote really represents the film." Matt Damon plays a state officer in the Police, working for the crime boss of the area, Frank Costello (Nicholson). While Damon's character can be described as a "bad guy," he is really misunderstood. As a kid, he is sort of mentored into crime business by Costello while Costello becomes the father figure Damon's character never had. Leonardo DiCaprio plays a young guy, coming from a bad, crime ridden family. He's decides to become a police officer to get away from the crime life he's been surrounded by. Taking all this into account, Captain Queenen (Sheen) and Seargent Dignam (Wahlberg) decide to send DiCaprio's character undercover to find out more about the criminal underworld and Costello. With his family's crime record, he fit's perfectly into the situation. Now you have a highly ranked officer working for bad guy, and an undercover cop in the criminal underworld working for the State Police. From here it's an all out suspenseful thrill ride. Who's who? Who's working for who? Who can you trust? Paranoia threatens everyone. Lies. Betrayal. Sacrifice. How far will you take it? At the heart of this film is character development. We really feel for the characters. We feel like we know them. It's really amazing part of this story and film. Tremendous story telling here.This is one of the most entertaining and suspenseful crime/drama's I have seen in a while. While Infernal Affairs, came first, I think The Departed expands on it in so many ways. Really solid crime/drama. Check both out when you get a chance. It's really worth it. 9/10


                
Please don't make negative comments like some of the aforementioned people have been doing if you haven't seen the film yet! I have seen it, at a press screening last week. Not only is it the best film of the year so far, it marks a return to form for Martin Scorsese, and ranks with the likes of GOODFELLAS as being one of the best in his canon of films.I'm a fan of the Hong Kong film, INFERNAL AFFAIRS, upon which this is based. While THE DEPARTED keeps the basic structure of the original, it is very much its own movie, so much so that the screenwriter, William Monahan, didn't even watch the original film while adapting its screenplay, thus enabling him to infuse the script with his, and Scorsese's, respective visions.All the actors are first-rate (yes, even Leo, for all you DiCaprio bashers out there), and turn in some of their best performances to date. THE DEPARTED is sure to garner a host of Oscar nods, if not wins, including (hopefully) Scorsese's long-overdue statuette for Best Director. Plus, with actors like Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin playing supporting roles, that says a lot about the quality of the film they signed up for! THE DEPARTED is tough stuff, not for the faint-of-heart. That said, it is a must-see for adult viewers who long for intelligent, gritty stories to grace our movie screens once again.


                
He has made good musicals (New York, New York), surreal comedies (After Hours), satires (The King of Comedy) and biopics (The Aviator), but Martin Scorsese has never done better than the times he's dealt with life on the streets and gangsters. Mean Streets, Goodfellas and Casino (and, to some degree, Taxi Driver) are proof of that. It doesn't seem strange, then, that his finest film in over a decade (Goodfellas was released in 1990) sees him return to that familiar ground. With a few changes.The Departed, based on Hong Kong thriller Infernal Affairs (2002), is Scorsese's first gangster film not to feature Italian-American criminals. In fact, this film is set in Boston, where the Irish rule. One of these "godfathers" is Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson), the man the State Police want the most. After years of investigation, they're finally getting close, thanks to undercover agent Billy Costigan (Leonardo Di Caprio). Because of his family (all Irish, all bad), becoming a member of Costello's crew isn't that difficult. Now all Costigan has to do is report to his superiors, Queenan (Martin Sheen) and Dignam (Mark Wahlberg), who will pass on the information to Ellerby's (Alec Baldwin) Special Investigations Unit. What they don't know is that Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon), the most promising element of said unit, has been on Costello's payroll since he was 12. Soon enough, both cops and crooks become aware of the situation, beginning a manhunt that's gonna make the already fragile Billy even more nervous and Costello increasingly crazier.By moving from Hong Kong to Boston, Scorsese and screenwriter William Monahan have made the first step in ensuring this film will be quite different from its Chinese inspiration. Another significant factor is the running time: a mere 97 minutes for Infernal Affairs, 150 for The Departed. This is due to new characters (Dignam and Costello's henchman Mr French, played by Ray Winstone, were missing in the original) and subplots, such as the one concerning Madolyn (Vera Farmiga), a psychiatrist who gets emotionally involved with both of the moles. But the most crucial difference is in the depiction of the underworld: whereas IA was stylish without being excessive, Scorsese's vision comprises very colorful language (some insults are so creative one might expect Joe Pesci to show up) and, of course, buckets of blood, the last part of the movie proving to be particularly shocking. None of the scenes ever reach the gross-out level of Casino's head-in-the-vice scene, but in pure Scorsese tradition it remains unflinchingly violent (also notable is the music, perfectly setting the mood, scene after scene, alongside Thelma Schoonmaker's impeccable editing).Amidst these brutal surroundings, the director handles a spot-on cast: Baldwin, Sheen and Wahlberg (the latter finally back on form) make good use of their little screen time, Damon fine-tunes the edgier side he showed in The Talented Mr Ripley and the Bourne movies, and Nicholson, playing the villain again at last, delivers another OTT but classy turn (original choice Robert De Niro would probably have played the part with more calm and subtlety). A special mention is needed for Di Caprio: working with Scorsese for the third consecutive time, he has finally found a way to shake off his Titanic image, thanks to a vulnerable, gripping (and arguably career-best) performance.With its clever plot, excellent acting and expert direction, The Departed is without doubt the year's best film so far. If this really is going to be his last gangster film (he has said so), as well as his last studio-endorsed picture, Scorsese can be proud, given the masterpiece he has given us. If only they gave him the Oscar in return...


                
Excellent. A great, great movie. I saw it last night at a special screening and must say it was a tour de force. Even though Boston is not really a gritty town Scorsese was able to capture a darker side of the city. Coming from that area, I am always concerned when actors put on the local accent as it tends to be distracting rather than supportive. However, with local pros like Damon and Wahlberg they were able to really grab hold of it and not go overboard... most of the time. The true stand out performance has to go to DiCaprio. He has really come into his since hooking up with Scorsese, having scored a number of original performances all of which have expanded his range. He really snagged onto a deep and tragic character and created something that will hopefully be recognized come awards season. One of my favorite aspects was the friendly hostility the characters had for each other. It is a specific trademark that I have never noticed in any other city. In Boston, when you are really close with someone (or not really) it is, more or less, a requirement to bust their balls and shoot cruel insults back and forth in rhythmic banter. That detail was extensively realized in THE DEPARTED and I doubt anybody who was raised outside of the metro Boston area, or at least visited at some point, would find it nearly as hilarious as those who were. As for Scorsese's direction, I think he scored big with this one. While many have criticized that his movies have become more commercial I believe that he has just evolved. There were some classic Scorsese moments here, my favorite being a scene where DiCaprio is alone and packing his things in his apartment. Beautifully cut and stylistically directed. Is it his best effort? No. But it still is truly mesmerizing. He has created something truly special from a city that is highly underrated.


                
I got to see a sneak preview of it, and I must say: the BEST film of the year so far. Scorcese is at his best and truly deserves his anticipated first Oscar for this film. Also notable are the performances of Matt Damon (such a great "bad-guy;" he really must do stuff like this more often), Leo DiCaprio, Jack Nicholson (as always), and Mark Wahlberg (best since Rockstar). However, some in the theater with me who had seen Infernal Affairs did say that Departed did not live up to the original. I have yet to see Affairs, but I honestly believe that Departed was pulled off well enough to really bring in some respectable awards in the upcoming season.


                
Oh my God.I can say without overstatement that I just saw the most gripping and entertaining American film to come out in at least the past ten years.I was lucky enough to get a pass to an advance screening of The Departed this past weekend in Boston. I wasn't sure what to expect and actually planned on being a little disappointed with all the expectations and hype of such an all-star cast.From the moment the opening credits came up, the movie grabbed me by the neck, ripped me out of my seat and didn't let go until the final scene.Each performance is more masterful than the next. Damon was a tour de force as the lead, tapping every ounce of his acting reservoir for this role. Nicholson creates another classic role to add to his already sterling resume. His mob boss would almost steal every scene he was in, if it not for every other actor being so fantastic However, the biggest surprise for me personally came from Leonardo DeCaprio.Having never warmed up to any of his roles or movies, I found myself blown away by him in this. I'm not sure if it was the material he was given, or if DeCaprio has grown this much as an actor, or a combination of both, but he finally won me over with his role in this instant Scorsese classic. Every character is pitch perfect, every scene is right on the money. The plot builds to a crescendo of such dynamic proportions rarely seen on film. I don't want to give too much away, but I'm still shaken from the ride I was taken on.People go to the movies in the hopes that maybe once in a hundred times you get to experience storytelling so masterful and transcendent that it changes the way you view cinema. This is one of those spectacularly perfect times.Forget Taxi Driver. Forget Raging Bull. Forget Goodfellas. As much as I LOVE those movies and as much as they have affected me in my lifetime, The Departed will hands down be Martin Scorsese's Master Work.


                
Director Martin Scorsese's "The Departed", a gangster flick based from the Hong Kong thriller "Internal Affairs", goes without saying as perhaps his best work since "Goodfellas." Working on a genre that's right up his territory, Scorsese is back on top of his game and recreates a new dimension to the genre. This crime thriller treads the same theme as much of its director's previous films does. It's about two young men, the people around them, and the complications brought about by their characters' ambiguity.Set in Boston, the Massachusetts State Police sends young cop Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio) to go undercover and infiltrate an Irish mob syndicate where he quickly earns the trust of leader Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Meanwhile, Costello's informant Collin Sullivan (Matt Damon) works for the police department's Special Investigation Unit. Soon, stakes are raised when both the police and the mob realize there's a traitor among them, and that both Billy and Collin are both in danger of losing their cover and even their lives.Nicholson, yet again playing another villain, owns every scene he's in with his portrayal of Costello, providing a paradoxical attraction to his menacing character. DiCaprio, increasingly maturing as an actor since becoming Scorsese's "muse", fits right in as the streetwise cop, while Damon brings his usual authoritatively calm demeanor to the part. They are complemented by the ensemble performances of Martin Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Mark Wahlberg and Vera Farmiga.Scriptwriter William Monahan ("Kingdom of Heaven") retains much of the structure of "Internal Affairs" but adds depth to its characters and an acerbic quality to its witty dialog. The cinematography by Michael Ballhaus is brooding and morbid, capturing the character of its Boston setting while Howard Shore's score is as good as a soundtrack can be.At its core, "The Departed" is a well-crafted, well-written, and well-acted film noir. In an age where style usually triumphs over the narrative quality, "The Departed" is one of the best films I have seen so far in recent memory.
I went to see this film yesterday after reading all the wonderful comments along with some slightly bitter comments from people that have watched Infernal Affairs and were not entirely happy with Scorsese's take on the Hong Kong original.The first comment I would like to make is that I saw the original Infernal Affairs a week ago meaning that it is still fresh in my memory. That film was a very complex thriller that got straight to the point. The Departed on the other hand focuses on story telling and whilst staying faithful to the original, it becomes its own film.Scorsese has taken a great film and turned it into a masterpiece with breathtaking violence and superb character development. If fans were expecting a shot-for-shot remake, they obviously don't understand why Scorsese is regarded as one of the best directors of all time.The acting of all the leads were legendary and they all looked very comfortable in their roles. Anyone out there who previously disregarded Leo DiCaprio as an actor will be totally converted as he delivered an astounding performance and showed a gritty side to his character. In fact, he was so good that Mr Nicholson didn't act him off the screen when they shared screen time together. Accolade also has to be heaped on Damon also as he came into his own as the sneaky but smooth rouge cop. Add Sheen, Whalberg, Baldwin and Winstone to the mix and you have the best cast assembled for a motion picture this year.Offcourse no film is perfect (Although this comes close) but the only disappointing aspect of the film will be from the perspective of those that have seen the original. I am ultimately referring to the ending. Whilst anyone seeing this film for the first time will most probably embrace the climax, anyone that has seen the original will know what I mean.That aside, this movie has marked its place alongside such classics as Goodfellas, Raging Bull and Scarface.
I am not saying that I think this movie is in the category with other Scorcese greats such as "Raging Bull" and "Taxi Driver", actually "King of Comedy" is my favorite Scorcese film, however "The Departed" is a relatively remarkable film!! The acting in this movie is simply incredible!! The plethora of acting talent simply overwhelms you!! Mark Wahlberg, Alec Baldwin, Martin Sheen, Jack Nicholson, Leonardo Di Caprio, and of course Matt Damon!! I thought Matt Damon's performance was the best acting performance in this movie!! The comment he made which I found to be very interesting was "The Irish are impervious to psycho-analysis".. I went to grade school at an Irish parish, and even though they were affluent, they did seem more visceral than many other ethnic groups are!! Boston is the only city in the country where the Irsih control the syndicate. The Italians are accustomed to ruling organized crime in virtually every other city in the United States. Boston is where the movie "The Departed" takes place.. The F word replaced a lot of semantics in this movie, and the violence seemed to have some kind of tenet of amelioration attached to it!! "The Departed" won for best picture in '2006, as it would appear as though the copious quantity of top notch talent in this film would almost mandate such an accolade!! How were all the problems in this movie solved?...WITH A GUN!! The violence in "The Departed" was almost satirical, as it signified a precarious set of checks and balances!! Everyone's anger seemed to reflect a sordid and justifiable pontification for everything!! Many techniques of agitation and vindictiveness with this movie told the movie audience one thing- This is a Scorcese film!! His style emanates a proverbial belligerence through frustration that he has incorporated in so many of his past movies!! I enjoyed this film, and I can definitely see how it won best picture in '2006. What is the best way of saying "The Departed" is an excellent movie, by saying this: "The Departed" is a really good (F word) picture!!


                
Can't wait to watch the film again to digest it better.Would lose if watched on DVD, without any doubt a film to be enjoyed on the big screen.Well done Scorcese and nice to see that Leonardo has been given credit to play a grown up role.Above all the script rises to the occasion- the words fitted perfectly- complemented by great acting.The script itself makes ideal material for DA (critical discourse analysis).Hollywood would be wise to follow this cinema genre.As much as I consider myself a cinema buff, have been very disappointed these last few years with what's on offer.But in this context, The Departed diverts from the norm


                
The Departed is a great film to say the least. The film centers around an entire police department's chase of a top boss in Boston. The plot may not seem original but the film gives you a feeling of something new with the intensity of that of a drama and the awe of an action flick.The acting of the cast all around is great with the likes of actors such as Leonardo Dicaprio playing a rookie cop getting his first assignment. As a result of his family's history of criminal activity his first job is to be working undercover gathering intelligence in the dealings of a mob boss played different yet brilliantly by Jack Nicholson. This goes without notice as Nicholson has his man on the inside as well. On the opposite side of the spectrum Matt Damon also plays a rookie cop starting out of the box with a good job though as a result of his honorable family history. There also plenty of great supporting performances by Martin Sheen and Ray Winestone as well as a breakout performance given by Mark Wahlberg.Despite so many explosive performances this film is driven by its story so perfectly directed by Martin Scorsese. With this film Scorsese uses his skill to show the hard and gritty tough life on the streets as he once did so often as well as his fine attention to detail with amazing plot dynamics. What both of these things culminate into is a well rounded and balanced film with an unlimited scope of cops and gangsters. The depth of the film is limitless as it is so well layered. Scorsese here makes the film of his life here throwing out everything he has. Scorsese and William Monahan, who so adapts this film so vividly, combine for one of the most thrilling and psychologically explosive movies in ages as the film so perfectly illustrates nothing is as it seems as well as a chain is only as strong as strong as its weakest link. We may think we know it all from profile and background checks but as long as we don't know whats going on inside a person's mind we won't ever know what the person is truly about.


                
Wracked with an intense atmosphere of paranoia and unapologetically gritty realism, Scorsese's brilliantly adapted remake is a cunning game of cat and mouse while the mouse also plots to destroy the cat and the audience is left unsure of who to root for. This urbanly stylistic piece is a salute to the classic gangster movies of old, brutally entertaining as it is frustratingly perplexing, a true Scorsesean crime drama classic.


                
It's hard to start a review about a movie when you're still so excited you don't know where to begin. Let's take a deep breath for a moment... okay, and here we go:Although he was snubbed by the Academy over and over again Scorsese never stopped working on ambitious projects. He just kept making movies, and they were all solid and good. Still, somehow Scorsese's work lost the importance and the excitement of the director's best movies. "The Departed" brings back a Scorsese that glues your eyes to the screen, that makes you forget time and space around you. This is a film that keeps you thrilled for the entire two and a half hours running time.Truth be told, Scorsese doesn't reinvent himself with this movie. The violence, the callous dialog and the soundtrack including "Gimme Shelter" and other classic songs from the 60's and 70's - none of that is new territory. Still, it's a hell of a treat to watch the master at work. There's no one who makes a gangster movie like Scorsese. He understands exactly what the story needs, how it needs to be paced. Scorsese's direction serves the plot and not the other way round, which is what sets "The Departed" apart from some of his other masterpieces such as "Raging Bull".Quite a lot of movieshave five, six or seven top stars in their casting list. In the end you're often let down because some of them don't really have important roles or only very limited screen time. In this movie all of the big names make something of their role: Mark Wahlberg as the amazingly unfriendly but unbribable cop, Martin Sheen as Nicholson's opponent and DiCaprio's father figure, Alec Baldwin as the frustratingly idiotic boss and Matt Damon as the slippery traitor. The two actors that make "The Departed" what it is, however, are, of course, Jack Nicholson and Leonardo DiCaprio.Jack Nicholson is just Jack Nicholson. He does what he always does, which means that he's great. He was born to play the bad guy. It's quite amazing that he hadn't worked with Scorsese before and it's like a fanboy's dream come true to see their collaboration working out so well. One can't help thinking: "What if DeNiro had played the part?". Sure, that might have been interesting, too, but it's doubtable whether DeNiro would have been able to pull off a villain as clownish and sexed up as Frank Costello.Speaking of DeNiro, Leonardo DiCaprio clearly has proved himself a more than worthy successor as Scorsese's steady collaboration partner. His performance as the tormented undercover cop is once again outstanding. His hounded look alone creates half of the movies' tension. It's quite amazing how versatile this little babyface is. "The Departed" should convince even the last skeptics of this guy's talents.At the age of 64 and after movie classics as legendary and influential as "Taxi Driver", "Raging Bull" and "GoodFellas", Martin Scorsese has delivered one of the very best movies of his entire career. Its characters may not be as iconic as the ones from the movies mentioned above, but the superb storytelling and the amazing acting in "The Departed" make this nothing less than a true masterpiece. It's Oscar-time, Baby!


                
I almost never see movies twice (there are too many out there I've missed the first time), but I saw The Departed twice in 2 days and might see it a third time. First of all, I'm a retired cop; did undercover work; investigated racketeers (most dead now, some still masquerading as fine citizens). DiCaprio blew me away (missed his other movies, now I'll go back and see them including Gangs of New York; missed The Aviator, too.)Okay, I saw the Titanic; didn't want to in the first place, hope he got a lot of money for it b/c it's something he's probably been trying to shake for a long time. But I digress....Good Will Hunting is one of my favorite movies, so I've bonded with Matt Damon from that and enjoyed him since. Obviously, Di Caprio had the better role but I cannot imagine anyone playing it better (I'm sure that excellent directing helped). What got me was how inner anger drove that character. Even when he engaged with Madolyn, he didn't go soft (okay, that sounds like a reference to Madolyn's problem with Sullivan). In watching the movie the second time, I thought what drove Sullivan was his inner child/core was good and the fact that he took the bait from Costello as a child and was groomed to be bad really did not come easily to his sense of himself, thus his "problem" with Madolyn. Of course, someone I saw the movie with didn't catch that "problem" at all. As Sullivan lay on the bed and told Madolyn he thought they could start fresh in a new city, I saw that all the deceit had just about broken Sullivan, unlike Costello who would not live any other way. There definitely was a theme of virility running through the 3 major characters: Costello had only the appearance of it/had lost it; Sullivan lacked it and only Costigan had it (I choose to believe the baby was his). I really appreciated Scorcese's movement from one character/action to the next; I heard some comments that it was choppy (not here) but it brought the "two boys" in sharp contrast. I saw Sullivan's quiet desperation and Costigan's explosive desperation more acutely. The lack of gore and lack of explicit sex was also appreciated; this brought a crispness to the pace of the movie. While I could never get away from Nicholson the actor and think of Costello as Costello, I do appreciate that it wasn't De Niro (one of my least favorite major actors) and it wasn't Pacino (one of my favorite major actors who plays this type of role too often). The one thing lacking for me was why Costello adored Costigan to the point of having his lawyer send the tapes to him as well as keeping him in his crew because he had plenty of crew without taking in a possible rat. (The cutting room floor could probably help me on that one). But then a lot of the movie had cop and bad guy incongruities and one has to give fictional movies poetic license... I hope the Academy will recognize DiCaprio and Scorcese. Kudos to Baldwin,Wahlberg and Sheen and Vera F. She was mesmerizing. Baldwin has great delivery (loved him in The Cooler).
An undercover cop and a mole in the police attempt to identify each other while infiltrating an Irish gang in South Boston. Let me start off with saying that this is my favorite movie, no doubts about it. the movie starts out slow with it's LONG intro, but picks up and never breaks pace. I normally hate pace breaking in movies, so this is already a big + in my book. the story is interesting to watch as Dicaprio and Damon struggle with their identities while Jack Nicholsen has some fun as the bad guy. This movie has a great plot, cast, music score, length and almost all elements of movies possible such as: drama, comedy, action, crime, thrills and suspense and many more. The Departed is a great movie and should be recognized as one.I find nothing wrong with it. maybe the lack of female characters, but it ain't that bad.


                
The Departed is an American crime thriller film,a remake of the 2002 Hong Kong film Infernal Affairs, about two men from opposite sides of the law that are undercover within the Massachusetts State Police and the Irish mob. The film is directed by Martin Scorsese.It has a star- studded cast led by Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Martin Sheen, Ray Winstone, Vera Farmiga, and Alec Baldwin.The story begins when Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) is introduced to organized crime through Irish mobster Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson) in the Irish neighborhood of South Boston at a young age. Costello trains him to become his mole inside the Massachusetts State Police. Sullivan is accepted into the Special Investigations Unit, which focuses on organized crime.While Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio) is asked by Captain Oliver Queenan (Martin Sheen) and Staff Sergeant Sean Dignam (Mark Wahlberg) to become an Undercover Agent due to the fact that his family ties to organized crime that makes him a perfect infiltrator. Before he graduates,he drops out of the Academy and does time in prison on a fake assault charge to increase his credibility.Eventually,both infiltrate their respective organizations and play a cat-and-mouse game until the end of the film.We are treated to a great action thriller in The Departed.But comparing Infernal Affairs and The Departed,the original is a lot superior as compared to the American remake.Infernal Affairs is more realistic and has more emotional depth as compared to The Departed.It clearly explores the complexities and moral ambiguity that both Inspector Lau and Yan are undergoing.Aside from that,the material is very original and it is truly brilliantly made.The acting of the film is also great especially that of Andy Lau and Tony Leung.There are more interesting characters like Inspector Wong and Sam,the triad boss.Finally,the movie's ending makes you feel for both Inspector Lau,who finally became the person that he wants to assume by becoming a real cop through a series of lies and murder; and Yan,whom we feel considering that he never got his true identity back of being a cop and will always be remembered as a criminal.The Departed is just a two-hour and a half mindless entertainment.It is NOT AN ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY since it is remake of Infernal Affairs. (Literally it is a remake since it copied scene by scene of the Infernal Affairs - LOL).Most of the great scenes of the movie was taken from IA as well.Also,there is too much swearing in the film.Why do the movie has to have the word f*ck said for 237 times?Do all cops and criminals swear every time they speak?Also,both Billy Costigan and Colin Sullivan are one-dimensional.One is good and the other is bad.There are too many characters and a lot of them are bland.Frank Costello looks more like a cartoon-like character rather than a mafia boss.There is less emotional depth and complexities as compared to the original.Then there is the pathetic character of Vera Farmiga named Madolyn.Does she really have to sleep with both Colin and Billy?We are treated to the acting histrionics of the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio,Mark Wahlberg and Jack Nicholson.Matt Damon is simply bland in this film.Watch Damon in The Informant instead.Finally,the viewer has less empathy to the characters in the end since everybody just has to get shot in the end.In the end,I still prefer the original compared to this remake although this movie still deserves a 10/10 rating.
If there was any doubt about Martin Scorsese's craft as a film director, The Departed silences any critic of his. However, if there was any doubt in the first place I highly suggest quitting movies. Scorsese delivers an epic in a time where movies are being churned out with no emotion, no connection to the viewer, and reliance on gimmicks so the studios can earn a little dough and taking the prized honor of being the number 1 listed movie on a 12 year old kid's myspace page.The Departed delivers in every facet. The cinematography is well crafted - the camera positions to grasp the scene in its fullest while avoiding being generic and also straying away from overly "artsy" camera angles that make the film unwatchable. In fact, The Departed is probably Scorsese's most rewatchable film. There are more twists than a Chubby Checker concert which will make you both gasp and let out sighs of relief.The characters are believable and engaging. Jack Nicholson plays one the most accessible of all the mob villains of Scorsese's past. He is complete slime, but his demeanor is that of an uncle who permits you to watch the TV shows that your parents told you not to. Matt Damon as Colin is like one of those pompous pricks who cheat repeatedly and get away with it, and Leo as Billy Costigan grows on the viewer and as a character through his dangerous line of work as a police informant.The Departed is an American masterpiece.


                
"The Departed" is right up there. I can't think of any other movie besides "Pulp Fiction" that had me glued to the screen like "The Departed". It has a great plot with fantastic acting. If you can get over Leonardo Dicaprio playing his type of role then you will at least like the movie a little bit. I know its hard to imagine him doing this type of role, but he really has evolved as an actor over the years. GO SEE THIS MOVIE. I'm not one of those guys that is going to get all technical. But this movie is real with real conflicts(especially Dicaprio). Marky Mark, Nicholson, Damon, Sheen, even Alec Baldwin played their parts well. Simply one of the best.


                
Scorcese is a visual genius, I mean he is able to center the whole film and the whole action on the feelings, suffering and pleasure he can concentrate in the eyes of his actors that are piercing and even branding our own eyes that are trying to imagine the inside of their minds like voyeurs launched onto a world of violence and paranoid thirst for power. The art of this director is to get his actors into situations that will create fear in us and to direct these actors so well that our fear will be the simple reflection of the fright they express in their eyes, essentially their eyes, and also their words. The action of the film is then not that important since it is nothing but rotten cops and rotten gangsters that are trying to infiltrate their respective sides incognito of even the people on their own sides. We are the only people to know who is a mole and who is not, and yet, even so, Scorcese manages to bring a final mole out of the woodwork in the last two minutes of the film. And is the police mole infiltrated among the gangsters really better than the others ? Maybe yes, but it is so tenuous and brittle an impression that we could doubt it. The most important pleasure we find here is that the three main actors are not disappointing our expectations. Nicholson is not abandoning himself to his traditional ticks and habits. Damon is a perfect young prince that can conquer any heart and yet that is so rotten that he appears austere and cold when he turns vicious and fearful. Dicaprio is the greatest satisfaction for us because he is so well directed that he finds some harshness and he uses his eyes so well that we really believe his lovely face is nothing but the mask of a hyena and his straggling beard is the furious mane of some buzzard. And yet we tremble for him and we suffer with every anguished tremor on his face. Apart from that it is quite obvious that Scorcese must have found some tremendous enjoyment in directing three men in that dramatic and tragic situation. No film is wasted on any sentimentalese mash. It is all raw granite and solid quartz.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne
I only went to see this movie because I am doing a project in school about Martin Scorsese. I did not really think that I was going to like it but it was so great!! Martin has a way with doing things in his movies that make them so much different than any movie that I have seen. Leo Decaprio really shines in this movie as does Matt Damon. Actually the cast was a total "A" cast. Mark Walburg will keep you laughing every time he is on the screen. This movie has a lot of cussing so I don't think that kids should see it but I would recommend it to anyone else! I promise that you will not be disappointed in this movie. Oh and it is pretty long but it is full of action the entire time!


                
Absolutely awesome. I have had a hard time justifying going to spend the money on any of the garbage that has been coming out of Hollywood lately. But I made a serious point to go see this, something fresh from on old familiar face, or wait two, maybe three, or four, depends how old you are. One thing I think makes a great director is the use of inanimate objects as characters. If you haven't seen this film, watch the Boston State Capitol building appearances. It says more with no duologue than some entire scripts do. Some songs are used with more visual themes than others, but the audio counterpart to the eye-popping candy is so intense I just couldn't wait for the next scene to unfold. And as for Jack well, very very good, best I've seen him in full tilt since the shining. Many people are saying this is Tarantino Based. I am almost thirty, I remember pre-Tarantino. Well pop Tarantino that is, pre Pulp Fiction who knew about his hits, only a few in early years of high school had even watched reservoir dogs. What happened to him is he's gone Hollywood, who else would take such interest in splitting a feature like kill bill into 2 parts, oh yeah ticket sales, revenues, I say CUT IT! The departed said what it wanted to say, THE RAT GETS THE CHEESE! America today needs more films like this that don't have a happy ending, and expose the dirtier side of "God's Country". Had me from the first scene.


                
I was somewhat taken aback by the power of this movie. While Godfather II is perhaps the best gangster movie of all time, this flick is a VERY close second. Moreover, it may very well be one of the best movies ever, and it ranks with Scorsese's best, including "Raging Bull." The cast was, simply, superb, and as I left the movie, I recounted who will win what Oscars....Scorsese is a lock for best director; the film will win best picture; but the acting awards will be more difficult to determine. Surely Jack Nicholson will win his umpteenth best actor award, and I would vote for DiCaprio for best supporting actor. DiCaprio might get a best actor nomination himself. I thought Mark Wahlberg was perfectly cast in his role as the liaison for the undercover cop. I will see this movie again to ensure that I haven't missed any nuances!


                
This is Scorsese's masterpiece. I love most of Martin's work but this is his gem. He won best director for this movie and this also won best picture. All well deserved. In my top ten list this is #3. A lot of people don't like this movie because they say the plot is too confusing. Frankly, I thought the same thing after first viewing it. After several watched, I know what was going on and who was who. The dialogue is sharply written and the performances are outlandishly entertaining. Everything about this movie is great and frankly, I don't find any flaws in it. People might think I'm being too generous and that I'm blinded by my love for Scorsese. No, I just know a damn good movie when I see one. This is a gangster drama that hits all the right notes and has a great soundtrack to go along with it. I also love how much they swear in the movie. It's hilarious and its used well too. A lot of times, swearing is abused and overused in movies. Now, I have heard people cuss this movie out for how much swearing there is but realize that people talk like this. Maybe not all the time, but they do. The cast is beyond superb and all of them do a great job. I love this movie, and hopefully someone who reads this, then watches it will uh, love it too. All thumbs up!


                
The Departed offers you one of the best stories of mafia. Certainly the best combination of mob and police in the same movie. There are many good mafia films but this one sticks out because of its great usage of police. The value of this movie does not shrink to the fact that the film is mostly a remake to the Hongkong movie. The value is based how this one has been done. I gotta tell you, it's pretty damn high. And the reason behind that is Martin Scorsese. He absolutely nails this film. He, like Francis Ford Coppola, has a special eye for a mob films. And quite simply, this is his finest product. Leonardo DiCaprio (Billy) is one the best actors around. He is always so good. Never seen him underperformed. He gives a great shot here too. Jack Nicholson (Frank) is always reliable. Matt Damon (Colin) was good. But Mark Wahlberg (Dignam) was most impressive. Quite a performance from him. Very confident. In overall, it's just a first-class cast.The Departed is perfect film for a movie night. It's intense, has plenty of action, great story and great performances. Plus there are two huge bonuses. First one - the movie comes about Boston which is a great city. Second one - the movie has an awesome soundtrack which many films do not have. It has everything a winner should have.


                
