American remake of the successful "Internal Affairs" trilogy, about two men seeking out each other's identity; one is a cop that goes undercover as a mobster, the other, a mobster that goes undercover as a cop. Dream-boats Damon and DiCaprio do a good job vanishing into their roles as tough guys, but their charm and ruthlessness still can't mask the crime-thriller clichés; and the ultra-climatic conclusion is just really nothing more than simply over-the-top. The wittiness of Jack Nicholson doesn't impress since he doesn't seem to do much acting, but rather just charismatically act like Jack. The quirky dialogue of Irish-American mobsters comes off as corny and tiring. Martin Sheen and Mark Wahlberg are memorable and well-delivered in the humorous good-cop-bad-cop odd-couple, with the latter earning a Best Supporting Actor nomination. It was the only nomination that was well-deserve, the only nomination that didn't win and the only nomination that should have won. Won Best Picture, Editing and Adapted Screenplay. It should be called "The Retarded".*½ (out of four)


                
just saw this movie. absolutely pointless. everyone can fluff Scorsese, Nicholson, etc, but this movie is not that good. everyone may think its good because all movies now are garbage. however, a better smelling bag of garbage beside a worse smelling bag of garbage is still a bag of garbage. DiCaprio does a good job and Damon is surprisingly good, but the story is just so blah and predictable that it is easy to fall asleep while watching the movie. in my opinion,the movie does not focus enough on one character to facilitate viewer involvement. also,the music is not prominent enough and some of it is recycled from other Scorcese films which makes a veteran movie goer such as myself think Scorcese should ride off into the sunset.


                
OK. First off, I'm glad to see that "The Departed" has as many detractors as it has admirers. My objections to it, for the most part, have been filled in by other users. Therefore, I'll keep it brief. The movie's characters, just like its gushing audiences,seem to suffer from attention deficit disorder. As if they've never read a book in their lives. And it appears as if Scorcese had that in mind, knowing fully well in advance that the film would appeal to people who seemingly have no problem with the F word being uttered every twelve seconds--whether it's in the movies, or in their actual,everyday pedestrian conversations. Which, I've found to be a problem with those who, quite simply,did not stay in school long enough. And who would believe-- even for a second--that two members of the Boston P.D.(played by Alec Baldwin and Mark Wahlberg) would engage in banter graphically describing how each of them had sex with the other guy's mother--at a meeting where the bulk of the attendees consists of top- level Federal Agents?. What are these guys--in the 8th Grade? If I held that position in real life ( FBI,CIA,etc. ),I--while walking out on the two of them-- would look both in the eye and let them know what slobs they are.Finally, to switch gears, I guess nobody thought the film went awry when Leo DiCaprio has apparently no trouble beating the hell out of two grown men from the Rhode Island branch of the Cosa Nostra (man, that's some muscle that got sent in from Providence, huh?). All of it punctuated by the unnecessary--not to mention perfunctory-- accompaniment of The Human Beinz "Nobody But Me". And later, when one of Nicholson's men is being interrogated, we are treated to about six and a half seconds of "Sail On Sailor". If you're anything like me, when you think grueling questioning, you think... Beach Boys. And don't get me started on the fact that this is an Oscar winning film, the last ten minutes of which consist of not one...not two... not three...but four-count 'em-- men getting a bullet through his brain. Lovely.Just like the conclusion of "Babe", where the talking pig wins the Sheepdog Contest. Guaranteed... when you're at some guy's house/apartment--and you don't see any bookcases--that if the subject of this film comes up, he'll tell you just how terrific it was. Childish, pernicious drivel.


                
I am not a real film buff, and neither is my wife. I had heard that this film was supposed to be good, and rented it. Despite the excellent cast and good production values, I couldn't believe how labored the script was, and how much overacting was taking place (much of it by Nicholson).When we finished watching the movie, I remarked to my wife that I must have gotten the film confused with some other. I went to IMDb to see what rating it had gotten -- I figured maybe a 6.7 or something.To my disbelief, it lands in the top 100, and won the best picture Oscar! I went back to tell my wife that it had won the best picture, and she thought I was joking. Then her reaction was that someone had hacked my computer.As far as the comments here, I would have had to think that there was a large astroturf component. But with the film winning best picture, I guess I am just seeing one of those occasional mass delusions that happens in the world.But what I *really* can't believe is that it won best script. Un. Be. Lievable. This script was so bad, and so unconvincing, that after I told my wife that it had won best picture and director, I remarked that for sure it couldn't have won best scriptwriting. But it did.I simply don't understand what people see in this film. The plot is sophomoric. The involvement of Costello in routine pickups and deliveries, and the immediate trust and access to the boss given Costigan, is so implausible that I find it difficult to believe anyone can take this film seriously. Is it supposed to be camp or something?


                
Quite frankly, it took me a few viewings to figure this one out. This movie seemed a bit too long and contained several unnecessary characters and events. Mark Wahlberg's character, in particular , just seemed way over the top and was just plain annoying. I still haven't figured out why this character is even included in this story. As for the other performances, Nicholson seems a bit out of place in this one and Martin Sheen is a little too low-key. I must agree with other reviewers that state that this movie contains way too much information, plot twists, and should have been a lot shorter. I have yet to see the original "Internal Affairs" but will now seek it out and compare the two. Again, I agree with other reviewers that I just didn't see what the big deal was about this movie. This was not one of Scorsese's best as far as I'm concerned.


                
So very glad not to have spent money on this film in a cinema, but watched it only on TV. I do wish that some of today's directors and actors would immerse themselves in an intense examination of some of the Hollywood and British movies of the 1940s and 1950s to see how really to make films that are crisp and tight in direction, how the actors of those times were able to speak their lines in clear and understandable English, and that self-indulgent acts (actors) like Jack Nicholson simply were not given the time of day.As for this film, far too much of it was devoted to scene after scene of interminable length, simply so that the director and actors could show off their alleged "skills". That was, instead of the director getting hold of the central storyline - potentially, quite good - and his actors by the scruff of the neck and stating quite clearly: okay, guys, let's really get on with this and concentrate on the core essentials of the story in as tight a manner as possible.Instead, the whole film went on and on in a cumulative exercise of screaming tedium. And, I bet, that you wouldn't see for those old films the interminable list of continuity goofs that accompany the comments on this film on the IMDb entry!
It is just a bad terrible Hollywood copy of IA. I can't believe how Hollywood treat the audience. Lots of scenes, dialogues or even acting was the exact same as the original. Even most of the locations was the exact same as the original. The only different was the Hollywood ending. I am very very very disappointed, we can be more creative, this is very sad !!!!! I don't believe the screen play writer hadn't watched the original Infernal Affairs while writing the Departed screen play. I am sure everybody in the cast and of course the writer and Director had watched the Original for at least 10 times if not 100 times. The actors delivered the same exact emotions and writer and director just Americanized the story. Add some sex scene. Add few sub plots not related to the story and a happy resolution in the ending. Come on guys you can be a little more creative with 90 Million dollars budget. The other sad thing is how films are sold and marketed using actor names and not the story line. Infernal Affairs and Departed are great example of this. The Original Infernal Affairs when screened in US just made $89.6K, because in US there are very few people that watch anything made outside Hollywood. Departed made $289 Million by using the same story, plot, character and even dialogue, they just changed the actors and put the known actors and it made close to $ 300 Million . What can I say Viva Hollywood. Brad Bahmanpour


                
First, is it me or is it still the in-thing these days to act tough by saying f*** ALL the time? This movie is littered with f*** every other word. It makes the movie so 80s. All the subtleties are lost by the poor dialogue.As you know, this movie is based of a hong kong made movie "Infernal Affairs". If you have the chance, watch that version. The plot is similar, but it has a lot more subtleties that this movie failed to produce.I'm very surprised that this movie won the best picture and directing. It's an entertaining movie, no doubt, but it's definitely not up to par....


                
Jack Nicholson is a real good villain, period.As for the story - it starts off as extremely intriguing, a brick here, a brick there, great acting, and still, in the end, which is blatant and potty, you feel there has been much ado about nothing.Everybody shooting everybody for various reasons is a possible finish-off, no doubt. But then why take the efforts to build up a fantastic background in the style of the best Mafia movies so far and then end in a shooting scene which is not original, not exciting, not interesting, not comprehensible, and does not follow logically from the plot.I think there could have been a lot more to this story but they have either ran out of time or money or patience or their common sense. It is regrettable, since the build-up of the characters is so extraordinarily good and it all goes down the drain at the end of the day.
don't know why this thing got such high score. its cut like a frickin movie trailer, watching this thing.. feels like watching a 2 hour long movie preview.. jeez. extremely annoying. the story is pretty good though, like the angle. but the cutting.. argh, its so annoying, it gets through everything, and all you can think of is how badly cut this movie is.then there's the characters. whole frickin bunch of wannabe tough guys. they're so pitiful and lacks so much charisma they need to wade through rivers of blood to get any sort of credibility. waste of time. friggin wannabe Tarantino directors.


                
I'd have seen this film regardless of the reviews. Scorcese has directed some of the most significant, dramatic and best-told stories of our time, and with Nicholson, Damon, DeCaprio, Baldwin, Sheen, Walberg and the rest, it at least had a solid chance to be a tour de force. It's a mess, though, dragged down to lousy by a screenplay written by the same misguided pen of that disaster-bore-embarrassment "Kingdom Of Heaven". Bad or no structure can't be saved by over-cranking the ragefest volume.It's hard to say why Marty needs to wallow in even deeper pools of perpetual manic violence and blood at this point in his career. Maybe he still just likes it. Maybe he's feeling like we need to take some people out. Maybe the only way he could punctuate and hold together this cluster was with regular, loud, brain blasting, because if it weren't for the continuous bang-bang-blast, in-your-face-insults and face-punch scenes the story would've resembled a garbage pile. An interesting plot line was strung together by an amateur, though fortunately you've got watchable actors, some wry funny lines and a few outrage scenes that pop.The screenplay's choppy, the edits and lighting choices are weird, and the script's incongruent in a bad way. It never builds a tempo. That's Scorcese's fault. It was a great shame to see great actors content with accepting performance mania in lieu of characters. So in spite of all the odd-crazy, there're also huge bald spots. Nobody in this film goes beyond one-dimensionally anger-crazed, with the possible exception of DeCaprio. Still, I couldn't understand how Leo didn't explode during this film; he goes from appearing over-stressed and over-drugged to rage-psycho. I felt possessed to snort Ajax watching his crazed eyes and jaw grinding for 2 hours.I give it a '3' -- there's enough good violence to feel punched up after a numbing week at work.


                
Despite all the hype, the Oscars, and the good reviews on this site, I found the Departed a great disappointment. The story never for one moment captured my interest. There was not one character that I cared what happened to. And, as it seemed that most the actors were doing their jobs quite well, I assumed it was either story or direction that was the problem with the movie, or maybe both.I found that the Departed suffers from Tough Talkitis. That is when all the characters speak to each other with such tough, rude, arrogant attitudes, it becomes unreal (like a cop show on Fox). Why? Because no people anywhere interact with each other that way in real life. It's a synthetic movie-acting manner that actors take on to project toughness into their roles. It is too fake.DiCaprio and Damon do reasonably well in their over-tough parts, DiCaprio especially. Sheen is restrained. Wahlberg is particularly annoying as the police sergeant who never is for one moment human. He is smug and coarse. No doubt the director shaped that characterization. Worse than all is the outrageous hamming of Nicholson, a lifelong favorite of mine. I never believed him for a second in this role as some sort of serious Joker gangster. Alec Baldwin is very good in one of his small roles, which he seems to specialize in these days.The story is humdrum and boring. I began looking at my watch about 15 minutes into this epic. There is no humor, even less character development, annoying side shows (the shrink girlfriend), and no real tension in the tale. After one hour and forty-five minutes of this, I realized that I did not care about what happened to any of these characters, nor did I care how the 'story' turned out. So I shut it off.Three stars for a good try (stretching it!).
I have seen Infernal Affairs(the original) and the Departed is really terrible in comparison. The scene for example where Damon's character pretends to be a lawyer was MUCH better acted by Andy Lau in IA. Jack Nicholson character was over the top and annoying. IMO, Jack comes off as a low class, dirty, scumbag than a "mademan" mafioso top dog. The scene with Nicholson holding the severed hand in front of Dicaprio was just an stupid scene all together. Mark Wahlberg?? What was the point of his character? All he seems to do was act like a hoodlum and curse when he is speaking. I was very impressed with the storyline, the acting, and subtlety scenes in IA, but TD just left me uninterested in the story all together and this is the SAME FILM!! THE Departed is a terrible film with bad acting, by Hollywood A-list actors. Sorry, but I didn't buy the plot, the acting, the emotions in TD. But then again what do you expect, its a Hollywood knock-off of an original. I couldn't finsh the film that was how terrible it was.


                
This was just not a good movie, it should be free, not for purchase on demand. Screenplay was written terribly, and the directing or editing was bad. It was sort of a bad joke. Not worth repeating. There were time warp issues where things didn't fall into play correctly. It seems like they got finished filming and decided there were too many big names to just scrap it and pretend it didn't happen. The most disappointing was Jack Nicholson and Martin Scorsese were involved and they couldn't even save it. It might have been Jacks' most uninspired acting job of his career, but I think the screenplay was so poorly written as though to dumb it down as much as possible so that the audience would realize how unsophisticated the Boston Irish really are. DeCaprio and Damon were equally bad and Alex Baldwin and Marky Mark were just behind them. The characters were bad, and the attempt to have us understand them was missing except for the vulgar language. I swear, Scorsese must have a deep hatred of Boston and the Irish to portray them so badly. What was good? the shootings and violence were pretty good. I think the script caused this all, it was so bad the top actors and directors couldn't save it. I'm really surprised it made it out. I'm more surprised it is rated so highly online, but now i understand why it took me almost ten years to see it.
To say that Scorsese, Nicholson, Damon, or any of the other Hollywood elites, in 'The Departed,' have outdone themselves would be a vast overstatement. It was simply too bad and too long to sit through for 7 American dollars. Come to think of it, I can't remember the last time I was able to make it to the end of a Scorsese flick without snoring myself awake during its end credits. Nicholson's accent is shaky at best and his role as mob boss about as convincing as the film's denouement when every character that you should care about takes one to the face. It's as if Monahan got tired and handed the script of to his 12 year old to finish. Neither a masterpiece or anywhere near Scorsese's best. Perhaps, throwing in the towel is not an option when you command so much respect. But, it's never too late.
Now I hate to be the devil's advocate here but I honestly think that the HK version was definitely much nicer. I guess the key difference lies in the fact that mafia and triads are very much a part of the Chinese social fabric, which makes it appealing to movie viewers. Also, Jack Nicolson did not really pull off the big, bad wolf role that well. He appeared to be more psychotic than evil. Also, what's the deal with his woman companion? She did not serve much purpose in building his character in the show. And there was just too much bloodshed. What's up with all the shooting-people-in-the-brain scenes? However, I must applaud the 3 leading actors (Matt Damon, Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Wahlberg)They did pull off their roles very well. For those who did not watch the original HK version Infernal Affairs, I highly recommend you to watch it. It will be one of the best foreign films you will watch this year. Trust me.


                
Okay, yes, it's a good movie. Interesting script, loaded with good actors and nicely directed. But I read one reviewers remarks that said to forget "Goodfellows" and "Raging Bull" as this is Martin's finest work. To him I say 2 things (1) put down the pipe (2) step away from the keyboard. Goodfellows is still the definitive Mob movie ( The Godfather being the definitive Mafia film ) and there is no movie ever made that rivals the visual style that Raging Bull brought to the screen. To me The Departed is a movie about corruption. I never felt any sense of organized crime ,it was more like organized chaos. Characters are never developed or made memorable , thats all sacrificed to make more room for showing how intense the movie is suppose to be. Maybe because 2006 was such a lackluster year this will get more praise than its due. I enjoyed it for what it offered and will leave it at that. I think Jack Nicholson and Matt Damon were fine but it was Leonardo DiCaprio that gave the best performance. Since Martin Scorsese has never won an Oscar for Best Director he will probably be given the lead to win it come next Spring. Even though I see nothing here that he hasn't done better in other films.. Once again, its good,,just not as good as it's being touted..


                
Jack Nicholson is a wonderful actor and is wasted in this over violent and bloody movie. It was too long and sometimes boring. The cast is uniformly good but the plot was mundane. Why do I have to write ten lines to tell you that I briefly fell asleep a couple of times. I came out of the theater thinking I will avoid Scorsese movies from now on. What more can one say than an excellent cast cannot make a dull movie exciting and interesting. It was a waste of $24.00 (for the two of us). I am tired of seeing blood spattered all over floors, walls and people. This gore is no substitute for a skillfully written and filmed scenario. Surely Scorsese can do better.


                
I love complex movies, so I had high hopes for this one. I don't think I'm that much of a goody-two-shoes, but a movie where every other word is a curse is very hard for me to stomach. It's irritating, unnecessary, and it bogs down the plot. I really liked how the two moles had to live two lives, it was neat. But there was too much swearing, the main female character was a (insert whatever derogatory word you want here), and the ending was a bloodbath. I mean really, do we need to see that much gore? I don't think so. There's something to be said for realism, of course, but that only goes too far. I guess it wasn't my kind of movie after all.
I know everybody is crazy about this movie. But just because everybody switches sides on each other doesn't make this a deep movie. How did Nicholson not know that DiCaprio's character was a cop? He acted so nervous and it was obvious. But you know what? I didn't know what anybody was supposed to be by the end of the movie either. Way too confusing. To me this movie was boring, complicated, and nothing amazing. Definitely doesn't live up to all the hype it gets. One thing I did like was Nicholson as a mob boss. I thought it was a cool role for him. Otherwise, I just didn't get this movie. If you're like me, it will leave you scratching your head.


                
Big names, big director, a rambling script equals not great. "Little Miss Sunshine" should have waxed this puppy Oscar night, as it was a far more enjoyable viewing experience. Somewhat confusing editing and too many characters with too little development sinks "The Departed". The movie could easily have been trimmed to under two hours. It seemed that it was not capable of ending until every last character had "departed" (pun intended). Alec Baldwin was totally wasted on a character who simply revolved around other characters. Martin Sheen added his name to the credits but remained well in the background. Neither Matt Damon or Leonardo DiCaprio's character was remotely likable, and the common love interest seemed gratuitous at best. Only Jack Nicholson did not disappoint, but the movie is way overrated and forgettable. - MERK
It was with no little trepidation that I arrived to see this latest offering from Scorsese. There are few directors in his class in modern cinema and he is certainly one you would watch directing traffic, but I can only report that this film is massively disappointing. A strong ensemble cast promised much and almost to a man they delivered massively, and here I think lies the clue to this Curate's egg. It occurred to me that Jack Nicholson delivers a performance that was at best ill-conceived and at worst massively self-indulgent to the detriment of the film. As a result the Nicholson character is a shocking turn off, maybe only rivalled by Ray Winstone's leaden Mr French. The remainder of the cast deliver strong performances, actually exquisite in the case of Mark Wahlberg and Alec Baldwin, perhaps this is an attempt to distance themselves from a flaccid core? For me Leonardo Di Caprio and Matt Damon are serviceable as the central characters (which for Di Caprio is as good as it gets but that is possibly a matter of personal taste) but this doesn't detract from what is ultimately an underwhelming film. Its worth mentioning that the level of disappointment I felt at this film was such that I had to go and watch it again to confirm that I hadn't grossly mis-read the film, sadly the second viewing simply confirmed my lack of satisfaction.


                
I don't understand how can it have such great marks when the original version is way better. It's pretty much the same as the original except for one particular thing that was one of the best parts of the original film.And the thing that really pisses me off is that it was given the Oscar for the best adaptation... it was adapted from another film (tell me how difficult it can be) and the good parts are all the same.It may be true that the actors did it very well and that the plot is excellent, but the original actors are as good as these ones and the original plot is even better so I highly recommend to watch the original one first (Infernal Affairs). You won't regret it.


                
When I started watching the movie I had no idea it was based on IA so it seemed like an okay flick. Not great by any stretch of the imagination but a passable B-movie with A-list actors. Mark Whalberg's character was annoying and just seemed too unstable and unfit for his position. Still marginally entertaining as I was not expecting a serious cinema and paying more attention to the visuals and Jack Nicholson's familiar antics. Once it became clear that this was a remake the whole impression just totally crumbles as you just notice only deficiencies and see no added value. To be fair it's not a one star movie characters are two-dimensional but there's some entertainment and shock value in it. Finally movies are goods to be sold let's be honest how many people among the average US movie going public have heard or watched IA? Like one performer said once "people will gobble it up anyway" so that's another McMovie


                
Perhaps because this is based on a Hong Kong movie, it opened here before the US so we got to see it with about 12 others who paid to see the first showing.I thought the acting of the three main male characters was terrific and I'm sure one or two of them will get Oscar nom. Even Jack Nicholson didn't overdo it. The women's roles were more generic and unexceptional, but that's nothing new.I can see why this would have worked as a Hong Kong movie but I don't think a violent HK shoot em up translated so well to the guilty and remorseful Catholic working class Boston.
