It's almost impossible to describe the astounding creativity of "Sherlock, Jr".  Even for Buster Keaton, this is a tremendous display of comedic and fantasy material.  What's so remarkable is not so much any particularly hilarious gag or gags, as the never-ending stream of amazing and entertaining sights - coming faster and faster as the film proceeds - that seem so off-hand and effortlessly inventive, but that must have involved many hours of painstaking work to perfect.  The film vs. reality theme is also highly suggestive, and makes this great movie one of the most completely satisfying efforts by Keaton or anyone else.The film opens slowly and allows the pace to build gradually.  Buster operates the movie projector at a theater, while trying to study on his own to be a detective.  He is involved in a real-life mystery that involves his girlfriend's family, and which turns out badly for him.  He retreats into the fantasy world of a picture showing at his theater, and from then on you just have to see it to appreciate it.  The creative comedy, the technical skill, and the subtly expressed themes are all remarkable.This is a great experience not to be missed.


                
Not only is this Buster Keaton's best film, but it is among the greatest achievements in the history of cinema, period. While it is not a feature-length film--and thus barred from most critics' lists of great films--it invented just about every single basic special effect known to movies (except for morphing). The story itself, about a film projectionist who desires to become part of the movies, and then does, by walking right onto the screen, made palpable the desire that we all have to be in the movies: To get the girl, to be an action hero, to outsmart the bad guys. Keaton invented meta-cinema before anyone even had a phrase for it.This movie has entered our dreams.


                
I have to say that this is by far Keaton's finest work. I have seen and own about 19 of his films/short films and this is the one that truly stands out.It is rare these days to find a comedy which will make you laugh each and every time you see it. Yet this one, to me, seems not only to be able to do this but also to get BETTER the more you watch it.The physical comedy, sight gags and insane stunts never cease to amaze me. That is what I love about Buster, the fact he did his own stunts shows that he was a great believer in producing a film that was genuine, that didnt try to trick or fool it's audience.I find it sad that today most people seem to think that comedy is about dialouge and punch lines, when it is clear from film master pieces such as Sherlock Jr. that this is not true. Silent movies are not to be ignored just because they are 'old', when I watch many of them they feel as fresh as any new comedy - if not more so.So thank-you Buster!


                
Though a lot of older films tend to be neglected, Sherlock Jr. definitely isn't a film that could be called obscure. I imagine most people at least know OF this movie with its famous movie-in-a-movie surrealist scene.Still, having previously heard over and over again about the brilliance of this film, I never really understood until I saw it myself. It's not just the dream-story and the surreality, it's what Keaton does with it and the importance he places on cinema. This film is even rather unique in using montage in a new way, or showing how much film appeals to the imagination as much as an artistic endeavor.Thus, this film itself becomes both wildly imaginative and brilliantly artistic... and best of all, it's FUNNY! Thus, it becomes a film for everyone. There's no hard-found artistic conceit that leads to cries of "Pretentious!", but still people can say "It's amazing." There's no comedic conceit that says, "Bah, just simple slapstick, it's low-culture!" because it's rather intelligently done. And it's creative in a way that isn't like an opium-dream. It can appeal to anybody of all ages. It's one very well-done film.--PolarisDiB


                
As I sat reading the other reviewers comments I wondered what I could add. Oddly enough I watched Sherlock jr only this afternoon, after so many viewings it still amazes me how far ahead of his time Buster Keaton was, often copied, rarely equalled never surpassed. I would hate to be the kind of movie fan who never watches silent or black and white movies (you'd be surprised how many there are). So if you are like that do yourself a favour, get hold of a copy of this movie and enjoy, it shocks me that films such as 'Something about Mary' are rated higher than this masterpiece of comedy, there is nothing wrong with 'SaM' even I laughed at it, but, watching it once was enough, however I watch Sherlock jr again and again in pure amazement at Buster Keaton and his cameraman, Elgin Lessley's achievements without the aid of modern technology, like most other's the scene where he dives through a window to reappear as a little old lady gobsmacks me, how did he do it? Keaton can only be described in one word, genius. I have to add that I have the Kino version on DVD with the appalling soundtrack, but, luckily I also have it with a more appropriate soundtrack, which is far superior and adds extra enjoyment to an already fabulous movie.


                
The best silent I have seen yet.. Buster Keaton's a film genius for making a movie like this.. the scenes where the film surroundings change while Buster is in the film is hilarious and even seems hard to make as a realistic special effect today. His stunts are great and its amazing that he did them himself. They're all perfectly timed and done and look as hard as they must be. This movie is one of the best.. Not a single sound the whole movie and I enjoyed it greatly.. Keaton is without a doubt the best comedian.. better than Chaplin or anyone else.


                
Sherlock, Jr. arguably exceeds The General as Buster Keaton's greatest achievement -- it is certainly more magical in its use of extraordinary special effects and unconventionally humorous situations.  Movies about movies are a dime a dozen, but rather difficult to do well.  Keaton's brilliant structuring of the story -- a fantastic treat for audiences when his pathetic projectionist becomes the genius detective through a literal entering of the movie screen -- has been imitated dozens of times, but I always come back to this unsurpassable rendering.  Watching Keaton play the scene where he studies how to go about kissing his best girl by peeking at a movie version of the same event always reduces me to simultaneous jags of tears and laughter.


                
Spoilers herein.I am an enthusiast of what I call "folding" in film. That's the collection of techniques that map some awareness or identification of what the film is, to the story within the film. It isn't just a simple game, but a complex system of juggling representations and reality. It is not unique to film of course -- it has a long literary tradition. But it is one of the few things that characterize film as an agent of our imagination. I have built a database of hundreds of wonderful examples of folded films.It all starts here. Even today, the medium is still young and quickly evolving. But when this was made, film was still indistinct from its siblings: theater and still photography. Griffith had hampered the evolution by introducing one feature (societal scope -- unachievable on stage) by freezing another (ALL of the other conventions of stage).Keaton's notion of a film within a film seems ordinary today. Today, we don't even blink at one of the effects in this film: Keaton (in his film-within persona) is planning an elaborate getaway through a window in a cabin. To see this getaway, you need to see the inside and outside. Since this is explicitly a movie, we see the cabin the way it was built for a movie: with one side missing. Is is, in effect a film within a film within a film. This now common notion all starts here, it seems.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience this
This movie is breathtaking and astounding. You've heard those things before, but not from me. Today we have few films that combine special effects with a riveting story. Some would say Star Wars did so, and I'd agree to a certain extent, but no movie that I've ever seen work a story integrated with special effects like this one. If you aren't as amazed by this tour de force as I am, check your pulse. You're dead.


                
Sherlock, Jr. (1924)If you think silent films are stupid or simplistic, check this out. Not only is it clever and fast and well done, it's short (well under an hour) so you won't have to panic.Buster Keaton is one of the big three silent film comedians (along with Chaplin and Lloyd). And all three were an influence on Woody Allen. In this case, you can see the most astonishing use of the film work and the real world getting mixed up. Remember that Allen film, "The Purple Rose of Cairo," where the character on the screen steps into the real world, and things go nuts? Well, that's the key startling premise here--Keaton plays a projectionist who (in his dream) jumps up on the screen and into the movie.On top of this are classic Keaton comic moments, a plot that has at least three threads (one is in the movie on the screen), and a kind of post-modern love story. Keaton is an understated actor with is face, and overstated with his body. That is, he doesn't push the comic expressions but he really knows how to make his body language work.The Netflix streamable version is a Kino release and it's really very good, with music that makes sense. (The music is always added much later, but Kino releases usually choose scores that might match a better performance from the time, when of course the music was live in the theater.)


                
Though a silent film aficionado, I've only recently been getting into the comedies of the twenties. Sherlock, Jr. was my first taste of Buster Keaton, and thank god for it is the best place to start. Like Bill Murray or Bob Newhart, Keaton's humor is based on perfectly timed lack of expression, which can convey more than anything said or done by a more animated comedian. Unlike those other stone faces, Keaton is also an action hero, constantly jumping off cliffs, hopping moving trains, riding the handle bars of a speeding bicycle, throwing himself through windows, all without the aid of a stunt double. The seamlessness of the camera trickery is mind-blowing, and the post-modern breaking-the-fourth wall philosophy has been the subject of an entire book published by Cambridge. But despite all the leaps, falls, and technical wizardry, the funniest moment in the film is when Buster kisses the girl, which must be one of the most awkward-yet-endearing love scene ever put on film.


                
This film is one of the zeniths of an art of silent cinema sadly lost on most filmmakers today. Keaton's ability to have your sides aching with laughter one second and your heart breaking with empathy for this little lost man the next is unsurpassed.


                
Buster Keaton has cajones the size of watermelons. This isn't just to say in the stunts that he executes- sometimes, apparently, to great physical and personal risk- are at big comic peril, but that he's fearless with what he wants to try as a filmmaker and scenarist. Jokes that I thought would never really be fresh are taken in 1924 in ways I didn't think could be funny, but are. Take a small bit where Keaton's character (one of them, anyway) plans to sabotage a nefarious guy with a slip on the banana peel. For a moment this is groan-inducing, but watching how it's executed it becomes something really, really gut-busting. There are little bits like that, and then those huge scenes of choreographed mayhem: a blast by water after hanging off of a moving train, a chase through a town that includes a sudden chance of a road connected, jumps through small holes and windows at the nick of time that are half pure Keaton and half exciting editing.And then Keaton himself, usually a little guy looking shy and quiet and a dreamer in the greatest cinematic sense (this was one of the first, if not the first, films to have a character go into a movie-world right through the screen), and he's always incredibly subtle but not ever lacking appropriate comic timing. And in Sherlock Jr he operates wonderfully on two wavelengths: one is as the character just trying to hold the girl's hand on the couch without much embarrassment, and the other is as the title character, going up in peculiar fashion up to everyone in the room (as is one of the listed things "to do" as a detective) and suave with things like an explosive 13 ball on the pool table. Keaton is, as Ebert noticed, the one little guy wandering around in the chaos. Only this time, in such a short running time for a feature (it's just a few minutes short of being a short film), Keaton crams as much as he can to perfect effect.Sherlock Jr should be seen by just about anyone looking for a great example of pure silent-comedy hijinks and stunt work; what Jackie Chan might be for martial arts Buster Keaton is to a crazy pratfall, and you often can't entirely believe it's the guy on screen doing what's being done. And it's also, alongside Steamboat Bill Jr and The General, examples of how Keaton could be an exemplary filmmaker, someone who took film technique and shook it up just a bit (if, admittedly, more-so than Chaplin as just director if not quite as a star), while sticking faithfully to comedy and heart-tugging moments. And if you're tuned into the mania and well-oiled machine of the stunt sequences and classic chase climax it's as pleasurable as anything in comedy history, nevermind just silent film. Make sure, by the way, to watch the Kino version (at least the one on VHS which I saw) to see one of the most enjoyably strange scores for a silent film- there's even the blues hit You Got to Move at one point!


                
Yes, counting all the comedies I've ever seen, silent or talkie, this is probably the funniest. I was lucky (boy, was I lucky!) to see this in a theater with a live piano player. Ever scene is brimming with comic genius, cinematic inventiveness, and just plain perfection. I laughed almost nonstop from beginning to ending. Jokes that seem liked they lasted 10 minutes were funny for their entirety. After the performance was done, I think the audience clapped for 10 minutes, and they (the pianist and Buster Keaton) deserved at least that much, if not an hour more. 10/10


                
This is, in my book, Keaton's greatest film -- even better than "The General," and that's saying a lot.  It's hilarious and technically dazzling, especially when you consider the state of special effects when it was made. See it and understand why Buster Keaton has to be considered one of the geniuses of the 20th century.


                
009: Sherlock Jr. (1924) - released 4/21/1924, viewed 7/31/05.DOUG: At just 44 minutes, this film starts slow, but once the action picks up, it becomes unforgettable with many of Keaton's most famous stunts. Keaton and his gagmen created bits that I could never imagine; how do you create a scene with a lost dollar bill in a trash pile? How about an exploding pool ball? That scene with the pool table just baffled me. How did he keep from hitting the 13 ball? Did he just glue it in place? Since Keaton plays a projectionist, we get to see the inside of a 1920s movie theater, complete with the little orchestra pit. There's also the climactic bit with Keaton riding on the handlebars of a motorcycle, not knowing that the driver is long gone. After many thrilling stunts (an exploded log, an elevated train track bridged by two trucks, a tug-of-war that goes awry), Keaton finally turns around and finds that he really is driving by the seat of his pants. The finale is a real kicker. And let's not forget the scene where Keaton hangs off the tube connected to the water basin as the water pours out and washes him onto the track (Keaton fractured his neck doing this stunt). Gives new meaning to the warning "Don't try this at home." I've found that Keaton's trademark stone-faced expression really does work for the comedy, as we in the audience can just fill in whatever reaction works in our own minds. I'd also like to give props to the movie's soundtrack on the DVD which, according to the credits, was recorded in 1993. It sounds very jazzy and modern.KEVIN: Sherlock, Jr. was AWESOME!!! It's only our second Buster Keaton film and already one of his best. All the gags in this film are top notch. I still don't know how he did some of that stuff, like the stunt where he dives through the suitcase and disappears. Lots of little pointless special effects going on too, like at the beginning of the dream sequence when he walks into the movie and the scenery keeps changing on him. My favorite gag is the bit on the bicycle, when he finally notices that his partner has fallen off and we see something almost (but not quite) like an expression resembling panic on his deadpan face. Again, Keaton's expression is kind of a marvel, as silent stars in those days had to be extremely expressive, while Keaton went the other way. His minimalist look kind of allows the viewer to fill in the appropriate emotion, which brings the audience in on the joke. One of the unusual things about this film was the musical score, which sounds a little too modern (I think I caught an electric guitar in there) but just barely fits with the film's dreamy story. Last film viewed: Thief of Bagdad (1924). Last film chronologically: Girl Shy (1924). Next film: The Navigator (1924).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
This is as close to a perfect movie as you will find. I've shown this film a number of times to classes of juveniles in detention, and after the initial first few minutes of resistance, even this short-attention-span audience, used to instant gratification, and the latest cinematic effects--even this audience, invariably becomes enthralled by Keaton's artistry and film magic.Contemporary artists, like Jackie Chan, have copied much of Keaton's style and many of his stunts. Chan and others have used Keaton's stunt of running on the top of a moving train such that the runner appears stationary to the background. Keaton shows that great film artistry can be achieved with rudimentary technology.Sherlock Jr. will remain on a list of "must watch" film classics as long as people are still watching movies.


                
This is a film that starts out as a very simple story, and then elevates itself to a level of manic hilarity that has rarely been duplicated. Buster Keaton, as he does in every film, has three or four sight gags that are so shocking and startling that you'll be rolling on the floor with laughter (I particularly liked the "dive through the barn window" - I won't give it away, but it's insanely hilarious). This is well worth seeing again and again. This is one of Buster's finest films.


                
Outstanding, outstanding.  What more can I say?  I can't pick out one scene over the others because it is just one hell of a movie, from beginning to end.  Why this didn't make the AFI Top 100 is a mystery to me.  The special effects are better than anything being churned out on the blue screen today!


                
Along with SUNRISE, the greatest movie from the silent era.  While not stinting on extraordinary sequences of slapstick - the bicycle scene is justly admired and unsurpassed - it is the growing richness of Buster's persona, and the breathtaking analysis of the medium itself that today astonishes.  An anti-detective work ahead of its time, it both celebrates film as a repository of our dreams and desires, and critiques it for engendering passivity.  Crucially, it is very, very funny.


                
There is a special effect in this film - made so many decades ago - that still amazes viewers.  In one scene, Keaton is chased through a house, wearing men's clothing.  He dives through a window, in a continuous tracking shot, and emerges fully dressed as an old woman.  Watch it in slo-mo on your VCR.  It will astound you.The entire, brilliant film will astound


                
My favorite film second only to "Annie Hall."  "Sherlock, Jr." is Buster Keaton's masterpiece.  It is very fast-paced.  (It's 44 minutes long.  A frame more and it would not have been as good.)  Buster's comic timing is impeccable.  Also, his stunts are dazzling.  In fact, Jackie Chan once said Buster Keaton was his personal hero."Sherlock, Jr." is so good because it is so modern.  Whereas some works of Chaplin are dated and sentimental, Buster Keaton's movies are modern and unsentimental.  Some people call him cynical, but I don't think so.  He's just realistic.The entire movie is funny.  Heck, even the dialogue titles were funny!  His own self-critique notwithstanding, Buster Keaton was a genius, and his genius, resourcefulness, and creativity should never be forgotten.


                
I'm one of those people who rates Buster Keaton above Charlie Chaplin, and "Sherlock Jr." is one of the reasons why. Keaton's stony-faced modernist holds up better than Chaplin's Victorian crowd-pleaser. In this film, Keaton is wonderful as a film projectionist who imagines himself as a movie hero even as he tries to woo the girl he loves. Although it's only 1924, Keaton evokes the dreamer's love affair with movies as well or better than "Walter Mitty," as the film explores the tenuous boundary between reality and fantasy. It also has a perfect ending. I rate it a 10.


                
A film that is often copied, borrowed from and imitated but can never be surpassed.  The technical special effects teams assembled for today's movies couldn't possibly capture the nuances or spirit of Keaton's truly astounding stunts all performed with a precision that would shame a brain-surgeon.There was never a greater artist working in silent film than Keaton and it is to the AFI's ever-lasting shame that none of his films (but especially this one) were named to their so-called 100 Greatest Films list.  How myopic and dim-witted can they be?


                
