Buster Keaton's most surreal movie sprang from his insistence on logic and realism. His tribute to cinema was inspired by stage magic tricks he remembered from his vaudeville career. His most dazzling and original movie is also one of his least formally perfect. All these paradoxes belong naturally to this "through the looking glass" work, which examines the dream-like nature of film<U+0097>or is it the film-like nature of dreams? As Buster told it, the origin of the film lay in his desire to use certain illusionary stunts, like the bewildering dive through a living assistant's stomach, which he had learned the secret of as a child. But he firmly believed that impossible or "cartoon" gags were not acceptable in feature films, so he could only include them by making them occur in a dream, which is also a film-within-a-film. This is odd, when you think about it, since what he seems to be saying is that impossible things can happen in a film<U+0097>but this was the very rule he himself refused to break. By creating an outer film that is "real" and an inner film that is "not real," Keaton shows that, while film enables illusions and distortions of reality, the filmmaker has a choice<U+0097>and a responsibility<U+0097>to clearly delineate fact from fantasy. In one scene, Keaton uses a camera trick (dissolving a wall) to prove that he's NOT using a camera trick when he dives through a window and comes out disguised as an old woman. Because he was analytical, mechanically-minded, and a stickler for authenticity, Keaton took pleasure in revealing the processes of magic tricks, and camera tricks, rather than using them to fool the audience.Buster plays a hapless cinema projectionist who yearns to be a detective, but is so clueless that his romantic rival manages to frame him for stealing his girlfriend's father's watch. In a dream, he enters the film he's projecting and becomes a great detective who solves a similar crime. While Buster's on-screen character is a schlemiel who can only achieve mastery in his celluloid fantasies, as a director Keaton's grasp of the mechanics of film-making enabled him to control the camera and its imagery as thoroughly and gracefully as he controlled his acrobatic body. SHERLOCK JR. is the most technically advanced film he ever made, including special effects (as when Buster steps through the screen and gets edited from park bench to street to mountain-top to lion's den) that can still leave audiences wondering, "How in hell did he do that?" It's often said that Keaton's films inspire gasps rather than laughs. Well, I just saw SHERLOCK JR. with an audience last night, and the laughter was loud and regular as fireworks on the Fourth of July. But it's a particular kind of laughter: surprised, amazed, incredulous laughter.The first half of the movie takes place in the "real" world; it begins with some nice small-scale gags involving Buster's attempts to scrounge up money to buy candy for his girl, and his adorably awkward visit to her house. After he has been thrown out due to his rival's machinations, Buster "shadows" the man (literally, copying his every motion exactly), but is tricked again and trapped in a freight train. There's a beautiful shot where he runs along the top of the train, staying in the same spot on the screen while the cars zoom by under him in the opposite direction; but I can't watch the stunt where he rides a water-spout down to the tracks without wincing, knowing he fractured his neck doing it.The beginning of the dream sequence is one of the greatest self-reflexive scenes in the history of film, as Buster's ghostly double rises from his sleeping body, picks up his ghostly hat, marches down into the theater and steps into the screen. Haven't we all wanted to do this at some time? Once over his turbulent introduction to the medium, Buster becomes the elegant Sherlock, Jr., investigating a theft of pearls from a mansion. In a marvelous game of billiards, Buster smoothly plays around an exploding 13 ball; he escapes from the thieves' den with one of the neatest tricks you'll ever see; he rides through busy streets on the handlebars of a motorcycle that no one is driving; and he goes for a romantic sail in a floating car. All this is packed into a mere 45 minutes.Significantly cut after poor previews, SHERLOCK JR. has more in common with Keaton's short films than his features. Because of the fractured story-line, it doesn't have the narrative coherence or trajectory of character development that most of Keaton's great features do. His performance is split between the shy, inept projectionist and the suave, infallible detective. He is totally convincing in both roles. When he wakes from his dream, the projectionist finds that all is well: the girl has solved the mystery and come to apologize. He is still timid as ever, so for a romantic denouement he looks to the screen: peeking out of his booth, he copies the actions of the movie hero wooing his leading lady. This is Keaton's most trenchant bit of social satire: whose ideas of kissing and love-making haven't been influenced by what they see at the movies?
It's almost impossible to describe the astounding creativity of "Sherlock, Jr".  Even for Buster Keaton, this is a tremendous display of comedic and fantasy material.  What's so remarkable is not so much any particularly hilarious gag or gags, as the never-ending stream of amazing and entertaining sights - coming faster and faster as the film proceeds - that seem so off-hand and effortlessly inventive, but that must have involved many hours of painstaking work to perfect.  The film vs. reality theme is also highly suggestive, and makes this great movie one of the most completely satisfying efforts by Keaton or anyone else.The film opens slowly and allows the pace to build gradually.  Buster operates the movie projector at a theater, while trying to study on his own to be a detective.  He is involved in a real-life mystery that involves his girlfriend's family, and which turns out badly for him.  He retreats into the fantasy world of a picture showing at his theater, and from then on you just have to see it to appreciate it.  The creative comedy, the technical skill, and the subtly expressed themes are all remarkable.This is a great experience not to be missed.


                
Not only is this Buster Keaton's best film, but it is among the greatest achievements in the history of cinema, period. While it is not a feature-length film--and thus barred from most critics' lists of great films--it invented just about every single basic special effect known to movies (except for morphing). The story itself, about a film projectionist who desires to become part of the movies, and then does, by walking right onto the screen, made palpable the desire that we all have to be in the movies: To get the girl, to be an action hero, to outsmart the bad guys. Keaton invented meta-cinema before anyone even had a phrase for it.This movie has entered our dreams.


                
I have to say that this is by far Keaton's finest work. I have seen and own about 19 of his films/short films and this is the one that truly stands out.It is rare these days to find a comedy which will make you laugh each and every time you see it. Yet this one, to me, seems not only to be able to do this but also to get BETTER the more you watch it.The physical comedy, sight gags and insane stunts never cease to amaze me. That is what I love about Buster, the fact he did his own stunts shows that he was a great believer in producing a film that was genuine, that didnt try to trick or fool it's audience.I find it sad that today most people seem to think that comedy is about dialouge and punch lines, when it is clear from film master pieces such as Sherlock Jr. that this is not true. Silent movies are not to be ignored just because they are 'old', when I watch many of them they feel as fresh as any new comedy - if not more so.So thank-you Buster!


                
This Keaton classic is both funny and extremely clever in its construction. Our hero is a cleaner but dreams of becoming a detective, always with his nose buried in a book on the subject.The first third of the film is much like any other comedy. There are lost dollar bills, things sticking to other things, something stolen, mistaken identities. Our heroine is introduced in a charming scene where they seem terrified to hold hands. Her father is played by Buster's father Joe Keaton, who would appear in many of his son's films.There's a mustachioed cad with slick hair and a sharp suit who is after the girl, a cartoon baddie who the audience instinctively knows deserves a hiss and not a cheer.It is in Junior's other job as a cinema projectionist that the film comes alive. We are watching the film he has set up and then, suddenly, he is part of the action. In a sequence of great inventiveness, we see the film within a film changing scenes and watch with delight as the character adapts to each situation and surrounding.Sherlock Jr is very funny but is also unusual and, in comparison with other comedies of the period, ahead of its time. It includes some excellent stunts that are the equal of anything done by Harold Lloyd in the same period, and, although it has a very short running time, manages to develop a good storyline throughout.Justly feted as a masterpiece of silent comedy, Sherlock Jr represented one of the peaks of Buster Keaton's cinematic career. It is a film worth watching and has stood up well today.


                
Though a lot of older films tend to be neglected, Sherlock Jr. definitely isn't a film that could be called obscure. I imagine most people at least know OF this movie with its famous movie-in-a-movie surrealist scene.Still, having previously heard over and over again about the brilliance of this film, I never really understood until I saw it myself. It's not just the dream-story and the surreality, it's what Keaton does with it and the importance he places on cinema. This film is even rather unique in using montage in a new way, or showing how much film appeals to the imagination as much as an artistic endeavor.Thus, this film itself becomes both wildly imaginative and brilliantly artistic... and best of all, it's FUNNY! Thus, it becomes a film for everyone. There's no hard-found artistic conceit that leads to cries of "Pretentious!", but still people can say "It's amazing." There's no comedic conceit that says, "Bah, just simple slapstick, it's low-culture!" because it's rather intelligently done. And it's creative in a way that isn't like an opium-dream. It can appeal to anybody of all ages. It's one very well-done film.--PolarisDiB


                
As I sat reading the other reviewers comments I wondered what I could add. Oddly enough I watched Sherlock jr only this afternoon, after so many viewings it still amazes me how far ahead of his time Buster Keaton was, often copied, rarely equalled never surpassed. I would hate to be the kind of movie fan who never watches silent or black and white movies (you'd be surprised how many there are). So if you are like that do yourself a favour, get hold of a copy of this movie and enjoy, it shocks me that films such as 'Something about Mary' are rated higher than this masterpiece of comedy, there is nothing wrong with 'SaM' even I laughed at it, but, watching it once was enough, however I watch Sherlock jr again and again in pure amazement at Buster Keaton and his cameraman, Elgin Lessley's achievements without the aid of modern technology, like most other's the scene where he dives through a window to reappear as a little old lady gobsmacks me, how did he do it? Keaton can only be described in one word, genius. I have to add that I have the Kino version on DVD with the appalling soundtrack, but, luckily I also have it with a more appropriate soundtrack, which is far superior and adds extra enjoyment to an already fabulous movie.


                
There ought to be a theater that shows nothing but perfectly preserved prints of the silent comedies of Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Harry Langdon. There ought to be a lot of things, I guess. But anyone who thinks that silent film is nothing more than a crude and unskilled ancestor of today's motion picture need only spend some time on these great comedies to realize that, in this genre at least, the peak was reached in the 20s. Yes, there are funny movies with dialogue, but the humor is generally IN the dialogue...nobody--not the Marx Brothers, or W.C. Fields, or Abbot and Costello or the Three Stooges and nobody since--has achieved the sublime mastery of physical comedy these geniuses did. And the best of them all for pure comedy, to my mind, is Keaton. And the best of his movies is Sherlock, Jr. The dream sequence in which he becomes an actor in the film he's projecting is astonishing; the way in which this movie is a sort of window into a different and appealing age is charming--and the ending of this movie takes the breath away. Keaton made some of the great endings in film, I think. Check out "College" some time--just for the last minute or so. If you ever have the chance to see this film in a good print at the right speed with appropriate music, and you don't take that opportunity, shame shame shame. This is one I'd like to own.


                
The best silent I have seen yet.. Buster Keaton's a film genius for making a movie like this.. the scenes where the film surroundings change while Buster is in the film is hilarious and even seems hard to make as a realistic special effect today. His stunts are great and its amazing that he did them himself. They're all perfectly timed and done and look as hard as they must be. This movie is one of the best.. Not a single sound the whole movie and I enjoyed it greatly.. Keaton is without a doubt the best comedian.. better than Chaplin or anyone else.


                
Sherlock, Jr. arguably exceeds The General as Buster Keaton's greatest achievement -- it is certainly more magical in its use of extraordinary special effects and unconventionally humorous situations.  Movies about movies are a dime a dozen, but rather difficult to do well.  Keaton's brilliant structuring of the story -- a fantastic treat for audiences when his pathetic projectionist becomes the genius detective through a literal entering of the movie screen -- has been imitated dozens of times, but I always come back to this unsurpassable rendering.  Watching Keaton play the scene where he studies how to go about kissing his best girl by peeking at a movie version of the same event always reduces me to simultaneous jags of tears and laughter.


                
Spoilers herein.I am an enthusiast of what I call "folding" in film. That's the collection of techniques that map some awareness or identification of what the film is, to the story within the film. It isn't just a simple game, but a complex system of juggling representations and reality. It is not unique to film of course -- it has a long literary tradition. But it is one of the few things that characterize film as an agent of our imagination. I have built a database of hundreds of wonderful examples of folded films.It all starts here. Even today, the medium is still young and quickly evolving. But when this was made, film was still indistinct from its siblings: theater and still photography. Griffith had hampered the evolution by introducing one feature (societal scope -- unachievable on stage) by freezing another (ALL of the other conventions of stage).Keaton's notion of a film within a film seems ordinary today. Today, we don't even blink at one of the effects in this film: Keaton (in his film-within persona) is planning an elaborate getaway through a window in a cabin. To see this getaway, you need to see the inside and outside. Since this is explicitly a movie, we see the cabin the way it was built for a movie: with one side missing. Is is, in effect a film within a film within a film. This now common notion all starts here, it seems.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience this
This movie is breathtaking and astounding. You've heard those things before, but not from me. Today we have few films that combine special effects with a riveting story. Some would say Star Wars did so, and I'd agree to a certain extent, but no movie that I've ever seen work a story integrated with special effects like this one. If you aren't as amazed by this tour de force as I am, check your pulse. You're dead.


                
Sherlock, Jr. (1924)If you think silent films are stupid or simplistic, check this out. Not only is it clever and fast and well done, it's short (well under an hour) so you won't have to panic.Buster Keaton is one of the big three silent film comedians (along with Chaplin and Lloyd). And all three were an influence on Woody Allen. In this case, you can see the most astonishing use of the film work and the real world getting mixed up. Remember that Allen film, "The Purple Rose of Cairo," where the character on the screen steps into the real world, and things go nuts? Well, that's the key startling premise here--Keaton plays a projectionist who (in his dream) jumps up on the screen and into the movie.On top of this are classic Keaton comic moments, a plot that has at least three threads (one is in the movie on the screen), and a kind of post-modern love story. Keaton is an understated actor with is face, and overstated with his body. That is, he doesn't push the comic expressions but he really knows how to make his body language work.The Netflix streamable version is a Kino release and it's really very good, with music that makes sense. (The music is always added much later, but Kino releases usually choose scores that might match a better performance from the time, when of course the music was live in the theater.)


                
Though a silent film aficionado, I've only recently been getting into the comedies of the twenties. Sherlock, Jr. was my first taste of Buster Keaton, and thank god for it is the best place to start. Like Bill Murray or Bob Newhart, Keaton's humor is based on perfectly timed lack of expression, which can convey more than anything said or done by a more animated comedian. Unlike those other stone faces, Keaton is also an action hero, constantly jumping off cliffs, hopping moving trains, riding the handle bars of a speeding bicycle, throwing himself through windows, all without the aid of a stunt double. The seamlessness of the camera trickery is mind-blowing, and the post-modern breaking-the-fourth wall philosophy has been the subject of an entire book published by Cambridge. But despite all the leaps, falls, and technical wizardry, the funniest moment in the film is when Buster kisses the girl, which must be one of the most awkward-yet-endearing love scene ever put on film.


                
This film is one of the zeniths of an art of silent cinema sadly lost on most filmmakers today. Keaton's ability to have your sides aching with laughter one second and your heart breaking with empathy for this little lost man the next is unsurpassed.


                
"We are lost! He is sending for the world's greatest detective - Sherlock Jr.!"After watching several of Chaplin's classic films, I decided it was time to give Buster Keaton an opportunity beginning with one of his most revered movies, Sherlock Jr. Keaton and Chaplin dominated the silent movie era, but most people are divisive as to who was the most talented actor-director of that time. So far I'm on Chaplin's side although I still have to give Keaton another shot with The General. Perhaps the problem I had with Sherlock Jr. is that I'm not a big fan of surreal films. I know everyone seems to love this genre, but there are very few surreal movies that work for me. I can see how Buster Keaton garners recognition for his magical work in this film, being one of the first to actually incorporate dream sequences into his movie. Many other films (and especially cartoons) were inspired from several scenes in Sherlock Jr, like the one in which Keaton's character jumps into a movie screen and becomes a character in the movie that is being projected (better known as "the movie within a movie" sequence). There are several action scenes including some spectacular chases that make you wonder how Keaton could have shot them way back in 1924. I was more impressed with this wizard like aspect of Keaton than on his comedic performance. His deadpan expressions were outdone by the gadgets he devised to create such advanced special effects. Despite being bored by the story, I have to give Keaton credit for his inventive and magical sequences. At the beginning of this silent film, written by Jean Havez, Joseph Mitchell, and Clyde Bruckman the title card reads: "There is an old proverb which says: Don't try to do two things at once and expect to do justice to both. This is the story of a boy who tried it. While employed as a moving picture operator in a small town theater he was also studying to be a detective." We are then introduced to the projectionist (Buster Keaton) who is reading a detective book instead of cleaning up the theater. After work, he goes to visit his girl (Kathryn McGuire) and buys her a ring. Another man (played by Ward Crane), who is also fighting for the girl's affection happens to be at the house and steals her father's chain watch and incriminates the projectionist. The girl's father (Joe Keaton) kicks him out of his home and tells him never to return again. The projectionist sadly returns to work where he falls asleep and dreams of being a detective in the film that is being projected. In his dreams, he becomes the hero of the film and the adventure begins.Buster Keaton's film has some brilliant and magical sequences, and I think it is a bit unfair to compare him with Chaplin because he has a very different style. Chaplin has a more humane approach, writes his own stories and composes them as well, while Keaton does some impressive work behind the lens using some trickery. As performers they both have different styles, Chaplin uses a lot of physical comedy while Keaton uses deadpan humor and incorporates a lot of action scenes doing some risky stunts (in the train sequence he actually fractured his neck). Depending on which style you like best, you will probably claim Keaton or Chaplin is better, but it would be unfair to say one is less talented than the other because they both proved to be geniuses during the silent era and have left us with a rich legacy. I can see sparks of both in contemporary film making. Despite not being a fan of this film as much as others I still need to watch Keaton's The General to get a clearer picture of his style.


                
Buster Keaton has cajones the size of watermelons. This isn't just to say in the stunts that he executes- sometimes, apparently, to great physical and personal risk- are at big comic peril, but that he's fearless with what he wants to try as a filmmaker and scenarist. Jokes that I thought would never really be fresh are taken in 1924 in ways I didn't think could be funny, but are. Take a small bit where Keaton's character (one of them, anyway) plans to sabotage a nefarious guy with a slip on the banana peel. For a moment this is groan-inducing, but watching how it's executed it becomes something really, really gut-busting. There are little bits like that, and then those huge scenes of choreographed mayhem: a blast by water after hanging off of a moving train, a chase through a town that includes a sudden chance of a road connected, jumps through small holes and windows at the nick of time that are half pure Keaton and half exciting editing.And then Keaton himself, usually a little guy looking shy and quiet and a dreamer in the greatest cinematic sense (this was one of the first, if not the first, films to have a character go into a movie-world right through the screen), and he's always incredibly subtle but not ever lacking appropriate comic timing. And in Sherlock Jr he operates wonderfully on two wavelengths: one is as the character just trying to hold the girl's hand on the couch without much embarrassment, and the other is as the title character, going up in peculiar fashion up to everyone in the room (as is one of the listed things "to do" as a detective) and suave with things like an explosive 13 ball on the pool table. Keaton is, as Ebert noticed, the one little guy wandering around in the chaos. Only this time, in such a short running time for a feature (it's just a few minutes short of being a short film), Keaton crams as much as he can to perfect effect.Sherlock Jr should be seen by just about anyone looking for a great example of pure silent-comedy hijinks and stunt work; what Jackie Chan might be for martial arts Buster Keaton is to a crazy pratfall, and you often can't entirely believe it's the guy on screen doing what's being done. And it's also, alongside Steamboat Bill Jr and The General, examples of how Keaton could be an exemplary filmmaker, someone who took film technique and shook it up just a bit (if, admittedly, more-so than Chaplin as just director if not quite as a star), while sticking faithfully to comedy and heart-tugging moments. And if you're tuned into the mania and well-oiled machine of the stunt sequences and classic chase climax it's as pleasurable as anything in comedy history, nevermind just silent film. Make sure, by the way, to watch the Kino version (at least the one on VHS which I saw) to see one of the most enjoyably strange scores for a silent film- there's even the blues hit You Got to Move at one point!


                
Yes, counting all the comedies I've ever seen, silent or talkie, this is probably the funniest. I was lucky (boy, was I lucky!) to see this in a theater with a live piano player. Ever scene is brimming with comic genius, cinematic inventiveness, and just plain perfection. I laughed almost nonstop from beginning to ending. Jokes that seem liked they lasted 10 minutes were funny for their entirety. After the performance was done, I think the audience clapped for 10 minutes, and they (the pianist and Buster Keaton) deserved at least that much, if not an hour more. 10/10


                
Monday September 12, 2005 7:00pm The Seattle Paramount Theater"Say Mr. Detective, before you clean up any mysteries, clean up this theater."In an age before computer generated effects Sherlock Jr's out of control ride on the handlebars of a motorcycle is astonishing. It is a sequence that could never be duplicated in the modern era. Buster plays a theater projectionist with dreams of becoming a master sleuth. When he loses his girl to "The Local Sheik" Buster retreats to a dream world where he literally steps into the movie he is screening and becomes the "world's greatest detective". As "Sherlock Jr." he dodges exploding billiards, falling blades and poisoned drinks, finally ending up on the motorcycle in what has to be Keaton's best and most unbelievable stunt. As Buster runs down a street he encounters a cop on a motorcycle. The cop threatens to write him a speeding ticket and Buster solicits his help. Jumping on the handlebars they speed along. Why is he running? It doesn't matter. The chase is central to most of Keaton's films. The bike goes over a bump and the cop is bounced, leaving Buster on his own but unaware no one is driving! Attempting to understand how Keaton filmed this sequence is confounding. There are shots in which we can assume he is in control and driving (Keaton's coattails hide his position at one point). There are other shots when the bike is obviously on a truck (a wonderful shot shows Buster racing a train to a crossing). There are still other shots that seem impossible or at least extremely dangerous (Buster speeds along a road as ditch diggers fling dirt in his face). Years later, after an accident, x-rays of his neck revealed spinal fractures that may have been caused by the spills he took shooting this picture. The brilliance and originality of visual gags throughout Sherlock Jr. make it one of Keaton's very best feature films alongside The Cameraman and Seven Chances.Buster finds himself adrift "Three-and-a-half miles higher than a kite" in The Balloonatic. While he's there he washes his socks! When the balloon crash lands in the woods Buster is menaced by bears and rescued by a stream fishing cutie in one of Keaton's simplest and most charming two-reelers


                
This is, in my book, Keaton's greatest film -- even better than "The General," and that's saying a lot.  It's hilarious and technically dazzling, especially when you consider the state of special effects when it was made. See it and understand why Buster Keaton has to be considered one of the geniuses of the 20th century.


                
Sherlock Jr. is on the case, however in this case I thought it was left slightly unsolved. This movie at times made me chuckle, however I thought overall it just lacked something.The slapstick and comedy at times didn't seem to flow with the story line at all or just seemed a bit pointless. This film had some great scenes like the dream sequence however the slapstick routine at the beginning of it just seemed out of place. Though the concept and effects of the sequence in its own right was amazing.Overall this movie had its moments and I did enjoy it. I would recommend someone to watch this mostly for the 2 classic scenes; the dream sequence and the motorcycle chase.


                
009: Sherlock Jr. (1924) - released 4/21/1924, viewed 7/31/05.DOUG: At just 44 minutes, this film starts slow, but once the action picks up, it becomes unforgettable with many of Keaton's most famous stunts. Keaton and his gagmen created bits that I could never imagine; how do you create a scene with a lost dollar bill in a trash pile? How about an exploding pool ball? That scene with the pool table just baffled me. How did he keep from hitting the 13 ball? Did he just glue it in place? Since Keaton plays a projectionist, we get to see the inside of a 1920s movie theater, complete with the little orchestra pit. There's also the climactic bit with Keaton riding on the handlebars of a motorcycle, not knowing that the driver is long gone. After many thrilling stunts (an exploded log, an elevated train track bridged by two trucks, a tug-of-war that goes awry), Keaton finally turns around and finds that he really is driving by the seat of his pants. The finale is a real kicker. And let's not forget the scene where Keaton hangs off the tube connected to the water basin as the water pours out and washes him onto the track (Keaton fractured his neck doing this stunt). Gives new meaning to the warning "Don't try this at home." I've found that Keaton's trademark stone-faced expression really does work for the comedy, as we in the audience can just fill in whatever reaction works in our own minds. I'd also like to give props to the movie's soundtrack on the DVD which, according to the credits, was recorded in 1993. It sounds very jazzy and modern.KEVIN: Sherlock, Jr. was AWESOME!!! It's only our second Buster Keaton film and already one of his best. All the gags in this film are top notch. I still don't know how he did some of that stuff, like the stunt where he dives through the suitcase and disappears. Lots of little pointless special effects going on too, like at the beginning of the dream sequence when he walks into the movie and the scenery keeps changing on him. My favorite gag is the bit on the bicycle, when he finally notices that his partner has fallen off and we see something almost (but not quite) like an expression resembling panic on his deadpan face. Again, Keaton's expression is kind of a marvel, as silent stars in those days had to be extremely expressive, while Keaton went the other way. His minimalist look kind of allows the viewer to fill in the appropriate emotion, which brings the audience in on the joke. One of the unusual things about this film was the musical score, which sounds a little too modern (I think I caught an electric guitar in there) but just barely fits with the film's dreamy story. Last film viewed: Thief of Bagdad (1924). Last film chronologically: Girl Shy (1924). Next film: The Navigator (1924).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
This is as close to a perfect movie as you will find. I've shown this film a number of times to classes of juveniles in detention, and after the initial first few minutes of resistance, even this short-attention-span audience, used to instant gratification, and the latest cinematic effects--even this audience, invariably becomes enthralled by Keaton's artistry and film magic.Contemporary artists, like Jackie Chan, have copied much of Keaton's style and many of his stunts. Chan and others have used Keaton's stunt of running on the top of a moving train such that the runner appears stationary to the background. Keaton shows that great film artistry can be achieved with rudimentary technology.Sherlock Jr. will remain on a list of "must watch" film classics as long as people are still watching movies.


                
Buster Keaton is absolutely brilliant.  I've now seen 4 of his films/short films and am amazed by his work.  He was doing stuff that was way ahead of his time.  That plus his stunt work make the films worth seeing.For example, in this film, there is a bit where he doubles up on-screen by merging film of him sleeping with film of him standing up and moving around. It creates a ghost like image that works very well.  This effect has been seen many times since, and I imagine this is one of the first usages.For stunts the guy was just insane.  One stunt involves a bike riding over a bridge with a gap in the middle.   Two trucks converge on each other below the gap as the bike soars by and uses there roofs to cover the gap.  This happens very quickly and I can only imagine they sped up the film to make it look good, but it's still great looking.There is another scene where he is on a roof, I believe it's about 25 feet up and he needs to get down so he grabs hold of one of those things that stop traffic from crossing train tracks..yeah, you know the ones..they go up and come down in a 90 degree arc.  So it's up, he grabs it and rides it as it arcs down and he lands in a car as it drives off.Go Buster!


                
