My second silent film for the class that I viewed for my class was just as entertaining as the first, which was Charlie Chaplin's The Circus. Buster Keaton playing the role of the movie projectionist Sherlock Jr. was very entertaining. The story is simple, yet interesting and fun, and the movie comes in at much less than one hour, 44 minutes to be exact. While there are a few points in the movie that are disjointed and not as fun, overall you can stay engrossed enough until you get to some really cool and innovative special effects, which given the technological limitations when this was filmed in the 1920's are simply amazing.


                
One of the funniest films of the silent era and my personal favorite Buster Keaton film, Sherlock Jr. is an outstanding work of imagination, slapstick humor & technical craftsmanship by Buster Keaton. Although the beginning and end don't do justice to what this movie is as a whole, the rest of the film is a rip-roaring, roller-coaster ride of laughter that everyone will find immensely satisfying & entertaining. Plus, the movie is only 45 minutes long and has the potential to do more good to you than many 2-hours plus disappointments. Therefore, don't miss out this comedy classic. One of the greatest silent films of all time, Sherlock Jr. is, in my opinion, Buster Keaton's finest work.


                
"Sherlock Jr." is a movie that isn't very strong in story, but makes up for it in comedy. The story is a simple mystery (nothing groundbreaking), but the mystery isn't the reason to see this movie. The reason to see this movie is for Buster Keaton. His stunts are so incredible (even by today's standards) and perfectly paced that you're not only laughing, you're also on the edge of your seat. The highlight of this movie is definitely when Keaton falls asleep at a movie theater, and he dreams that he's in the movie that's playing. This is one of the most imaginative scenes in movie history, and many fantasy movies afterward probably took a lot of inspiration from it. To me, this is Buster Keaton's best film (even better than "The General). It perfectly showcases everything that made Buster Keaton great; from his stunts to his perfect timing, there is not a dull moment in this film. This is a film that shows exactly why Buster Keaton is one of the greatest movie stars for not only his time, but for all time. "Sherlock Jr." is often overshadowed by other movies of its time, but it's one of the best films the silent era has to offer.
Having consumed every on-screen frame of Buster Keaton I could get myself exposed to, from the good and the bad to the occasional cameo and the outright peculiar (yes, that would be you, Samuel Beckett...), I find myself in the position of starting to re-watch the films that I know -- and in the absence of a DVD player, that means seizing upon screenings as and when they show up! Having been subjected to various dodgy projections and mediocre musical accompaniments, I was beginning to harbour a secret, guilty fear that maybe Keaton's comedy, so skilled at taking an unsuspecting audience by surprise, might be lacking in replay value; having had a couple of disappointing experiences with films I'd originally reckoned to be among his second rank, I was getting a little paranoid at the prospect of re-viewing the ones I'd enjoyed the most in the first place.But I needn't have worried. Take a good print, a superlative accompanist and an audience fizzing with festive excitement, and "Sherlock Jr" will replicate the same transports of glee and delight as it inspired when it dropped from on high upon my uninitiated head...The film is a story of the impossible, from the moment that dream-Buster taps his sleeping counterpart urgently on the shoulder, and, failing to wake him, unhooks a dream-hat from the wall and sets out to leap into action himself. For a full-blown feature film, it is exceptionally short. And yet in editing it down, Keaton has crammed together such a kaleidoscope of events that the audience is left with no sense of being either cheated or short-changed: in the course of its five reels, and perhaps due to that very breakneck turn of speed, the viewer is infused with the impression of a whole evening's worth of entertainment. It certainly doesn't come across as lacking in length.That said, my own favourites, I confess, lie among Keaton's comedies of character rather than those of stunts; "Sherlock Jr" is a little arbitrary in its attempts to include a good gag by all means possible. When Buster finds himself in the middle of a quick-cut sequence that whisks him from ocean to jungle to desert in the blink of an eye -- only to dump him back in the self-same garden in which he began -- I can't help being aware that there is no reason whatsoever for the film "Hearts and Pearls" to contain such a bizarre set of landscapes and cut between them with no characters in sight: for me, the joke loses by the somewhat forced air. Normally, when films contain a dream sequence this reflects back in some manner upon the framing action, providing insights for the dreamer or clues to advance subsequent events -- but again, in "Sherlock Jr", in retrospect the dream turns out to have been a disappointingly self-contained device, with no effect at all upon the main 'plot', which simply proceeds in the protagonist's absence: it's an insert just for laughs. (And am I the only viewer cursed with an imagination so literal as to wonder how "Hearts and Pearls" can successfully reach its final reel without the projectionist once waking up to switch between the two projectors?) In his later work, Keaton's films would rely less on the fantastic, becoming more integrated.But as ever the delight lies in the detail. In the expressions in the reaction shots -- often, but not always, Keaton's own. In his oh-so-earnest attempt to ensure that the girl gets her chocolates with the price tag discreetly upwards, and his suggestion that her ring might appear more impressive when aided by his magnifying-glass. His instant mimicry of his quarry's every move, extending without even missing a stride to an imitative puff on the antagonist's discarded cigar-butt. The characteristic close-up revealing the car's 'four-wheel braking' in the moment before events force him to brake so fiercely that the chassis continues blithely on its way: Keaton's gags come complete with rationale, and are all the funnier for it. Edited, every shot serves its purpose -- this is essence of comedy, with nothing wasted.Ward Crane and Erwin Connelly make a fine double act as the villainous conspirators, in a send-up of melodrama's conventions. And Keaton himself, as always, is a joy to watch, whether endearingly unsure in his approach to courtship or masterfully suave within his dreams. As an actor he is taken more or less for granted -- but every line of his sturdy small body, every expressive shift in that eloquent face serves to tell the story: not only can you understand every word he's saying, but you can see everything he's thinking into the bargain! As a gifted stuntman or gag-writer alone he would have been memorable; but he was far more than that.The famous set-piece scenes have been praised elsewhere, and those I recalled. But I'll conclude with the little snippets that caught me by surprise all over again into laughter and admiration: the twist on the tired old 'sticky paper on my foot' routine, his little joyous skip up the steps to his sweetheart's house, and the way that the motorbike, miraculously steady, suddenly starts to veer as the character realises that no-one was in control...Rest in peace, Buster. Your films are beautiful, and we love them.
A projectionist (Buster Keaton) is studying to be a detective and is in love with a young lady. When he proposes her, his rival steals the chain watch of her father and incriminates him. The disappointed young projectionist returns to his job and while projecting the film, he dreams on being the detective of the story. Meanwhile, the girl finds the truth and acquits the guilty of the projectionist to her father."Sherlock Jr." is a very creative movie and certainly using a technique ahead of time. Buster Keaton acquires amazing special effects for a 1924 movie. The story, the gags, the conclusion, everything works perfectly in this remarkable and hilarious movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Bancando o Águia" ("Playing the Eagle" <U+0096> something like being smart)


                
In my opinion this movie perfectly summarizes how people turn to escapism in times of trouble and despair. In the movie, the main protagonist (who fantasizes about being a detective) is framed for theft and consequently thrown out and barred from returning to his significant others residency, while being shunned by said significant other. Because of this, during a dream, he actually takes on the role of one of the world's greatest detectives. He lives out the fantasy of living out this heroic life, and saves his significant other in this dream world. This accurately portrays peoples use of escapism while undergoing turmoil. Instead of moping around in self pity or sadness, the main character has thoughts of being someone else, someone better, and how if he was like that in real life he could've cleared his name and avoided his problems.
I was really, really impressed with this film. The creativity of the writers and of Keaton is really impressive. When he falls asleep and starts dreaming that he's in the film in the theater I was blown away. It must've opened so many new possibilities for the film industry in the 1900's up until now.
Forgetting my headphones in another room was not a problem while watching Sherlock Jr., my laughter on the other hand is a different story. Even being released 95 years ago, simple humor is still a sure way for audiences to enjoy a film. In my opinion Sherlock Jr. is a prefect movie for those today, with most block busters today in the hour and a half to two hour range its harder to allot that time to watch a movie, being only about 45 minuets long and silent it allows the viewer to enjoy his work in a short time and without disrupting others around if you find yourself with out headphones.


                
It was a good film, especially for a silent one. There is much to be said for how the emotions of all the characters is conveyed through expression rather than words. It puts into sharp contrast how much nonsense we talk about on the day-to-day and is a welcome change from the loud and chaotic movies made presently. The plot can be a little confusing at times, but still excellent editing, especially for the time period it was made in. Definitely a must-see for any film buffs out there.


                
The screen play was great and easily followed. they didn't over use the cut cards and such allowed the film to flow easily, and not feel chopped up to the watchers. The movie didn't over use comedy or make dragged out jokes. Overall i would say it was an amazing film and would recommend anyone who is thinking of watching it to do so.


                
Buster Keaton's Sherlock Jr. explores the relationship between a man's dreams and reality with comedy intermingled perfectly. While both the dream and the real world have the same similar ending of the two-love interest falling in love. The dream does it in a rather suave, and traditional action film way. While in the real world the rather nervous and unsure man does it by comforting her. It's a interesting difference between the dream and the real world. Between the confident man he wishes he could be and the bumbling, unsure man we see in the wakeful world. Buster Keaton did a wonderful job with this movie between the comedy and the plot. Both funny and adorable.


                
I greatly enjoyed this timeless classic starring Buster Keaton. The film was easy to follow and the comical aspects had me rolling. Keaton's character was genuine and easy to like and I liked how dedicated he was to the woman and to his passion of becoming a detective. The character, Gillette, was a nice supporting role to Sherlock Jr. and proved the point that no good south solves cases on his or her own. All in all, Sherlock Jr., is a wonderful film with a very talented and funny star.


                
Sherlock. Jr. is a total classic in silent film history. Not only is does it star silent film icon Buster Keaton, but it utilizes very imaginative filmmaking during a time when it wouldn't have been necessary. In 1924, anyone who went to see this movie would just be looking for a cute romance, some laughs, and a dangerous stunt or two. No one was expecting magic tricks, special effects, and inventive storytelling that would influence filmmakers 90 years later. If you liked Christopher Nolan's Inception, you should know that the idea of a film taking place inside a dream first came from Sherlock, Jr. If you liked Woody Allen's The Purple Rose of Cairo, the film-within-a-film technique first came from Sherlock, Jr.Even if you're not interested in the technical aspects, this is still a very fun movie with classic Buster Keaton scenes to keep you entertained every time you watch it. If you've seen him jump through a wall and disappear-or Donald O'Connor recreate the stunt in The Buster Keaton Story-that famous magic trick is from this film. Buster plays a poor, besotted film technician who falls asleep and gets involved in the film he was watching. As always, the romance is pretty adorable, and he's very endearing as he tries to solve the mystery and clear himself of false evidence. One of my favorite scenes-besides the memorable ending-is when Buster hops on the front of a policeman's bicycle. After a sharp turn, the policeman is thrown, but Buster keeps sitting on the handlebars and the bike rides on without a driver.


                
Sherlock Jr.Keaton's mime art defines the genre at its best, innocently poignant and genuinely heartwarming. This masterpiece has a certain knack for creating a long lasting impression on you with its humbleness and gullible nature which from the first frame you start to adore. This is not you usual good over evil triumph natured script. It is another Monday on this sketchy comic world. The first sequence itself is so tightly packed and flows fluently with mature narration that you are hooked within this first few minutes and you have achieved a thorough insight on these three dimensional characters. Naturally it's a sort of writing that depends completely upon the physical sequences.And the first one consisting the protagonist gathering up money for his love interest shows you the humble and kind nature of it. And after you have hold on to his ideologies the bizarre shadow walking and leaping from a building to another one just feels natural due to his fluent body language. The chase scene with him riding a bike blindly, crossing forests and rivers is pure genius, something that cannot ever be recreated like such. But among all these gags the best is Keaton trying to play the pool, it is flat out hilarious from the way it is weaved out and is executed, each notion of that trick is magic.To get a much free and wider range to flaunt his ludicrous theories, the concept he adapted is fascinating and creative. As a performer too, he is jaggedly on mark on foliating the emotions and the perfect example is the last act where you sink deeply in its mellow and sweet love track. Sherlock Jr. is one of those rare silent films that shocked the viewers then as much as it does now, it is an overwhelming experience to watch these characters come alive on screen.


                
This film may not have dialog (hence it being called a "silent" film) but it has its golden moments in its comedic tone. The main character, played by Buster Keaton, is very enjoyable to watch when he goes into his dream, and bouncing between different movie scenes is absolutely corny, but funny at the same time! The only downside to this film is that it is hard to watch the main character get blamed for the crime he didn't commit. But otherwise, if you have 56 minutes to spare, watch this film!
Greetings from Lithuania."Sherlock Jr." (1924) is definitely the most light and good felt movie about the famous detective I've ever seen. Well, its not technical even about Sherlock. Its just uses him as a dream of becoming great at something. The movie itself is superbly directed and acted. There are some stunts that kinda makes your jaw drop.Overall, "Sherlock Jr." is a just a pure fun. Considering that it was made more then 94 years ago, it hardly gets better then this.


                
While watching a short piece of the film in my class I was really excited to see the entire film on my own. I had started watching it and some parts were funny but it wasn't what I had thought it to be. I really enjoyed the part when each scene was changing in the film that he jumped into. I also really enjoyed the part where the 2 guys were trying to set up Keatons character and they tried hurting him, but everything just didn't fall into place and Keaton played pool and was smart enough to change the 13 ball and he realized that it wasn't just a ball. I really liked the creativity that Keaton used. At first the film was off to a slow start, but then gradually builds up. The way he used his imagination to have Keaton's character exit his own body while he was sleeping was really cool and it helped tell a story. I liked the idea of Keatons character becoming a detective. Overall the storyline was good, I had just hoped that there was more humor in the film.


                
Don't try to do two things at same time and expect to do justice with both . This is the the message that appears at the start of the film . But the film is not much related with that. This message will confuse many people.Coming to the film , it is about a projectionist who wants to be a detective .He is thrown out of his girlfriend's home by her father because they think he has committed a theft . In next scene , in the theater he fall asleep and starts dreaming . This film all about that dream . The dream sequence in which Keaton uses some highly imaginative stunts bewildering through a lady and through wall and rushing into the film screen.The dream sequence covers most of film's running time . Whole film is just 44 minutes long . There are many stunts in the film which we guess were new to the the audience of that time. We can never enjoy this film as much as the audience did those days for obvious reasons but can guess what could be the impact of this film at the whole film industry at that time.
With a film like this made in 1924, you have to wonder why some of the creative effects Buster Keaton developed for this story have never been seen since. They may be out there, but I've never seen anything before like his stroll right into a movie screen to take part in the story that he's projecting for an audience in a theater. He then pratfalls his way through a number of scene changes, remaining in one spot while the action around him hurriedly continues apace. One of the best bits had him nosedive through an open window and into a woman's dress for a stunning visual effect. The question on the tip of your tongue will be 'How did he do that?', or alternatively, 'How can anyone do something like that'?' Another thing I found interesting as a cinema fan was the choice of movie posters one can see as advertising material in the lobby of the theater where Keaton's character is working. One of them was a very early Stan Laurel silent film, "Mud and Sand", which demonstrated that Keaton wasn't averse to showing another performer's name in print, even if he might have been a competitor, so to speak. There was another one for a 1923 short titled "The Fog", but it appears the movie the projectionist was showing wasn't real. It was called "Hearts and Pearls or The Lounge Lizard's Lost Love in Five-Parts". My search on IMDb didn't come up with anything on that one. I know a lot of folks shun silent films because they don't consider them very interesting, but you can do yourself a favor by checking out "Sherlock Jr." Yes, it's black and white, and it's silent, but director and star Buster Keaton is so inventive that you'll come away amazed at the effects he creates. One could almost call them special effects, but of course, in 1924 they were all real, just camera tricks and techniques to come up with a stunning visual. This is just that kind of a fun flick.
Watching Sherlock Jr. brought me back to childhood days watching the three stooges on Saturday mornings. It is not hard to tell how much influence shows like this took from Buster Keaton. The style of humor is still relevant to todays films and the gags are truly entertaining. This movie although being filmed in 1924 is put together quite well using the fairly new technology of the era. Even with the lack of words, the jokes seem to hit their mark every time. the jokes are even more impressive knowing that the actors had to get the punchline across without using any words. Would definitely recommend.


                
The plot of bumbling, shy, less rich suitor competing against a richer (acting) and more confident suitor has been used forever. But we like it because we all root for the awkward everyday Joe. This movie is entertaining and cute. Keaton definitely has a way of endearing the audience to him even in perhaps a more relatable way than Chaplin because Keaton is a little more universally identifiable than chaplins 's tramp. One thing that I particularly enjoyed and stood out in the film was the very elaborate early era stunts. I'm sure for its time those stunts were quite a sight to see. And still by today's standards executed very well. Keaton has great body language and expressiveness on screen. An enjoyable classic.


                
Sherlock Jr is a very fun film. To start, I am not the biggest fan of silent films. I find most boring and not a very fun watch. However, with this one, I really enjoyed it. Buster Keaton is a actor that I did not know much about. With this film, I'd really like to see more of his films. His comedic timing and selling of scenes are astounding. Keaton makes me laugh out loud and I can't wait to see more of this films. Another thing I really liked about this film is it's visual style. It has a very unique style and right from the opening, the film establishes itself as a very solid visual treat.


                
This film of a wannabe crime solver gives a great glimpse of how creative special effects of the time were. All for the soul purpose of slapstick comedy. Sherlock Jr. does a decent job of representing the characters given that this is a silent film. The humor is easy to grasp and the supporting cast is always there to give their little bit of life to the scene for Buster Keaton takes the cake in terms of being a very lively character with a great sense of portraying the intended emotions of each scene.


                
I thought for a silent film it was still very relevant and fun. It was surprisingly fast paced and had a lot of cool action way before you think of the more modern action films, Yet the whole dream sequence was very thought provoking and almost like Keaton created a vivid world with its own laws and internally consistent logic. There was the usage of basic camera techniques and manipulating the angles, which for its time way in the early 1920s it worked! When he went through his assistants stomach I actually had to look twice highly impressive. I can appreciate it would recommend if you had to see a silent film


                
Sherlock Jr. is a creative and refreshing take on a mystery story. Many elements and subtle themes help the viewer stay invested along with any and all sight gags. The characters included such as the sly detective Sherlock Jr, keep the story progressing at a good pace. Although a bit cliché, the story is told in an interesting and inventive way that would definitely be considered a marvel of its time. Clever editing techniques and interesting set add to the ambiance that Buster Keaton must have painstakingly tried to perfect. Overall, definitely a good watch if you are interested in mystery comedies!


                
