This movie is exceedingly overrated. Not only does it not belong in the number 79 spot in the Top 250, it doesn't belong in the Top 250 at all. What makes it's mostly unjust praise kind of annoying is that alot of it is saying "Because it made a ton of money and broke records, it's good!" Really? Well that might explain why stuff like Avatar and Titanic got so many undeserved Oscar Nominations! I will give it this: The animation is really nice, and the two main characters are surprisingly likable. But that's about it, the love story and the "Person lives another persons life" story has been done before, it's nothing new. I'd normally give this a 5 or a 6, but because of the completely misleading and undeserving 8.5 out of 10, I'd give it a 1, but because of the good qualities I mentioned, i'll settle for a 3.


                
Let me start by stating that this film contains the most beautiful animation ever seen in a Japanese cartoon, hence the 3/10 score.That being said, cinematography can only account for so much in a movie. In this case, the rest is simply a train wreck.The movie is aimed at children aged 8-16 at most. The dialogue is a cringe-fest, characters are unbelievable and the story is boring. There is no suspense, no anticipation and no character development. The typical anime character are present here and everyone is expendable to the story, which is a mess. The intrigue is without substance and won't entice a shred of interest on behalf of the viewer. This is a rare instance where my biggest anticipation was for it to be all over. If you've seen "Only God Forgives", expect the same kind of filmmaking: all the efforts went into the visual side of the movie. The rest is horrible. It needs a special level of immaturity to be enjoyed. Adults cannot be entertained by this.The definition of over-hyped.


                
While I was watching this movie, I kept wondering what in the world I was watching. t was so complex and fast that I couldn't follow it. I just couldn't understand what was going on in this movie. A girl and a boy is constantly switching bodies and I couldn't tell if the girl was herself or if she was the boy in her body.Now, I do not like complex, intense coming-of-age stories like this so I was worried I wouldn't like it but I decided to try it since a lot of people thought it was excellent but I didn't know it would be a coming-of-age story. It wasn't as bad as I thought it would be but I was still pretty disappointed. It was pretty iffy. It had a fairly interesting story because I like stories that focus on two characters with two different plots and I like the whole switching bodies thing but I just couldn't find myself relating to any of the characters. The characters can be rude and Mitsuha was also cloying. Taki was okay, but not great. I guess he was the only relatively interesting character out of this bunch.The movie had too much crying in it. The only solid thing about this movie was the animation and the voice acting, they were pretty lovely. Most of the music sounded good. But the writing and the directing just wasn't my cup of tea.The end was predictable, the girl and the boy cross paths and they are shown as grown-up. I did not get how they were able to cross paths.I found this movie to be highly overrated and do not get why people praise this movie so highly.
See the thing I hate most about people who review movies is that all the good movies that have a plot and an actual story get the bad ratings and reviews, and then there's this movie. Let me start off by saying I'm currently watching this movie while writing this because I have already lost complete interest in this. Why did I lose interest in this?? Because the plot and screenplay is complete garbage, everything about the timeline of this movie is horrible put together and makes no sense unless you google it. What I don't understand is how
This movie has great ratings because honestly this movie is just plain bad. I've never written a review before and I was hoping this movie would resolve itself but it still hasn't and i doubt it will. I decided to give this movie a chance because I grew up watching and loving every single one of Hayao miyazakis movies and I thought why not I'll give this a shot. But here I am regretting this movie. The only thing I like about this movie is the animation which is beautiful. It looks like they spent 95% of their efforts on the animation and just gave up with the plot, but to each their own I guess. I was hoping this would've been better.


                
I can't get past the awful voice characterizations - all the grunting and what you usually have in American dubbed anime. The artwork and animation is stunning but can't hold my attention.


                
