Ased on theshort story Icchapuran (or Ichchhapuran) 1895 by Rabindranath Tagore.Radice, William (tr.), 1991.Selected Short Stories. pp. 295-302.


                
As an avid follower of the works of Studio Ghibli, this film had much to live up to, especially considering its deeper themes and the exploration of a different, more subtle sort of romance between two individuals separated by time and space. Unfortunately, this film turned out exactly as I expected and feared, with an interesting storyline and basis, yet the characters, dialogue, and overall crafting of the story itself detracted from the overall quality. I will focus mainly on the negatives in this review, as there are a plethora of other reviews that seem to only focus on the highlights.The main issue that I had with Your Name was the script. Having seen it both in the original Japanese with English subtitles, and also dubbed (on my second viewing) with the English voice actors, I was really hoping for the proper brevity and gravity that Studio Ghibli so constantly delivers. However, I was met with the characters stuck in an endless loop of telling viewers what they were feeling, and especially in the more intimate moments of the film, where this could have been left more to the viewers deduction – if someone is crying for a particular reason, it is often best left for the viewers to decide why; the character does not always need to vocalise their feeling in order to convey them. For this reason, I felt that I had very little attachment to the characters in a setting where attachment to the characters was vital.Furthermore, I believe that very little of the humour in this movie worked for the better. As I stated before, in a movie as heartfelt and intimate as this, the dialogue and the humour should be handled with the utmost care, and most of the time throughout the movie, I felt as if it took you away from the story – by all means, there certainly would be moments of humour when a boy switches bodies with a girl and vice versa, but humour was not the purpose of this movie, and this should have been respected.One last, and slightly more subjective gripe, but I found the music choices to often be contradictory and 'annoying,' to say the least. I understand that the montage sequence, set to an upbeat pop/rock song is a common event in the world of anime, and having seen many anime outside of Studio Ghibli myself, I understand and respect this. However, with a movie such as your name, I found it only broke apart the emotional storyline, and in many ways, lost some of the viewers investment in the story. The piano sequence (the main theme, I believe?) was beautiful; why not exclusively keep the orchestral/piano score throughout the entire movie? Overall, Your Name was a very solid attempt at a very difficult premise, with beautiful visuals, a poorly handled storyline, and not much else. 7/10


                
I think most of us can safely say that as far as pure direction and art go, Makoto Shinkai's popular new movie called "Your Name" has taken the world by storm. As of now, it has won several large prizes and it's praised by casual watchers and critics alike.There is no doubt that this is in fact one of Makoto Shinkai's most beautiful pieces of art as far as pure visual fidelity goes. That, in combination with its engrossing soundtrack just allows the movie to speak to the heart directly. This often means that people will refrain from criticising this movie, and i find myself being a lone bird flying in the opposite direction of all the others when it comes to this movie.The issue i have with this movie doesn't lie in its art, or in its direction. It more lies within the lack of depth in the story itself. Makoto Shinkai is known for using repetitive settings in his movies, as they do tend to sell well.I just wish Makoto Shinkai would have been a bit more creative in his writing, rather than making me think "oh, it's this again. Not very original." The story is confusing, but once i figured it out it didn't leave me lost in thought and i was honestly disappointed. That being said, Your Name is still a solid movie with stunning animation and I'd recommend you try watching it yourself. It's not very long and it's definitely worth a watch purely because it looks stunning.


                
I don't usually write reviews, but I feel like I need to say something about this film, even if the majority of reviews will be overwhelmingly positive. And I'm pretty terrible with these things b/c I don't have a photographic memory.Anyhow, it's a story of boy and girl switching bodies after a cosmic event involving a comet that's never really explained. This happens a few times each week, much to the chagrin of each of our main characters and amusing fun for the supporting cast. I don't want to say much else beyond that without giving away plot details. Needless to say, they start to fall in love with each other as they're living each other's lives.It's a beautiful film. There's one particular sequence in the middle that I absolutely loved visually.The movie started to fall apart towards the last 30-45 minutes once it rushes to resolve a problem introduced in the latter half of the film. It feels like the film needed a bit more running time to avoid this. There's also a bunch of suspension of disbelief required...I mean I guess this is to be expected, but for me, a films starts to lose me once there's too much serendipity involved to resolve everything.Also, I think the film would've gotten better mileage if it had gone down the bittersweet route when rushing to its end.I left the theater liking the film, but it's not like it's the most amazing film I've ever seen (even if it broke the box office record in Japan), nor did it really leave me with tingly happy feelings like after watching some Studio Ghibli films.


                
From the crystal clear, beautifully crafted animation to the likability of the two protagonists to the tense drama to the light humor, this semi-love-story is lighthearted and very moving to the point of now being one of the most acclaimed films of recent years. And perhaps one of the most acclaimed films of all time. I had a couple of little problems w/it, thus making me avoid any statements about the film's status among cinema's finest efforts as they'd be rather hyperbolic coming from me, as well as simply just not genuine. Instead, however, I will happily praise the film on various levels. 
 As a technical achievement, it is stunning. The animation is spectacularly done in every scene, the characters are really alive, the scenery is beautiful, in general it is just a really fun movie to look at. There were a few surprisingly surreal and borderline psychedelic moments here and there in the film and they worked not only to further the plot but also to simply show off the massive tons of talent pouring itself into basically every shot of this movie. 
 Story-wise, it is also stunning. It's a mixture of a few genres. At first, it almost feels like some light slice-of-life type comedy w/a magical-realist twist, but eventually it becomes something much more emotional and dramatic than that. It becomes a film featuring multiple dimensions and complicated situations these two leads who I genuinely grew to adore and care for had to trudge their tense ways through. It is a supernatural drama and a love story on top, and a very unconventional love story at that (the way the romance of the film is handled is unlike almost any other romance I have seen; it is clear these two are in love, but they never express it openly at all). It really felt like the writer really matured over the course of writing this, which is as much a blessing as it is a curse, b/c it does mean that the film improves heavily w/every scene, but it also means that the beginning and early middle of this film are no where near as great as what follows. And, do not get me wrong, there's some super fun stuff in this roughly-first-half of the movie, but there's also a few eye rolling scenes and weird incorporations of pop songs and overtly expository dialogue and non-endearingly cheesy moments that I just could not get into. Thus, my score drops down by a single point. It is still, obviously, a wonderful movie, and sort of a must see for lovers of animation and world cinema in general.


                
I've seen quite a few Japanese movies. This one was just ok in my book. You know that feeling when you lose interest in a movie and wish it was over? That's how this movie was about 3/4 of the way through. It was compelling in some ways, but in the end it turned out to be mediocre. Think the 8.4 rating at this point is a bit high.


                
Among all the other works of Makoto Shinkai, I must say that this is undoubtedly my favorite. This is not as slow as 5C/S. It has the rhythm that perfectly blends with the lighthearted music. I must also mention how I love the random quick frames and some more symmetrical shots. Aside from the animation, the movie's plot and tone offer such an engaging story. I like this Shinkai's story-telling style. It is not rushed. He takes his time to reasonably develop all the characters and every situation. He makes animated romantic stories not an isolating genre to watch. Although, again perhaps the love story is just but a secondary part of the whole story. While it is categorized as sci-fi fantasy, it is also sprinkled with a slice of life touch and that's another thing I enjoy watching in some Shinkai's movies. It is unpretentious. The mundanity is not torturing but it is something that you savor and love. Everyone should see this. It's a perfect movie for fall. It's lovely!


                
A comet is approaching. Mitsuha Miyamizu is a 17 year old high school girl in the small town of Itomori. Her dad is the mayor and she's tired of her small town life. Her friends complain about her behavior the day before but she doesn't remember. She wishes to be reborn as a boy in the big city. Her wish comes true as she wakes up in the body of high school student and part time waiter Taki. It's like a dream as they inhabit each other's body.The animation is beautiful. The story is imaginative. The characters are lovely and compelling. There is magical realism to the movie. The plot does get a little jumpy which does fit the style. I would be more interested if it's cleared up a bit more. The movie climaxes at the impact and it drags out the ending a bit. Taki should have encountered Mitsuha at that point. Her father could be dead and she would be on top of the hill tending his grave. The searching in Tokyo is poetic for a little while but at some point, I just wanted it to end the movie and the ending is never in doubt.


                
When I first watched this I was impressed. It is a really good movie, but everyone is treating it like the next 'Spirited Away' which I think is a little much. It's a unique story, with great animation and well written characters, not to mention an open ending. But it's not what everybody makes it out to be.


                
75/100 Your Name will keep you on your toes and holding your breath for most of its runtime. The story is an incredible sci-fi with a lot of heart. One will get confused and desperate to figure out things around an hour in, and will root for someone's survival so much near the end! I do think however that the story didn't really write BOTH characters well that a romance and a romantic ending was justified. Mitsuha was clearly attracted to someone else for most of that film.
This movie did most things right. The art is absolutely beautiful, many times during the movie I was taken aback at how good it looks. the characters' are great. the friends of the main characters are very funny and likable, i wish we would have gotten more time with them. when it comes to the unbelievable premise, the characters reactions mostly stay grounded.a problem with the premise is that there are some small holes here and there. we are also asked to just go with things sometimes, even though there isn't any explanation or logic to it, such as when they forget each others names.*Spoiler Alert*there is one unfortunate big problem with the movie. what seems to be the goal of the movie is for the two main characters to find each other and get together. in one scene the main guy writes 'i love you' on her wrist, but the problem is that they have no chemistry. at no point earlier did I feel that they were in any way romantically interested in each other. this is a big problem because that is the goal. saving the people in the city an impressive act in itself, but it's not enough to make a satisfying ending. aside from this flaw, everything else is excusable. Irma give it an 8 out of 10
My first asian animated movie I've ever watch and I love it. Give it a try and you will come out pleased!


                
I have high hopes for this movie since all over the internet was saying that is good. Even metascore has a high rating for it. But it just go to a way in what I am not expecting.The progress in the early scene was good. I have a curiosity about where this film goes to and keep asking "what is this all about?" "There must be something incredible that made the two of it switching body". The comedy and the life in the early scene was also good an I enjoy it so far.And when it comes to the story coming in the middle scene, the girl started to cry. This is where I am really disappointed since there are too little progressing for the girl. This scene what I called "The Sudden Love BS" which there is not enough progressing to fall in love. Yeah I realized this is a movie so there is a limit amount of time, but oh come on. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the tradition showed in the Itonomori (CMIIW).Other than "The Sudden Love BS", it's good. But, IMHO, it is REALLY CAN BE WAY BETTER if this movie is made in a series format since there would be more progressing, more background, and therefore, would resulted a powerful ending too. I gave it 7/10, but I really disappointed with this kind of movie since this is a wasted potential movie (really, it is really could be thousand times better if only there is more progressing in the story).
This animation tells a story where a teenage girl from a rural town and a Tokyo guy juxtapose their bodies when they wake up one day. Their lives are strangely intertwined, until the day when a beautiful comet strikes the Earth."Your Name" is a love story but it is not a conventional love story. It features time warp and body switch, which is very much science fiction. However, the tone of the film remains down to earth and innocent, so the science fiction element is at the background. The time warp makes me think hard to see if it is logical, and whether it creates any alternate parallel universe! The love story is sweet because it first tells how two people cope with their new strange lives, and then they develop a transcendental love that survives even the biggest impact.
I'm not too familiar with Japanese anime movies, but this movie was very enjoyable. It honestly grew on me, after having had some time to think about the movie. The movie has a well thought-out plot, with good characters that are easy to empathise with. Some of the scenes were beautifully animated, adding 3D elements, with big differences and foreground and background focus, making it often feel as though you are watching a normal film, instead of an animation. I did however feel that the female character's voice was a bit whiny at times, and it made me think I was watching a baby toddler having a tantrum instead of a teenager, but this may be more to Japanese taste than mine. Overall an enjoyable watch, would recommend it if you are into animations.


                
Yesterday I decided to finally get round and watch this movie. I have to say it was pretty decent for what it was but it could have been better if it wasn't so long and confusing.
Like how was one head ribbon making the boy and the girl switch places?
Why was the girls father a massive douche bag by just yelling at her for not walking properly. All of this time travel and them forgetting there names were just confusing. Why did the boy write "I love you" on the girls hand instead of his name? The two main characters barely had chemistry or development with one another as they were rarely seen together.However the voice acting and animation to the movie was pretty good.
Even though there are a few dodgy scenes in the movie. Including a scene when the girl vomits rice in a bowl and when the boy drinks the girls spit. It should have been 1 hour 30 minutes instead and watching a video of a bulldog summarises this whole movie in 13 seconds. Not saying Your Name is a bad movie or anything but it's definitely not an award winning either. I don't hate the movie I am just indiffrent to it. Good day!
Is the cinema a vehicle for beautiful images independent of the narrative purpose of the film? Your Name is one of the most stunningly animated features I have ever seen, but the level of emotional resonance is somewhat far south of my favorite Studio Ghibli Films which this film purports to surpass (or equal.) What is the ultimate point of this movie? The body swapping story is obviously old-hat, but I felt it would lead to something grand, eventually. But (spoilers- don't read reviews when you don't want spoilers!) when the comet angle surfaced, I thought that things might finally get interesting. But instead, the film built up to a climax with basically a Get out of Jail Free Card idea. (I note that Taki summarily rejects a sexpot who is a great person from all evidence, and makes him look like an asshole in the process.) I recall that Isao Takahata's Only Yesterday was supposed to be a merely "good" animation from Studio Ghibli. Disney wouldn't even release it due to a frank discussion about female periods. But that film made me cry, and several times on a repeat viewing. Now, in that film's quiet, realistic, and understated style, why did I find such deep resonance, but a love story where a comet (spoilers!!!) wipes out an entire town cannot? I have to spread the blame around to all in Creative.That being said, this is a very good animated film from Japan, but I have to say it doesn't quite live up to its hype. It's a bit too emo and heavy handed. There are many parts where the lead characters scream out each other's name. There's no subtlety at all. Me thinks that the amazing images fool people when married to a heavy handed approach to presenting emotional content. Another refresher if you want an awesome coming of age story from Japanese masters, check out Whisper of the Heart. There's nothing in Your Name that matches the awe of Shizuku discovering the antique shop for the first time, and meeting the Baron... (sigh) This, without even bringing up Spirited Away.


                
Sit back, relax and let me tell you what I think of Your Name. No, not your name (that would be way too personal) I'm talking about the Japanese anime fantasy feature film "Your Name" (PG, 1:46). Now, if you're not familiar with Your Name, you should be. In the first place, who doesn't know their own name? (Okay, enough bad puns.) The MOVIE "Your Name" opened in U.S. theaters on April 7, 2017, a little over seven months after its release in Japan. Before it even reached the U.S., the film had become the fourth biggest film ever at the Japanese box office, their top-grossing film of 2016 AND the #1 anime worldwide to date! Based on the 2016 novel of the same name by Makota Shinkai (who also wrote and directed the screen adaptation), there is much to distinguish this film from previous anime features.The film's roots are a combination of the traditional and the contemporary, as it forged a fresh path both in Japan and beyond. This is the first anime not directed by Hayao Miyazaki to make over $100 million (about 10 billion Yen) in Japan. "Your Name" also became the highest-grossing Japanese release in China and was the first Japanese film in a dozen years to attain the top box office spot in South Korea. Not bad, for a film that is singularly Japanese. One of the reasons given for the film's success is the soundtrack, which includes songs from Yojiro Noda, lead singer for the Japanese rock band Radwimps. Critics and audiences have also praised the film's animation, as well as the plot and its emotional impact. According to Wikipedia, "Inspiration for the story came from works including Shuzo Oshimi's 'Inside Mari', 'Ranma ½', the Heian period novel 'Torikaebaya Monogatari', and Greg Egan's short story 'The Safe-Deposit Box'." The film's main location, a town called Itomori, is fictional, but the buildings and landscape are based on Japan's Gifu Prefecture. Itomori is where the central character in this story lives.Mitsuha Miyamizu (voiced by Mone Kamishiraishi in the Japanese version and by Stephanie Sheh in the dubbed English-language version) is a high school student who wants more out of life than what her tiny hometown has to offer. She's not very self-confident, she doesn't have many friends, she cares little for tradition and is even less enthusiastic about being the daughter of the town's mayor. While her tough, traditionalist widowed father is busy mayoring, Mitsuha and her young sister are being raised by her traditional, but kind grandmother. All of Mitsuha's frustrations boil over one day when she shouts into the sky that, instead of a meek country girl, she wishes she were a handsome boy living in Tokyo.Then it happened – Mitsuha wakes up one morning to discover she has mysteriously switched bodies with just such a young man named Taki Tachibana (Ryunosuke Kamiki / Michael Sinterniklaas). Both high schoolers are understandably disoriented and upset by finding themselves in the body of someone of the other gender, in a house with a family and going to a strange school in a different place and with friends whom they don't know. Mitsuha and Taki each believe they're dreaming, so they just get by as well as they can and wait to wake up. When they do each wake up the next morning, back in their own beds, they're relieved until their family and friends comment on how strange they've been acting.These body swaps continue happening, about every other day, but the memories of what Mitsuha and Taki each do in the other's body quickly fade, much like a dream. To keep track of what's going on, the two teens start leaving each other notes, first in paper notebooks, and then on their smartphones – and they start intervening in each other's lives. Mitsuha, as Taki, helps Taki start a romantic relationship with his supervisor at the restaurant where he works part-time, and Taki, as Mitsuha, helps her become more popular. When their body swaps suddenly and inexplicably stop, Taki tries to make contact with Mitsuha in real time, but cannot reach her by cell phone. He takes a train to her district, armed with sketchy and fading memories from his days as Mitsuha, and learns something which affects him profoundly and causes both he and Mitsuha to embark on separate, but parallel and highly significant tasks."Your Name" is a sweet, engaging and beautiful, but confusing and somewhat loopy movie. The animation features especially vibrant colors and it is creative and skilled, often giving the impression of depth, even as a 2-D production. The movie also provides an interesting window into the world of modern Japan, through the juxtaposition of urban and rural environments. The main characters and supporting players are likable and fun to watch, but sometimes act illogically. More problematic, however, are dealing with the movie's plot holes and keeping track of who is who, when, and what is happening during some of the body swaps. But all of that aside, "Your Name" features an interesting story, which includes elements of humor, excitement and even suspense and charms its audience. It combines influences from many sources, but still feels fresh, creative and vital. This film is "Freaky Friday" meets "The Lake House", with the look of an updated "Spirited Away", and it's visually and emotionally pleasing in spite of its shortcomings. "B+"


                
Although a lot of japanese movies and animes have the same plot (going back in time to save someones live ) but still this movie was different in someway ,i would say the movie animation played a huge part in giving it such a high rate, but still there is this one thing that didn't made sense to me which is:( why they insist on remembering the name he could give her his address or something and they always try to remember just the first name which is not going to be that helpful when you are searching for some one) ,but overall it was a great movie and i would be happy to watch it again.
This anime film had an interesting premise with it's fantasy, time-travel concept, and in a way I was reminded of the 1980 Christopher Reeve/Jane Seymour movie, "Somewhere in Time". It starts out a little more complicated because it leaves the viewer somewhat confused until the characters themselves reveal what's going on, perhaps even more so through the dialog of their friends questioning the behavior of the principals. I will concede that the picture is rendered beautifully and the animation is exquisite. However the tenor of the film is geared in my estimation to a younger viewing audience, as so many anime films appear to be. That's not a negative, it's just that senior citizens like myself relate very little if at all to the characters in the story. However I found myself thinking that the same basic premise of the story would provide an exceptional opportunity for a live action film. I think the story would be easier to follow if the viewer could relate to live actors in real locations, as the animated nature of the picture tends to take one outside the boundaries of real life situations. Even so, I was entertained by the picture once I figured out what was going on with the body swapping and time dissonance. It's not hard to understand why this would have a wide appeal to a much younger audience.
Japanese hand-drawn anime featuring a slightly unusual take on the freaky-friday-esque body swapping trope.In a continuous string of well-drawn dualities on one hand you have Mitsuha, a girl from a small town engrossed in a traditional Shinto upbringing; on the other you have Taki a boy from ultra-modern Tokyo working part-time as a waiter.The small town is realised with a soft, dreamy sunshine-streaked palette; Tokyo as near photo-realist and futuristic - in both cases, the visuals are handled with real care & attention and quite noticeable: it's a visual treat.The plot follows 3 main stages, of the 2 main characters realising their predicament, developing each others lives in some way and eventually Taki's efforts to find Mitsuha in the 'real' world. (they can't remember each other's names, hence the title)Some unexpected turns are found and it really ramps up the tension for a thriller of a denouement.
The voice work here (dubbed into English) is standard fare, and the sound track super poppy which for whatever reason I found faintly amusing.Very engaging overall and a nice compact running time, recommended.


                
