This anime is just superb. It is one of those moments when a rare absorbing story, beautiful locale and art come together. It deserves all the praise it is receiving.With success comes cash hounds and mercenaries of course. Worst of them all is JJ Abrams from Hollywood. He has been given the task of remaking Kimi No Na Wa. OH NO! The feeling will disappear, the underlying sense of humanity will disappear, the story will be set in (I am guessing) Dallas Texas or some similar dump, the girl will be wearing long prairie skirt like a good Jewish girl and we will all ask why didn't Hollywood learn a lesson from the American remake of Ghost In The Shell which was a mess?Sigh. It makes me depressed that money is so important in this world.


                
A good anime that has a message, interesting characters, authenticity despite retelling a niche sub-genre story. The work that has gone into and the originality are appreciated. What was less impressive was the stoic reactions and matter-of-fact behaviours. With that said this is quite an accomplishment and I know that with the announced Hollywood remake we the fans need to boycott the coming movie. Hollywood has to learn that their predatory attack on anything popular for their infamous remake series will not be tolerated. Look how they mocked Ghost In The Shell (rolling my eyes as I write).


                
I have to say this anime was absouletely breathtaking like the fact its set in an actual Japan town, makes this anime a whole lot nicer! I thought both Mitsuha and Taki were such interesting characters like it was bizzare that the pair of them were swapping bodies. Yet we still don't know why they were chosen and I mean thanks to Taki, he saved Mitsuhas life for being in her body and alerting everyone that the town is having a meteor attack. Although I felt sorry for him for not getting through to her self absorbed mayor of a father and then him turning off the alarms. Seriously he's a pure jack*ss in this anime lol!However the music, the relationship between Taki & Mitsuha and the specular views of the village made this anime worth watching for! I give it a 8/10!
Having seen other movies (Garden of Words, 5 centimeters per second and Children Who Chase Lost Voices) from Makoto Shinkai, I've been prepared for the visual masterpiece that is Your Name, but the well built, interesting story was a pleasant surprise.While his other movies were a bit slow or uninteresting for me, this one managed to get pacing and plot right, and was successful in keeping my interest, and managed to build a smart story from the corny body-switch basics.I'm hesitating between 8 and 9 stars, as I've felt the story could have been a bit more complex, and there were some plot holes, that are not so easy to overlook. I'm giving it an 8, but a strong 8...Stop reading, and just go see it already, it's worth it (japanese dub + subtitles).


                
The animation in this movie was absolutely amazing ! Even though people may discount the movie since it's animated but I really recommended everyone to watch. Some parts were humorous, other parts mysterious but the connection that forms is so beautiful and unreal. You really end up embarking on the journey with the characters to discover these beautiful scenery and unravelling truths, it's astounding!


                
Not often I feel the sensation of the unknown. That's what i like to call it at least. Whenever i think or see something supernatural to the extent it scares me. I felt this feeling through a lot of this film. Beautiful. Magical. Mesmerising. The greatest animation of all time.


                
There's a distinct and slightly jarring protagonist switch just far enough in for you to really notice it, but it's a testament to 'Your Name (2016)' that - though it could have been ironed out relatively easily with some structural smoothing or a slightly simpler two-handed approach - this is perhaps its only real issue and it isn't even all that detrimental, considering that it allows us to develop a proper emotional connection to both leads from an internal perspective, actually mirroring the fantastical conceit driving the beautifully animated and wonderfully inventive narrative. The piece is a joy to watch and takes a number of turns that are genuinely unexpected. It's a wistful, soulful and poignant experience that's also an entertaining and, ultimately, uplifting one. It does seem to say something quite profound while always managing to delight and mystify with its deftly handled story and properly stirring themes. 8/10


                
This is a very good film, but it takes a while to reach that level. Although providing an entertaining fantasy first act revolving around the pair's body-swapping, it takes a good fifty minutes for the film to develop into something truly great. Moving from enjoyment to stunning emotion, Your Name is ultimately an enthralling and powerful tale, one told with great visual beauty from Makoto Shinkai.Shinkai, the director and writer of the likes of The Garden Of Words and 5 Centimeters Per Second is being dubbed as 'the new Hayao Miyazaki' by his third fantastic outing with Your Name. Undoubtedly, Shinkai is on a very similar level to Miyazaki when it comes to his visual style. Mixing the images of classic landscape paintings with some exceptional photo-realistic macro-focus shots, there's no doubt that Shinkai is a master of anime when it comes to pulling off pure visual beauty.Also, the second half of the film is evocative of a great Miyazaki picture. I'll get into the specifics of the latter half in a minute, but suffice to say at this point that Shinkai definitely has the ability to match the likes of the great Miyazaki when it comes to bringing across both blissful and devastating human emotion, something that's always even more powerful in animation.Before I get into that, however, I want to talk about the first fifty minutes of Your Name. Initially, the film shows real promise with the way it handles the body-swapping genre. Rather than solely making silly comedy out of the situation, it's full of some fascinating and brilliantly original ideas, cleverly blurring the line between the teenagers' dreams and anxieties and the real world.When the film is more dramatic and thoughtful, it's always engrossing, testament to Shinkai's expert writing. Unfortunately, there are moments that really stick out like a sore thumb, and prove the reason why Shinkai isn't yet quite up to Miyazaki's level.For one, there are some striking tonal inconsistencies throughout this film, particularly around the half-hour mark. Frustratingly, there are about two or three musical montages throughout that make the film feel like a TV movie, and each time they appear, they're more and more jarring, proving a hugely disappointing break in the film's generally impressive elegance.I understand that Shinkai has his own style, but his previous films haven't ever used so many of these montages. They're frustrating to see, and as they're all book-ended by awkward fades to black, they are undoubtedly the worst moments of the entire film. Happy, lightweight and enjoyable they may be, and they would definitely work in another movie, however they prove so inconsistent with the film's best tone that it really sticks in your mind.Despite that, the following hour or so is spectacular. Stepping up from an interesting but not always emotionally riveting first act, Shinkai dramatically turns the film into an emotionally stunning and powerful experience, with so much poetic elegance and sheer unpredictability that you can't look away from the screen.It's difficult to discuss the second half without spoilers, but the way that the film manages to grab you so much by taking such a drastic turn, moving away from the fantasy of the body-swap to an incredibly human and tender story, Your Name is definitely worth the wait to get to the best bit.Overall, I was hugely impressed by this film. It may not have the most consistent opening act, but the way that the film does provide some amazingly thoughtful and ultimately emotionally powerful moments is truly spectacular. Coupled with Makoto Shinkai's incredible visual style, Your Name is a fantastic movie, and one that definitely reaches near the legendary heights of Studio Ghibli.


                
To be sure, "Your Name" is now at a domestic B.O. of $140 million among the 50 most successful traditionally animated films of all time, it establishes Makoto Shinkai firmly as the new great hope of animated film, and it does feature the most brilliant lighting effects ever produced. If you don't know any previous works by Shinkai and his company Comics Wave, chances are you'll be blown away. If you are, however, familiar with his work, you may catch yourself wondering what all the fuss is about.There isn't anything new here - the intertwined time-lines were the main feat of his "5 Centimeters per Second" (2007), and the asteroids and fantastic themes dominated his debut feature "The Place promised in our early Days" (2004), which I personally hold to be his best work.Why then this sudden enormous success? Well, Miyazaki has stopped directing, and Ghibli has been on hiatus for two years. The equally brilliant Mamoru Hosoda's films have topics more domestic to Japan, and because of this his latest film "The Boy and the Beast" had only a limited US release. I'd still say that his "Wolf Children" (2012) and "The Girl who leapt through Time" (2006) are far superior to Shinkai because of their complex story lines, and because you can watch those over and over again. His style is also more reminiscent of Miyazaki.But right now, it's Shinkai's hour, and to be sure, it's well deserved that he finally gets so much international exposure. Only I very much doubt that he will be able to replicate this success, because the novelty first-time viewers may experience now will surely wear off if he sticks to his well-established themes.


                
I really loved this film and that surprised me since I am not an anime fan in general. But, I am a love story fan. I was a little averse to the subtitles at first but once I started, it was easy to watch and really get into it. There are features in this film as deep as some of the most deep ones in American love stories and sci-fi. The concept draws you in immediately and if you pay attention, it starts to flow and flow and what a fun ride it is.It uses some elements we have seen in a new way and the anime really helps to that end. I have to tell you that after about 5 minutes in, I forgot the characters were animation, they seemed real to me.I found the two main characters charming. Again, I am not much of an anime fan. I have seen many of them but they aren't my first choice. This would not only appeal to young lovers, like maybe those in love for the first time, but it will also rekindle those adolescent/young adult feelings in anyone who gives it a chance.If you examine my history at IMDb or my own sites you'll see I am not new at recommending films. Take it from me, this is an instant classic. The artwork is also way above the usually anime bar. Some of the special effects had to be done by paintbrush, or by hand however they did it. It was a feast for the eyes and the story did not suffer.Having said all that, if you can't give it your attention or you really have no interest to sit and watch subtitles, this probably isn't for you.Give this film your full attention as a love story with some sci fi elements and you will not regret it.


                
Pure Japanese magic. The effort and skill that has been put into this anime is astounding. The story, too, is a beautiful one. Deservingly, "Your Name" (Kimi no na wa) (2016) became the fourth highest-grossing film of all time in Japan and the highest-grossing anime film worldwide. It's one of those rare little movie treasures that actually gets the attention and reaches the audience it deserves.


                
A mega-hit anime not produced by the named Studio Ghibli, the up-and-coming animator Makoto Shinkai's fifth feature-length film, YOUR NAME is Japanese box office champion in 2016, grossed ¥23 billion (circa US$190 million), the fourth largest in the history ever. It starts as a gender-swapping yarn in the present day, Mitsuha, a motherless high school girl from a mountainous region, who lives with her grandma and a younger sister in their family shrine whereas her estranged father is running for the mayor of the town, grouses about her stagnant rural life and dreams of being a boy living in the big city, when a mysterious comet strikes across the firmament, it seems her wish is granted, she wakes up in the body of Taki, a high school boy in Tokyo, and vice versa, the swapping alternates on a daily basis and rebounds to both despite the initial confusion and the side effect of fading memories, Mitsuha becomes popular in the school with Taki takes over her body whilst Miki, the co-worker whom Taki has a crush on, starts to feel closer to him thanks to Mitsuha's feminine intervention. Laden with generic but scintillating humor (Mitsuha's habitual gazing and fondling of her boobs when her body is inhabited by Taki, but ostensibly not the other way around), zippy editing rhythm and hooky J-Pop anthems, the chucklesome paragraph reaches a halt when one day, Taki finds out that the swapping stops, and what follows are his dogged endeavor to looking for Mitsuha's village whose name eludes him with a bolt from the blue waiting down the line. Apparently and inexplicably, their temporalities are not uniform, but separated by three years, and Shinkai's savvy script circumspectly introduces the time-warp into the plot, which evolves into a touching and urgent past-changing undertaking for Mitsuha, facilitated by the numinous power of the traditional mouth-chewed sake and interlaced with a transcendent vis-à-vis in the twilight hour during which the two nearly have time to write down their names. The cataclysm cannot be averted but at least many lives are saved, yet, hampered by the fading memories of each other's names, will they be reunited in the same universe? You bet! Although the ending has a strained elation blatantly turning a blind on the odds of two individuals actually pass by each other randomly in a metropolis like Tokyo. Shinkai's virtuosity of devising picturesque scenery is an extraordinary feat to be reckoned with, a spate of celestial splendor and awe-inspiring landscape are scenery porn to hungry eyes, sometimes spiffed up by flashy juxtapositions of memories and hand-written sketches. Nevertheless, being someone who hasn't been versed in the realm of anime, one might wantonly hazard that the human character is a weak link in the process, their looks are invariably pedestrian and shy of memorable distinctions, perhaps it is an intrinsic defect in the animation where the niceties of facial expressions are still quite a challenge to visualize in technique terms. However, nothing can deny that YOUR NAME is a massive success and an infallible testimony of Shinkai's faculty to carry on the anime torch from royalties like Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Your Name" (2016) surprised me more then i thought it will do. It has a lot of going on here, with some school student problems at the beginning, body swapping story later and then some more - i won't spoil it. The story here was great, if a bit maybe to complex down the road. Music was beautiful as well as voice acting and animation. Script was very involving. "Your Name" is also a very beautiful love story.Overall, the only reason i'm not voting it higher is because i was a bit lost near the end. While the story is great and not one dimensional one, it was a bit to complex for my taste. Yet second viewing would be required. All in all "Your Name" (and what a beautiful title) is surely not to be missed one by anyone who loves great stories beautiful told.


                
"Kimi no na wa." or "Your Name" is a Japanese anime movie that premiered in 2016 already and it took until now, early 2018 to make it to Germany, but the waiting was worth it. Writer and director here is Makoto Shinkai and this was his 5th full feature movie I believe and judging from the quality I am not surprised that he is considered the next Miyazaki by many, even without the contribution of Studio Ghibli here. This was really a beautiful watch. It runs for 105 minutes approximately and takes us into the lives of a Japanese male teenager living in Tokyo and a female teenager living in the countryside. With a comet approaching Planet Earth, these two seem to be switching mind and bodies as a consequence of their dreams. This results in some pretty funny moments early on, but adds considerably gravity to the whole story the longer the film goes on, at least starting at that moment when we find out how they are not living during the exact same time. So it is a definitely a drama movie, even if Shinkai did really fine in using several established approaches to get in comedy too like the recurring boob humor that is executed so thoughtfully that it works very well and never feels cheesy or even offensive, then the scenes in which we see how female characters can get interested in something so enthusiastically or also thought process of recent mentions in a way you see on Family Guy, but in anime style of course.But now about the factors more crucial here. I watched the German dub and I thought the voice actors did a really good job. The music was really beautiful to listen to most of the time and the soundtrack added a great deal of class to the film and many individual scenes. And in terms of the plot, the twist towards the darker more dramatic side the film takes around the one-hour mark is one that worked incredibly well too while before that it was more entertaining for the sweetness, funny mannerisms of the characters and just the exploration of the whole situation, the element of death that is included afterward is one that will have you glued to the screen as it also adds a great deal in terms of character development. The eternal parallel between beauty and destruction was one that was mesmerizing. The moment the comet eventually hit the place and we were nearby to see it not knowing how many died and how many survived was one of the best of the entire film year to me. But this parallel I just mentioned also applies in terms of the subject of dreams, a very crucial one in here. As quickly as your memories are irrevocably destroyed, as sweet and breathtaking and special may your dreams be. There is no way to keep them though as the memory fades quickly and this is something I experienced so many times in real life too, which is why the film made especially an impact on me from that perspective. It was not a perfect film, but all criticisms I have with it are just minor really and probably entirely subjective, so I won't mention them in detail, so that you won't recognize them even perhaps from your standpoint. What else? Oh yes, all the characters are really likable and fun to watch and there is great charm to this movie in my opinion, lots of magic. It is also a film I am sure where you will see something new every time regardless of if it is the second time you see it or the 20th time. I don't think that how much I liked it has to do here with my preference for anime or Japanese films and Japan in general, so you can also enjoy it without these preferences, but it obviously helps. The ending was slightly predictable that the film stops the moment they meet in real life for the very first time, but that does not make it bad. There were 2 or 3 moments before that too when the film could have ended and it would have been as good, maybe even better, but the actual ending is very good nonetheless. Overall, this was a touching, sweet, shocking, funny movie and it was really all I could hope for. I am really glad I got the chance to see it on the big screen as this is where it is far more effective than on a small laptop or television screen I'm sure. Still it is better seeing it there too than not seeing it at all. A definite contender for best animated feature from 2016 and boo to the Oscars and all the other awards bodies not paying it any recognition. This movie is a true thing of beauty and I highly highly recommend seeing it. And yes it is an animated movie that is more for grown-ups than for kids for sure. Don't miss out here.
I do loved this movie...but they should have shown a bit more of the end..like wht the two of them were like after getting to know each other..


                
Recently I've been reviewing the films I watch as soon as I can after watching them as a way of channelling my thoughts.I've just finished 'Your Name' and have to agree with a lot of people on here, it's quite fantastic. The story and themes are very interesting and I found the film kept me engaged with shifts in tone / plot that felt natural and paced well.Additionally the animation is gorgeous and a lot of the music was achingly beautiful.However, some of the music (mainly the poorly timed pop ballads) felt out of place and actually served to draw me out of the experience as a whole. Some of the ballads worked but I felt the orchestral music alone would did a great job on the emotional cue's of the film. Furthermore, I think the characters were slightly two-dimensional (or not as individualised as they could have been) and the story falls into a familiar and rather cheesy conclusion, but it fit the tone of the film overall, it just wasn't entirely believable. Other than that it's a great watch and I'd happily watch again, it's a lovely film and does a great job at sucking you into its world.4/5


                
Plot Synopsis:Two teenagers, one a boy one a girl, each living across different parts of Japan, are fed up with their aimless ways of living toward nothing. Then something causes a very sudden switch: he is in her body, and she is in his. Then the next day, they switch back. But the day after that, their back inside one another, and the process repeats. They have no idea what caused it, but utilize lists of do's and don'ts for the other to follow, so that they don't return to their lives with a disastrous outcome. But soon, the boy decides he has to go and find this girl, meet her in person. But it just so happens that the reunion may never be possible, and the whole reason for this switch may be done to save her hometown. Now if only he could just remember her name...Best Qualities:Gender Equality Film Editing Depiction of Teen Living Direction of ScreenWorst Quality:Portrayal of their DeityYour Name. is a heartbreaking love story that feels like exactly the type of story Freaky Friday needed to be, with a bit of Groundhog Day mixed in. The sudden plot twists balanced with some really funny moments will make you earn for more, as you quickly become so well acquainted by the two main leads. You do not need to be a fan of anime to be moved to tears by this gorgeous motion picture, this is the type of animated drama that will appeal to all.


                
It was in the middle of my first semester in college when I got the chance to watch this film. It was a nasty and gross winter day. I expected the usual melancholy love story which Shinkai had did in his prior works. However, after watching this film I felt joy and happiness resonating in me and in a way enlightened my day (I watched it in the middle of the day).This film's joy is routed in its soundtrack, story, and visuals. The film's soundtrack done by Radwimps, fits the tone and setting of the story so well. It has a nice mix of rock and classical music within soundtrack. The story is also very well done. I found the story even though basic at its roots to be very dynamic. The visuals, like usual, are stunning in this film. The backgrounds especially are truly breathtaking. Also, the character designs are a lot better than in his prior works. They are not great but they are better. Another interesting aspect of the film was its tone. The tone was really light heated compared to the rest of Shinaki's works that I have watched.Some issues I had with the film is that the characters could have been more developed. I did enjoy the characters, but characters like Taki are given little character development and feel some what run of the mill. Another huge problem is the film's plot holes. A minor, but not too noticeable issue, is the pacing. During points in the film the pacing felt a bit odd.In conclusion, this film might not be masterpiece, but I still think it is a great watch. It is definitely the best of Shinaki's films (so far) and is personally one of my favorites. I highly recommend watching this film.


                
From the animation to the story to the music, Your Name is a beautiful and unique film. I found myself completely engaged almost the entire time. The plot gets a little muddled near the end, but it's still emotionally satisfying. I'd like to watch this movie again, especially now that I know what's going on.


                
Watching the trailer I thought this is going to be like Voices of a Distant Star or the myriad of similar anime since. Same nice scenery, piano music, long space and time communication , the touching of two people's souls (of course, high school boy and girl). And it was! Up until half of the movie. Then the original idea of the script kicked in and saved the story. I have to say that for people who have never watched Japanese anime this should be quite beautiful, but for long time fans it touches all the right buttons in a sort of mechanical and predictable way.It is a very beautiful romantic fantasy, but it sure felt very derivative. I know nothing is truly original, but as the movie ended (in a quite predictable manner), I wanted a little more - I don't know what. Perhaps more than the cardboard characters or the dusk lit countryside scenery with the piano music. The only interesting character for me was the senior waitress from where Taki worked. The rest were all the childish Japanese cliches that you see in all the anime.


                
Your Name is one of the most ornate and detailed anime films I've ever watched, providing a beautifully told story of two distant yet intertwined Japanese young adults. On a few instances the plot falls into trope territory, likely to happen when you combine the stories of Freaky Friday and anime high school plots, but there's some great surprises, and an enjoyable ending and character motivations.


                
Probably the most anticipated anime since the final film of Mr. Miyazaki. Because people know what these guys are capable of. This is one per cent sci-fi and 99 per cent fantasy. The concept is not new for us. From 'Freaky Friday' to 'The Lake House', even the recent American television film 'The Swap', you will remember a handful of names once you read this film's synopsis. Yet the film was so good, because of how well the theme was utilised.We all know the technical brilliance of '5 Centimeters Per Second' and the beautiful romance from 'The Garden of Words'. This is an excellent mix of those two. If love either of them, or both, then you will love it as well. But if you ask me, my favourite is still 'The Garden of Words' from this director. I liked this film, enjoyed thoroughly, so liking it less than that means not a bad flick. Surely a film to recommend for anime fans, as well as for animation's (western audience).The story of two teenagers, one from the rural Japan mountain region and the other one from Tokyo. The plot revolves around a comet that is to pass by very close to the earth. But before that event, the girl is bored with her life, so she dreams of living in a big city and that too as a boy. One day her wish comes true when she wakes up as she swapped bodies, including most of the memories with a boy from Tokyo.For her, it is to live as she wanted and make use of the opportunity. But for him, it is like a curse, hence becomes rebellious. This thing keeps happening frequently for days and weeks. After some times, realising the phenomena is between two, they make a deal and strict order of Dos and Don'ts while away. All this until the day of comet and everything changes forever. Searching for the truth and the result of it leads to the end of the tale.<U+275D>Treasure the experience. Dreams fade away after you wake up.<U+275E>Unlike Miyazaki, Makot Shinkai's storytelling is quite for the matured audience. It targets adults more than the children. Particularly for not shying away to include naturally occurring events in such situation as the story develops, despite/even though the film revolves around the teens/kids. As for this flick, the concern is not big, but it depends on the nation and its culture you belong to. It is very much acceptable and as the story progress, the best things keep replacing another till the finale. So hooked to it is assured.The film length was good and so the pace of the narration. Well written screenplay, which was based on the book of the same name. But the director admits the inspiration from the previous flicks with similar themes. They have used the real places of the anime version with fictional names, but most of the Tokyo remains same and they all were awesome.In many scenes, the camera panning was a treat. Especially the framerate was high, so no jerks, hence very pleasurable visual experience. Like I mentioned earlier, this is a unique film, despite not a original idea. The film proved the Japan is not overshadowed by Hollywood, particularly after the decline of animes in the recent years. It's up to the quality of the product, if so, then those glory days can be brought back for animes. Anyway, now this film holds the record for highest grossed anime.Apart from technical dominance, the story is also enchanting. If you like romance theme, this will serve you well. A good film for date night. But usually people would skip animation for such occasion and one should not mix up that with anime. Because why I always put apart the anime and animation is, the animes are good at beautiful romance, while its counterpart from the west focus more on comedy and adventure. But the common thing from them is the well explored fantasy theme.Usually the ends are guessable for a film like this and the same case for this in here. Only as a result of the story, you would know what's coming, but not the frame by frame scenes of it. Yeah, I liked this conclusion, the final lines said might bring you tears in your eyes, romantically, if you are an emotional person. One of the best endings, even though it was clichéd. And the credits start to roll up, while you begin to recall everything you just saw in the last 100 minutes. A must see film, so highly recommended by my side. Now I've to wait for another couple of years for such film.8/10


                
'YOUR NAME': Four Stars (Out of Five)The blockbuster Japanese animated fantasy drama, about a high school girl, in rural Japan, and a high school boy, in Tokyo, that switch bodies. The film was written and directed by acclaimed Japanese filmmaker Makoto Shinkai. It's gotten almost unanimous rave reviews from critics and fans alike, and it's also broken Box Office records all around the world (including becoming the 4th highest grossing film in Japan's history). I enjoyed the film as well.Mitsuha (Stephanie Sheh) is a high school student that lives in Itomori, a rural town in the mountains of Japan. She is very unhappy with small town life, and dreams of moving to Tokyo. Taki (Michael Sinterniklaas) is a high school student living in Tokyo, that also works at a local Italian restaurant (part-time). He aspires to become an architect. One day the two magically switch places, thinking it's just a dream, and their lives are never the same again. I'm not a huge fan of anime, or animated movies in general, but I did like this film. I can definitely see why it's such a huge hit at the Box Office too, and with critics, and not just in Japan. Of course they're already planning an American remake as well (with J.J. Abrams producing). The switching bodies story gimmick has been done many times before, but the body swapping of a male and female high school student seems somewhat fresh and original. Where the filmmakers take the story is also interesting and involving. There's of course some silly coming-of-age humor in it too, and it's far from a perfect movie, but it's definitely a well made and entertaining one (in my opinion).Watch a new episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/xsOj7IhB5us


                
This movie was confusing,at first i thought i was getting it easily but then it abruptly changed its momentum,it got quick with its story and that is probably why i failed to grasp it fully,i guess i need a second viewing,don't know when but i think i will give it another chance to get it from left to right,top to bottom.


                
Amazing story line and fantastic dialogues.Must watch it for experience a wonderful love story.


                
