In a world dominated by stupid sequels, prequels and remakes it is film/anime like this that restores hope in today's entertainment.Not only it is emotional and feels real, it delivers a relevant message. I love the imagination and palette but also appreciate that it aims to remind us of social issues that we should be paying attention to.The only reason I don't give our heroes and their story a 10/10 is that I still feel a couple of Miyazaki movies (like Kiki, Chihiro and the racoon dogs) were just that much better and showed a little more imagination.Whatever the case I live in fear of the Hollywood announced remake by Hollywood hack JJ Abrams who has never shown any talent or vision. As with others I will ignore and boycott that coming insult and always cherish kimi no na wa.


                
Beauty, Mystery and Creativity, don't they?I am scared for the day Jar Jar Abrams and Kathleen Kennedy get hold of this and make the hero a Disney princess and bore all our pants off.before Disney gives Kimi No Na Wa the Ghost In The Shell treatment get hold of this original and beautiful film. I guarantee you the girl is not Melissa McCarthy and doesn't have body issues.


                
From an anime nonetheless.Much has been said about this great animation and most of it is true.
It is beautiful, tender, modern (watch the film and you will understand) and makes human love interesting again.With that said, it is too bad that Hollywood has picked this up. Not that I will be watching that remake, but I cringe already at the thought of Hollywood hack and remake specialist giving this an American swirl. All the cliches of bad remaking and safe corporate changes will be applied. Aaaarrrggghh


                
But I really came here to ask fans of the story, the animation and the feeling to boycott Jar Jar Abrams' version. As we all know the Hollywood hack remaker was given a contract to make an 'American version' of Your Name.
Please boycott it. Do not watch it. Certainly do not pay to go to the theater to watch it. Send a message.Kimi No Na Wa was emotional and entertaining and the legacy should be preserved.


                
An orgasm for the mind and of course the eyes.This animation is an instant classic. I recommend watching it whether an adolescent or an adult...By the way, Hollywood has commissioned Mr. Rip Off Jar Jar Abrams to remake it. OH HELL NO!!! BOYCOTT THAT!!!!!!!!!!


                
Your Name (Kimi No Na Wa) tells the story of two teenagers with vastly different backgrounds. One is a boy who lived in Tokyo and has the word "city" described all around him. One is a girl who lived in rural town far from technology and anything interesting. One morning, somehow, they found out that they have swapped bodies. Together, they must help each other find solution in daily life problems, and solve the mystery of the reason why this whole conundrum started.This may sound like your typical body-swap romantic comedy situation, but you may find yourself on the wrong side of the spectrum as this movie takes you into an incredible journey. With a storytelling so divine, complex, yet understandable, this movie captures the essence of what romantic comedy movies have lost nowadays, a heart and a charm to lure you in.Japanese animation movies tend to have a bit of a stereotype, but the movie successfully shown very little of that. Transitioning from one scene to the other effortlessly, Radwimps deserves an incredible applause for their talents in the movie, as every song and every score fits perfectly to the scene currently shown.Although the movie does end in a predictable way, the voyage to that predictable end is more than enough to keep you satisfied. There are some usage of stock characters and several clichés throughout, something that maybe will drive some of the audiences away or cloud their judgment. But beside all that, the story is still original and well executed.What seems to be a silly premise evolved into something even more trifling. But with its unbearable charm, it worked astonishingly well.


                
I didn't expect expect to like this movie as much as I did. The animation is stunning, the story is engaging and the movie complements everything perfectly.Watch it, you'll find yourself captivated.


                
I have read quite a few reviews from both side before writing mine; I could understand why some people dislike this movie.For those who love this movie, they are those viewers who flow with the story with an open mind. There are always flaws in every story, if we keep nitpicking the plot hole, they will never come to appreciate what a movie could offer to them.People seems to forget the reason to watch a movie - to escape from our reality. This movie does deliver a moment for the audience to get along this amazing journey of Mitsuha and Taki. My wife and I try to solve the puzzle when the story continue to unfold, there were a few moment that we were able to put pieces together and see if the story goes as we thought. There were also moment we doubted whether the event will be different than it originally was. We hold our breath to see how the story will end, I was crossing my finger that the ending will be at least in some form of closure. I am glad that it was.Referring back to my review's title, by walking through this story, I could feel, once again, the energy by being youth. I am in my mid 40s and this movie touch my soul and brought my heart out as in my 20s.For those who can't stand any flaw in the story line, I believe this movie will not able to touch your heart or I should say, this is not your cup of tea.
Just a small town girl, living in a lonely world. Just a city boy... No, wait. Hear me out. Granted, it's initially hard to sell Your Name - a meet cute anime twist on Freaky Friday - as a worthwhile recipient of its considerable, well-deserved hype, rather than a big screen, big budget rendition of Fruits Basket. But the hype is real. Inauspicious or not, writer/director Makoto Shinkai's film is somewhat of a genre-bending game changer - a film so special that the struggle to properly do justice to it leaves me resorting to inelegantly cherrypicking from a slew of contemporary allusions (the elegant loneliness of Murakami; the mischievous whimsy of Wong-Kar Wai; an Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind interwoven with The Breakfast Club with the most imperceptible pinch of your average buddy cop comedy comedy for spice), while it is still far more than the sum of their parts. In short, it's one of the most unexpected, simple but profound, entrancing, and poetically beautiful films to cross screens in years. It's as fun as it is melancholy, as unforgettable as it is sweetly unassuming. Even better - it's that rare anime where comparisons to Studio Ghibli aren't simply lip service, but actually warranted in terms of exquisite, painstaking heart and attention to detail. Yes, really. But such lofty praise is actually far from the spirit of a film that goes about its remarkable business with a cheeky subtlety. Shinkai wisely plays off the initial silliness of his concept, with the early body swap sequences staying rooted in lighter, bawdier humour, playfully portrayed with a springy, sassy wit keeping even the broadest moments no less human and adorable for their broadness. The conceit itself is kept indifferently vague, apart from the haziest of nods to traditional spirituality - it's not the 'how' that matters here anywhere near as much as the 'what.' Similarly, there's a clearly delineated dichotomy between the two protagonists' 'tradition vs. modernity' milieus (with larger, extrapolating themes of supplanting history and cultural longing spanning generations to be teased out by those keen enough), but Shinkai is content to let the contrast sit, rather than milking it for shoehorned theme, or garish social commentary. More than anything, the film captures that ethereal but omnipresent sense of vague dissatisfaction, longing, and persistent but directionless striving that is bound to feel almost achingly familiar to any given audience member, regardless of age, nationality, or standing in life. Shinkai takes a distressingly familiar sense of ennui, and infuses it with a melancholy grace, a feeling accentuated hugely by the film's simply gorgeous, sweeping artwork, infusing panoramas of mountain-dwarfed Japanese countrysides and bustling Tokyo skyscrapers with an unbelievable level of composition and care. When the film glissandos into a third-act twist that is as devastating as it is unpredictable for all but the most eagle-eyed of viewers, it transcends into a piece of larger-than-life folklore, conjuring an almost feverishly heightened viewership that redefines magnetic, before culminating with a quiet grace note that ties up the emotional knot in ways both elegiac and unforgettably uplifting. It may sound like a perennial squall of emotional peaks and valleys, but Shinkai surfs it with nonchalant poise, with his rock-steady pacing lending the film an almost uncanny gestalt. Upon the arrival of the closing credits, don't be surprised to hear a wet gasp, equal parts tearful and jubilant, erupting from your throat, unsolicited. You won't be alone in doing so. If there are any imperceptible faults to be found, it's that Shinkai's perhaps inevitable leaning on anime tropes do, at times, dip the film into conventions it would normally nimbly leap over. The occasional conflict-expanding plot device or bombastic musical interlude, particularly in gearing up for the film's climax, strain convention in ways that are only startling in their inconsistency with the film's customary elegance, while lead actors Mone Kamishiraishi and Ryûnosuke Kamiki, while both lending credibly commanding voices, are as hyperbolic as they come in their grunts, gasps, and other verbalizations reacting to their bizarre circumstances. Still, these are the faintest blemishes on the face of a truly beautiful, touching film, that truly demonstrates that the affective potential of traditional animation still has many wrinkles of uncanny power yet to unfurl. So do yourself a favour: believe the hype. Invest in Your Name. If you have any space amidst the ensuing deluge of feelings, you may just thank yourself you did. -9.5/10


                
Probably the best animaton ever & one of the greatest love story.


                
This movies contains a real simplicity in complexity , it takes you through an extraordinary love story , during the first period of the movie you will be feeling like its an ordinary story and even guessing the end of it but in the middle of the movie things takes an unexpected sadly beautiful turn that would leave you in a shock but it will also give you the best time of your life.


                
Ok, this is my first review of a movie, so maybe I'll be brief.The story is very well written, it just somehow feel like it does make sense. Kudos to the writer!The art is very well made, I don't find any awkwardness in every character's movement and interaction, it just feel so natural. Well, maybe that's just the standard quality for a good Japanese anime.The scenery is very beautiful, it somehow catch the very much of Japan in its depiction of Tokyo and the rural image of small town in Japan. I'm not Japanese myself, but I've been to Japan quite some times, and it feels very nostalgic to watch the scenery in this movie.The soundtrack is very nice, the music is very heartwarming and just click very well with the love story in the movie.Overall, I highly recommend this movie not just for anime lovers, but also for everyone.


                
This has become one of my favourite anime ever. Not only was the storyline AMAZING and made me cry, but the detail into the animation itself is beautiful. I admit that I was skeptical at first, but it wasn't long into the movie where I had really gotten into it. There's also a lot of information to take in, so I would suggest when watching you pay full attention so you don't miss anything (not that you'd want to).
I was also very pleased with the ending. I'm not going to spoil anything, but i know how much a bad ending can ruin an entire film, so I'll just say that you'll be satisfied.
I 100% recommend this film, but I would warn you, if you're emotional like me you probably may want to keep some tissues nearby (I cried like a baby).


                
Suffice to say I used to hate anime, I couldn't get on board with it. Now that I feel I've grown as an aspiring film critic, I can appreciate the delicate art of Japanese animation. With Hayao Miyazaki retired, is the genre deceased? Far from it. Your Name is just as good as any Miyazaki production. Two teenagers unexpectedly switch lives, forging a connection that is both unexplainable and unforgettable. Having figured out what's happening, the two attempt to meet...but not everything in life is that simple. A gorgeous juxtaposition of culture and gender. A country girl and a city boy. A tranquil and picturesque rural town against a bustling and modernised Tokyo. Contrasting the difference in mannerisms and punctuality, not just in lifestyles, but in gender. How a girl and a boy interact with others differently. Two lives being thrown into a foreign environment. The sheer complexity and magnitude that the narrative conveys is nothing short of genius. The introductory title song plays and BAM...I was captivated instantaneously. The animation...the animation!? It was like watching art move right before my eyes. Anime has never looked so beautiful. The glistening water, fast moving transport, hallucinogenic comets against a starry backdrop...wow. Wooooow! I can't. It's too much. I think my eyes are bleeding, someone pass me a tissue. Shinkai's direction was utterly creative. The story moves along at a swift pace and the inclusion of time-bending realities just makes it that much more intriguing. It's a love story. How love can traverse both space and time. Honestly, it was beautiful to watch. To create a pure relationship from two souls switching bodies is...well damn difficult. Shinkai made it look easy. Some of the time-bending narrative shifts can be confusing and you may not necessarily understand it in one viewing (heck, I didn't completely) but the film is that good, that you will want to watch it again...and again...and again. Aside from some exposition, Your Name is masterful.


                
In keeping with the very best of a glorious story-telling tradition from great Japanese animators, this will be one of the finest fairy tales available to watch for years to come. Novel, compelling, beautifully constructed and achingly sweet, this is a gorgeous blend of young love, loss, destiny and a fate that twists to the end. A joy to watch.


                
I am not a huge anime fan. But this movie is one for everyone, it is a must see. The visuals are phenomenal, music is catchy and the story is heartbreaking. The story is about a boy who switches his body with a girl he does not know, but not for always only in some periods. There are so much funny situations, but all in one its sad and depressing. I would suggest the movie to all anime enthusiasts and who love the visuals.


                
For two whole weeks my students have been telling me about this anime, Kimi No Na Wa (Your Name), begging me to check it out. Over the grapevine I also learned that it is the first non-Ghibli non-series based anime movie to earn over 10 billion yen. So last night we did and I have to say it is truly one amazing entertainer with intelligence to boot. It was so good we felt so lost what to see next and so we didn't. We wanted nothing to ruin the unique experience. I will spare everyone the synopsis and plot details because the experience of going into this totally blind is roller-coaster-fantastic. What I will just say is writer-director Makoto Shinkai took some great risks with the narrative and it pays huge dividends in terms of storytelling. This is not something you can sit back and let the story do all the work; you will need to constantly think about what you are seeing, as well as where and when it is all taking place. I love it when a director respects the viewers and brings the game to me. After the electric pace gender bending opening act I have no doubt that like me your mind will throw up the direction of what the narrative will take. You and I would be so wrong. I was gobsmacked at every twist and turn the narrative takes which subverts all my expectations. Shinkai also does a monster mishmash of so many genres that I didn't see when the romantic euphoria ended and when the detective procedural began. He even embeds an element of horror and melancholia. All through this widely imaginative ride he knows where the beating heart is - the relationship between the two star-crossed lovers separated by time and space. Above everything else, the anime captures something so elusive so beautifully. By elusive I mean the temporal seconds you were waking up from a sweet dream, your entire being is still consumed by last night's dream and the memory of it immediately dissipates as you step into the waking world. However, the essence of the dream continues to envelope you throughout the entire day like a cocoon; you will try to hold on to the remnants unsuccessfully. Name one film that got that magical quality spot-on. Shinkai's Kimi No Na Wa got this right many times over. Everyone needs to grab your loved ones and watch this like all your lives depended on it.


                
After years of browsing this site, I finally broke down and registered so I can share my opinions with strangers who probably won't care about or even read what I write. But then again, in the past I've used these reviews to help make a decision whether to watch or pass on certain movies. As the best movie I've seen in years, Your Name seemed like the right one to start with. I'm not going to attempt a technical, elitist analysis, as I'd probably just end up sounding like a pretentious moron. I'll just try to hit some key points.As a disclaimer, there's only about 3 directors that I consider myself a fan of, and Makoto Shinkai is one of them. I've seen all his films and enjoyed them to various extents. Your Name is different from all his other movies and, I would say, is his most complete film. The most notable difference is the tone. Whereas most of his works are much more somber, this one has a lighter, comical side that offsets the deeply emotional moments making it more accessible to a wider audience.To be fair, this movie has some flaws. There's a few logical gaps that you just have to ignore for the movie to work. The main characters aren't overly interesting in their own right, and few, if any, of the side characters are developed throughout the film.However, what this movie does well, it does exceptionally well. It is definitely a story-driven piece and the story is deep, interesting, and well-told. I'm not going to mention anything approaching a spoiler. I went in with almost no knowledge of the plot and had a more rewarding experience because of it. I will say, though, that if the first 30 minutes or so seem a bit silly for your taste, stick with it. It gets better.For those wary about getting into anime, this is a good one to test the waters with. It's absolutely nothing like the bits of Pokemon or Dragon Ball Z you may have accidentally glimpsed over the years. I've seen both the Japanese version with subtitles and the English dubbed version. If possible, it's always better to watch a movie in it's original language, but I know not everyone can handle subtitles. The voice acting for the English dubbing is passable. It's not perfect, but it probably won't ruin the experience for you.I tried to be as objective as I could in rating this movie, but there's really no such thing as true objectivity with something so emotionally driven as the film industry. This movie is a personal 10, but I feel that 8.5 stars (rounded up to 9) is an accurate rating. So, anyone reading this who is on the fence about watching this movie, here's one more random person urging you to give it a try.


                
When the movie started, I was a bit disoriented, as the first few scenes had fast cuts, and I hadn't been grounded yet. There is a lot of time travel and this does get confusing throughout the film, but I wasn't very bothered by it. I'd say that the constant time shifts actually add to the mystery of the story, as you're always trying to figure out where in the timeline you've jumped to. The animation is great, with vivid colors and great lighting effects. I can't imagine how difficult and time consuming it is to make graphics look realistic. I just enjoy the finished product. Very detailed work. I think there is more of a 3D depth to anime than there is with cartoons. Just something about their technique gives it so much more aesthetics. Or perhaps it is also the vast range of colors that are used. The story keeps you guessing as it progresses, and that's what makes it so magical. Anything can happen next, and you don't see it coming. I was thoroughly invested with the story and found the script to be both comedic and culturally aware. The two main characters are quite different from each other, but both are headstrong and their stubbornness is fun to watch. Overall, this is a great fantastical film to watch, for both the old and the young.


                
A very lovely story with beutiful images, delightful chracters and an excellent rolercoaster of emotions.


                
Kimi no Nawa is a movie that handles a realationsship over a long distance, which goes to heart and is kinda funny at the same time. It also has amazing animation and outstanding artwork.


                
This thing is romantic, funny, mysterious, tragic, compelling, effortless, and purely wonderful, all of which could've easily fallen apart if the ending wasn't so absolutely perfect. I think, because of the confident way the story is told, a second viewing would really make it soar.


                
Every few days, a girl from a small Japan town wakes up in the body of a Tokyo boy, and soon realizes that at the same time he takes over hers. On these occasions, they have to live each other's day, trying not to cause problems to each other. They begin to find ways to communicate with each other to make all this easier to work out. What they have yet to understand is that the situation is much more complicated than it first appears, and that on two of them depends survival of many people. I can not go deeper into the story to avoid spoilers, but believe me, you do not want to miss this movie. I really do not like anime, but this time I'm thrilled.9,5/10
Your name (Kimi no Na wa) is one of the most beautiful animated movies out there and is worth watching!


                
This is a movie that does not look like much at first; nothing fancy or groundbreaking, just the fantasy of a small town girl who wishes to change her life. And then, it just happens: seemingly at random, she shifts bodies with a teenage boy, and a relationship starts. As they get to know each other, the feelings show and something settles, until suddenly, it all stops. No more exchanges, and the boy starts forgetting. All that remains is a nagging feeling that he is looking for somebody, but does not remember her name... This movie is beautiful in its simplicity, and the emotions it brings up. It does not try to explain the why and the how, but rather to make the viewer feels. And it succeeds. While it could be considered slow at times, each moment contributes towards the evolution of the story and the ending. Very much worth a watch!


                
