Judgment at Nuremburg is a well-made and well-acted film, with some stirring speeches. However, in the end it presents an incredibly rhetorical and propagandist perspective on these trials. For instance: there is a serious legal question as to the authority by which the US puts the Nazis on trial. Of course. what the defendants did was horrific, and they ought to have been held accountable for it, but was it illegal? By what law? By whose law? Shouldn't there be a distinction between acting against a Nazi law and acting against a moral law? Aren't we really looking at a sort of self-righteous 'victor's justice'? Shouldn't these questions be settled politically or by force, rather than with a veneer of pseudo-legalisms?At the beginning of the movie, it seems sensitive to this question. The prosecutor seems over-zealous. The defense lawyer seems earnest. By the end, any opponent of the procedure of the trial (like the dissenting judge) is racist Nazi or an equivalently immoral patriotic American. Any subtle thought that, for instance, there is something funny about holding someone responsible for enforcing the laws of their own country is assimilated to racism and Nazism. To add insult to injury, the movie can't even bear to have a heroic German figure. Janning, who gives the crucial testimony in the case, ends up trying to excuse himself in the end--in a way entirely inconsistent with his earlier speech and everything we know about his character.Don't be taken in by this movie. It doesn't want you to think. It wants to bully you, with all the heavy-handed tricks a movie-maker has, into thinking that all patriots are Nazis and that legal niceties can be run roughshod over if some pure vision of morality demands it. It's really too bad, because the moral and legal issues connected with the trials are very serious and very relevant today.
Yes the film raises serious questions about Nazi Germany and the role that Germans played in the terrible destruction that the third Reich wrecked on the world, but the film is seriously dated and terribly preachy with some very over the top acting and in your face direction. Kramer's direction is obvious with lots of zoom shots and close-ups and is also terribly stagy and slow. Maxmillian Schell in a very overrated performance plays the defense lawyer, and his work is no where as good as Paul Newman's stunning performance in "The Hustler." Schell won the Oscar that year over Newman, but his performance is all one note or two. Judy Garland and Monty Clift give some depth and feeling to their small cameos, but both also have done much better work through the years. I will say that Dietrich was terrific in her small role and Tracy was also fine and low keyed as he usually was. The worst performance was given by Burt Lancaster who was way to young to play this part with any conviction and had to depend on his badly done hair and make-up to give any feeling that he could come up with. You can see how bad he is in his big confession scene at the trial and also his stance,posture and walk are all wrong, and way too young. I also had trouble with the static camera work and the poor art direction and process shots, and the throwing in of actual concentration camp footage was a cheap shot and the only real emotional moment in the film and points up to how badly directed the it was. The view outside the courtroom never changes and the trees and foliage look way to fake I know this is minor criticism but it makes the film look tacky and cheap. At times the film resembles a television drama which in fact it originally was. The film was a big critical hit in 1961 and received an amazing 11 Oscar nominations include one for best costume????. This was serious stuff with a capital S back then, and was the verso of the other big reserved seat film of the year "West Side Story." If you couldn't get in to West Side you went to see Judgment which made you feel like you had done something good and worthwhile with your 2 bucks.
