Who else agrees with me that this is arguably the most overrated movie of all times?This movie is full of coincidences. Why does the Ugly keeps waiting patiently before killing the Blondie for something miraculous saving the Blondie every time!The 3 stooges(Good, Bad and especially the Ugly) walk through the open spaces as if they are covered head-to-toe with an invisible, impregnable shield and no bullet will touch them! That's Bull! How does an old man operate a gun store in the middle of a dessert, when clearly he is incapable of defending himself?
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly (Sergio Leone, 1967)There are a number of great things about this movie. The first ten minutes. The last ten minutes. The theme music, which has come to be synonymous with the American west. Lee van Cleef, who was great in every role he ever played.And then there was the middle hundred sixty minutes.There's an odd tendency among filmmakers to take a razor-thin plot and stretch it far too long. Such is the case here, with the plot being a race between the Man with No Name (Clint Eastwood), a hired gun named Angel Eyes (van Cleef), and the Man with No Name's on-again off-again sidekick Tuco (Eli Wallach) to find a cache of stolen gold during the Civil War. This plot meanders for two and three-quarters hours before getting on track, and that's about an hour and three-quarters too long. The subplots are never developed, nor are the characters. Tuco switches allegiances every ten minutes. After a while, it gets just plain boring.Definitely could have used a good editor. Eastwood's westerns got better with age (his, not theirs); Unforgiven and Pale Rider are better, tighter films. **


                
There is something amusing about the Italian fascination with the wild West, the absurd over-the-top score, the cheesy sound effects (at one point, one of the bandits sounds like he's walking across a marble floor in high heels), even the obsessive closeups of Eli Wallach's dentition. Less amusing is the relentless glorification of brutality and exaltation of greed--I can watch the NFL any time, I don't need a movie for that.The campy fun of this movie is dampened by the knowledge that it has somehow been mistaken for a classic. All the characters are pretty equally repellent, unless you count Clint's gesture of giving his coat to a dying man 2 hours into the movie...in fact, this seems to be the only point where the movie even considers anything resembling humane values, and it's really not enough.And the title is mistranslated. In English, "the X," where X is an adjective, doesn't refer to an individual who is X, it refers to a class of people, and is always plural. The movie should have been "Good, Bad, and Ugly" or "The Good One, the Bad One, and the Ugly One."


                
I really don't understand what was so great about this movie. I felt it has been completely over hyped.This movie bored me for the most part and development of characters was almost non-existent.The action was rather dry, short, and minimal and tension was poorly maintained.While the overarching plot was alright, it didn't seem to go much deeper than that.The "Evil" was barely explored - only shown to have done a few evil things and make a few more evil appearances only to die quickly and meaninglessly at the end.The acting was acceptable.
This is certainly one of the most over rated movies of all time- I just saw it again-not lousy, but pretty boring How many hours can you spend looking at close ups of faces-eyes squinting? It just drags- No plot development, just a bunch of gimmicks Hey- How does Lee VanC suddenly become a Sargent in the Union Army? ETC !!! The music is a bit better than a 30's John Wayne epic but certainly not great- Leone did some good stuff later-but he used the faults of this thing to learn and correct himself- Clint E was in a interview about the movie before it was shown(on TMC) He was a older than in the movie, but a lot younger than we know him now He said Leone taught & showed him many skills-it shows!So see it, but don't expect that much


                
This movie, unlike the two previous ("A Fist Full of Dollars" and "For a Few Dollars More"), is borish, long, contrived, and for once, the "Man without a Name" is anything but a good guy.  In this movie he's a liar, a thief and is more interested in money; compare this to the first movie where he is more of a quiet hero who ends up giving his money away to a girl, her husband and son and leaves town with nothing more than he came in with (although the town is cleaned up) and the second where, although less of a benefactor, he helps take down a vicious madman.  The story is a rampant anti-war film made in 1966, right when the war in Vietnam was really heating up.  The last two movies did not make themselves allegories (which rarely hold up as good classics over time) but rather well crafted short stories made into movies.Do yourself a favor and skip "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly".  It's one of those things where, until you see the movie, you won't realize how much worse the dialogue, pace and tempo is.


                
