Ah please, what is this ?!?! Writer/Director Guy Ritchie apparently likes Tarantino movies, and with "Lock, Stock..." he wanted to make his own cool movie, with a lot of cool plot twists. Unfortunately he fails to do so. And he fails miserably. There are so many twists and turns in this stupid movie that it just made me wanna stand up and shout, out of misery. I mean after seventy nine turns in the script it's really not that cool any more. And it also feels like Ritchie has put in these twists, just to have more plot twists than any other movie in the history of film making.This is truly a wanna be movie, because the entire thing is made out of parts of other movies, most notably of "True Romance". The cinematography is also really poor. There are a lot of annoyingly over exposed scenes, that just look cheap.I have friends who liked this movie. But I'm still shaking my head in disbelief over what I saw more than two months ago.UGH !!!!


                
I didn't catch this at the cinema as I was somewhat put off by the hype and media circus surrounding it. So I was quite pleased to catch it on tv. My word, what a lot of fuss over nothing. Guy Ritchie certainly knows how to devise contrived and clever plots; the ending was a nice homage to 'The Italian Job'.However, that's where all the praise ends. After a bright start, the film eventually descended into a farce with people shouting at each in silly Cockney accents. Perhaps I've missed the punchline or lost my sense of humour but this film was like an adult version of Scooby Doo with its cartoon violence and characterization.Apart from some touches -ie the slow mo's during the card game - this film had a very made for tv feel about it. God help us if Ritchie is the future of British cinema.


                
I really cant see why this film is so highly rated. In my eyes it's just a complete mess and Ritchies worst film. Compared to Snatch, this has nothing on it, not even close. The other critics on this website debate that Lock Stock has a better ending and story, but i didn't really see that. The pacing of Lock Stok is astonishingly slow and the characters feel like their cardboard cutouts without a soul. This also brings a negative thrall over this poorly directed and acted mess.I cant begin to tell you how much i disliked the cast, i mean awful. The choices of picking some actors like Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Nick Moran and Steven Mackintosh is just like picking up anyone of the street and saying they will do. It's not on. And despite not having ever heard of any of them, i wish i hadn't now.
Ready to give a chance to some "modern" movie figuring in the top 250, I valiantly endured more than one hour of plain stupidity spiced with boring systematic four-letter word spitted by so called actors playing a so called scenario.Sorry, but for me no interest, no goal, no suspense, no idea, no humor and absolutely no fun Half a century before "Lock, stock ...", British humor was Alec Guiness's "Kind Hearts and Coronets" But, if you like very looooooong video-clips, stereotyped characters with IQ about 20 and the kind of humor propagated by low-level TV, this is definitively THE movie for you. And apparently you'll belong to the usual sheepish majority


                
surely in the history of films there can never have been any greater collection of stereotypes in a single film. no opportunity has been missed to come up with characters such as 'Nick the Greek' and Hatchett Harry. In england we complained about what mel gibson chose to do in his awful awful films of braveheart and patriot but we seem to be quite happy to let someone british do the same thing. i suppose that i should feel grateful that noone from birmingham was in it, we would have been portrayed as having a broad accent and being thick no doubt.before anyone accuses me of having a humour bypass, yes i know that this is intentional. i know that they are cardboard cutout villains but that really is no excuse for having a cardboard cutout script. never before have i watched an entire film in which every line appeared to be written down before it was spoken. everything was delivered as though it was all some little in joke that we should all find funny. and i agree with one of the earlier reviewers, vinnie jones CANNOT act. he was in good company here however, since nobody in this film.it appears that this is no-more than a remake of the 'Italian Job' except without a few things, like the 60's style, noel coward, the script, the acting oh, but we were at least rewarded with not one person being michael caine, but at least 6 people trying to be him. only they all failed. badly.this really is the film that launched a thousand british gangster films, they have all been bad. but in that sense they have lived up to imitation being the most sincere form of flattery. for the british readers of this, to me this was like watching an extended episode of 'only fools and horses' with more guns and swearing. pitiful and grotesquely overhyped.


                
This is the film that spawned all the shockingly bad British gangster films of 1999 and 2000 and this is no better than any of it's offspring.The basic premise of the film is far from original, a group of young criminals make a mess of a job and so on, blah blah blah.  The film is billed as being a crime comedy but I don't recall laughing once.  The characters are your typical cockneys, aside from the irritating accent, all you hear is various people being referred to as muppets, mugs and slags and then indulging in glorified violence.  Nothing wrong with violence, some of my favourite films are heavy on the bloodshed, including "Goodfellas" and "Reservoir Dogs" but this is a dismal attempt to make it seem funny, when it really isn't.  Guy Ritchie, despite the reputation he is building for himself strikes me as being a director of a lot of style but very little substance and I don't care how many people tell me otherwise, VINNIE JONES CANNOT ACT.  The same could also be said for the rest of the performers in this appalling, yet well-received film.  Avoid at all costs.


                
Ahhh... another witty British film.  Or is it?  The answer is plain and simple - NO.  It's a very sloppy, messy, Tarantino rip-off that tries to entertain us with pointless violence and not-so-funny dialog.  The acting is some of the worst ever and it seemed that they threw in the bad language at the last minute so try and steal some cheap laughs.  And cheap they are. So, if you want entertainment, avoid this like the plague and watch The Truman Show.  You won't regret it.  Trust me.


                
Not only is this film vastly overrated, it's just plain bad. The story-line itself is tired. The manner in which the jokes are made for the viewer is along the lines of "Pulp Fiction". A lot of the humor in Tarantino's film has grown stale over time, but this movie is even worse. "Pulp Fiction" at least has some fresh lines, and the actor's are more believable as criminals. Guy Ritchie's effort seems as if he wants to become the European heir to Tarantino. He plays all too hard to try for the pop-culture youth demographic. This takes away from the film. All throughout it emits the feeling of a director looking for his Muse; but he can't find one so he ends up trying to imitate Scorsese and Tarantino - but convert them "hip" to young Anglo culture. The editing is wretched. When I first saw this film over in the British Isles I could tell it was directed by some young hot-shot who used to make music videos and was trying to hand at feature-length film - but using the same video techniques he employed in his previous works. It's choppy and stupid. If you want to see a film made with real insights of the crime underworld, which also contains genuine moments of laughter see "GoodFellas" or "Mean Streets". This movie is a waste, and in due time people will realize that it's pop-culture feel is paper-thin and no longer wears well.


                
What was the point of that? I'm going to go do my laundry.End of review. 0/10.Okay, I really wish I could end there, because that's all the credit Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels deserves. It's one of the few movies I've even seen that is so bad it's actually below me to sit here and write a negative review. I've watched a lot of overrated films, but I've never once gone as far as to call a single movie "The Most Overrated Film of All Time", simply because there are a lot of movies that could be called that. Naming one single movie "The Most Overrated Film of All Time" is just ludicrous. But I am seriously reconsidering my own line of logic right now and giving this film that title. That is how much I simply cannot understand the hype and mass love for this film. At all. It's like a movie that should be on the bottom 100 movies of all time, but then somehow, some way, it gets loved by the public. I simply can't comprehend it.Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a generic film noir piece set in a generic film noir world with generic film noir "quirky" characters and a generic film noir plot. Everything, every last thing, is copy/pasted from other<U+0097>better<U+0097>movies. Critics trash movies all the time for even minor unoriginality, yet this has to be one of the most unoriginal movies of all time and it's critically acclaimed? It's impossible not to see the unabashed rip-off scenes from Pulp Fiction, most notably. Not to mention the Reservoir Dogs inspired scenes. By the middle of the movie I literally forgot which wannabe Quentin Tarantino movie I was watching, because I've seen so many of them they all just blur together because they're all basically the same movie. They all repeat the same variations of Pulp Fiction quotes. They all have the same basic drug-kill-money plot. They all think they're so genius because they have one sub-par plot twist that isn't even a plot twist because we expect it in movies like this.Look, I like film noir, too, but I don't love everything just because it's a stylish crime movie. It has to be different. Film noir started back in the 40s, and I think it says something when the only few films in the genre that become anything more than a small cult success are the ones that are truly genre-defining and added much-needed originality to the genre, not the ones that just tag around the bandwagon. In other words, I can see some people possibly finding Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels entertaining if you're a genre fan. But overrating it to the point that its at is simply stupid. It's generic. It's exactly like everything you've seen before. It's just a frozen McDonald's hamburger in the generic fast food storehouse. Get over it.If you're not a film noir fan, don't bother watching it at all. You'll fall asleep. If you are, and you're in a good mood, I suggest you try it. If the first five minutes bore you as much as they did me, just know that the rest of the movie doesn't get any better. The jokes are the same jokes you've heard in all the other genre pieces. There is nothing good that can be said about the acting. Some of it is borderline terrible. It isn't cool. The pansy camera cutting away from every single act violence<U+0097>even as tame a punch in the mouth!<U+0097>gets so annoying I wished more than once I could turn it off. It isn't cool.There isn't a single thing about this movie that is likable or entertaining unless you get it up by watching generic middle-aged men trying to be cool.I'm done.This film noir fan has officially given up on the entire genre. I'm done. Instead of ripping-off Pulp Fiction a hundred more times, why don't directors actually do what Pulp Fiction did? Bring originality to the tired genre.0/10


                
I missed this at the cinema, but heard many good things from my friends about this. I finally caught it on Sky last Saturday, and what an overrated film I saw. The film didn't contain a decent actor to take the lead, and comprised rejects from 'The Bill', sitcoms and Wimbledon F.C. The film didn't contain an original idea, and stole shamelessly from 'Reservoir Dogs', 'Trainspotting', 'Goodfellas', 'Only Fools & Horses' and 'The Italian Job'. The humour and stereotypes were like a bad episode of 'Minder'. It was shot in a grainy stock to compare with some of the British 70s classics. However this most certainly is not a 'Get Carter' or 'The Long Good Friday'. It was more a wet dream for FHM readers. All stylish clothes and no substance, and where was a female character?


                
I watched this film because it was recommended by a friend.I found it to be very overrated. The start of the film was so extremely slow that I wanted to just give up. Things do pick up near the end but the ending is extremely contrived.A disappointmenting waste of time.1/10


                
This is a dire film. There is swearing all the way through, and violence for violence sake. Not once does it add to the plot.There again, there is no plot - it is just awful... Do not watch it - there are no redeeming features at all.......


                
This movie was billed as a comedy. We watched the first hour and found nothing funny about it. The accents were difficult to cut through and though we kept waiting for the movie to get better, it didn't. At least as much of it as we watched. About halfway through we stopped the tape and decided that even though we paid good money to rent it, it was not worth continuing to watch it.


                
Maybe us Brits are just good at this pie-in-the-face type of humour - it was hailed as "The Long Good Friday for the Trainspotting generation", but is actually more like "Bugsy Malone (remember Parker's awful splat-gun farce?) for the Grange Hill generation".Apart from the bits stolen from Scorcese's Mean Streets, the film's cinematic construction is amateurish. The acting is weak, but if you consider the script they had to attempt to make a drama out of (but only succeeded in creating a crisis for the standards of British cinema), one mustn't pass judgement.If you like slapstick, go see a Chaplin classic.


                
...that could be a metaphor for the hype surrounding this - it's the worst British film since 'Big Zapper'.  The only time I have been more disappointed was when I rented 'Driller Killer'.If you locked me in a room with Guy Ritchie, Abel Ferrara, a gun and only one bullet, then afterwards you'd find Guy Ritchie beaten to death :)


                
This movie is so bad, it is an insult to all those films it ripped off, particularly Reservoir Dogs, which I didn't even like all that much anyway. I know the director claimed that he never saw any of Tarantino's films, and it actually shows in just how terrible Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels was. Let's see, take four or five white guys who look more or less exactly the same, write an overly complicated crime plot, make it as violent as possible, presto, you can impress people with low iqs. 1/10


                
The praise which has been heaped upon Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels is more an indicator of the power of hype than anything else - the film is just plain awful! It is so frustrating to see how the media have built it up so much that people are afraid to declare it a pile of poo, for fear of being uncool...I present my case thus: 1) the acting is almost uniformly dreadful - real school play stuff. Can anyone out there honestly say that this is otherwise? 2) the script is equally crap. The story is an amalgamation of every gangster film you've ever seen, totally unoriginal, and the characters are so jaw-droppingly cliched as to stagger belief! I could just about take the Cockney wide boys, the naive students and the nasty neighbours, but what on earth were those two Northerners all about????? 3) I'm told that there were elements of comedy in the film - I, frankly, found it as amusing as those terrible, bland sitcoms we Brits are so good at making these days. I've seen more sophisticated humour in an episode of Sesame Street! 4) and the direction was way over the top - if you want to know how to be flash, Mr Ritchie, I suggest you go back and watch the real masters (again, since you so obviously pinched many bits straight from the likes of Scorsese..!).In conclusion, it's no points for LS&TSB, and a bottle of cider for the marketing men, who seemed to convince enough of you that this was a "with it" film.Cool? There's more cool in a single frame of Get Carter, or The Long Good Friday than in the neverending 105 minutes of this rubbish...Say "NO" to peer pressure, and admit the unmistakable truth about this awful piece of work!


                
I chose to watch it because of the high ratings it received. Over 8 out of 10 is the average so I thought this has to be good but it was truly painful to watch. I don't grasp why so many are giving it a 10 out of 10. It's predictable and not funny. The plot is dull, the dialogue juvenile, and the quality of the visuals cheap. The acting was decent but given all the other negatives....just couldn't get to the end. I terminated it just past the midway point because I could not watch another second of it.


                
