This is one seriously funny movie. I've probably seen it close to 10 times and it hasn't gotten old yet. Guy Ritchie brings us a hilarious look into the London criminal underground in one of his earliest features. The story revolves around four friends who become indebted to the local crime lord after a card game goes horribly wrong. The humor in this movie is sharp and fast-paced. At times, it becomes a little hard to keep up with the thick British accents and the cockney rhyming slang but overall, it doesn't detract from the movie. The movie keeps you guessing as to the outcome when the story becomes complex with multiple lies and double-crosses but the ending satisfies.This film marks the debuts of two of England's coolest new actors: Jason Statham (who went on to do 'Transporter', among other movies) and Vinnie Jones (now a familiar cinema tough guy). Jones is especially good as Big Chris, debt collector/family man. The majority of the cast aren't common faces in America (aside from Sting) but they all have the charisma to keep the audience interested. Another plus is the film's soundtrack, ranging from reggae to 70's soul. It adds to the movie's already laid-back feel.Everyone I've seen the movie with enjoys it (once they get past the thick accents, anyway) so I can say with confidence this is a fun movie. I recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy and I feel this movie's humor hits more often than it misses. I'd recommend giving this movie a chance at least once and I don't think you'd be disappointed.


                
Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels features a lot of local slang and Cockney accents and, while it is far from impossible to comprehend, you will be doing yourself a favour if you follow the dialogue in subtitles. In fact, even the unbearably annoying 'hard-of-hearing' option is welcomed. It follows a group of four very "working class" blokes as they try to help their friend Eddie (Nick Moran) get out of an enormous debt he amassed one night, playing high-roller with a local gang-boss that cheated. The lads resort to illegal ways to get the money, like ripping off their pot-selling next-door neighbours.This is a really excellent film<U+0097>entertaining; funny, exciting, and extremely realistic. The style is gorgeous. In fact, I have nothing bad at all to say about it except that it may not be everyone's cup of tea. You also have to be patient with it. That may have been my problem the first time I saw it because I can remember mixing up quite a few people when not paying attention.. Still, the realism of the situations make up for its occasionally slow pace and dialogue-driven plot. For instance, none of these working-class guys know how to handle a gun when they need to, and the result is hilarious. They're not goofy by any means, but they're just normal guys that struggle with the life of crime that they are forced to turn to in order to repay Eddie's debt. Also note the fantastic use of "I Wanna Be Your Dog" by The Stooges. 8/10


                
I like this film a lot, but it is REEally not for everybody. Firstly, it will help non-English viewers if they watch a lot of BBC America, because the accents are a bit thick. There's even a scene in which a lot of Cockney rhyming slang is flying around which sometimes is broadcast with subtitles...and it needs them! Secondly, there's a fair amount of violence in "Lock, Stock,"... and even though some is humorous, it's decidedly black humor. The scene toward the end where you might say "everybody gets his" could be used in a horror film, if it weren't for the ridiculous circumstances which brought the participants together. Guy Ritchie did a masterful job of relieving tension almost as it was being created, without spoiling either the tension or the laughs. The casting of this film is a fine example of getting a good portrayal of a tough guy by hiring a genuinely tough man to play him. Vinnie Jones, P.H. Moriarty, and the late, great Lenny McLean all had real hard-man credibility established before they started acting, and it brought a reality to their work which is hard to get. Sting's work in a small role is perfect, by the way; he should act more. To sum up: pour a Guinness and enjoy L,S, & 2 S.B. -- it is great.
Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is about four London class act stiffs who put their money to a test in a card game until things end up horribly wrong as they owe half a million pounds within a week to come up with the cash. The movie is by all means, enjoyable. The characters are all likable and their sense of humour makes the movie tick up a notch. I found myself laughing a couple times in the film to the jokes. All the actors played their parts pretty well, but my favorite character of the film had to go to Big Chris as Vinnie Jones. He was the most entertaining and how he was always correcting his son if he ever made any mistakes was priceless. The dialogue was really well done by Guy Ritchie, as well as his directing. What I noticed about the movie, was how much it was alike to the 1992 film, Reservoir Dogs. Lock, Stock had colorful characters, robbery that ends up bad, unexpected tragedies, good screenplay as well as directing by one person, and a good sense of humour. All those resemble to Reservoir Dogs, it's not even funny. Overall, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a good and entertaining comedy/crime film that shows a good future to Guy Ritchie aka "The Next Quentin Tarantino", to many. Although it's not up to par with Reservoir Dogs, I still enjoyed it and will be paying a lot of attention to Guy Ritchie's films. I recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook: 8/10 *** B


                
For what this film was, I don't think it could have worked on the main criticism I have for it.  The fast paced nature of the film combined with the many different characters leads one to be confused as to who is mad at who and who has what.  However, I could follow it well enough to see absorb the skeleton of the plot and see Ritchie's creativity in storytelling.  This film begs for a second viewing, and I will probably give it that.  Highly entertaining and very creative.  Tough to get the accents sometime though. 8/10.


                
Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a funny film that gives new word to "disorderly".  About a group of low-lifes (Jason Flemying, Nick Moran, Dexter Flitcher) who have to pay a load of money to a mob boss who also runs a porn shop.  In this escapade, many funny (and crude) things happen, including a retreival of only 2 guns (and lots of money) and a father criminal and his tag-along son.  Clever British crime story from Guy Ritchie who makes his debut as director here.  A good time to watch, unless you don't like English people.  Sting appears in a few scenes as a bar owner (his role was my favorite).  A


                
Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels is one of those rare movies that flies under the radar until it gathers a cult following.This is Guy Ritchie's directorial debut. The story focuses around five groups of people, but mainly four friends who are now in deep trouble when Tom, a highly skilled card shark, loses in a card game that was rigged. They find themselves a quarter million dollars in debt and have only a week to get out of before "Hachet" Harry will start chopping their fingers off. The other story lines come into play when Tom and his three friends try to figure out a way to come up with the money.What I like about this film is the fresh script writing and odd humor. The opening sequence (Jason Statham street peddling with help from Jason Flemming) sets the right pace for a comedic and fast paced flick. From there we are introduced to every other character in their own unique way. My favorite characters have got to be Big Chris and Little Chris. Big Chris (played by Vinnie Jones) is the kind of character that was placed in the script to be the tough guy. Usually the tough guy is someone rather generic, but Guy Ritchie places Little Chris (Peter McNicholl) as Big Chris's young son to show a soft side to Big Chris. Big Chris tries to keep Little Chris from becoming a mindless thug by showing him how to do things properly without using foul language and such. The two characters become very comedic and do not become tired over the course of the movie.Another great element of this movie is the soundtrack. I actually got ticked off when one of the songs stopped playing when I wanted it to go on. Very stylish and the music seems to go right with every scene.Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels is highly enjoyable and won't disappoint you.8/10


                
"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" was the first major movie directed by Guy Ritchie.  It has many elements that it shares with "Snatch": a cool rock soundtrack, a complicated crime plot, colorful criminal characters, music video-style cinematography, and bloody violence played for laughs.  I enjoyed this movie of treacherous West Enders a lot.  The funniest scene was when Rory set the drunk on fire, and there were little subtitles to little sub-titles to translate the Cockney slang (although the whole movie could have done with sub-titles!).  Guy Ritchie has proven himself a kingpin in British movies, and leaves us waiting in anticipation to "have a butcher's" at his next feature.


                
"Shotguns? What, like guns that fire shot?" "Oh, you must be the brain of the operation!" "What d'you do when you're not buying stereos, Nick? Finance revolutions?"Sorry, didn't know your father." "Never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that." And I could go on and on, mentioning an epiphora-driven monologue involving the act of killing a Greek whose stupidity might be the one saving grace or some snarky remark about Liberia's deficit in a skyrocket. It all comes down to one observation, if there is one deficit Guy Ritchie's "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" doesn't suffer from, is in one-liners. If anything, this is a film that made me aware, in my late teen years, of something called<U+0085> a screenplay. This is the work of a talented screenwriter, there's no doubt about that.Now, how about the director's perspective? And how about my appreciation, now that I'm twice the age I was when I first saw it? Well, the film still got it, as far as my enjoyment is concerned, but there are a few buts (and I'm not talking of marijuana cigarette butts or the lovely one belonging to that stripper's who caught the attention of Barry the Baptist, before assigning two Northern slobs some theft job involving the two titular barrels).So, "but", I was saying.I don't know if "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" is more about revealing the talent of a British director making his spectacular and stylish debut, or if it more consolidates the status of an American director as the most defining and influential director of his generation, quite a stunt for someone in his mid-30's. While it is obvious that Ritchie has a great way with words and his screenplay features one of the highest ratio of one-liners per minute from any film, it was still Tarantino who exposed that new vision of the underground world, one that would never be afraid to be offensive and raunchy if laughs were the pay-off.It was easier to embrace that form of entertainment once it was done, so let's give QT the credit he deserves and get back to Ritchie. Indeed, it would be unfair to associate his 1998 hit film only to the influence of Tarantino, you can actually spot many influences that cover a wide range of cinematic genre and directors, you have a nod to Sergio Leone's "For a Few Dollars More", Zorba, you have smart-ass lines like the kind Groucho Marx would deliver, and in fact, the whole movie that seems like a kaleidoscope of all the archetypes nourished from years of movies, poker-games, drug trafficking, caper story, shaggy dog stories and other mix-ups, except that Ritchie used to direct ads' clips.This might be the one part where he diverges from Tarantino, one started from scratch, mostly through imitating other directors, Ritchie had his own style. And there are instances where you can tell the film is directed like a video clip, or an ad."Lock, Stock" is like a big, boisterous, joke whose only purpose is to entertain, and I respect that, because entertainment is Guy's strongest suit. He doesn't even need a main protagonist, the leading quartet, Eddie, Tom, Soap and Bacon, whose most notable presence is Jason Statham and to a lesser extent Tom Flemyng (but to play fair with the cast, let's mention Jason Flemyng and Dexter Fletcher), these guys are all down-on-their-luck outcasts, with one toe in the criminal world, and another in traffics, so benign it would never raise the attention of Scotland Yard. These guys are so 'inoffensive' really that they're not even affected by the bloody chain of events they caused.And the whole story relies on the four protagonists' luck when it comes to their mission about getting the money to pay for a debt Harry Hatchet (PH Moriarty), or avoiding to get their fingers cut off by Barry the Baptist (Lenny McLean), or cross the path of Big Chris, convincingly played by former soccer player Vinnie Jones. It is very ironic that the main concerned one don't ever realize what has happened, and no less ironic that Jason Statham, the ultimate tough guy isn't given enough occasion to be the celebrated bad-ass he is. The film is like a private joke between Ritchie and the audience, because what matters is what we see, who cares about the rest. We don't even see the blood, which is a nice touch that keeps this film in a sort of jolly friendly mood.Ritchie knows we're familiar with all these archetypes and what he does is providing a little twist, never wasting a moment for a wisecrack and a smart-ass line, it's almost a signature in his films. And it works, because he's like Tarantino, he belongs to the generation of directors influenced by other directors but who demonstrate how much of fans they are by adding a touch of modernity, and this modernity is made of close-ups, slow-mo, shootouts, every trope of the action genre. You can call it "exercise in style", the term isn't to be used negatively, it's got style, it's fun, energetic and crazy. And it's got a terrific casting, too, but it's mostly for Lenny McLean who died shortly after the film and Vinnie Jones that the film works,, honorable mention too for Van Blackwood who with Nick the Greek, form a nice duo.This is a film that shows a new face for British movies, one that comes right after "Trainspotting", "The Full Monty", a popular British type of movies that completes the work of Tarantino. It's a product of its era that encapsulates the level of creativity reached by directors who didn't have much budget, really one of the gems of the 90's.


                
If you combine Quentin Tarantino movies with a bit of Marx Brothers slapstick humour you get "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels". All you have to do is picture Chico severing your fingers. The quirkiness may be fun to watch, but this comedy crime caper is overwhelmingly wallowing in its complexities and is handled quite efficiently. It comes as an obvious trait that Guy Ritchie used to direct commercials if you noticed a scene where a man is throwing vegetables into the water and we get a close-up to the bottom of the pot. The plot focuses on a poker star from the rough side of London's East End named Eddy (Nick Moran) who gets hired by three alliances to gamble up his profits to a high stakes game against Hatchet Harry (P.H. Moriarty), who is a kingpin in the gambling a porn industry. Harry uses dirty tactics to win which leaves Eddy in a bind and Harry's guard Benny the Baptist (Lenny McLean) gives these suckers three options,either pay up, take over the pub that's owned by Eddy's father JD (Sting) or get your fingers severed. So Eddy and his friends snoop on the neighbours in their apartment who happen to be crooks with a master plan to rob from a rich druggie. All this is happening, Barry hires two bumbling thieves to confiscate some authentic antique guns for Harry . The guns wind up in Eddy and his gang, rob the drug money and then the rest of the way needs no further explaining. Or do you if you want me to give away spoilers which I won't. The movie turned out to be a very successful film back in Britain. In North America it came out first at the Sundance Film Festival. Although it was entertaining fun, you could still get lost in the shuffle due to the confusing plot and the English lingo in a very British film. But after a second viewing, I understood the dialogue better and plot felt less convoluted. It's safe to say the characters were a little miscast due to the fact that they might be a bit too young and inexperienced for a very gritty film. Unlike Tarantino who in "Reservoir Dogs" used veteran performers in his film. Eddy's gang comes across as a bit too youthful to be dealing with scumbags or even running around London with these scamps. And with the neighbours being druggies, it's hard to come by as to who is who. The more convincing cast members are from the antagonists Harry and Barry and even impressive was the character who played Big Chris (soccer star Vinnie Jones) who was notorious for choking a rival by the balls. But through the mindset of the East End it looks believable in the settings being that it is dark, cold and the scoundrels that surround the area add to the authenticity that London is not all blessed with royalty and fish n chips. In spite of its dreariness, there is a lot of excitement that comes with this movie. The soundtrack featuring mostly rock music is the perfect choice of the atmosphere. The narration keeps the story to a steady flow and is not afraid to add runaway gags if feel the need to. When Eddy and his gang enter into a pub we see a man in flames staggering at the door. They stare at him concernedly, nod their heads and walk in. The pub they walk into is called Samoa Joe's a spoof of "Pulp Fiction" with Big Kahuna Burgers and and Jack Rabbit Slim's restaurant and they're also sipping drinks with the little umbrellas too. There's a lot of Tarantino influences this movie has to provide and spotting the references can almost feel like a game. That and along with other Hong Kong based film and British noir films of the 1950's. The closest this film comes to a striking resemblance is the 1950 British noir film "Night and the City" which is a criminal caper set in the East End and a high stakes kingpin hires a buffed up bodyguard to do his dirty work. As the film comes to the close you try to decipher what had just transpired. As it turns out the style fairly outweighs the substance and it never tries to deny such claims. We don't care much about the characters (though I was intrigued by the character Barry the Baptist over anyone else). The film's humour factor lies within the style of utilizing freeze frames, witty subtitles and speed-up and slow-motion angles. But it's still a fun slapdash film with exuberance and intrigue so if you can't encode to their English dialect, the characters add enough excitement to overcome that obstacle.
Great movie about crime,violence,humor,peoples and drug. We can see many see in this movie about friendship and intelligence. Great cast,directing and screenplay. Beautiful the photography especially especially the great and awesome city of London. The mixture of comedy and violence was the thing that most amused me. It take many minutes to understand the plot, but when you get it you will be catch in the strange atmosphere. The director Guy Ritchie is is very very good to make us a wonderful story about criminals and murders, with many guns and murders . Many characters in a strange situation and in a strange story is what make this story awesome , intelligent and very very very good
A great film depicting a London Underground crime scene; money, drugs, and two sought after barrels.The movie is shot through interwoven stories of different operations in action beneath the legality of the city. At first you wonder how all of these characters could possibly relate to the main story, but trust me, they do, and it is a blast.A midst thievery, debauchery and bloodshed the movie delivers style, comedy, charm and it even manages to fit in an upbeat message along with it. Karma is mentioned cleverly in the film, but I'll allow the viewer to piece it all together as they watch.Pay attention though, this movie delivers just enough information to keep the plot straight!


                
Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a British film with bona fide, British humour. A bunch of bombastic, mini-stories are unfathomably linked by weed, money and two rare, expensive shotguns. Not the kind of story you hear on a daily basis. Every thug, youth, gangster and pot-head gets equal screen-time. Four Londoners bite off more than they can chew; Eddy (Moran) owes some serious dollar to gangster/porn shop owner Hatchet Harry (Moriarty) after losing in a poker-style card game. Tom (Flemyng), Soap (Fletcher), Bacon (Statham) and Eddy have 500k to find in a week, or they're dead-meat. Their plan? Snatch money from drug dealers who plan to snatch money from drug dealers. Who's involved? An ex-footballer who pulls off thug-life considerably well (Vinnie Jones), a real life bare-knuckle fighter (Lenny McLean), a Russian with anger issues and a couple of naive Scousers that spearhead every scene they're in. The conclusion is catastrophic but highly engrossing; Lock, Stock's black comedy hits all the funny bones in the right places, even with its mildly haphazard narrative. This film is a defining British classic, with an ending more sensational than The Italian Job.


                
Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ( LS&2SB ) gets everything right from the very first scene. Witty and funny throughout, the screenplay is very entertaining. The movie is a perfect balance between humour and practicality. Humour is sharp yet subtle. LS&2SB's visuals, cinematography and direction were a few of its major major pros. The action sequences, the transition between two scenes were all outstanding. The movie does feature a lot of characters, but each one of them adds something to this beautifully crafted film. You may be a little confused at first, but the complexity of the plot is what makes it such an interesting and thrilling flick. The plot is unpredictable and the movie takes a new turn every time you believe you have figured it out. There aren't many thriller comedies, which are able to live up to the viewer's expectations, be genuinely funny, and at the same time avoid being utterly senseless. Though extremely violent and profane, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a 'one-of- a-kind' movie. Watch it if you don't mind some blood and dark humour.


                
This is a funny movie and it doesn't have to try at all to be funny. Action comedies rarely work but this one manages to pull it off rather well by focusing on a small group of characters and one situation....the accumulation of 2 guns. Unlike Snatch however there aren't as many laughs to be had but there are still some very funny moments especially at the end of the film. The acting was great, the script was well done and overall a very entertaining piece of work.The lighting was great as was the use of filters and you could really tell in a good way that this was not filmed in the U S of A. Highly Recommend that you watch this and Snatch.


                
I'm not normally one for violent films - the only other one I really liked was "Reservoir Dogs" - but this one was such great fun despite the blood-splatter and the overall nastiness meted out to everybody. The story felt a bit like last man standing, and definitely a mythical look at life in the East End ("EastEnders" being another). But hugely enjoyable to watch and I really didn't care which side would come out left standing and alive. I've always had a bit of a crush on Dexter Fletcher when he was in Derek Jarman's Caravaggio as a 20-something but he hasn't aged well 20 years on. Mind you, neither has Sean Bean, who was also in Caravaggio. But I digress. Sting definitely is a great actor and his eye close ups looked scary and creepy. But the real hero of the story is Vinnie Jones, who as a doting father just made me laugh out loud when chiding his son for using bad language while perpetrating the most sickening violence himself. Totty award: Jason Statham.


                
This is one of the best movies ever it has a great blend of black comedy along with some classic violent scenes, mixed with some funny and weird characters which had me in stitches, its unlike any other movies and is one of a kind - although pulp fiction has similar black comedy through out - they are miles apart even though there both ace. Every scene is exciting and class, Vinnie Jones is partciullary good in lock stock and his scenes are ace. It also has a quality soundtrack to go along with that - stone roses, ocean colour scene, James brown etc. It is a great watch. I dwelled on whether to give it a ten out of ten but I decided a nine is more than fair.


                
I made a few attempts to watch Lock , Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels . Once on T.V. and twice on DVD and with failure always found my-self losing interest (maybe because there was a lot more going on the out-side of my life ) . However last night for some reason or another I sat down and watched it and yes it really was that dame good . The dialogue was classy , the jokes hit the spot and I did find it to be some what addictive viewing . This film goes up there with Pulp Fiction , it does require a close following to but once you get sucked in , trust me you will love every second of it ! The plot is wacky , the ride that follows after that is a barrel of laughs . The main character's are not trying to go OTT on acting like hard men but it flows naturally even their dim-witted behaviour . I would say that my favourite characters would have to be Soap for his witty comments especially when it come to knives , Vinnie Jones who seems to play a very questionable roll model to his son as his line of work is not totally kosher but my absolute favourite has to be the football loving yardie Rory Breaker played with brilliance by Vas Blackwood (His I'll kill ya speech just can't stop making me laugh ) . This one Britian's finest exports , highly entertaining stuff , not to be missed with plenty of reply value , but thats what you would expect from the man who gave you Snatch . I would like to say more but I feel that will be killing the buzz of movie , so just check it out for your-self .LOCK , STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS : 8.3 OUT OF 10FOR NOW THIS IS THE SHADOWMAN WISHING YOU GOODNIGHT AND GOOD LUCK .


                
Brilliantly funny satire about inept gangsters at different levels contriving schemes to rip off one another without knowing exactly what they are doing and to whom.Reminiscent of the great 50s and early 60s British comedies that feature Alistair Sims and Peter Sellers in their early days.Problem is that since the Beatles disappeared and Americans have become infatuated with "Ebonics" and "Spanglish" much of dialetic humor or British slang needs to be replayed on the video for most of us to really appreciate it.If you liked "Snatch" and are quick and sober when you watch this you will laugh your 'tush' off. Many would appreciate 'subtitles' though.


                
Never thought I'd laugh watching people get blown away but this picture actually makes it funny.Wish the dialogue were a bit easier to understand.  Had some trouble with a lot of the lines that came fast as lightning and with a cockney (I think) accent that could make a Yank's ears wonder "whaddid he say?".


                
Very cool. Excellent soundtrack. The outlaw perspective and "debt-collecting" owe something to Pulp Fiction but all in all the movie has more similarities to the recent British series "Underworld", which shared the same landscape of colourful characters and dark humour. I can see a run on this type of film given the richness of this backdrop.The dead-pan acting was hilarious. The script tight and well written.Definitely worth a look.


                
It moves so fast that it's sometimes difficult to follow.  However, it is a very funny and well-directed film.  The gunfights and the bloodshed are hilarious because of the absurdity of it all.  It is not easy to describe this without giving away the twists and turns that occur.  But, even if you were told everything that happens, you need to see it to truly enjoy it.The one fault that I had with it is that it is very difficult to understand much of the dialogue.  It is so quick that the "accents" are hard to sift through.  We all speak English, but not exactly in the same way. Go see "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels".


                
It is impossible these days to make a funny and exciting crime movie without Pulp Fiction and Quentin Tarantino comparisons.  So with the obvious similarities aside, it is safe to say that Guy Ritchie's movie has brought new life and new twists to the genre, and succeeded where so many other clones have failed.  Some of the reviews I read before seeing this movie complained of a plotline too complicated and dialogue too accent thick as hindrances to understanding the movie.  Three things, first of all, don't underestimate the audience, I had no trouble following the plotline. Anyone who watches Seinfeld, with its separate plotlines coming together at the end, will get it.  The accents I got used to quickly, Amercian audiences loved Trainspotting which had even thicker accents, so that's not a problem. Lastly, complete understanding of the plotline is secondary in a movie like this.  This movie is about comedy, high-energy fun and Ritchie's innovative style that, instead of coming off as showy and unnecessary, puts the right frame around things and keeps the eyes glued to the screen and the butts in the seats.


                
A high-octane fulled East-End gangster film, with a brilliant plot and comments that will be as classical as Pulp Fiction. If you take the best moments of a Quintin Tarrantino movie  mix it with trainspotting and add high class acting then you have this film in a nutshell


                
Stupidity can be a saving grace, for such an unfortunate state of mind causes the unexpected to happen (wisdom and foolishness are much alike, for both are indifferent to the opinions of the world). In the violent, testosterone laden underworld of London several unhinged, inexperienced and desperate characters tempt fate in this manner. They pool their resources and talents in the hope of winning a high stakes poker game. Of course, it does not go as planned and they find themselves at the mercy of thugs, bounty hunters, loan sharks, mobsters and other assorted wankers. Multiple people converge on a single target, and the smartest - or dumbest - will emerge from the fray.Guy Ritchie has a pulse on the dark humor, snarky characters and viciousness of the London underworld and it is fascinating and thrilling to behold. This low-budget first film brought him fame and comparisons to Tarantino. Insults fly as much as bullets. The soundtrack, including the Stone Roses, is quite good. I saw the film twice and liked it better the first time. Perhaps Ritchie films are losing the initial quirkiness and uniqueness that gave them luster? For Americans to try to get a grip on British English, subtitles are essential.


                
