In writing his epic novels `I, Claudius' and `Claudius the God', from which this series is adapted, Robert Graves reinvented the genre of historical fiction.  And he could hardly have chosen a more fascinating subject than the Julio-Claudian dynasty.  Even a tame retelling, based strictly on verified historical fact, would have made an interesting tale.  But by embracing the lurid, sensationalistic hyperbole heaped upon the founders of the Roman Empire by later writers (Suetonius and Tacitus in particular), Graves concocted the ultimate in dysfunctional families, weaving a tale of scandal and debauchery capable of shocking even the most jaded of modern audiences.  The more eminent classicists, naturally, sneered, as eminent classicists tend to do toward anything that threatens to make the ancient world more accessible to `hoi polloi'.  One is forced to admit that, as history, Graves' juicy narrative is bunk.  But o ye gods, what enjoyable bunk it is!The drama gives an insider's view of the Julio-Claudian Dynasty, the first emperors of Rome.  Over the course of his long reign, Augustus has managed to bring peace to his nation after nearly a century of off-and-on civil wars.  But he remains a man divided, hoping for the eventual return of the old Republican government, but knowing that the best hope for a lasting peace is the continued concentration of power in a single person. Augustus therefore sets himself to the task of grooming a successor, one who shares his dream and will continue laying the foundations for the restoration of the Republic.  His wife, however, Livia Drusilla, is determined to thwart his plans, and embarks on a slow, murderous scheme to place her own son (whom she fancies she can control) on the throne.  The tale is told through the eyes of Claudius, step-grandson to Augustus, who suffered from the crippling effects of a childhood illness and was thus despised and ignored by much of his own family.  Regarded as an idiot and of no threat to anyone, he alone remains standing while the poison flows and the daggers flash. To the surprise of all (none the least himself) this drooling, stuttering, limping old fool turns out not to be such a fool after all, and in one of history's great ironies, wins the prize everyone but he is after: absolute power.Again, the historical facts alone make this an interesting tale.  But it is the tantalizing glimpse into the inner workings of the world's first `First Family' that makes `I, Claudius' so much fun.  Bill Clinton's philandering and the endless public spectacle that is the British Royals just seem so incredibly dull and tame compared with the bad behavior of Augustus' clan. Matricide, patricide, fratricide, regicide, suicide, incest, rape, pedophilia.and that's on a slow day.  Poisonings, stabbings, betrayals, double-crosses, triple-crosses, madness.  And one gentle soul sitting in the corner watching it all.  Robert Graves' story brings out the tremendous irony of a nation finally at peace with itself, but ruled by a family embroiled in its very own civil war.  It's the sort of sordid tale one finds only in the most disreputable of tabloids, but then rendered in gorgeous prose and delivered by the finest actors.  To the uninitiated, it might best be described as a guilty pleasure cleverly masquerading as a stuffy British period drama.I don't think anyone could have hoped for a more faithful transition from book to film than what the BBC achieved.  Working with a 12+ hour running time, screenwriter Jack Pulman was not forced to content himself with a `Cliff's Notes' version of the story.  Events progress in a naturally expansive manner, and characters grow and mature (or fail to do so) believably over time.  In recreating the novels for the stage (after all, let's face it - this is predominantly a televised stage play) Pulman was constrained only by a modest budget and the limitations of the television studio.  Action is confined to indoor sets, and the more spectacular aspects of daily life in ancient Rome (attending the Circus Maximus, for example) are left to the viewer's imagination, hinted at by the sounds of roaring crowds but never actually seen.  For those audience members not put off by such, or by the drab color and lighting usually reserved for daytime soap operas, the entire production is a treat from beginning to end.The acting is superb at every turn.  Derek Jacobi lends tremendous dignity to his portrayal of Claudius, whose physical handicaps might have come off as insulting or hammy from a lesser actor.  He is utterly believable as the `wise' fool, the only person in the entire family NOT scheming for power, and therefore the only one worthy of it.  As Livia, Siân Phillips is a study in controlled, cunning evil.  The role is reminiscent of Eleanor of Aquitaine in `The Lion in Winter', except that even Katherine Hepburn's Oscar-wining performance in that film is utterly outdone here (ironically, Siân Phillips also played the role of Queen Eleanor, in the BBC's adaptation of `Ivanhoe').  John Hurt's gleefully decadent turn as Caligula is fascinating to watch.  Hurt's eyes, throughout his portrayal, remain chillingly cold and lifeless even as he smiles and laughs - except of course, for his expression of shock upon realizing that his sister Drusilla is, in fact, mortal.  The most impressive moment in the entire production, however, came from Brian Blessed (Augustus), whose slow, quiet, passing away remains the most convincing screen death I have ever witnessed.
There are simply not enough superlatives in the English language to express my opinion of the towering triumph that is `I, Claudius'.  And seeing the 9.5 user rating here on the IMDB, apparently I'm not alone.


                
Based on Robert Graves' famous novel, I, CLAUDIUS is the ultimate soap opera, vicious, cruel, manipulative--and this famous English miniseries grabs the attention and holds fast throughout the entire length of its complex tale of ancient intrigue.The great strengths of I, CLAUDIUS are in the driving pace, sharp wit, and ferocity of Jack Pulman's script and the host of brilliant performers who play it out. Chief among these are Sian Phillips as the calculating, murderous, and unspeakably cold Livia, wife of Augustus; although Derek Jacobi gives a justly famous performance in the title role, it is Phillips who dominates and drives the story with this, the most brilliant performance of her career. But this is not to disparage the overall cast, which is remarkably fine and includes such noted artists as Brian Blessed, John Hurt, Patricia Quinn, Patrick Stewart, and a host of others.Like the serpent that appears in the open credits, the story twists and winds--and covers several generations of the ruling family as Rome slips from the republic to royal rule, largely due to the manipulations of Livia, who has few if any scruples in her determination to rule first through her husband and then through her son. Although the look of the film is somewhat dated, it in no way impairs the power of the piece, and I, CLAUDIUS remains one of the handful of miniseries that actually improves upon repeated viewings. Strongly, strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
I won't add to the many superlatives ascribed to this wonderful series, well-deserved though they are. But I would like to point out a few vital details that help explain just why it is so wonderful.(1) Much has been said about Siân Phillips' intense projection of evil, but just how does she do it? If you watch carefully, you'll see she never blinks in her close-up takes, some of which are very long. This gives her a snakelike appearance, which enhances her voice and cold beauty in imparting such an air of menace to everything she says.(2) Much has also been said about the lack of expensive sets, location shots, or special effects. But the point is that this series is successful because of these apparent deficiencies and not despite them. So much modern cinema and TV is swamped by expensive irrelevances to the detriment of the basics -- writing, acting, and timing. 'I Claudius' shows just how important these things are, and how unimportant those expensive special effects can be.(3) I had the good fortune to read both books before the series was made, and then to watch it with a critical eye. It was satisfying to see such an expert adaptation, but especially so to see how the central point of the story has not been lost: the inability of any ruler, however powerful, to control what happens at the end of the long chain of command that inevitably forms. I found this a message of lifelong importance in both politics and management, and it is rare indeed that such a remarkable piece of drama and entertainment is also so fundamentally educational.


                
Absolutely glorious series. All the actors in this series are in or have been in American films but they have always been underrated and are some of the best actors alive. There are more dames and knights than you can believe. Derek Jacobi is breathtaking in his performance. Sian Phillips is subtly evil. John Hurt as Caligula shines with madness. The sets are unbelievable considering the small budget they had. The most shocking thing is that everything in one sense or another is true. These people really did die these ways. It will take you completely out of your everyday life and deposit you in the world of the Romans.


                
....When so many people have done a better job than I ever could?When I rented this on video, a few years ago, my mother (who has passed away since) commented on how she would watch this back in the 70's, absolutely fascinated by it.  I'd rented it because I'd seen it during its replay in the 80's, and was equally fascinated.  It was rare to see a historical drama with so much lurid character detail.What fascinates me today is the sheer number of character actors who appear in it....  Most of which were little known then but have since gone on to become better-known.  Everyone from Brian Blessed, John Hurt, Sian Phillips, George Baker, Patrick Stewart and John Rhys-Davies to lesser-known actors like Kevin Stoney, Bernard Hill, Christopher Guard, Fiona Walker, Stratford Johns, Sam Dastor, Guy Siner, Darien Angadi, James Bree, George Pravda, Simon MacCorkindale, Sheila Ruskin, Bruce Purchase and Denis Carey.  And they were _all_ good, no matter how small their roles were.  Where the Brits find actors of this caliber, I'll never know.


                
The serial I, CLAUDIUS is one of the best epics on the Roman Empire one can ever encounter. Although it is based on the novel by Robert Graves, the director, Herbert Wise, together with the producer Jack Pulman and other crew proved a respectful independence of portraying particular characters from ancient times. This film stands out among other historical movies at multiple levels.First of all, I, CLAUDIUS is one of the rare examples of films showing the real core of the Roman Empire. The action takes place ONLY within the walls of the imperial palace. Everything that happens appears to be perceived by the members of the ruling dynasty. REAL WINGS OF IMPERIAL ROME! Conspiracies, poisoning, hatred, bloody desire for power... these are the topics of the film - ABSOLUTELY FAITHFUL TO HISTORY!Besides, the empire is showed VERY realistically. It is not the glory of victories, it is not the power and triumphs of its leaders, IT IS THE REAL ROTTEN DECADENCE OF ITS REALITY! "Trust no one" as Herod says once to Claudius, his dearest friend. "The battle of Aktium did not look like that" says Augustus to a poet who attempts to glorify the deeds of the warriors. In fact, only Claudius manages to survive, but not to the end. Even he is poisoned by his fourth wife... The film is realistic, but it is important to state that it does not exaggerate anything. There is nudity but with respect to film art. It is not the focus. Cruelty is also not the focus as being the goal in itself. The evil is only "embedded" in the action. It is not Guccione's CALIGULA which destroys any classics of the movie art by disgusting pornography and horrific cruelty. I, CLAUDIUS is, first of all, a film art.Finally, it is significant to mention the cast. There are few films, really few, which have such excellent stars. All people perform WONDERFULLY. You watch it and you forget that these are actors and actresses. You think they are real Romans of that time and totally set your mind on the action! It is a very rare experience and that is another reason why I absolutely appreciate this movie!!! Derek Jacobi, Sian Phillips, Brian Blessed and many many others make the film a real pleasure to watch. Especially Sian Phillips as cruel Livia, Augustus' wife, gives her finest performance here. MASTERPIECE!!!I would recommend everyone to see this mini-series. It is a wonderful experience. The history lesson that this film offers is better than studying history in high school for four years. I, CLAUDIUS is the splendor of CLEOPATRA combined with the violence of SPARTACUS, GLADIATOR and the decadence of CALIGULA. Everything is there with an utmost harmony. SPLENDID!If you are interested in a more in-depth analysis of the serial, I invite you to read my comments on all thirteen episodes of I CLAUDIUS from "A Touch of Murder" to "Old King Log"


                
One of the finest pieces of historical drama I have ever seen, if only the BBC could still produce such quality television.The story covers around 70 years of epoch making history, from the perspective of one of imperial Rome's most unusual and unlikely Emperors, Claudius. For most of his life he is regarded with contempt by most members of his family, due to his seriously debilitating stutter and ungainly limp, attributes most unwelcome in the elite family of Imperial Rome. Derek Jacobi is simply outstanding in his portrayal of Claudius, as you watch him grow from boy to youth, man to Emperor. He seems by the end of the series to become part of your own family, and you find yourself comparing the historical figure to todays political leaders. However, my personal favourite has to be Caligula, played with breathtaking vigour by John Hurt. This man has the ability to both terrify and entertain in a single scene. His timing and delivery leave you crying with laughter, even if the subject matter is murderously horrific. You even find yourself liking the tyrant.All in all, this output of 1970's British broadcasting can only be described as a masterpiece.note: it's been rumoured that I, Claudius was the inspiration for HBO's latest multi million pound production "Rome", again made in conjunction with the BBC. Almost certainly another classic in the making.


                
One of the best British imports on Masterpiece Theater in the USA, the series was a real bicentennial gift from the United Kingdom.Over a dozen chapters, the series held the interest throughout, there's not a moment that it flagged. So many wonderful performances by the players. Derek Jacobi got his career role in this series as the club footed stuttering Claudius who survives by just making sure everyone thinks him a fool and not worth bothering about. In the meantime he secretly records his family's inner history.The really evil one here is Livia played by Sian Phillips. I'm pretty sure that such prime time bitch goddesses as Joan Collins on Dynasty and Jane Wyman in Falcon Crest modeled their characters on Livia because these women were Girl Scouts compared to Livia. Livia was the wife of Augustus Caesar played by Brian Blessed and Phillips also got a career role.I'd be hard pressed to decide who was the best Caligula ever. John Hurt in this series is up against some pretty stiff competition in Malcolm McDowell in the title role of the film Caligula or Jay Robinson in The Robe and Demetrius And The Gladiators. Insanity gallops in the Caesar family as in The Brewsters and in the case of Caligula it breaks the three minute mile.George Baker is very good as the pleasure seeking Tiberius whose succession to the throne Sian Phillips is working overtime to achieve. Patrick Stewart with a full head of hair plays the opportunistic Sejanus who reaches for power, taking advantage of the increasing hedonistic tendencies of Tiberius in his later years. Sejanus would have been his career role had he not become Jean-Luc Picard.Margaret Tyzack who was Queen Anne in The First Churchills gets another fine role as Antonina, mother of Claudius. Her other son Germanicus falls victim to Caesar court politics and her daughter takes up with Sejanus. Her children disappoint her throughout and she like the others fail to see that Claudius is not the fool he appears to be.Probably Sheila White's Messalina is far closer to the truth than Susan Hayward's worldly woman in Demetrius and the Gladiators. White plays her like the Catherine Howard of her day, like the legendary nymphomaniac wife of Henry VIII who was one of the two who Henry executed. You've got to love that coitus contest between Messalina and the head of the guild of prostitutes. Guess who wins.Robert Graves lived long enough to see his historical fictionalization come to life and I'm sure he must have approved. Graves did some considerable research into ancient texts for I, Claudius. His interpretation is as valid as any others we'll find of those wild and crazy ancient days of the Caesars.


                
I remember quite well one Christmas vacation, coming back to my hometown from school, visiting much-missed friends at a party . . . and being shushed quite vigorously when I walked into the place. They were watching episode #4 of "I, Claudius," which was completely unknown to me at that time. At first I was quite miffed--the homecoming friend ignored for a TV show? But I grudgingly watched, and within 15 minutes I was kicking myself for having missed episodes 1 through 3. This is simply one of the best film experiences I've ever had. Years after watching it the first time round, I was delighted to have my hands on that "new" technology, the VCR, so that I could watch "I, Claudius" whenever I liked. In the meantime, I'd run out and purchased the Graves books, not to mention Suetonius' "Lives of the Caesars." Someone else here has written that this series has everything, and indeed it does. It has a fine sense of accuracy, and it manages to combine sweep and scope with the individual and intimate. This is everything historical drama should be, and I have found that the friends I've introduced to it feel the same. I have to say that my one regret is that it made me admire Derek Jacobi so much . . . I fell ill the one night that I had a chance to see him in person, in "Becket"! What an astounding actor!


                
I first read the novels "I, Claudius" and "Claudius the God" when I was a sophomore in college. I instantly fell in love with them and it sparked my interest in Roman history. Naturally, I jumped at the chance to watch this mini series based on the books shortly thereafter. Eventually, I decided to buy it, and it still remains one of my favorite DVD box sets.In the mini series there are some minor anachronisms and some events are out of sequence, but it still captures the political intrigue of the imperial family in ancient Rome. I'm not going to go into the story more than this because it gets very complicated and it is very long.What really made this series stick out was the cast. Sir Derek Jacobi leads the cast as Claudius. Most of the story is told through his eyes as he writes a history of his experiences with the imperial family and some incidents that happened prior to Claudius' birth. Some other cast members include Brian Blessed as Augustus, Sian Phillips as Livia (Augustus' wife, and Claudius' grandmother), George Baker as Tiberius, John Hurt as Caligula, and Patrick Stewart as Sejanus to name a few. Fans of British cinema will be able to pick out even more familiar faces (I can't really go into all of the cast because there are so many excellent actors and actresses in this).What really makes the story work is the interplay between the characters and the almost constant intrigue that goes on around the Roman political scene. The best part of it is that what happens is for the most part true or at least based on the writings of historians of the time. I recommend this highly to anyone who is interested in learning about Roman history and wants to get their feet wet.On a somewhat amusing side note, Patrick Stewart (with hair) makes out with Magenta from "The Rocky Horror Picture Show."


                
I can't agree more with all those who rated this 10 stars. I'd add an extra one for Classic. The subject matter is so engrossing and well directed and paced. The cast is superb from Derek Jacobi as the lead down to smaller supporting roles by Patrick Stewart, James Faulkner, John Rhys-Davies, Sheila White, Kevin McNally and so many others. Brian Blessed is perfection as Augustus, Sian Phillips beautifully evil as Livia, George Baker so sympathetic as Tiberius and John Hurt awesome as Caligula. This is truly a great Roman epic and without a single battle scene with a cast of thousands. I have watched the entire series at least 4 times and that may total a whole day or more of my life, but well worth it. I recommend it to friends but few have the time to bother watching it. They don't know what a treat they're missing!


                
When this film (entire series) is viewed by any student of history or for that matter, anyone " wishing to see Rome, . . .as it truly was " will hardly be surpassed for enjoyment. The story told here is that of the first five emperors of Ancient Rome. Brian Blessed plays Augustus and is very accepted as the benevolent dictator. Siân Phillips plays Livia, his scheming wife. George Baker is Tiberius, who waited too long to become emperor and was despised during his tenure. John Hurt plays Caligula who garnered more praise for his role than nearly everyone else. Christopher Biggins plays the fiddle playing Nero. James Faulkner is Herod Agrippa, the jovial friend from the East. His was a particularly sympathetic soul and friend of Claudius. But it is Derek Jacobi as Claudius who tells the tale of his family and does such a fantastic job, that this series has created such a high plateau, he may never surpass it. An excellent series which should also establish for itself the crown of Classic. *****


                
After being introduced to this series shortly after it came out I've taped this and shown the entire series to two women, who also loved it.Of course this was a natural for me after studying Latin for five years (but classical Latin literature pretty much ends with Virgil and the early Augustan age)I'm not one who normally notices good acting, only bad acting, but Jacobi (and, really, the entire cast) was brilliant.Sian Phillips is a portrait of pure evilA gripping tale that will engage you to the end. The worst that can be said of this is that it is a classy soap opera.Read the books!


                
Excellent cast, superbly acted, very well written and directed. I particularly loved the performances of Derek Jacobi, Sian Phillips and Brian Blessed. An excellent production by the BBC, as usual. A comment about the DVD set. The sound on the DVD's is very unequalized. One minute you can barely hear the actors, the next you are being blown away by music and/or background noise. Other than this annoyance, the DVD translation is excellent. Also, look for some then lesser known actors and actresses who are stars now. I do not know how they pulled this off, but I am very glad that they did. Also, the DVD extras are interesting, including scenes from the unfinished version from the 1930's or 1940's.


                
I remember watching this series when PBS first aired it in the US in the late 1970s, and I remember being fascinated by the story and the characters. Even at a young age I realized I was watching high caliber performances. I finally have gotten this series on DVD and been watching again. All of the raving review comments are on the mark. The collection of superior performances by so many fine actors in one series has probably not happened since - it surely did not happen before. One cannot credit Derek Jacobi enough for his brilliant yet subtle performance throughout. Yet he is constantly equaled by Sian Phillips (the best and most memorable Livia I have ever seen!). I could list the actors' names and go on and on about the high quality of their performances, but the best advice is to say: Buy or rent this and see it. More than once! Repeatwed viewings draw you deeper into the story and uncover more details with each viewing. Even the low budget BBC sets of the 70s are pleasant and appropriate. The production is superb and the directing is top notch. Though with a big budget this could have been staged as an epic production with lots of added scenery etc. (remember this was before CGI!), the closeness and theatre-feel sets actually make it more intimate and the viewer is brought right into the fray. Highest recommendations and accolades!


                
I have always been a great lover of history and the Historical fictions that Robert Graves weaved in his Claudius novels is not only some of the best novels I have ever read, it is some of the best history of have ever read, even if large portions of it are at least partially fabricated or stretched history. Graves has a very easy style of writing and his books are very readable anyway but he knows what to add and where to make the already enthralling history even more interesting to the readers.This miniseries is one of the best translations of a book into film or television that I have ever seen. There is very little major that is changed or removed from the story. The story is excellent and the acting is absolutely incredible. Derek Jacobi conveys Graves's Claudius perfectly in all his innocence, wisdom, foolishness, and nobility. He effects the stutter perfectly and twitches and limps incredibly convincingly. With very little makeup he looks fairly convincingly as a teenager in the brief scenes where Claudius is meant to be in his late teens. Brian Blessed is excellent as the families original patriarch, and the first master of the Roman Empire and possibly the greatest political mind of all time. He conveys the historical Augusus very well who was both amicable and good natured but also very imposing and powerful. Sian Phillips is excellent as the ultimate uncompromising matriarch whose mind alone was nearly equal to Augustus, but much more harsh and uncompromising. George Baker is excellent as the dark and brooding Tiberius who is slowly pushed into the evils which he committed later in life. John Hurt is Amazing as the psychotic Caligula. The rest of the large cast is excellent with such mentions as Patrick Stewart as the power hungry Sejanus, Patricia Quinn as Claudius's vile sister Livilla, Margaret Tyzack as Claudius's mother, and John Rys-Davies as the sadistic and violent Macro.I definitely recommend this to anyone who has any love for history or just great television.


                
I have seen this serie in 1976 and all the DVD's a few days ago, and its GREAT!!! All the English actors playing very good, but they always do. I like English films and series very much, but "I Claudius" is my favourite. I give a 10!


                
I, Claudius is one the best BBC dramas ever, and sadly reflects a bygone age of programming of quality and substance, rather than bland reality TV.Adapted from Robert Graves' books, this series tells the story of the Julio-Claudian house of Emperors, from Augustus to the beginning of the reign of Nero as seen through the eyes of Claudius. Taking full advantage of the gossip of the ancient sources, all the plausible (and some of the less plausible) rumours make it in to Graves' story.Told as a flash-back narrative by Claudius, the story follows all the plots and intrigues concerning the succession of each emperor, most notable of which is Livia and her plan for her son Tiberius to follow Augustus. As each plot unfolds throughout the various successions, Claudius is witness to all the events and is left alone as he is deemed foolish and harmless by his peers, as he emphasises his limp and stammer. In the final part, Claudius himself is proclaimed Emperor and the story follows his troubled reign, with the debauchery of Messalina and the scheming of Agrippina, as the real Claudius said; that it was his destiny first to suffer and finally to punish the infamy of his wives.The acting in 'I, Claudius' is just first class by the entire cast, especially in light of the relatively low production values. Derek Jacobi is convincing as Claudius ages, and his transformation from nervy youth to commanding Emperor is fascinating to watch. This is only outdone by Sian Phillips as Livia, who brings so much depth to the character that you don't just regard her as evil, but as a woman with a purpose, albeit misguided. And by the time of her death you actually begin to feel sympathy for her. Other notable performances are John Hurt's Caligula, Patrick Stewart as Sejanus and Brian Blessed as Augustus.'I, Claudius' is such a true classic that it is hard to imagine that there will ever be another production of this quality ever made again.
What a wonderful mini-series!  A really excellent use of television to apply the time necessary to do justice to a good book (in this case, two books). Derek Jacobi shines as the lame, stuttering title character.  But, so many fine performances abound in this treasure!Brian Blessed, the benevolent, cunning, and oblivious Augustus. Sian Phillips, the malevolent Livia. George Baker, the brooding and frustrated Tiberius. John Hurt, the cheerfully insane monster, Caligula.Look for a swaggering young Patrick Stewart, and an ambitious young John Rhyss-Davies as virile captains of the Guard.Terrific in DVD, which seems to have corrected the series' sound engineering problems.  Only one minus: Make-up is theatrical and does not hold up well to the TV camera.Watch Episode 1 ... you'll be hooked for the entire thirteen hours of great this story-telling epic that was made for TV and TV was made for!


                
I watched the series when it first appeared on TV back in 1976. A VCR and a DVD-player were unknown back then, and I always hoped that one day I could have the movie in my possession. When it was finally possible to tape and save movies, I often wondered whether 'I, Claudius' would be for sale on the market. Recently, I found out that you could buy the DVD, I mean really, it was already for sale back in 2001 and I DIDN'T KNOW !!! (geezes). I searched the internet and bought the DVD, watched it together with my 13 year old son, and he loved it as much as I did back then and now. He will use it for his Latin project. One word only : Magnificent !!!


                
And voted so in 2000 in time for the Millennium. A masterful adaptation of a great novel (which I have read 6 times). After 10 years of lobbying my family to get the DVD set, I was finally given it last Christmas; and I've lost count of the number of times I've watched it since. Suffice to say, I'm almost word perfect on much of the 13 hours.And it's not just Jacobi (his first TV lead) or Blessed or Hurt or Phillips or Baker; it's the smaller roles: Margaret Tyzack - superb as the stiff and duty-bound Antonia; Frances and Sheila White as the scheming and lecherous Julia and Messalina; Barbara Young as an equally devious Agrapinilla and Christopher Biggins as her slimy and menacing son; a pre-Trek Patrick Stewart as the ruthless, ambitious Sejanus, and a pre-Sliders John Rhys-Davies as the equally ambitious Macro ("find a dog who'll eat a dog, I always say") and many others. It's Roman history as might have been sold to the Daily Mirror - and played by experts.The trouble for many of them, I suspect, is they've never been given anything else of similar quality. If you've only ever seen Rome or Troy or Gladiator, you owe it to yourself to check this one out. They are pale imitations compared to this; the granddaddy of them all, and easily the best of the lot.


                
I first remembered seeing part of an episode of this TV mini series when I was very young. My dad was a fan and I remember one or two moments from a particular episode which had stayed with me. It was until nearly twenty years later that I saw the whole series in all its glory. I was absolutely blown away. The acting is of the finest caliber with all the major players executing their roles with such conviction that you actually believe that these people were the Roman aristocracy. The stellar cast really is first rate and that applies to the major actors right through to the supporting characters who are all superb. The script is completely gripping with every scene getting better and better with some vicious humour thrown in. Some people may be put off as this mini series goes back almost thirty years and is not filled with the spectacular computer generated effects that are all to often visible in todays programes and films. That said if you enjoy Roman history or if you enjoy political intrigue,scandal,murder,plots and treason then this really is a must see. **********10 stars.


                
I have looked everywhere for scholarly work on Livia Drusilla, and there is precious little.  And what I have found has been mostly conjecture.  This clears the way for Robert Graves's historical fiction, I Claudius.  After all, one can easily conjecture from what we do know - the numerous heirs standing in Tiberius's path to the Imperium who died under cloudy circumstances - that something was rotten in the state of Rome during the reign of Augustus and his immediate successors.  And if Graves offers up Augustus's wife Livia as the Black Widow to end all black widows, who can object?This thirteen-part BBC drama is, along with the inexcusably neglected BBC Lionheart epic, A Fall of Eagles, the greatest TV drama ever made and is among the greatest of dramatic productions ever made in any medium, including live theatre.  (If you have seen both, you will notice some of the same cast, including Derek Jacobi and Patrick Stewart.)  In fact, I Claudius is indeed "live" theatre.  It is one of the few productions I can recall to bring the advantages of live theatre to television - long dialogue and up-close and personal relationship to the audience - while avoiding theatrical staging's claustrophobic effects on a small (or even large) screen.  This is accomplished, I believe, by screenwriter Jack Pulman and production designer Harvey.  Pulman's dialogue is so dynamic and fluent, that it compensates for the constraints on physical action imposed by a TV studio.  And Tim Harvey achieves a small miracle by somehow conveying the grandeur of Rome in his sets, again constrained by TV.  This opening up of both the physical and emotional atmosphere creates ample room for the story and the performances.And what performances they are!  Claudius is Derek Jacobi's starmaking rôle. And Siân Philips plays the evil Livia with a deliciousness that makes us all feel terribly guilty.  For make no mistake, this is a cruel, murderous and depraved woman, and this is a monstrous story.  Yet, at the end of each episode, we are lusting for more, just like the Roman mobs in their bloody circuses.


                
"I, Claudius" was the most tedious TV series of my childhood. It promised a lot, and delivered nothing, to satisfy my childhood expectations. No land battles, no naval clashes, no chariot races, not even a sword fight, for Mars' sake! In fact, you didn't even get to see the sky! It was a show in which people dressed like Romans moved about indoors, talked, laughed, sometimes screamed and sometimes got killed in dramatic scenes that lasted only 5 to 10 seconds, and then moved and talked more. Yet, this BBC production, set in the early decades of Roman Empire, had my parents, elder siblings and our relatives and neighbours, most of whom were from Kurdish country-side, glued to their television sets week after week, and talking about the characters and plot twists day after day.For the next thirty years, each time I heard about "I, Claudius", I was torn between the almost traumatic claustrophobia that the series left on my memory and the ever growing curiosity to find out the story that enthralled my childhood elders. In the last fifteen years, I hired "I, Claudius" from the video store twice, and returned them after watching only the first 15 minutes, still unimpressed.Then, it happened. Three weeks ago, bereft of choice in the video store, I again hired the DVDs, promising myself that I'd watch no less than the first hour, no matter what. Well, I ended up watching the 650 minute saga three times, back to back in nine days. I watched nothing else on TV for nine days; no news, no sport, no music clip. It was "I, Claudius" and me; I was happy. I even signed up to IMDb to write about it.The series showcases the mother of all internal family conflicts. The Roman Empire features like a family business that the dynasty is quarreling over. If you are not a 'fool' like Claudius, you are either killed or banished. Power kills, and absolute power... well, you know what it does. By the time young Marcellus stands up in the Arena and says "Let the games begin!" (at around 30-minute mark), you know you'll be glued to the TV for a long time, and say, "What a story!" at the end.This is TV at its best. The story, the script, acting, direction, camera angles, sets, costumes, they are all flawless. Close up shots of the faces are unmatched except perhaps by those in Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns. The series is teeming with memorable quotes (Augustus to an orator: "What gifts you Greeks have"; Tiberius about her mother Livia: "They say a snake bit her once and died"; Tiberius' astrologer: "Excellent! I knew it. It's all here. The chart doesn't lie." Claudius to Caligula: "You set the standard of sanity for the whole world"). There are many laugh-out-loud scenes in the series. Augustus Caesar walking before and questioning an endless line of men that has slept with his daughter is unforgettable. Claudius saluting the crowd in the arena and sitting in Caesar's chair is a calculated 'foolishness', yet still hilarious. Augustus' speech to Rome's bachelors, Messelina's competition with a prostitute, Claudius and his ordeal with his very tall wife, and many many others. In fact, there were many more comic scenes than tragic ones.It is impossible to praise individual performances. It is as though just under the characters' competition for supremacy in the Roman Empire, there is another, an invisible competition among the actors to win the hearts of the audience as the best character performer. And just the way Claudius is pulled behind a curtain and declared an emperor against his will, one feels like pulling out Derek Jacobi from the pack and declare him the best actor. Just like Claudius understates his intelligence, Jacobi understates his presence in the company of others, giving them the floor with minimum interference. He never seeks to dominate the screen until he's chosen as the Caesar. He has plenty of screen time by himself as the narrator.Only one downside. A technical one. The sound in the DVD recording was inconsistent, sometimes loud sometimes low volume.Do yourself a favour and watch "I, Claudius". You won't regret it. 10/10


                
I had not seen this series in many years and re-viewed it last week. One thing I had not noticed before was the pairing of older actresses with younger husbands. It wasn't intended to be literal, but the poor guys kept getting killed off and the women lived to play in later episodes, so I guess the casting people decided to go with making the older women look as young as possible rather than the other way around. That was a good choice. It still was jarring to see Germanicus' wife looking more like his mother...ditto Augustus and Livia.But this is a trivial. This excellent series inspired me to read book of Robert Graves' books (I Claudius and Claudius the God)and I am the richer for it. One can't help but wonder how on earth the males in the stories could possibly been as thick headed as they were about the arch villianess, Livia, and that surely wasn't actually the case. Watch out if she offered to nurse you to health! One thing for sure, those were tough times to live in and one wonders if the aristocracy of Rome was that dangerous, what were the "rabble" like? Great acting all the way around. A wonderful and brutal study of a wonderful and brutal time.
