If you want to understand something of the exercise of absolute power in the early Roman Empire, this is not for you.I still cannot understand the delirious praise heaped on this version of "I Claudius" which is overwhelmingly superficial, inaccurate and a kind of infantile, tabloid version of the far better novels by Robert Graves (who had a sense of humour though you wouldn't guess it from this comic book version) and which he recognised as fiction even if some of readers could not.This confusion seems to have increased.The real Augustus, to take just one example, was physically slight, intellectually subtle and personally formidable so casting Brian Blessed (of all people - was it some kind of grotesque joke? - he looks like a butcher on his day off) in that role in "I Claudius" was grotesquely wrong. (Roland Culver in the old B&W "The Caesars" was an infinitely better choice.) George Baker simply cannot hack it as the dark, malignant and interesting Tiberius and John Hurt is truly appalling as a totally loony Caligula - perhaps the worst performance of his otherwise substantial career.This is by no means "real" history and shows almost no understanding of tyranny, empire and the realities of exercising power in any period.Watch "The Caesars" instead - if you can get hold of a copy.


                
I would like to make this clear: I did NOT like the series. I am well aware that it is much praised as it is awarded, but I simply cannot see this. I could start by pointing out that the series was filmed in a limited space area, giving the impression of claustrophobic but this not my primary concern. The main objection I have is about the characters. While watching the first seven episodes, there was one and only one thing in my mind: When is this person going to die (or at least stop doing what she is doing); And, of course I am talking about Livia. This character is portrayed in such an evil, manipulative, poisonous way that I found it difficult to concentrate on anything else. We were seeing such a malicious person that makes Hannibal Lecter look like an altar boy. Now, looking up the historical figure of Augustus' wife, I found that there are many suspicions that she may indeed have been involved in several "accidents" of imperial family members. However, I think there is a great distance between this and the series' affirmation that she single-handedly orchestrated the annihilation of dozens of prestigious royalties. And on top of that she murdered Augustus himself!!! Unfortunately, this does not end with Livia's death. Later, on the series, we see the same thing pretty much going on with Caligula... Overall, I would like to make a comment concerning the so called historical accuracy of it: I am well aware of the fact that there was a lot of plotting and conspiring within the Roman Empire's court. However, I can't help wondering: Was that Roman Empire all about? I frequently recall a great film, Cleopatra (1963) by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, where we could actually enjoy grandeur as well as more than satisfying accuracy of historical facts. I really wish it would take a few ideas from that one.
