The best miniseries ever made! Smart and sexy, with characters that live and breathe. Just some of the most marvelous characters include Brian Blessed as the benevolent Augustus, George Baker as the wounded Tiberius, and Siân Phillips as Livia. Includes one of John Hurt's finest performances, and I'd go into Derek Jacobi as Claudius, but they say I have to keep it below 1,000 words. The Canadian channel Bravo runs it occasionally, or try renting it from Blockbuster, but I recommend shelling out for the entire collection on video!


                
Drama's and movies are for entertainment primarily I believe. In that sense, this drama is a top ten feature. The acting is superb. The budget for this making is clearly very low yet the (only indoor) scenery is absolutely acceptable. One may feel cramped occasionally due to the strict indoor shots. But the storyline is intriguing and captivated me. Added to that, the Roman empire has a certain magic flair.'I Claudius' is a single-season-13-episode drama of the rise and fall of many Roman Emperors, according to Claudius' memory. Claudius is the last Roman Emperor but whether this is a victory for this (good) man is debatable. See for yourself to find out. Also, 'I Claudius' is the one and only drama ever broad-casted in every single nation in the world.The bad side is the historical accuracy: almost none. It's missing too many relevant and interesting aspects of the political culture in those days. If the intention of this drama was to educate me then I wouldn't have been very pleased. But education wasn't the purpose of the director at all so no problem as far as I am concerned.I'll give it 9 stars. I motivate it like this: Entertainment Value counts triple. 10 for Entertainment, 5 for accuracy. 10*3 + 5 = 35. 35/4 = 8.75. No eight-three-quarter star exist so I round it up to 9 stars.


                
I am a graduated historian with a special interest both in warfare and the roman empire. In particular I wrote my graduation paper on the changes the senate experienced in the early days of the Principat: the period of more or less stable rule starting with Augustus that marked the definite end of the Republic and which witnessed the decline of the senate from the sole governing body to become the extension of government by a sole ruler. It is this period up to Claudius which is also the subject period of the series I Claudius. Some years ago I bought the series on tape and watched it.Without doubt the most important writer on this period is a man called Tactitus. Of interest in this regard are the books which cover the reign of Augustus up to Nero. Tacitus main focus was actually the senate and what the rule of a single man did to them. His works has a rather grim nature. It goes from bad to worse with most rulers. Tacitus is also important because he lived so close to time when the events occurred and was able with people who actually lived in that day and age.There is still a debate about how opposed he was to the rule of a single man. I can't give you the answer to this. I think he was a believer of that the rule of one man was a necessity, a given. He was forced to accept the rule of an emperor and tried to show them and others what tyranny could cause.The second ancient writer of note regarding this period and from which we still have books is a man called Suetonius. He wrote a series of lives of each ruler. It has a rather tabloid nature about it which makes it more filled with mirth then Tacitus. Suetonius more or less has the feeling of an courtier was is telling us all the inside gossip.There are also some other writers like Cassius Dio. However their influence isn't on par with both Suetonius and Tacitus in this series. There is however one note to this. What is told about Judea(One of the closest friends of Claudius was Herod Agrippa; he was a ruler of one of the subjected kingdoms in Judea) seems to stem from Flavius Jospehus, a Romanized inhabitant of Judea.The series most of the time follow the narrative of Tacitus. However we miss a large chunk of his the reign of Caligula and Tiberius and where Tacitus drops away Suetonius steps in. Sometimes when Tacitus is ambiguous Suetonious more spicy interpretation is taken. And sometimes the story is embellished. (That Augustus was poisoned by the Augusta is not a proved fact and even Suetonius shirked away from saying so).Most of the times the cast is reasonable good. John Hurt as Caligula might be a bit to old, but his acting is topnotch. Brian Blessed is somewhat awkward as Augustus, being mostly to big and having to harsh a voice. But this is just bickering.I must disagree with someone who wrote that the guy playing Tiberius was wrongly chosen. As far as we have description of Tiberius it is fitting: he was a tall man, walking slightly bent forward. He seems to have had a brooding nature and was insecure about himself. At times he was given to despair making statements that he would retire, at other times he saw plots everywhere allowing full lease to prosecutors and slanderers. He seems to have felt slighted by Augustus who gave preference to his own flesh and blood(Tiberius was an adopted son) and overawed by his mother, the Augusta. He seems to have had little joy from his reign and probably felt trapped and manipulated into it. In latter live he withdrew into a sort of semi-exile. He was not loved, although respected, making him state that he didn't care if he was feared as long as he was respected.(Caligula is rumored to have said later on of himself: he didn't care if he was respected, as long as he was feared). This all is attested in both Tacitus and Suetonius and played very well by the actor in question.My impression is that the series is a remarkable and skillful adaption on what is written in evidence. It is well acted and true to the fact in as far as such a series can be. This by far outstrips any given modern series, like Rome. However I can't give it that one point to make it a full ten, because the series is simply dated. There is little action, it is to slow for modern day audiences and the fact that there are no outside scenes give it to much the feeling of a soap like As The World Turns(which it is in one way). I simply don't like soaps. If it where possible I would give it a 9.5 out of 10.
Claudius follows the life story of its eponymous Roman, from his early years in the court of Augustus through the terrifying reigns of Tiberius and Caligula, only to chronicle Claudius' own unlikely ascension to the throne of the Roman Empire. We linger in certain periods and zip through others (indeed, between episodes 9 and 10, there would seem to be at least an episode or two missing), telling the story of the Claudian house and their influence on the Roman world.The production is low budget and very stage-y; obviously computers have spoiled us, as an outdoor scene in the city of Rome in 1976 would have been unthinkable on a BBC miniseries budget. But this closed-in effect takes some getting used to, as the limited visual scale of the series at times seems to hamper some of the action and proceedings (much the way every battle in Shakespeare occurs off stage). This in turn forces the viewer to focus almost solely on the performances, which, whether an intentional decision or the result of budgetary shortcomings, ends up working in the best interests of the series, for Claudius is less interested in spectacle than in what lurks in the hearts of men <U+0096> and women.Derek Jacobi leads the cast as Claudius, and he is excellent. He captures the man fully, stutters, tics, and all, and presents us with a compelling character we find easy to befriend <U+0096> indeed, when everyone else makes fun of him for his deformities and stuttering <U+0096> even his mother <U+0096> we can't help but feel sympathy for him. Jacobi never plays him as a pitiable fool, but rather as a man whose physical shortcomings never hampered his intellectual abilities.Jacobi is joined by a host of actors we are familiar with now. John Hurt gives a very effective performance as Caligula, portraying his vile madness without ever taking it too far; you cringe, as those around him must have done, but never laugh at him. Patrick Stewart (with hair!) plays the ambitious Sejanus, who nearly wheedles his way into becoming Emperor, only to be betrayed and replaced by Macro (John Rhys-Davies). And Brian Blessed is on hand, enthusiastically playing Augustus, though to my eyes he seemed miscast, playing the man who founded the Roman Empire more or less like a kindly uncle. Also deserving of mention are Sian Phillips as Augustus' wife Livia, and James Faulkner as Herod Agrippa. Livia is painted here in the blackest colors, a true viper of a woman who will stop at nothing to get her way; but Phillips slyly underplays her. There is never any ranting or threatening, just the cool, calculated plotting of a vicious mind and a vaulting ambition. And Faulkner just exudes charisma as Agrippa, one of Claudius' closest friends throughout the course of his life.The series slowly begins to grow on you, however; when I first watched it I was a little turned off by Blessed's Augustus and the flat performance by George Baker as Tiberius. But as the story develops (and we get to see more of Jacobi), Baker's turn as the loathsome Tiberius makes more sense, and some of the other characters begin to assert themselves. By the time Caligula enters the story, we are firmly with Claudius, and the story pulls no punches in describing the monstrous behavior of the third Emperor.By the end of the thirteen episodes, Claudius himself has become like an old friend, one whose voice we are accustomed to hearing, and it is a little disappointing to watch him die <U+0096> not so much because the series is drawing to a close, but because, after thirteen hours, you've become very comfortable spending time with this stuttering historian who, in his own words, "blunted the blade of tyranny and made it acceptable to the Roman people." I hadn't realized just how absorbed I had gotten in this series until it ended, and I missed my daily visits with Claudius.This series may not be for everyone; it is, as I said before, sometimes claustrophobically stage-y, and for those who are not fans of historical productions, I suppose it could drag (I've always been fascinated by early Imperial Rome, but your mileage may vary). But for those who enjoy strong dramatic performances and stories of intrigue, deceit, and, often, murder, this is one you really shouldn't pass up. It's time well invested.
Although appearing as a series of acts in a play, "I, Claudius" is a masterpiece on every level!The acting is superb; the characters are believable; the costumes are authentic-looking; the make-up department is impeccable; and, every scene is well-done and ranges in mood from very interesting to outright shocking. Yet...less graphic, some of the horrifying events in this during Caligula's reign even puts "Caligula"(1979) to shame.I mentioned the make-up department because they really uglified the beautiful Siân Phillips to portray the conniving, nasty, and, vindictive "Livia" (just like what was done with beautiful Charlize Theron in "Monster.").Unfortunately, I missed "I, Claudius" back in the 1970s when PBS used to show wonderfully-made classics that I did watch such as "The World At War;" "Edward The King;" and, "Masterpiece Theatre," just to name a few."I, Claudius" ("I, Clavdivs") is a classic novel made for television. It's a televised-historical-play that's really second-to-none. On their budget, probably, this mini-series may come across to people nowadays as cheap and theatrically enclosed as there are no real 'outdoorsy' scenes...everything is played-out on what seems a stage. However, the story itself and the dialog, and, the manner in which it's presented, along with the acting and surroundings, is a true classic that only people-of-good-taste can appreciate.I love this masterpiece! :)
This is a television great that has aged extremely well considering it was made nearly forty years ago.The story is cleverly told as an autobiography of the emperor Claudius neatly covering the social, family and political comings and goings of the five emperor Julio-Claudian dynasty in which our storyteller's life spans: from the late reign of first Roman emperor Augustus to the imminent succession of the corrupt Nero.Many used to modern productions may be disappointed in the lack of outside scenes, great cinematography or lavish production quality that modern movies give us, but the fact that I soon forgot about this was a testament to the pure theatre this whole series is an excellent example of. Sian Phillips portrayal of Livia Drusilis is chillingly perfect (and sowed the seed for the name of Livia being used for the wife of character Tony Soprano in a television series in later years) It is a great introduction to the social, family and political history of the dynasty. This is obviously from the perspective and bias of the title character, which in the point. Only the profoundly obtuse would see as a criticism.For historical pedants, there might be some slightly annoying things and in one episode we are insultingly (or comically depending on your mood) treated to modern German accents being used by soldiers from Germanic Tribes. That and the generally weaker performances in the later episodes prevented me giving it a 10.


                
I wish to first disagree with the earlier poster who said John Hurt was one dimensional in his performance. I found Hurt's portrayal of mad Caligula to be a multi-dimensional masterpiece, filled with terrifying nuance. Watching him you never know when the next head will fall, or if he's suddenly touched with sentiment and decides to spare some perceived slighter. Particularly profound is the scene in the tent with Claudius where he seriously, and with an almost profound regret asks Claudius if he is indeed mad. Certainly Caligula is portrayed as a madman always on the verge of some tyrannical rage and concurrent action but he is still very recognizably a multi-leveled character in the hands of the superb acting of an often overlooked great actor John Hurt. Many of the other performances stand out as well Derek Jacobi, Sian Phillips etc. The film kicks the a$$ off of Rome at least in the acting department and is probably the best portrait of Roman Civilization along with Spartacus , Ben Hur , and Quo Vadis.


                
Simply the best acted series on Roman history I've eer seen.


                
From the opening sinister music theme I,Claudius grasps by the throat and never lets go. With material that covers almost all human depravity, naked ambition, sensual excess, madness, and the corruption of power it has all the ingredients.Livia Augusta as played by Sian Phillips perhaps bests exemplifies the series. She is a creature more malignant than Lady Macbeth, and more thrilling than just about any other female character in literature.Although hardly a history lesson the distortion of the actual history is not important. Graves's books and Jack Pulman's superb adaptation make this fascinating.All the performances are excellent, the sets wonderful (though the outdoor scenes are 'stagey'. Never mind its a trivial observation.) Watch it once and then watch it again, as it has so much.


                
This is a fantastic show. The acting is great and it is very enjoyable to watch. The only bad thing in this is the age make-up. Just ignore the fact that the old and sick people look slightly unrealistic and you will love I, Claudius as much as I do.


                
