OK, actually this is a decent sports drama, and I would rate it 6.5-7 if it wasn't for an utterly horrifying plot element that seems to have escaped most people: The main hero of the story is forced into foreclosure of his home by an arrogant banker who weaseled him into his loan in the first place, and now refuses to extend it. His only way out is to participate in a no-holds-barred fight tournament organized and financed by - an arrogant Wall Street banker! Just how sick is that? The people who force ordinary Americans into bankruptcy get the additional kick of watching said Americans get their heads bashed in - and be grateful for the wads of cash they may receive if they make it. Exactly like 'Hunger Games', only there it's criticized and in a SciFi setting, whereas 'Warrior' glorifies this state of things and is set in the present day! Almost as if the US today were some sort of Ancient Rome, where the impoverished should be thankful for their chance to prove their merit in the arena like the gladiators of yore.Other reasons for me to dislike the film were various plot gaps wider than the Grand Canyon: if a soldier goes AWOL in Iraq - how can he resurface in the US under a different name? Are we supposed to believe that US immigration turns a blind eye on disgruntled young men? Besides the fact that the feat, for which he is so celebrated in the film, is physically impossible (body submerged in water = no leverage).Then there's the 'Rocky' thing: below-than-average fighter trains for a big tournament and makes it against all odds. In 'Rocky', however, the whole story is about getting there, how to overcome the shortcomings of the body by willpower, and the final fight is a draw, not a victory - because in that film, the emphasis is on keeping it real, and that's what makes it a classic. 'Warrior', however, features totally unbalanced fight sequences; the only difference to wrestling would be the missing name calling, and that it presents itself as a real deal, where in fact anybody who's ever done a bit of martial arts can only shake his head and go WTF.On the plus side, there's Nick Nolte's great presence in a, however, highly cliché role. But aforementioned plot element, which I perceive as an assault on common sense and civil rights, prompts me to condemn this film completely. If there's anyone in this film who'd deserve a good thrashing, it's the organizer of the Sparta tournament!
this movie absolutely sucks! the whole plot, the clichés! I just do not understand how this movie got such a high rating! The movie has such a dumb storyline! I am wondering if people are giving it a high rating because of the popularity of MMA? The whole movie is just so full of unrealistic possibilities. From the AWAL Marine who becomes a hero on his way out from IRAQ,who all of a sudden becomes an MMA killer? to the moonlighting Teacher who beats down an undefeated MMA fighter? or How about the two brothers fighting each other for the finale? what are the odds of that happening? I am usually not such a hard critic but the unrealistic high rating made me post this. Please people please rate this movie correctly and not just on MMA Scenes. I would never watch this movie again! I think people should re rate this movie once they clearly see how boring and unrealistic this movie is!
See, back in the day about 10 years ago, when the Good the bad and the ugly was rated 7.7 and Barry Lyndon was rated 7.5, people were more sensible. This movie is ONE BIG Cliché, OH MY GOD, other than Nick Nolte's performance, everything else was violently cliché. See, back in the day, there's no way in hell this movie would be at 8.3, probably low 5's. See, here is how the director got such a high score from the sheeple. First you got to have a touching subject that ends not in tragedy but happiness: father son mad at each other then make up, let's see that covers about a quarter of the viewing audience. Next brothers make up, another quarter at least, next economic struggle, mortgage foreclosure, another quarter at least, next drug addiction, trying to cope, serve in the military, oooooo, National Pride!!! more boost to the score, more BOOST!!! More sheeple voting 8 or higher.My eagle eye sees everything, few can escape the sharpness of my intellect.
SPOILER: This movie is something new. Everything was so unpredictable, fights, tournament and what an end, totally unexpected, two brothers in the final. What a story!!! Really, I think this film is in top 10, no top 5, worst sport-drama movies in last decade. Do not waste your time. Do not waste your time and money on this film. It is absolute mystery how Warrior reached 8.3 on IMDb. It should be in best case 5, so that people know that they cannot expect any intellectual challenge. So, I guess this is a movie for Ultimate fight fans, because that is the only that it can offer, fight scenes (pumped and not realistic). And believe, this has nothing with a fact that I am a female. I watched Warrior with my brother and husband, both of them shared my opinion. Nothing new, full of stereotypes. OK, I will admit one bright spot. Hotel scene with drunk Nick Nolte character and Tom Hardy character is 3 bright minutes in 140 min of nothing.


                
This is my first review on IMDb,in fact I specially sighed up here to give a comment and vote cos until now I trusted the score system on the movies here...8.3 and 55K votes for this movie!?!Maybe its only me but this film doesn't deserve that score, I've seen lots of movies but this is far from a 8,3....I mean please it has all the clichés of the American bull- crap(I am not saying that everything American is bull crap)but this film has most of them,very cleverly hidden behind a story that keeps you hoping it wouldn't be the same bull crap American cliché.Maybe this is a good indicator how retarded the world is becoming.If there wasn't so much hype around this film I would've give in it a higher score ,but sadly my first vote on IMDb which I respect,had to be 1(awful)star.


                
This is a formula movie which makes no sense at all and merely sets up conditions that will supposedly tug at your heart strings. It's difficult to give the reasons for my conclusion without putting in a spoiler. The plot is thin, the characters unbelievable and the ending is absolutely ridiculous.True, we enjoy movies as a way to escape reality for a little while but how so much money can be spent making a movie as bad as this is beyond any logical thought. I suppose if you are a teenager and like flash bang violence without any thought to reality then this would be the movie to see. Afterwards you can go beat up some grade school children and buy a trophy for your efforts.


                
I don't understand how this movie got 8.3 rating which is more than Scarface and the Sixth Sense got. It is just an average scenario with a horrible ending, too long and boring dialogs. There were 10 of us who watched this movie, 8 of us didn't get the movie. The three characters have problems with each other but no one knows what their problems are, and movie ends like that. Nothing interesting in this movie. I trusted around 45 thousand users' rating and rented this movie but I regretted. If you are a movie lover, just stay away this movie and don't waste your time. It's not worth more than 5.5 rating. It is just an ordinary movie.


                
****spooooooooooooooooooooooilers!!!!!!!!!!!!*********this movie is the biggest insult in the history of film making. at first they start the moving showing Tommy as the obvious protagonist. in the first 10 minutes you fill in all of the blanks of his history and immediately understand where he's coming from, having to bury his mother and leave his selfish brother. he spends every waking moment, training and fighting his way to be the best of the best to win the tournament and fulfill the promise he made to his comrades wife. Brendan walks in with his perfect life, beautiful wife, beautiful kids, stable job that he clearly loves aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaand then the film even has the audacity to have him give a birthday present to his daughter that is clearly out of their families means. granted one of his daughter did have heart problems and the medical bills were piling up, he and his wife couldn't face the facts and just live within their means. instead after Tommy instantly dominates every single opponent he has ever faced in this movie, he falls short to the man who got his ass kicked outside of a strip club... so at the very end of the movie when the entire crowd is cheering Tommy's name right before he gets his ass kicked, i'm just supposed to lay back and be satisfied with him and his brother hugging it out?????????????? and not to mention right before he gets taken away for fleeing the military because he has no other option. i can't believe this filth passes as a film with the quality to make it into the IMDb top 250. what this world views as deserving and just literally makes me sick.
The initial reviews floored me of this being a great movie.I'm not understanding the comparisons to Rocky, any of the Rocky movies.Story? You don't know what's going on for a main story line until the very end of the movie. Even then, it's extremely thin.You have one absolutely unstoppable brother, former Marine who destroys everyone he faces in the cage including a one punch knockout to one opponent. To face his brother, a slightly beefed up Conan O'Brien who's a teacher. I see mentions of Nick Nolte and an Oscar nomination, he's not in the movie enough, he has 2 major scenes, really.Also mentions that MMA fans will enjoy this, not true. The only lengthy fight scene had been at the end when the brothers fight, 3 rounds out of 5. Do yourself a favor, stay far away from this movie. Catch it on cable and then decide for yourself. This ranks as one of the worst movies I've ever seen and that is saying a lot!
Men also need romantic pop corn flicks like The Notebook or Twilight. That has been proved with Warrior. I've read and heard that a lot of guys have been saying how Warrior made them cry, how emotional it was. I get it.But this movie doesn't deserve 8/10 and i think it has 8/10 because most guys rated before wiping their eyes.Warrior brings out the big guns. Every cliché you've seen is used here. Almost every line is cheesy. Did you enjoy seeing how the teacher beats up the undefeated Russian world champion, knowing it could never happen in real life? If you did, you got clicheed good.Did you like the ever so cheesy scenes with the kids routing in the parking lot & the principal routing in his living room? Cheesy.Nolte was brilliant, but this movie isn't and the ratings will probably drop once people re watch it with dry eyes.5/10, for Noltes performance, and because i enjoy fantasy. After all, it's a movie about the biggest tournament in the world where the best fighters from all over the planet fight, and the 2 finalists is a teacher who has been working out for 1 month and one ex soldier who hasn't fought since he was 10. (And the TEACHER WINS, LOL!)
I think IMDb made a mistake writing this movie was made in 2011. It clearly is made in the early 1990's- the story, moral and World view proves that it is an early remake of every Jean- Claude Van Damme movie ever made up until that time. Also- it features a scary communist man from the threatening country of the Soviet union. This movie concentrates on telling the fantastic story of two American (the only nation that counts) brothers- sportsmen who go to war every time they step out on "stage", much like when Serena Williams or Roger Federer steps out on court in the U.S. Open and the chair umpire yells "Fight!" right before they open 1st set (Mortal Kombat later borrowed the idea). In the movie one of the brothers is a kind and good man (..actually they both are.. all men are good men.. wait- well they usually are in movies, right..?) and a loving husband and father, who doesn't want to fight but is left no option since an evil bank has ripped him off. Luckily he's American because in America regular people like that can moonlight (like Walter White does in Breaking Bad- to pay his medical bills in a country that saves its people from the evil grips of socialism) as one of the 16 BEST fighters in the world- which he luckily happens to be although he's hidden it for many years. The other brother who also happens to be one of the 16 BEST fighters in the world is an ex-soldier in that country of Iraq, where he bravely saved an American soldier and was considered a war hero (this I find confusing- don't you get to be a war hero when you kill people..? otherwise any like doctor could be a hero, right..?). He is very modest and a true Christian, because he does not care about fortune and fame. In fact, he changes his name and gets out of Iraq and into America under false pretenses (when you're American you don't need a passport- all you need to do is say you're American) so no one knows who he is. They both enter the greatest MMA tournament of the World (in America). Since the soldier brother doesn't have any family that he cares about or friends it's a good thing that he doesn't win the fighting tournament that occupies the last 1h of the movie, but his loving and fatherly brother does, the one who actually needs the money for his children and wife (who is useless, but looks like a supermodel- a typical American woman). The ending I really haven't seen in any other Hollywood movie except a Jean-Clause Van Damme movie or perhaps anything remotely related to Disney... or Steven Spielberg.. or anything from Hollywood that slightly resembles any of the previously mentioned. The movie is really great for people who are vacuum cleaning while watching it or simply has the level of a general American high- school education recently graduated or likes the story line in MacGyver (again, 80's).
Alright, no exaggeration at all here, but I am now on my 6th session of attempting to complete this movie, that is how bad it is. I could not even get through 30 seconds of it and figured I would be better entertained writing a review for this awful movie. This movie has nothing to it!!- Horrible plot, horrible acting, stupid fight scenes, lame touches (trying to fit real UFC fighters into a completely made up scenario/tournament/fighters etc..) and the list goes on. Everything is just awful. Just awful. I have been training in MMA and competed in wrestling for about 10 years now and this movie is so inaccurate it makes me sick. Its as if the producers and writers of this movie have never even watched a fight before in there life & have not a clue about the sport. This movie is 100% just to excite viewers who have no knowledge of the sport, but a complete insult to fans. The fight scenes are just unexplainable and stupid. The fights are like if Amateur MMA and WWE, on steroids, had a child, who also took steroids, along with many other drugs, and then got in the ring. There are WWE "moves" used in this movie. They don't exist in the sport. Period. Enough Said.


                
OK, OK I understand there is no such thing as an unethical movie. But this has to come as close to proving there just might be such an animal. Truly sickening moments of awfulness. Which the actual sport avoids. Apart from the pathetic storyline and seriously misjudged opportunities to make a watchable film out of this mess, we have to tolerate wound up sequences of empathy squeezing, drivel dealing moments that make you want to eat your head off.If you last long enough to eke out your miserable Saturday night life to the finale, the only question is why did you do it? You already knew how ridiculous the plot was. Did you continue out of curiosity? Or sheer terror at realising how bad movies of this genre have now become? The fight sequences are beyond disbelief. They are Disneyland. I could make a tougher movie with my cam. The director tries to make these leaden humans worse on film than even the worst movie monsters of all time, but with such hubris he fails to make them more threatening than blow-up dolls. Without the sensible gore of, say, a decent movie like Rocky, it is mere mind-numbing torture. And I like fight movies. This is the worst film of any genre I have ever ever watched. And that's saying something.


                
This films goes on for so long 2 hours and 20 mins of absolute rubbish!!!It is cage fighting rubbish, the school teacher beats all the bad guys and meets his brother at the endthe film is so cheesy and clichéRocky is a hundred times better, you can not comparesome plonker said its like all the rocky films rolled into one.Don't believe that rubbish.This movie is a silly cage fighting tournament, with boring characters you know the teacher will win from the start of the film its one of those under dog storiesso why wait 2 hours and 20 mins to see it happen????if you go to sleep for 2 hours and watch the last 20 mins of the film you will see all the best action and captured the whole story and reunion of brothersVery boring film again over rated by IMDb users
SPOILER: How can you show a underdog went on to win MMA. It is like Japan beating Spain to win world cup soccer.Even luck favors trained people. Just because he is motivated can win MMA is impossible.Even the background story is not properly covered and confusing.Better watch a million dollar baby. I can't believe that it got a rating of 8.3.It is real time waste of 2.5 hrs. A better fighting movie is undisputed redemption 3. the fight in it looks real and fighters look real. This is neither a motivational movie nor a entertaining movie.There are lot of movies based on fighting either show the real stuff with real fighter or make a beautiful motivational movie


                
The film starts off great, a young man (Tom Hardy) returning home to see his dad after 14 years and we want to know where he's been and why he left so we are instantly hooked; turns out his dad was a drunk and Tom Hardy wants nothing to do with him as does Joel Edgerton.Tom Hardy then joins a local gym, as a child he was an junior Olympic champion 6 years on the run and hadn't lost a match. He decimates the gyms best fighter in about 20 seconds and becomes an internet sensation.Tom Hardy then gets entered for the'Sparta' tournament where fighters all over the world gathered to fight to see who was the best middleweight in the world with the prize fund of 5million dollars for the winner. The other character Joel Edgerton is a physics teacher at a high school and a retired outcast UFC fighter, his daughter had heart problems and the medical bills put him in debt so he enters the competition to win the money otherwise he will lose his home. He is Tom Hardy's brother.The first fight starts with the showing of Tom Hardy being an internet sensation and then a marine recognizing him as the marine who saved a group of Marines lives by heroically ripping the door off a tank. When the fight begins Tom Hardy knocks the first fighter out with one punch and the proceeds to do near enough the same in every fight he's in. Joel has a different approach he gets battered to a pulp for 3 rounds and then submits his opponent and wins. Joel beats the Russian undefeated fighter Koba by doing this. Koba had the same approach as Tom did as he too knocked fighters out very quicklyNon-surprisingly the final fight is between the two brothers Tom and Joel. Tom beats him to a pulp; who had been knocking everyone out in merely a combination of punches fails to do it here for some unbeknown reason and I bet you know what happened next without me telling you, Joel put Tom in a submission and ripped his shoulder muscle, broke his shoulder or dislocated his shoulder; it is not specified. In real life the referee would have stopped the fight as you can't fight with such a significant injury but this film chose to ignore that and the referee acts oblivious to the fact that the once bull in a china shop Tom is now fighting with one arm. Tom is then taken to the ground by the UFC outcast with a head kick and chocked out. An emotional song plays in the background and Joel whilst chocking his brother screams 'I love you' and its all very lovely. They then walk out in each other's arms and it ends.The film is cheesy, unimaginative and predictable; I could of told you the plot about half an hour in to the film without having to seen it. It's also unrealistic; in UFC you can't come out of retirement after being an 'unmemorable' fighter as the commentator in the film puts it and then become the middle weight champion after a few weeks training. As he does this in less than 90 days because in the film Joel goes to the bank and the banker says his home will be repossessed in 90 days if he does not come up with the money. So I'm going to go down my local gym and you can expect me to be knocking out Cain Velasquez (UFC heavyweight champion) in less than 90 days I assure you. It made me cringe to watch it was embarrassing filmography and I would certainly not recommend it; as much as I love Tom Hardy as an actor and fighting films, it angered me to watch. The silver lining to this very dark gray cloud is that the fight scenes are good to watch
This was the worst ending to a movie ever that guy did not deserve to win, Tom hardy deserved to win because he was gonna give the money to a women who's husband was dead. He doesn't care about anything he just wants to fight the other guy needs to sit down and deal with his shitty life choices and man up and declare bankruptcy and shut up. I am so mad. I love you Tom hardy Why does this need ten lines I am done I have nothing else to say goodbye this is the most stupid rule I've ever heard of all I wanted to do was express my anger and regret for watching this movie I only watched it because I of Tom hardy I saw legend the other night and it was really good you should go see that instead of watching this because it's so much better and doesn't have a terrible stupid ending like this movie does
The movie presented an obvious plot line and gave a new perspective to getting beaten up. Giving the blueprint for how to win UFC, just get beaten relentlessly for 3 rounds and then perform an camora and break one of your opponents limb's on the bell. Tommy had knocked out several fighters in the first round but remarkably his brother seems to be able to gain super- human abilities and defies the laws of UFC. As Brenden didn't punch for 3 rounds and was stuck in a full mount against a first round knockout artist by making a impenetrable guard impervious to the ground and pound. Overall the director should learn some UFC rules and tommy should have knocked out Brenden in the first round. The movie leaves a lot of questions unchecked at the end plus the fact that Brendon had a abandoned MMA for teaching seems to have helped him rather than doing the opposite. There is no logic to the final fight and has a predictable ending as the styles made it obvious that the submission had to win.


                
A good movie ruined by such a dumb ending that it's actually offensive to the intellect.The movie its self was very well executed and well done and the build up to the final showdown was very carefully crafted. I have to say that i really liked the movie(excluding the ending). I thought Tom Hardy and Nick Nolte both gave a very effective performance and the movie dealt with some very heavy emotions and connected with the audience fairly well. How ever the movie does get a bit "over the top" in some cases but that aside i have to say that the movie was pretty exciting to watch and be invested in emotionally. My recommendations: I would like to recommend this movie how ever the ending did really ruin the entire experience for me so don't watch the final fight scene that the whole movie has built up to.(if you can).


                
Missed opportunity to make an excellent film. Cliched story, good fight sequences ruined by tried and untrue shaky camera technique, and a forgettable ending. Major plot points are totally unrealistic.


                
Slow, plodding, could not connect with any of the characters. If anyone can explain why someone accidentally threw a blanket over the microphone, it might help explain the muffled conversations throughout half of the movie. For dramatic effect it was a definite fail. Withoout giving anything away, I really miss the Rocky movies after seeing this 'must miss'. One of the things that really irritates is when filmmakers thrust the microphone right in the thick of special effects and seemingly completely remove it during vital conversations. It implies that the audience suffers from a complete lack of imagination on their own and deem it necessary to supply it for them through loud special effects. I don't recommend this movie to anyone who wishes to be entertained for 2+ hours.


                
The story is good, but I must admit that I am very disappointed with the course of this movie.I don't care for happy end,I really get upset when i saw that the teacher who wasn't fought for several years win this competition.When opponents hits him,it is like they hitting a rock.When Tommy Conlon and Koba(professional fighter) fight with other opponents they falls after only one punch,but when they fight with the Brendan Conlon they punched him a hundred times in the head,but he looks like he is just got up,and ready for work.It is impossible to down him.Maybe if they had drown some bulldozer in the cage they would have knocked him down,but I doubt.Common men,give me some reality here.I'm really start to thinking to train boxing next two months and challenge Klitschko,it is a very ''real'' for me to win that match.I just want reality in some parts.Only for that I gave this movie a lousy mark.
The movie was so dramatic, one can't use the same technique against all fighters.
What is about this movie to be rated a 8.2 are you blind I wasn't going to vote 1 out of 10 but i got really angry because Brendan was doing a rocky scene losing 11 rounds and winning in the last just please be more realistic please this isn't the first movie we have ever seen i predicted the ending very early and i believe everybody did ... these movies when the main character beats everybody in the last round should be banned from TV Its not that i don't recommend it to someone else but not with all this hype because it isn't that good ...the only thing i liked about the movie is Tom Hardy ... we all know he is a great actor
I think this Is the worst movie I'we seen in years
In fact I made this account just to review this crap
Don't waste your time
IT'S REALLY BAD
