It is not that Warrior is not a good film;in fact, from a point on it grabs you in continuous commitment with your heart pumping fast and helplessly.The truth is that at the start it looks like it wants to be something more than another fighting movie, with the roles of Nolte and Hardy, and the reading of Mobby Dick, some kind of elegy.And it could succeed at it, as the Hardy character-in one of Hardy's best performances-is built masterfully;yet, the other characters of the film gradually become banal, and whats worst-please do not read further if you have not seen the movie-at the end there is the most conservative choice one could imagine, as the winner is the family man who fights in order to pay for the home of his family, whereas the heroic-and anti heroic-veteran, looses everything.One could argue that the end is about reconciliation and the return to the unity of the family;in my opinion, it is a total fiasco that let me down and made me really angry. There should be some other way to discourage violence without letting down the most interesting character of the movie.His defeat is the failure of the film to be anything more than a family fighting movie to watch at home.Yet, for Hardy alone, I would very much like to watch it again.
there wasn't enough build up between the family, it didn't really explain their past. How are they great fighters? How do they enter a tournament without fighting before? they join a tournament with the 16 best fighters in the world but are amateurs. I could have made a better movie. The ending was original but not bad, but seems rushed. if the movie had been built up to show their past more, maybe to show how the brothers used to be really close but then their drunken father drove them away and the death of their mother caused them to lose contact. Im not sure how this movie got a 8.3... nothing special happens i would give it a 7 for the effort and that it is watch-able but not worthy of a 8.3
After a few years of silence from the sports genre post-Million Dollar Baby, there's been a run of successful films that follow the typical formula (albiet of varying quality) with the popular The Wrestler, The Blind Side, The Fighter and Moneyball. Warrior belongs among them, and is one of the most successful with audiences, if not at the box office, but magazine critics and the people who saw it fell in love with it, and it currently resides in a comfortable position in IMDb's top 250 films. Piling on that formula, it features dual comeback stories happening simultaneously, bonded by blood that will later inevitably collide.The stakes are set high, one fighting for a home for his family and the other fighting for supporting a widow of a fallen war comrade, and the promise of brother vs. brother is a compelling idea, given that only one shall possibly win, if not a particularly special idea. Unfortunately, it stays far too close to formula and clichés, and within the formula hints only more formula and clichés in the backstory, where the wounds run deep. Fortunately, it's delivered with a sincerity which avoids cheese or cringe for the most part. It does focus on the heart rather than the cheap punch and effectively dodges sentiment, if not obligation, as the predictable beat by predictable beat severely blunts the impact. It has some rather commendable attributes. Particularly as the film follows a very well developed character in Brendan Conlon, played admirably by Joel Edgerton, a man who you truly can believe to clip into the role of passionate teacher and caring father and then a tactful and persistent fighter. Nick Nolte gives a great and worthy performance as Brendan and Tommy's father, Paddy, truly deserving of his Oscar nomination. We don't know what he did but we feel an urge for his true redemption. A particularly heartbreaking scene is where he sees his granddaughters for the first time in 3 years but is barely acknowledged. Unfortunately, Tom Hardy's character, Tommy, while established immediately as a focus is thrown to the wayside, and becomes a one-note character where his inner workings are assumed rather than hinted. A talent neglected by the writing.While Warrior may not be particularly special and amounts to things we've all seen before, it's certainly done the right way throughout, hitting all the essential key points nicely if not boldly. It is nice to see mainstream films today with the gritty grain of 1970s crime era cinematography rather than the polish of other blockbusters. However, overall, it is one of those typical films of male emotion expressed through fists which is never as cathartic as it wants to be as it lacks all tension and thoughtfulness to tap into that universal feeling. It relies on building a network of characters to witness the events to be excited about them to create these feelings for the audience.It's an idea I've never truly connected to and have always felt that it's rarely been fully fleshed out to be worthy. After nearly two and a half hours it finally arrives at its selling point - brother vs brother in the final moments. It's been too long of a journey to justify the time spent exploring this dynamic (particularly after an expositional reunion that just confused matters rather than explained them) but the final moments are incredibly powerful and it rightfully ends on its highest note and not a moment later as the brothers embrace after the final fight regardless of who wins. It's a really good film though I'm not sure why its rated so highly. Though maybe that's what competence deserves nowadays.7/10


                
There is no doubting that one of the up and coming British actors around is Tom Hardy. His performances always seem really intense as anybody who has seen Bronson will agree and nothing changes in Warrior . He is fantastic , yet the film isn't all it's cracked up to be.Warrior is about two brothers who are down on their luck ( what a surprise!) who enter a mixed martial arts tournament to win five million dollars. Their father is an alcoholic who wants their forgiveness but forgiveness isn't in large supply. The big problem i have with Warrior is the sport involved - Mixed martial arts. It's just not very good. It lacks the excitement of boxing and because its supposedly no holds barred you never really know what's going on.Tom Hardy is brilliant as is Joel Edgerton but a special mention must go to a forgotten actor in Nick Nolte. He's looking very old yet he hasn't lost it.Warrior is entertaining but it's also extremely predictable and full of clichés but i'm sure most people will enjoy i for what it is.


                
When I first saw the trailer for Warrior I rolled my eyes about how clichéd and by-the-books it appeared to be. After having seen it, there's no surprise that it was just that but there is a surprise in how taken I was by it. I think I'm starting to come to terms with the fact that things being drawn around an old and worn formula like this isn't always bad thing, and a movie like this is a prime example of that. It's hard to make a sports film in any other formula, so why screw around with something when it's already so tried and true? Instead you can just take the foundation that works and build something out of that, focusing instead on creating true of-the-time characters and deep emotional reservoirs with their relationship dynamics.Warrior capitalizes on an age-old formula by allowing the audience to instead be swept up with the characters it portrays, which in turn makes those climatic fight sequences as intense as they should be. Even knowing how it all will eventually play out (as anyone who saw the upcoming DVD cover before seeing the film knows), I found my heart racing and my grip tightening during many of the fight scenes, terrified for Brendan Conlon and hoping he makes it through unscathed. The film focuses on the crossing journeys of Brendan and his brother Tommy, two polar opposites linked solely by blood and their hatred for their father Paddy, as they eventually come to a head. These two brothers couldn't be more different and the film approaches them in quite different ways.We know all we need to know about Brendan within five minutes of meeting him; he is a good-natured high school teacher with a wife and children who is returning to his fighting roots in order to get money that his family desperately needs. There's no mystery to him, everything is laid on the surface, so it's up to star Joel Edgerton to keep us engaged with Brendan and rooting for him as the film progresses. Edgerton is an actor who has shined bright in supporting roles lately in films like The Square and Animal Kingdom, both from his native Australia, and here he's given a chance to really take center stage and dazzle and he lives up to his full potential. It's hard to think of a performance that I've seen lately that has had as much pure heart as Edgerton has here and I quickly found myself pulling for him and that never wavered for me. The character might be a little too good-natured, but that thought didn't even cross my mind until the film was well over because Edgerton absorbed me so much and had me so invested in this guy. This is an actor with a pure, natural talent that immediately draws your attention and keeps you glued. He has this vulnerability in his eyes that I always find fascinating and it really worked for the character here.On the other side of the turmoil there's Tommy, and in the approach to him we are given very little at first. He appears on his father's doorstep after thirteen years, wanting to be trained to fight and slowly over the course of the film we learn more and more about what has happened to him that has gotten him to this point. Tom Hardy is an emerging young star and here he's given some center stage but I think the script kind of handicaps him in being able to show what talent he may or may not have holstered. Again pulling a move opposite to their treatment of Brendan, I think the script made Tommy too dark and the guy is just a mean son of a bitch that doesn't have a lot of depth to him. We get an understanding of why he is the way he is, but Hardy's portrayal is tuned into one station and never wavers from it for the entire film. He's just a battering ram of aggression in and out of the ring and I feel like through the script and Hardy we never get a proper understanding of who this guy is. I felt as though they gave a lot of the development to Brendan and Tommy was left too much as a one-note character; although I do feel that some of this can be attributed to the opposing performances of the leads.Still, despite some flaws in the script I think the film has a lot more heart and emotion than most of it's genre. There were a lot of moments where I found myself tearing up a bit, especially when it came to Edgerton's character and his journey. The scales were tipped a little unevenly for me, but I could see other people rooting more for Tommy than Brendan as well. Director Gavin O'Connor, following up his underrated cop drama Pride and Glory, does a lot for this production in giving it a gritty '70s aesthetic that brings us into the world and sets the perfect tone for the stories of these guys. It feels like a cold, grimy winter and it really is expertly done on O'Connor's part and I think saves the film from some of it's script flaws. Because in the end my mind wasn't focused on the few negative aspects of the story, but the multiple positive ones that kept me engaged and rooting for these guys all the way. Like he did in Pride and Glory, O'Connor takes a standard genre flick and imbues it with this old-school atmosphere that makes it feel new and genuine and really hooked me from the word go. It certainly doesn't hurt that the film opens and closes with two of the finest songs by The National, my favorite band of all time, and certainly a band that fits the tone this film goes for. It's about the heart, not the fist.


                
An estranged son (Tom Hardy) returns home after over a decade long absence. He's there to ask his father (Nick Nolte) to train him for the upcoming MMA (mixed martial arts) grand prix tournament. At the same time his older brother (Joel Edgerton) has also returned to the cages due to crippling money problems.The plot of Warrior is about as textbook as they come. It's your classic sports underdog, overcoming yourself storyline. But this is not a bad thing. This here is a magnificent example of execution over idea. All three of the main actors are fantastic in their roles, each having very different kind of problems, yet they've all arrived to them due to their similar natures and they all try to solve them in very similar manners. Every scene where they interact with each other is captivating in a way rarely seen in a sports film.Not to say that the movie lacks in the "grown men beating each other to a pulp" category, either. Because it doesn't. Furthermore, it's refreshing to see a fighting movie that's not about boxing. MMA gives the movie its own unique feel and allows for some moves and fights not often seen. All the fights are also pleasingly different from one another. They're shot well and contain enough suspense, especially when Edgerton's character is fighting.Warrior belongs in the upper echelons of sports drama. It's not quite Rocky, but if you've already seen those numerous times, this is the next best thing.


                
There were some very strong and emotional moments and again, it makes you look at yourself and your personal and family relationships. This is a very powerful movie in more ways than one. You'd think it's all about MMA and fighting and all that but that's just a subplot. There will be those similarities to The Fighter and they're justified. The difference is you already know exactly how Fighter is gonna end. With Warrior, the first 2 acts of the movie are perfect in almost every way. Gavin O'Connor is a very capable writer and director and I'll be peeping more of his work later. But the last act is what disappoints here because it goes from perfection to predictability. I'd love it if they'd have gone a different route to the happy ending than what they did here. It's pretty much cookie cutter and deviates from everything that came before it in regards to style and realism.There was a scene where Joel's character lied to his wife. He told her he was a bouncer when he was really fighting to make extra money. My problem with it is there was no consequence to the lying. They made it seem like it was no big deal because they needed the extra money the fighting brought in but a lie is a lie and it is a big deal because what if he'd gotten hurt or died? They already established that he got severely injured in a fight before and his family was struggling. What would happen to them if they lost his income and now had to cut and scratch to pay his medical bills in addition to the bills they already couldn't pay? There is no advantage to the lie he told in the movie and in real life, there's no advantage to lying to someone about something not worth lying about. He may have done it so his wife wouldn't worry but if he'd kept up the charade and things didn't go as planned or if she found out through other means, wouldn't that have been worse? This movie failed to show consequence and I want that to be known.On the flip side, the theme and some of the plot really revolves around the consequence of alcoholism. When you take a certain route in life, and it's a bad one and you know it, and you still choose that route, then you deserve all of the bullshit that comes from it. Nick Nolte played a recovering alcoholic and it fractured his family. As a result, he lost them. Circumstance created a chance for him to get back what he lost but that didn't happen and I applaud the filmmakers for that. A confrontation between him and Tom's character in a casino was quite strong. Tom carried a boatload of animosity and took it out on Nick. It was hard to watch someone take that kind of verbal abuse but at the same time, Nick created that for himself due to his past actions so it was hard to sympathize with him. My point is, when you make what's clearly the bad and wrong decision, you earned and deserve the consequence, and this aspect of the movie came through loud and clear.I really wish this movie didn't take the typical Hollywood route for its ending. Kurt Angle played a beast of a fighter yet he was defeated by Joel's character who wasn't built up to be a beast or a beast defeater. Nor was his trainer. Tom's character was. Nick was his trainer and he was too. Their path to victory was defined and believable. Joel and Tom played brothers and both had reasons for fighting and winning. That don't mean they should have pit them against each other in the finale. There could have been different plot devices used that could have led to one or both of them accomplishing their goal but not necessarily in the ring. Kurt's and maybe another character could have been used to make that happen. As it stands, as you watch the last part of the movie, you can see what's about to happen and you become disappointed because you went through all that good stuff, that great journey, only to be given what every other movie of this type gives.I'd hope there's an alternate ending to this with deleted scenes that tells a different last act because this movie could have been something near perfect and great. The story, the acting, the everything was great. Can't stress that enough. It's just the last act, man. It destroys a good thing. Gavin has a bright future ahead of him, that's for sure. I'd like to see him have the opportunity to do something unconventional and non-Hollywood. Something where his writing and directorial skills can shine properly if he's capable of it and I think he is based on this alone. Let the man tell his stories the way they need to be told, Hollywood, and that goes for all filmmakers who are being restrained by the system. Let's get America back to making respectable movies. Definitely go see Warrior and be completely entertained by the first 2 acts if you like dialogue, a slower pace, and solid acting but you've been warned about that last act. I give this 7 out of 10 stars. Woulda been higher if not for, well, you already know.
I was not entirely sure what to expect from 'Warrior.' Admittedly, the title is what put me off for a while. But being in the mood for Tom Hardy films recently, I decided to give it a go. I am glad I watched it.Tom Hardy was great in the film. His American accent was convincing enough, and his mysterious, tough-guy character was played well. Joel Edgerton was good, too. Just not as good as Hardy. Nick Nolte, however, stole the show in terms of acting. He played his role with perfection.The storyline was somewhat predictable, but that will always be expected from a film such as this. On the other hand, the fighting scenes were great and made the film very entertaining. They were very realistic, and a lot of the time will have you on the edge of your seat as though it's a real mixed martial arts fight you're watching, and you know one of the fighters.All in all, entertaining throughout, but it is a story you can probably guess the ending to before the film starts. It is definitely worth a watch.


                
I saw this movie yesterday. The movie is good. But, the story is nothing really new, too much unnecessary drama, clichés make this a 7/10 and nowhere close to 8. I also hated the fact that a not-so-good-and- experienced fighter with a little training and heart wins over much better fighters, not once but just way too many times. And that too, after taking a pounding every single time. I understand that he is one of the main characters but, come on!. When I watch movies such as this, I expect it to be a realistic but this one pushes some things way too far.Still a good movie but don't see the IMDb rating and think this is one of the best. Its not.
I can't with a straight face say this is a classic, nor with a beat-up (or even a drunk) face. However, it's definitely good. Earns **** out of ***** from me and I was impressed by Nolte's performance. The two brothers are fine, too, though. Acting is solid in Warrior, except for, IMO, most notably the kids and the blonde, but those are minor roles.Probably the best fighting film since Rocky (1976), but there are not that many good fighting films, I think. I mean, it used to be a guilty pleasure of me to watch some crappy fighting movies when I was a lot younger, but just for fun.Anyway, I think some shots or scenes were too shallow. It's also a bit predictable. It engaged me, though. No worries.Recommended.


                
Another transformational role for Hardy, who takes on a physical challenge of being a fighter with an animalistic toughness, that covers the sensitivity of a small boy.Whilst Warrior is pretty predictable and comparable to many other fighting films, it's still one to watch!


                
Warrior is defnitealy a very good movie. Its a simple, familiar story thats very predictable. Howeve, this doesnt matter because the film is very engrossing and at the end moving also. The actors all many to portray their characters in a complex way as not to give away too much at once. Nick Nolte as the father is the most convincing, particularly at the end when he is finally forced to notice his forgotten son. The characters are developed perfectly. Their background stories are more functional and predictable than interesting. In general, the film is pretty good. However, the characters do get lost in the second half because far too much time is spent in the ring rather than actually focusing on the characters. Its a good film and I would reccommend that people watch this film ahead of other similar films, such as The Fighter. 7/10


                
While not free of several sports film cliches, Warrior succeeds as a serious drama about two brothers who must reconcile a dark past. The plot is simple but directed with focus, anchored by three strong performances from Joel Edgerton, Tom Hardy, and Nick Nolte. The fight sequences are decently executed, functioning more to escalate the tension than provide spectacle.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. It's always a bit thrilling when a movie catches us off-guard and is much more than expected. Walking in, I was all set for a testosterone fueled fight fest featuring BS bravado and mounds of machismo. While that element is abundantly present, writer/director Gavin O'Connor wraps the fighting around a pretty interesting story about family, bravery, desperation, pride and forgiveness.The story begins with the convergence of a broken family - two brothers and their father. The split occurred many years ago, and without the details, we are able to piece together that dad (Nick Nolte) was a violent drunken ex-Marine and the mother planned to take the two boys and run. One of the brothers (Joel Edgerton) had fallen in love and decided to stay with dad. The other brother (Tom Hardy) went with mom and even nursed her through her final days of cancer prior to his joining the Marines. The three men have been incommunicado for years, until one day Tommy (Hardy) shows up on Nolte's doorstep.What sets this one apart is the details of each of the brother's stories, very little of which I will discuss here. There is a terrific scene on the Atlantic City beach where their demons confront each other and we see that so much pain and bitterness exists despite their having been teenagers at the time of the split. They each felt abandoned by the other. Now one is an angry ex-Marine and the other is a desperate physics teacher with a family. This story couldn't possibly end any place other than smack in the middle of an MMA cage fight! Their Dad (Nolte) had trained the boys as youth wrestlers and now a giant $5 million tournament is being held. Both brothers are carrying secrets and need money to solve their problems. Their secrets drive them to risk life and limb in the cage of this most brutal activity. To best describe these characters, Tom Hardy has the presence and physique of the guy you would never consider confronting in a bar fight. Joel Edgerton is the kind that your buddies would egg you on thinking you could probably take him. Instead you would end up in the back of an ambulance.As expected, and shown in the trailer, the MMA tournament ends with the two brothers facing off and guilt-riddled dad watching from the crowd. Despite the rowdiness and violence of the fighting, very little blood is shown. That's not what this movie is about. Instead we get many adrenaline-rushes from the spectacle of the fights, plus a montage of the training leading up to the big moment. This is a crowd-pleaser in the vein of "The Fighter", but not quite as mainstream given the MMA element.The two leads were each on my list of favorite movies last year. Joel Edgerton was in the excellent and under-the-radar "Animal Kingdom", while Tom Brady was in the mega-hit "Inception" and will play Bane in the upcoming Batman film. In this film, Edgerton has more freedom with his character, but Brady does a wonderful job of capturing the quiet intensity followed by roid rage in the ring. Most surprising is the fine job turned in by Nick Nolte. He really showed up for this one. Other support work comes from Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn and Frank Grillo. We also see former Olympic wrester Kurt Angle as the terrifying Russian MMA machine Yoba, and writer/director Gavin O'Connor as JJ Riley, the millionaire sponsoring the tournament.There will be comparisons made to both "Rocky" and "The Fighter" and both make sense. It is not quite at that level, but don't mistake this as some dumb fight movie made for teenage boys. There is a story and it provides further proof that men, no matter how hard they try, manage to screw up the whole family thing more often than not ... but in the end, they do try their best to make things better!
Movie gods be praised. Because after the laziest, most uneventful Australian winter at the cinemas that I can remember, the more impatient among us are just now seeing signs that things are about to pick up again. A quick scan of any cinema's day sessions shows an array of new films covering tastes all across the board, which is more than I could have said this time two weeks ago. Leading the charge of intrigue in the long run to the Academy Awards is Warrior, an emotional heavyweight that, on first impression, looks like it might just sneak in with a Best Picture nomination of its own.Once a promising young martial artist, Tommy (Tom Hardy) has recently returned from national service in Iraq still bearing a grudge against his lousy father (Nick Nolte) for his alcoholism and failure to keep the family together. Meanwhile, estranged brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton) is a physics teacher moonlighting as an amateur fighter- the only thing keeping a roof over his family's head. When the two hear of an MMA tournament pitting sixteen of the world's best middleweights against each other for a grand cash prize, each man decides to enter for very different reasons. Powerhouse performances from all three main actors are the strongest suit of Warrior. Edgerton plays off a strong script in developing an engaging character the audience can immediately empathise with, while Hardy displays impressive depth as the brooding, heart-of-stone Tommy. Starting out as a mostly bit-part actor in grit films, Hardy came to mass attention as whimsical fan favourite Eames in Inception. With this film, he proves he can take on more dramatic, challenging roles with equal success, and with a supporting role in Nolan's final Batman outing next year, 'promising' would be the greatest of understatements to describe how his career is shaping up.The standout, however, is Nolte. The masses are right to lavish praise on his Oscar-baiting performance; one that is certain to earn him at least a nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He is the greatest accompaniment to a film packed full of touching and highly emotive moments, and his role as the father desperately trying to rebuild a once happy home life leads to inevitable comparisons with last year's excellent The Fighter, which is by no means a bad thing. In fact, without giving anything away, it is arguable that the most emotional scenes of Warrior are on a heavier scale than those of The Fighter, which should be reason enough to go and see it.The entire film is beautifully shot, in particular the fighting scenes that set up the aforementioned emotional peaks. Subtle nods to genre-moulders Rocky and Raging Bull create the most immersive cinematic experience possible short of walking out with a broken nose. Warrior continues the recent trend of films set in Pittsburgh (always good news for an adopted Steeler/Penguin/Pirate such as myself), a perfect fit due to its naturally gloomy, industrial surroundings, which complement the serious (and occasionally miserable) subject matter nicely.The film loses some points for an overly predictable second act. Admittedly, the climax is quite original and never fails to maintain the viewer's attention, but the path taken to get there is somewhat stale. This results in a handful of convenient moments that we're supposed to believe could really happen, which is too much of a stretch for a film that takes itself as seriously as this one. For example, an injury suffered by one of the competitors thrusts Brendan into a tournament (at a time when he is a relative nobody in the world of MMA) supposedly restricted to the world's most accomplished fighters. Another such moment during the tournament itself is equally lazy (which can't be divulged lest I give away major spoilers) and prevents the film from pushing its way into the 'all-time classics' department. But in the end, these are downfalls, not dealbreakers, and can't keep Warrior from earning a respectable score and a personal recommendation.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review.*


                
This movie is F-ing retarded. How the F--- does Tommy lose to the retard teacher? He's a f---ing beast and f---ing knocks ACTUAL fighters out in 5 seconds. Come on. And retard teacher over there is taking about 1000 hits to the face and ribs. His whole body is broken after the first f---ing fight. Not to mention how hard Tommy rips on him for the first few rounds of their fight. smh..this movie can smd (except Tommy's fights minus the last one are f---ing' awesome).Also retard teacher over there is a pussy. Like wtf man, he just takes it up the butt and then goes for a pussy submission move. In a real fight, it'd never f-ckingwork cause no real f---ing fighter would get caught in such a lame ass strategy. Especially after seeing it happen again and again in every single fight. Like seriously, every one of the teacher's fights ends up the same. Gets his ass kicked for first 4 rounds. Starts bleeding and s--t. Gets some f---ing inspiration that he pulls out of his ass. And then somehow wins the f---ing fight.
I don't really know what to tell you. If I had to explain this movie to you, it would sound like a typical average brainless Hollywood-movie.The Thing is though, this movie has something. I don't know what it is, maybe it is best described with "heart". This movie got heart.I had never expected I actually might get emotional from this movie, after a brutal fight between two men who look like killing-machines, but it managed to do so. Once again, I have no idea why.I have to say though, the IMDb-rating shouldn't be this high. It shouldn't be in the TOP 250 movies of all time.


                
What happened after the fight and where the father went before the fight .
In my opinion, i think the end was better if "Cuba" win the match and tommy take the revenge for his brother I think it will be more emotional and the viewer would like it
It starts off slow with a little mystery about who the characters are. As time goes on in the movie everything comes to light with all the characters. The problem I had with this movie is the ending lacked and left it up for the audience to decide what happened. All in all a good movie to watch after dinner but not a party centered movie


                
This film tells the story of a high school physics teacher who is having financial troubles despite working multiple jobs. He turns back to his boxing days, and decides to enter a tournament with a prize of five million dollars."Warrior" has a captivating story. It tells an man unlikely to stand a chance in a boxing tournament, climbing his way up the top. The emotional story is further augmented by the appearances of his estranged father and younger brother. The boxing scenes are intense, and wow, there is a whole hour of boxing scenes at the end, which is way more than other boxing films I've seen lately.


                
All I knew about this film was the leading British actor, and that it was something to do with fighting, I didn't know if it was boxing or wrestling, turned out to be something sort of in-between the two, I was looking forward to watching it anyway. Basically Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) is a former U.S. Marine haunted by a tragic past, he returns to his hometown in Pittsburgh, he has never fully forgiven his father Paddy Conlon (Oscar nominated Nick Nolte) for his alcohol-driven abuse, Paddy has now returned to being Catholic. Paddy was formerly Tommy's coach, he enlists his father to train him for a winner-takes-all MMA (Mixed Martial Arts) tournament called Sparta, awarding $5,000,000, the biggest prize in the history of the sport, but Tommy does want Paddy to attempt to reconcile their relationship. Tommy trains hard and blazes a violent path towards the title prize, his brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton) is struggling to make ends meet as a public school teacher, he is a former MMA fighter, he decides to return to the ring at an amateur level to provide for his family. Years may have passed, but recriminations and betrayals in the past have kept Brendan bitterly estranged from both his brother Tommy and his father Paddy, but Brendan's unlikely rise as an underdog draws them closer together. The brothers are set on a collision course to confront each other, Tommy and Brendan must face their demons that tore them apart, and eventually of course comes the final intense battle, it is unclear who will win in the fight between the brothers, but after it is all over they do reconcile as their father looks on smiling. Also starring Jennifer Morrison as Tess Conlon, The Grey's Frank Grillo as Frank Campana, Small Soldiers' Kevin Dunn as Principal Zito, Bryan Callen as Bryan Callen, Kurt Angle as Koba and The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich as Dan Taylor. Hardy definitely makes a great impression as the aggressive fighter who tries to separate himself from his family, Edgerton is as compelling as his tough brother and eventually competitor, and I can see why Nolte was nominated the Oscar for his performance. Mixed martial arts has increased in popularity and really rivals boxing and professional wrestling, this is probably the first film I've seen that really covers it, the fighting sequences certainly grab your attention with their brutality, besides that it works well as a story of a broken family slowly coming back together through, all in all it is a most watchable sports drama. Very good!
The sports genre isn't exactly the best genre around. There are some classics like Rocky and Raging Bull but most modern ones seem to have the same problems. They reuse the same clichés, they barely feel original at all, and most of them are predictable from the very start. But every now and then, a good sports movie comes out. Million Dollar Baby was an inspirational movie with a shocking and heartbreaking finale and 42 was well-acted, well-written, and pretty original in terms of clichés. Then there's Warrior.After ex-marine Tommy Conlon returns home, his father trains him to enlist for SPARTA, the biggest wrestling event in martial arts history. But he finds out that he has to go up against his brother.This movie contains a simple plot which may not seem too impressive but the way its emotional power moves you is how impressive it is. Both brothers are damaged in their own way and we witness how they cope with their problems throughout the movie. At the end, they finally confront and face off in an unforgettable climax which will blow you away.This movie is made better by its terrific acting. Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy both give terrific performances. Their performances are emotionally powerful and they engage the viewer to the movie's plot. Hardy may be known for playing Bane but he plays his performance in this movie much better. It's a shame that this isn't the movie which got him famous.As for the music, the score is really nothing special as it consists mostly of tunes we've already heard of but the soundtrack is the shining part to it. It contains a huge range of note and chords and it perfectly sets the mood for certain scenes. Some scenes like the ending wouldn't be as good without its soundtrack.As much as I'd like to call this movie a masterpiece, there is only one thing I didn't like about it. I didn't really feel that the military aspect was necessary for 1 reason. It wasn't really necessary for a sports movie given what was going on in it. It felt kind of out of place and it could've been left out. It served kind of as a distraction from the main plot also.So in conclusion, this is an amazing sports movie which shows that while the sports genre isn't as amazing as it once was, it's not completely long gone. This is an amazing movie. It could've been a masterpiece without the military aspect but it's still definitely worth a watch because of how well-written it is.


                
I've given the movie 8-stars because it is top quality entertainment, no doubt about that, but I do have a few minor criticisms.A movie should never sow doubts of credibility in your mind. When this happens you lose the illusion that you're there, that it's really happening, the immersion factor, which is what happened to me.I'm not a huge fan of MMA or UFC simply because I don't have regular access to it, but I do watch three or four fights from time to time. So where was the blood? Sometimes there can be pools of the stuff. My biggest criticism though was the three arm lock victories IN A ROW. Do you think it's easy to win by an arm lock tap-out victory? Sure, one quick punch, or flurry of punches can end a fight quickly, but not three arm locks against three different opponents. Also, the final, where Conlan (the arm lock expert) breaks his brother's arm to effectively win the tournament, was a little too much one trick pony for me. OK, it's perfectly feasible to win an MMA fight with an arm lock tap-out, but that third victory was the spell-breaking moment of the film.Normally when I'm thrown out of my believability zone so heavily, I downgrade my review to a six or seven, but up until then this was 9.5 material. I'm disappointed because this could have become a repeat watching experience, growing in stature each time, instead of being a good film, worth the entry fee, but ultimately flawed.With heavy heart, this film sinks into the pack of decent fight films, but nothing more.
Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) returns home after a tour of duty in Iraq and re-unites with his estranged father Paddy (Nick Nolte). Paddy is a recovering alcoholic who wronged the family in the past. Tommy is a former wrestling star and although he wants nothing to do with his father he recognizes that Paddy is a great trainer and asks Paddy to train him for a mixed martial arts tournament with a five million dollar purse.Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) is Tommy's older brother. He works as a school teacher but is having trouble making ends meet. Brendan is a former UFC fighter and when he hears about the five million dollar event he decides to try and enter it himself to save his house from getting foreclosed on.None of the family's members get along. Tommy and Brendan have not spoken for many years and Tommy feels as though he was deserted by Brendan. Both Tommy and Brendan hate their father because of his abusive alcoholic past. All of this tension comes to head when the two sons both reach the final and are forced to fight each other.I have to give Warrior credit for choosing to have the story revolve around the two brothers, they both have interesting back stories and you want them both to win. The problem is that one of them has to lose and that alienates some of the audience who won't like the conclusion of the film.I am struggling to not give too much away here for those who haven't seen the film but, for me this movie was somewhat like the Star Wars episode I the Phantom Menace. The most interesting character in that movie turned out to be the bad guy (Darth Maul) and instead of feeling elated when he died (sorry for the spoiler for that one person out there that didn't see Phantom Menace.) I felt more let down then elated. That's how I felt when I left Warrior. (No one actually dies in Warrior, this was just a metaphor for what I was feeling not actual events.)Thomas Hardy and Nick Nolte are exceptional in this movie. This is some of the best acting I have seen from Nolte since The Good Thief (2002). Joel Edgerton does a decent job as well but his character is really just a laundry list of movie clichés. He doesn't want to fight but he has to do it for the money, his wife doesn't want him to fight and there is tension in their relationship, it just goes on and on. It almost as if Gavin O'Connor just watched every movie ever made about the guy nobody thinks will win and used every gimmick to create Brendan Conlon.I know a lot of people are comparing this film to Rocky but I think a closer comparison would be Bloodsport (1988) with Jean-Claude Van Damme.
When I had first seen the preview for Gavin O'Connor's 'Warrior' I wanted to say that this is going to be a post - any idea we have ever had of any fighter from 'Rocky' to last years 'The Fighter' starring Mark Wahlberg and Christian Bale. Now, after seeing it I'm not so sure if that statement holds the same amount of weight.This isn't your typical fighter. This is also a long distance sibling rivalry between Tommy (Tom Hardy) and Brandon (Joel Edgerton). The fighters trade their stories in the same way we've seen done in movies like 'American Gangster' and 'Brooklyn's Finest' only with different bumps in the road that are just as contemporary as threatening home foreclosures and trying to outrun demons, people have recorded and posted on youtube. American Gangster also made caring equally, for both characters so much easier, whereas in Warrior you really can't know enough about Hardy's character.In between these stories is another one about a father (Nick Nolte) trying to rekindle his relationship with these two fighters, but the most I really want to say about that is from the beginning of the film Hardy almost brought me to tears with his first monologue. The relationship Hardy has with his father is what makes his story so much better than his counterpart's. Until then, both men are in training for the main event Sparta that could possibly be fought against each other.With all of that, it takes about maybe an hour and twenty minutes to get to any real fighting. But I think O'Connor wanted to give us everything he had to offer in cinema before this pay-per view. A taste of what Hardy can do in that ring is given here and there throughout, but it isn't until Sparta do we see exactly what we have been waiting for. I don't really know how much more I need to say to tell you that this is what makes Warrior Tom Hardy's film.Man to man, Tom Hardy as Tommy, in O'Connor's 'Warrior' is the post apocalyptic beast that I have always wanted to be.Now, I can see why Christopher Nolan cast him as Bane in next summer's final installment to the Dark Knight series. And by 'Bronson,' Nolan probably knew this long before Warrior. However it's this one that showed me what Bane has in store for Batman next summer. For those that have not seen Bronson it will certainly show you.


                
