My first glance, I thought it's gonna be like The Fighter since this film is about fighting sports and there's a brother relationship. But here, the brothers are against to each other. The film doesn't really spend so much time dealing with their relationship. It mostly goes to the father of the main leads. The film is unnecessarily long but the third act has plenty of exciting MMA fights. If you're expecting this to be like The Fighter then you'll be disappointed. But Warrior has its own drama piece.What's intriguing about this film is the idea of making these brothers fight on a match. Most of the film is an exposition to their lives. Telling what happened to them from the past and bringing a lot of emotions. There are only few scenes of Tommy and Brendan being together but all we know they're against to each other. It's a family struggle.When it comes to the third act, it's all about the fighting. The fighting is pretty exciting. It's also too suspenseful because the first 90 minutes of the film is getting to know these characters. Fans of MMA and UFC will enjoy the whole third act. No matter what, Tom Hardy is always awesome. The film has plenty of heart and emotions. Most of these goes to Nick Nolte. He made all of his scenes compelling. I think Joel Edgerton is bland but his fighting is pretty good.I'm a bit disappointed after watching this because I thought it's gonna be like The Fighter but still this is pretty good. More darker but not quite better though. The action is better. If there is one thing that is similar to The Fighter then that probably be the filmmaking. The camera's shaky, a little music score, but a whole lot of style. Well, this is not True Story but the drama works mostly to the scenes of Nick Nolte. Since he nails most of the drama, Hardy and Edgerton nails the action. Warrior has a lot of emotions and a bit of bromance.


                
This amazing family drama movie from 2011 made megastars out of then-unknown actors, Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy. Both really put great performances in and out of the ring. Both really took a beaten, to make the cage fighting seem real. Edgerton suffer from a torn MCL, while Tom Hardy suffered a broken toe, broken ribs, and a broken finger. It takes a lot of guts just to do that. Not only does Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy, make very brutality and believable gritty fights, but I love how both were able to touch the heart-strings as well. The intensity from both of them, made this movie, very entertaining. Directed by Gavin O'Connor, the movie tells the stories of two estranged brothers, Troubled Iraq vet, Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) & unemployed and indebt teacher, Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) who enter a Mixed Martial Arts tournament to compete with each other, for their own good moral reasons. Who is going to win? Watch the movie to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I love the fact, that the movie doesn't make, a bad seed out of Tommy or Brendan. Both characters have their faults, and their good side. However, I do believe that their one-dimensional fighting styles, don't really match up with their personality. Don't get me wrong, it's cool to see, Tom Hardy all buff out and knocking people out, with his striking ability, but it makes little to no sense in the context of the character's history. After all, wasn't this man once a former wrestling prodigy? Wouldn't he be, doing more takes down, and arm holds than his brother, Brendan!? I don't get it! Another problem with the film is the huge gaps in logic within the story structure. A good example is how Tommy even got back to the US, if he supposedly went AWOL in Iraq. You would think, that wouldn't be easy. Another problem with the film is how the film, has no epilogue, so we never see the repercussions of Tommy's desertion nor find out what becomes of the family he promised to support. What happen to them!? Brendan's story arch isn't any better. Brendan being forced into fighting by economic reasons, to supplement his income is bit of a joke. It doesn't make any sense, since most amateur fighters make little to no money at all. Most of them, pursuit this dangerous career, because it's their dream job. Brendan had no reason to go back into fighting; after all, he was a physic teacher! Colleges would pay, good money for his teaching ability. Brendan's main flaw is his pride. His absolute refusal to file for bankruptcy or move to a smaller house, even though his wife, Tess (Jennifer Morrison) would rather take that option than watch him risk his life in the ring is be too selfish than inspiring to watch. I know, that Brendan Conlon was based off, real-life math teacher turn UFC fighter, Rich Franklin, but unlike Brendan in the film, Franklin went from teaching math to fighting, because his love for the sport, not economic reason. In my opinion, it would make more sense that Brendan went back into fighting, because that's what he wanted to do; not because he had to. Another thing that seem a bit illogically in the film is how both men whom seem, a bit amateurism in their fighting records, were able to get into the Sparta winner-takes-all competition at all. You would think, that a high-profile, winner-takes-all competition with a $5 million purse would be fill with more season trained fighters than amateur fighters. The mixer of amateurs with mostly unsanctioned fighting records with pro-fighters seem a bit too jarring to be taken seriously. It's like if Daniel LaRusso from 1984's Karate Kid was against Martial Arts Master, Bruce Lee. It's kinda unbelievable to see that ever happening in real life. Although the competition action sequences takes itself pretty realistically; there were too many terrible calls from the ref and judges to make any the fights in this film, seem 100% realistic in real fighting accuracy. I give the movie, more like 75% in that. Still, the idea that a MMA sport event is a brutal blood sport where competitors are able to continue to fight with a broken arm is also a highly doubtful probability. I know that it was played up for dramatic effect, but in reality, getting your arm broken would result in an immediate stoppage, no matter how much you want to continue fighting. While, I have to say, the performances in the ring were really great, despite some flaws, I have to say, that the performances out of the ring, were a little better. Most of the best parts in the film, are the interactions between the family members. The movie deals with some weighty mature content that most people might find, a little too uneasily, to watch. The conflicted relationship between fathers and sons, the estrangement of brothers, PTSD, alcoholism, inferiority, abandonment issues and family debts are all melodrama clichés used at its best. Nick Nolte as the boys' father, Paddy, a retired, recovering alcoholic boxer is outstanding. I was really glad, he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, for this role, that year. His recovery and his will to redeem himself, made for a very inspiring side story. Another great part of this film is the soundtrack by Mark Isham. The track 'Listening to the Beethoven', is amazing. Not only that, but the music that came along with it, such as the band, the Natural's song 'About Today" was gripping to hear. Overall: This underdog emotional fighting story was a major hit for me. Tons of manly tears from me. A great inspiring punch, to knock some sense in you, if you're feeling out of the fight. A must-watch.
This Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton film about two brothers fighting in a Mixed Martial Arts competition is so much better then I went in expecting. Filled with heart and passion, what could have been another wrestling/boxing/sports movie was elevated by the fact that it was brilliantly acted and directed. Warrior is a pretty standard and straight forward story, and may be let down a bit by its predictability, but it overcomes these issues because it is so much better overall then many of its similar cousins out there. The performances by Hardy, Edgerton and Nick Nolte are astonishing, and drive Warriors to being a great film instead of just a good one. The direction is inspired and the cinematography truly captures the atmosphere and violence of the sport the main characters are taking part in.Occasionally, Warriors uses clichés, but again, these are thrashed by the heart and emotional story that they're used in. The screenplay is where the film struggles most, but it is almost always entertaining so it can be easily ignored. Warriors could have been just another Rocky clone, but instead it goes above and beyond expectations by focusing more on the characters instead of the sport the film revolves around, something many Rocky clones don't understand. Warriors is much better then expected.4 / 5


                
Review (1~5)#Content: Script 4 | Acting 5 | Cinematography 4 | Film Editing 5#Visual: Costume Design 4 | Makeup & Hairstyling 5 | Scenic Design 4 | Lighting 5 | Visual Effects 5#Sound: Score & Soundtracks 4 | Sound Editing & Mixing 4#Overall (1~10): 8


                
Warrior is directed by Gavin O'Connor and stars Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton. This movie is about two brothers that both have experience with fighting and my god was this movie good. The thing that makes this movie so great are the characters, they are interesting, deep and you get what they are coming from.I especially enjoyed watching Tom Hardy's character, when he's on the scene you can see his fire, especially in the fighting scenes. You can see that his character has been through a lot and he takes all of his anger out on people he's fighting against and it was very well acted by Tom Hardy.Joel Edgerton was also very good in this movie, i'm actually a big fan of his movies and I thought him and Hardy were both excellent in this movie. It is also a very stunning looking film, sometimes during the fighting scenes the camera would shake a lot so it was kind of hard sometimes to see what's going on but other than that it's a fantastic movie. The ending of this movie was very good and sad for me. It had that feeling of brothers in the end always love each other and care for each other which was very deep for me.
I'm not a big fan of boxing/fighting movies as they tend to always have the same key plot points : an underdog fighter with personal/family issues must find a trainer, preferably one with unorthodox methods, in order to compete against the top contestant. He usually wins at the end of an exhausting fight, and in the process, makes peace with his past and proves that believing in yourself accomplishes miracles. We've seen it dozens of times, from the originals that started it all : Rocky and Raging Bull, to Million Dollar Baby, Cinderella Man and the more recent Southpaw and Creed. And yet, judging by the box office results and the number of Oscar nominations, it seems we and the industry can't get enough of it! What makes a great fighting movie then ? What makes it stand out ? As we've seen, it's certainly not the story; it's not even the fight scenes themselves. It's how realistically the fighter goes from underdog to champion while working on his personal issues. The physical transformation must parallel an emotional journey. In short, it's the acting, which explains why these films are usually nominated for best performance awards.Warrior is a great example of that. On top of great performances by Edgerton, Hardy and especially Nolte, the film introduces a few differences from the genre that will make it stick in your memory : instead of the usual boxer/trainer dynamics, we follow the rise of two estranged brothers and their father (yes, two outsiders is better than one !). And the combat sport is mixed martial arts, which is a nice change of pace and will probably help make MMA and the UFC more visible. Real UFC fights can be really violent and bloody, but Warrior doesn't suffer from its PG-13 rating, as it manages to portray the sheer brutality of the fights in a convincing way.All in all, Warrior is a great surprise : even if, like me, combat sports are not your cup of tea, it will still move you! Warrior truly is an underrated movie that deserves its spot in IMDb's Top 250. 8 out of 10.


                
Warrior is an impressive movie. It's not every day that you find a story that makes you feel conflicted about who should win. The fights are raw and realistic without being excessively violent. Plus, Warrior has as much of an emotional punch as it does actual punching. My wife and I both enjoyed this film.


                
I watched it a long time ago for the first time
Then , after that , everytime I get the chance I watch it again 
Warrior is a film you simply never want to stop watching


                
Honestly, beware. This movie had some intense scenes! I've cried multiple times, which I rarely ever do while watching movies, but Warrior has proved itself otherwise.With amazing acting that got me straight into the story (Tom Hardy is one of my faves!), to an incredible storyline itself - Warrior is definitely a movie with some depth. The infamous plot twist that occurred between the brothers fell in my taste too. It was amazing how many emotions I've felt throughout the movie, and so have the characters themselves.


                
Mixed Martial Arts isn't a sport we see much of in the movies. Some people might say it isn't a sport at all and in "Warrior" one character describes it as a cockfight, referring to the fighters as animals. In this movie it's certainly brutal but then movies that feature any form of boxing usually are. Gavin O'Connor's film is about a couple of estranged brothers competing against each other in a Mixed Martial Arts tournament and is a wholly admirable picture.You can guess from the title and the subject matter that this is a man's movie, or at least a male-orientated one, which means it manages to hide the inevitable sentimentality behind a veil of blood, sweat and tears. It's very well written by O'Connor, Anthony Tambakis and Cliff Dorfman and brilliantly acted by Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy as the brothers and an Oscar-nominated Nick Nolte as their equally estranged father while there's also great work from Kevin Dunn as a high-school principal, Frank Grillo as Edgerton's coach and Jennifer Morrison as his wife. It's also superbly photographed and edited and how if failed to get a Best Picture nomination is something of a mystery.


                
Stripped down to its basic components 'Warrior' is a family drama depicting the relationships between two brothers and their father who are backed up with the memories of his alcoholism and domestic abuse from an early age. But with the formula of boxing added to this equation we see their emotions shown not only in their personal traits but also through outbursts of violence and other physical movements, which are shown in powerfully effective and moving ways.Brendan Colon (Joel Edgerton) is an elementary school teacher of physics who lives with his loving wife and two children, but within this picture perfect life is presented with the obstacle of bills and the fear of his home being repossessed. On the other side we are introduced to Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy), who is an ex marine and is seen as dark character using alcohol and drugs to cope with his past. With their past experience in boxing from their father, Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte) the situations are now in motion, forcing them to make a living through what they know best.We are shown through contrived situation after another, which unfortunately runs it's course early on but we know it's to get to where the situation is heading. The final confrontation between Tommy and Brendan where all the emotions they have built up from their father, separate lives and what they're fighting for now will come into play. Though we know this is the path we are heading it doesn't matter as the payoff is satisfying, but the journey is far greater. We go through the emotions that the characters themselves go through which is a rare feeling but because of this end up caring for them all by the end as we are shown, despite their physique none are perfect or special, only human.There is a clear separation between both brothers as Tommy moved away with his mother where as Brendan stayed by his fathers' side before eventually abandoning him. Neither brother shows much care of affection towards their higher arch with Brendan requesting only to be rang by him and Tommy using him only as a trainer, maintaining an emotionally distance. Nick Nolte brings a powerful performance showing the anguish he is faced as he battles his alcoholism to try and rekindle the love between him and his sons which makes for a heart wrenching character. Due to the separation of the brothers at that early age it is seen as a wall is dividing them, setting the sides, but you never root for one with the way the film depicts it's un-biased views.Emotions within these characters raise throughout the whole film and none more so that within the ring itself. Early on the fights are shot on steady cams but that term is used loosely as it's hard to grasp on what's going on and who's doing what. But this is soon calmed down and we are given more thrilling and engaging conflicts. There are whole sections when are protagonists don't talk but we see through the force of their bodies and facial expressions what exactly their goals are and how they will stop at nothing to reach them. The fight is their place to let out their raw emotions in the only way they know how and with each fight you want to cheer and punch your fist into the air which is when you then realize how engrossed and involved you are into the film.It's a rarity in modern cinema to become so attached to a small set of characters within such a small time so that by the end of your film your eyes may even fill up with tears, but it works. The film felt like it needed to be ten or twenty minutes longer to wrap a few things up but it is still left on a strong, abrupt point without over doing it. 'Warrior' is a strong drama, which hits you so hard; it may even knock you out.


                
I went to an early screening of this movie with my bf and all I can say is this is my favorite movie of the year. It's poignant and entertaining with lots of action in the second half.We follow two brothers who enter the ring for different purposes with different style of fighting. The question is who will take it all.I don't know much about MMA fighting but Warrior really hyped me up. I couldn't stop flinching or jerking during the fight scenes cuz they look so real.Overall, Warrior is a must see. I'm so glad I watched it. The only problem I had was the length of the film. It was over two hours long. Although, it did felt necessary in order for us to understand the characters vividly which allows me a reason to root for them. And the finale -- perfect!


                
I'm just going to put spoiler just to be safe because I hate it when anything is given away in movies..I'm just going to start off this review with the best part of the movie and the acting was pretty damn good. The music.Whoever did the music for this movie is a true genius. My face was completely glued to the TV screen and the music just made my heart beat much faster. Especially during the tournament, every fight that the brothers were in felt as if they were saving the world. My body was shaking because of that movie and I felt so compelled to the screen. BUT, the music isn't the only thing. I think the father and Tommy were played by the perfect actors. Especially the father. His emotions and when he gets drunk again is impressively done. Honestly I wouldn't be surprised if he wasn't acting, they just caught him while he was hammered. Tommy to me felt as if 'nothing matters anymore.' And he played that damn well. When they find out who he really is, he acts calm and not surprised. I can't say much bad about this movie only that i want 6 more of them to be made.
A powerhouse of strong emotions, rousing action & gut-wrenching drama, Warrior is an ingeniously crafted & expertly balanced tale that bears every genre-cliché in its plot, has a predictable storyline and yet it manages to leave most of its viewers emotionally drained & immensely satisfied in the end. The dark horse of its year that came out of nowhere to surprise & stun almost everyone, this underrated masterpiece is in my opinion one of the greatest sports films ever made.The story concerns two estranged brothers who enter the MMA (Mixed Martial Arts) tournament & covers their struggling relationship with each other as well as their father. Dealing with the themes of redemption, forgiveness & indomitable will of the human spirit in a thoughtful manner, Warrior is heavy on the emotional side of the drama that makes us really care for its deftly scripted characters which in turn makes its action segments all the more intense, gripping & compelling.Written & directed by Gavin O'Connor, the movie is brilliantly directed with O'Connor perfectly weighing the emotional drama with brutal fight sequences both in the script & its execution on the film canvas. Cinematography is another plus as it makes excellent use of camera angles, focus & tracking shots to immerse us into its story while editing paces the whole film in a vigilant manner. And I've got nothing but praise for Mark Isham's remarkable score that keeps the emotions, tension & excitement alive from start to finish.Coming to the performances, Warrior features a reliable cast in Joel Edgerton, Tom Hardy & Nick Nolte and all three have done a fabulous job in their given roles. Although Edgerton is the most stable of the three just like his character in the film, Tom Hardy is absolutely sensational, brutal & unstoppable in his role while Nick Nolte packs in with an intensely emotional performance as their father. Add to that, the MMA fight scenes are pretty accurate in its depiction, the ring-side commentary is even better & the entire tournament makes us cheer like our favourite sport does in real life.Above anything else, I think the best thing about Warrior is its overall treatment & the sincere manner in which it explores its themes. The first half of the story beautifully lays down the groundwork for the next half by placing significant emphasis on its characters & their lives. Each characters' emotions, motivation & decision has a genuine feel to it and so when it all inevitably explodes during the tournament, the knockout punch is strongly felt and in the end, it becomes all the more difficult to choose a side as we don't want either to lose.On an overall scale, Warrior should be used as a template for anyone looking to make a sports film. It takes its drama seriously, it deals with its sport segments in an authentic manner & it explores its themes without stuffing it in your face. Superbly directed, deftly written, skilfully photographed, tightly edited, magnificently scored & packed with vibrant performances, Warrior is one of the best films of its year, one of the prime examples of its genre & one of the most rewarding cinematic payoffs in recent memory. Strongly recommended.


                
Somehow I missed this movie in 2011. Recently while browsing IMDb Top 250, this movie grabbed my attention. Boy, it was something. This is one of the best movies I've seen in recent times. It holds you from start to end. The punching & fighting scenes are bang on. Star-Cast for the movie has done a great job. Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton go neck to neck. Where Tom plays an angry-raging character, Joel plays the sensible family fighter. Tom has way less shots in ring as compared to Joel, but they are solid. Jennifer Morrison also justifies to her role and looks appealing & attractive in the movie. For WWE fans, Kurt Angle provides some entertainment with his ring tactics.Direction & Screenplay of Gavior O'Connor stands out in the movie. This surely goes as the biggest movie of his career. This movie deserves to be in Top List of All Time Boxing hits with Rocky Series, Cindrella Man, Million Dollar Baby etc.There is hardly any part of the movie which you feel like skipping and grabbing a beer. If you are watching this, make sure you have all the Beers, Cold Drinks, Nachos, Pop Corns etc. handy before the start. Trust me, you will not feel like breaking the flow.


                
The movie "Warrior" is a tale of two brothers who chose to take separate paths to escape the burden of their alcoholic father. However, both decide to take up fighting to help with their family's finances. Brendan (Joel Edgerton), a teacher, fights in strip club parking lots to make a little extra money to prevent his family from filing for bankruptcy. Tommy (Tom Hardy), Brendan's brother, is a Marine but runs away from that life after his best friend is killed in combat. When Tommy returns back home, he becomes homeless and seeks refuge at his father's house. To fulfill a promise to his fallen comrade's family, he begins fighting for money at the local gym. While the brothers train for their upcoming fights, they see an ad for a UFC tournament in which the winner takes home one million dollars. After seeing this ad, the brothers decide that they will embark on a journey to fight until the end.For the critical intention of the movie "Warrior", one may conclude that family will stick together no matter what differences may arise. For example, the characters Tommy and Brendan did not get along for majority of the storyline, yet in the end they set aside their personal differences to show that they still love and care for each other. In conclusion to this a family through all the rough times and heartbreak, a family will always love each other and always be there.I believe this movie was phenomenal. The storyline of the heartbreak and betrayal turning into forgiveness and bringing a long lost family back together once again will capture anyone's heart. The actors played an outstanding performance in the film and made me feel like I was right there with them. It will leave everyone feeling triumphant in the end.
Here's an odd thing: Warrior is unoriginal, predictable, clichéd and (almost) formulaic, yet it still manages to be one of the most, entertaining, powerful, moving and brilliant films I've seen in the past few years.It basically, as you probably are aware, revolves around the UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship) and MMA, which is a bludgeoning blend of, well, whatever you like really. The fight sequences here are much more brawl-like and despite a PG-13 rating, are a brutal flurry of punches and elbows; which thanks to Gavin O'Connor's impressive direction allow the viewer to actually feel each blow, to occasional cringe-worthy effect.At the centre of the film are three marvellous performances from Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton and Nick Nolte. Unsurprisingly, Hardy is practically impeccable, portraying a ex Marine, who's become a perfect storm of directed rage with strong emotional issues, which is wonderfully evident on screen to the point where his screen presence is almost intimidating. However, this makes it harder for him to win our sympathies, unlike Edgerton and Nolte; the former is a completely nice guy, in contrast to Hardy's angry and brooding unpleasantness. He is unusually liked by his class, referred to as "Mr. C", a loving father and husband. In the hands of a lesser actor this genuine good guy could have become sickly sentimental, but Edgerton's charm and charisma manages to make his character work and easily likable. Nolte delivers a magnificent piece of acting, deserving of that Oscar nomination. His performance is so good, that he even manages to make a woefully clichéd line like "If you could find some space in the bottom of your heart...", heartfelt and moving. He is truly a joy in it.With O'Connor's fantastic direction the film pulls on the heartstrings whether it's the emotional family drama or thrilling fights. That the two brothers eventually face other comes as no surprise, but it has a wonderful twist to it, as by the time we get to the climax you don't want either fighter to lose. Its emotional peak is the sort which finds you're insides singing in a stirring fashion. So overall, while hardly original, it is a great film that I wholeheartedly love, which means a lot, considering the fact that I don't enjoy sporting films.


                
Great movie in the tradition of previous fight epics, great performances all round, but exceptional ones from Tom Hardy and Nick Nolte. Tom Hardy felt menacing throughout, Nick Nolte portrayed the repentent father brilliantly, best I've seen from him for a long time.... superb acting from both!
Really surprised it only got one oscar nomination and no win, deserved more.
Not a super classic storyline, bit far fetched at times, but it helped push the drama to the predictable brother vs brother climactic ending.


                
Even tho the storyline could be explained in 15seconds - this movie gives you everything you can expect from a great fighting movie. well done


                
If all the wives of WWII were like Brendan's wife Tess, we would speak German and Japanese today! Seems like all Hollywood movies portray wives and girl friends unsupportive!
In Warrior, Gavin O'Connor's surprisingly elegiac drama about a quest for a MMA title, familiarity with the sport is unnecessary because, ultimately, this movie is more about the dark, bloody conflicts within the human heart than it is about what transpires in the cage. Most sports films (and fight films in particular) are, to one degree or another, about winning. Warrior illustrates that there can be loss in a win and victory in a defeat. It's not what happens during the final bout that defines Connor's picture, but what occurs immediately afterwards. The acting is top notch with both Engerton and Hardy looking and acting the part. This film, among others solidified Tom Hardy's credentials.


                
In recent years we have seen a great deal of social realism in sports movies like in The Fighter and The Wrestler. Warrior also sets out to do that with Mixed Martial Arts with a little bit of the Rocky thrown in.Warrior tells the story of two brothers, Tommy Riordan (Tom Hardy) and Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton). Tommy is a ex-marine who returns home from Iraq after 14 years to Pittsburgh to his father's, Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte), doorstep. Paddy is a recovering alcoholic who use to beat his wife. Lost and angry Tommy turns to MMA, joining a gym and surprising beats a top middleweight contender. He asks his father to train him. Brendan lives in the suburbs of Philadelphia with his wife Tess (Jennifer Morrison) and his two young daughters. He is a former UFC fighter turned High School physics teacher. The couple are struggling financially and with the bank about to take their house Brendan fights in street fights. In the world of MMA a new tournament has been created, Sparta, a 48 hour tournament where the winner can win $5 Million and both brothers enter it.Warrior was directed by Gavin O'Connor and it was advertised that it was from the director of Miracle, another sports movie, but he also showed that he could do gritty urban set movies with Pride and Glory. He shows a lot of skill with this sports film and shows some style. When shooting in inner city the film uses a grey colour filter and in the suburbs it is lighter and brighter. One of my favourite moments was two training montages at the same time, shot using multiple screens like 24, showing action going on at the same time and showing two different training styles, Tommy taking a more basic, old-skool approach, whilst Brendan has a more modern, scientific method. Despite its long running time Warrior actually flew by. We get to know the know the characters in the build up and developed and the fights scenes show MMA to be a really tough, brutal sport. I liked the fact that rival fighters were not made out to be total dicks but simply as rival athletics and seeing how tough the sport is the writers didn't need to show much well.Warrior also has a great cast, Hardy and Edgerton are both excellent, but it was Nolte was absolutely brilliant and he properly get a best supporting actor Oscar nod. He was so natural and believable as a man trying to be good, atone for his past sins and try to get close to his sons despite them not wanting anything to do with him. He was a tragic character and Nolte's performance and role reminded me a lot of Mickey Rourke's in The Wrestler, a character trying to make amends with his past sins. Hardy is of course a very talented actor as we have seen in Bronson and his character is a very angry, bitter man but because he is a war hero he is the public's choice to win. But there is depth and reason behind it because of his past both as a wrestling protégé and family background and his experience in Iraq. Brendan is the most sympathetic character because he is only doing MMA again because he needs the money for family. He is reluctant but is willing to do anything for his family and he is the typical film hero. There is strong believable chemistry between the three characters and really believe there is a past between them. There is also a strong supporting cast: Frank Grillo played Brendan's trainer and whilst he looked like a gym nut that could easily parodied by Family Guy he is made out to be a decent man who is a little like Mickey from Rocky. Morrison is a decent actress and Kevin Dunn was actually pretty ground and serious in his role.Warrior is not perfect and there a few little problem. The first that Tommy is made out to be a really tough fighter, able to knock other men out with one punch but there is no establishing any fighting experience besides wrestling. The other is that Tommy is a complete unknown before the Youtube and he gets into Sparta without any previous bounds, but surely wouldn't he need to registered and have a ranking. Also there is a longer cut and I believe that it establishes other elements of the film through visuals like Brendan's daughter's heart condition.Overall Warrior is a very well made film and I believed it happened its family drama much better then The Fighter which it is very similar to.


                
"Warrior" strikingly illustrates that victory is possible in defeat, and it's not what happens during the final bout that defines Gavin O' Connor's picture, but what occurs afterwards. "Warrior" is a poignant, touching drama where familiarity with the sport isn't necessary, because ultimately it's not about what transpires in the cage. The movie presents dynamic, strained relationships and the bond of family, coupled with the challenging choices we must make throughout life.The narrative focuses on three men: estranged brothers Tom and Brendan Conlon (Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton) and their father, Paddy (Nick Nolte). Tom, a withdrawn marine, has come home to Pittsburgh to train for a spot in "Sparta," a winner-takes-all MMA tournament held in Atlantic City. He is willing to put aside his abusive upbringing in return for his assistance in training. Paddy, a recovering alcoholic, embraces the opportunity to reconnect with his son, even though Tom makes is clear that their relationship will consist strictly as one of trainer and fighter.Meanwhile, across the state in Philadelphia, former UFC fighter and current high school teacher Brendan finds himself in need of cash in order to save his home from foreclosure. Against the wishes of Brendan's wife Tess (Jennifer Morrison), Brendan becomes involved in low-level MMA contests, and suspended by the school board once word spreads. One would need be hopelessly naive not to recognize that this is all going to come down to a match between Tom and Brendan, with a torn father on the sidelines. The first half of the film is mostly devoted to the dramatic setup and character development, before it launches into the Atlantic City bouts that take up the majority of the second half of the film."Warrior" offers strong performances across the board, two of which are standouts. Tom Hardy, who redefined his career with his screen-searing work in "Bronson," (2008) is simply tremendous. The word "volcanic" was often used to describe Hardy's work in "Bronson," and it applies here as well. Nick Nolte, who has received his share of accolades over a long and prosperous career, provides a terrific performance as a remorseful father who is desperate to reconnect with his sons.This real battle here is outside of the cage, involving redemption, reconciliation, and putting demons to rest. O'Connor's filming has a gritty, grainy, sensibility that is only enhanced by utilizing locations around the Pittsburgh area. Putting aside the fighting in the cage, it's the emotional tussle they must contend with that is far more daunting than any opponent in the cage. "Warrior" has the heart of a champion that keeps this film alive and pumping to the bloody end.


                
Warrior is a story about two estranged brothers forced by circumstance to enrol in to a MMA Cage Fighting tournament. This puts both on a collision course to potentially face each other in an ultimate battle. Joel Edgerton plays a schoolteacher while Tom Hardy, an ex-marine with a haunting past, plays the younger brother. What sounds like a man-flick full of blood and fists is anything but! There is a decent plot only elevated by incredible performances particularly by the diverse, Tom Hardy. Nick Nolte does his job well as the drunk father who mumbles through his lines and Edgerton, is only overshadowed by Hardy.With the popularity of UFC, it's no surprise that director and writer, Gavin O'Connor took a stab with bringing a movie like Warrior to the masses and although you may compare it to Rocky, it stands on it's own feet and does it well. The action sequences in the fights are shot remarkably well and forces the viewers to feel! Warrior is a great cinematic feature with something for everyone and comes highly recommended for all moviegoers.


                
What happens when you have two separate underdogs fight each other in a winner-take-all competition? You end up hoping neither one of them will lose. That's the situation in this thoroughly engrossing mixed martial arts film. Something I never thought I'd say after teen-filled drama Never Back Down released in 2008 that used unlicensed MMA bouts as a backdrop.Brendan Conlon (played by Joel Edgerton) is a man who gave up fighting professionally for his wife Tess (played by Jennifer Morrison) with whom he now has two daughters. Tommy Riordan (played by Tom Hardy) left home with his mother to escape his father's abuse and joined the Marines after she passed. Brendan (Edgerton) is now staring at a debt he can't overcome thanks to his mortgage and goes back to professional fighting in the form of parking lot bouts with inexperienced opponents. And when a video of one of these bouts on the internet is seen by his boss (Kevin Dunn), the principal of the high school where he teaches science, the winner-take-all event is his only hope to avoid foreclosure and relocation. Tommy (Hardy), on the other hand, made a promise to the family of a fallen comrade and intends to keep it no matter what that might mean for his competitors. That includes Brendan who is only revealed to be Tommy's brother well into the film.I'm not really a fan of MMA. I had a passing interest in boxing at one time, watching it that is, but it passed. That said, a well-made film can make any sport, with the exception of curling, seem interesting. And while some may see the release of this film as being too soon after the critically-acclaimed 2010 Mark Wahlberg film The Fighter, or as some sort of Rocky rip-off, I see a well-made, well-acted, realistic film about two men determined to fulfill their obligations the best way they know how. In the ring. Not to mention the sympathetic performances put forth by Nick Nolte as the father of the two competitors and Jennifer Morrison as the suffering wife.


                
