My girlfriend took me to an advance screening of Warrior because I'm an MMA enthusiast. She told me she did not expect much. She ended up leaving the theater in tears.The fighting in the movie is almost an after thought. What the movie is really about is a broken family trying to get on with their lives. You have a recently sober father trying to earn the forgiveness of his sons for destroying his family years earlier, one son trying to provide for his wife and children, and the other son trying to earn money for the family of his friend and fellow Marine who died overseas. All of it comes together seamlessly and provides for a truly gripping movie.It's emotional without being sappy. It's funny without being goofy. It's inspirational without going over the top. It's hard to say anything bad about it. Even if you have no interest in martial arts, you will get something out of this movie.I highly recommend this movie for men AND women, fight fans and average Joes alike.
Every so often you'll come across a combat sport movie that manages to find just the right balance of drama and action – that is, more drama than action. When fights are justified with backstories full of crushing emotion, they become all the more intense and gratifying. Warrior brings to the table the world of mixed martial arts, where punches, kicks, holds, and everything else goes. The inception of new international tournament "Sparta" puts on a collision course Paddy (Nick Nolte), Brendan (Joel Edgerton), and Tom Conlon (Tom Hardy), all part of an estranged family torn apart in the past by abuse, favoritism, and abandonment. Tom resurfaces in society to enlist the help of his formerly alcoholic father Paddy to train him for the tournament, while at the same time Brendan revisits his UFC training in hopes to win the $5 million purse for his struggling family. The two underdogs face some of the toughest MMA fighters on the planet, but the true struggle appears to lie within them. Paddy battles for forgiveness against the resentment of his sons, Tom fights to prove to himself that he is strong, and Brendan struggles to come to terms with his older family while trying to support one of his own.The fantastic thing here is two protagonists entering the same tournament. Each brother has his own respectable reasons for fighting, a fact that is sure to divide the audience when it comes time to choose which one to root for. The story truly is gut-wrenchingly powerful and presented in an engaging fashion. Little by little through the film's dialogue, we are allowed a glimpse into the past hardships of the Conlon family, and the characters' motivations for retaining such hatred are revealed gradually. Through the incredible acting talents of Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton, and Nick Nolte, this confused and passionate chemistry really comes alive. All three actors put up some of the most convincing and heartbreaking performances of their careers; and seeing as how The Fighter garnered so many Oscar nominations, I can't see why Warrior will not do the same. My only beef with the movie is its clichéd climax and rather bleak inconclusive ending, though it still does good to the emotional schism the movie intended to create. Warrior is one of those sports films with a magical mixture of emotional and physical battle. It's a wonderful story showing how sometimes the world's strongest forces are insignificant in comparison to the troubles of a scarred family. Warrior is without a doubt worth a visit to the theater. One of the best of 2011! And whether you're an MMA fan or not, the adrenaline-pumping fights will have you up and cheering and applauding.9/10


                
I had the pleasure of seeing Warrior at 2011 CinemaCon, walking in not knowing a thing about the movie, other than it was a movie about 'fighting.' And though a MMA movie (Mixed Martial Arts), not boxing, per se, for the genre, fighting, Warrior delivers a much better story than The Fighter, and is on par with Clint Eastwood's Oscar winner, Million Dollar Baby.Expect a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nod in 2012 for Nick Nolte. And superstar status for Tom Hardy.Warrior, though a work of fiction, plays out like a true story; two brothers at odds with each other and their father, in the town of Pittsburgh, who resort to prize fighting, one for the money, the other to prove himself a man.


                
Over the past few years we've been receiving quite a lump sum of MMA movies due to the rise of the sport. But movies like Never back down, and fighting just doesn't cut it with their cliché man against man rivalry, with their over the top inaccurate MMA-like action. Then there came Warrior. Was it just another MMA movie with over the top hardcore action? Well lets find out.What pulled me into the movie at first was the trailer. The trailer didn't have hardcore rock or scenes of "You're not the best around here you can't beat me" shenanigans. It had the sense of two brothers trying to solve their own problems while trying to deal with each other and their former alcoholic father through the use of a huge MMA tournament named Sparta. In which revealed in the trailer they eventually have to face each other.The story of Warrior although is very MMA suited, you will see about more drama than there is action. Not that there is a problem with that, but it's always great to see how everything unfolds. A former MMA fighter now Physics teacher Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) faces financial problems with his house and is slowly getting back into the mix by competing in underground fights. But the education system finds out about his antics, thus for he is suspended without pay. So he uses this to train full time, and compete in Sparta. Whereas former Marine Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) a war hero who is suffering through PTSD, decides he wants to fight in Sparta to give the prize money to the family of his fallen friend. Then there is the father Paddy (Nick Nolte) a former alcoholic who is trying to reach out for his sons for forgiveness of being a family wreck. Who in return is being used as Tommy's trainer, bet is being neglected by him as well. Then Brendan although neglecting him as well, is trying to deal with his own problems and has no time for him.As for the fight scenes of the movie, I can say I am an experienced Martial artist I've trained in several styles. Although I am not a pro MMA fighter yet, I've watched enough fights to actually comprehend how MMA fights are like and the rules and whatnot. Warrior has put in really great choreography of an authentic MMA fight. It was as if I was watching real fights on the big screen. Although there were some over the top moves here and there, most of the techniques portrayed in Warrior are applicable in a real life combat situation.The performance and screenplay, all were simply amazing. Tom Hardy's performance was astounding, as so was Nick Nolte's. The appearances of Nate Marquardt (UFC), Anthony Johnson(UFC), Erik Apple(Strikeforce), Roan Carneiro(Freelance) and Kurt Angle(TNA) did a really good job being actors of the movie while being able to retain their athletic ability of being professional athletes in combat sports.The movie had a unique way making you feel absorbed into the movie, getting to know the characters and feeling attached to them emotionally. Warrior is an emotional roller coaster that will make you laugh, really tense, and even leaving the theater in tears. Whether you are the MMA athlete, fan, trainer, enthusiast or an average movie goer, This movie is for you. Definitely one of the best movies I've seen this year.
Even though I find/found myself critiquing certain aspects of the movie, I can't deny how completely enthralled I was throughout the movie. It's 130 minutes long, but it didn't seem like it. If anything it seemed rushed or trimmed in a couple of areas. If you blink you could miss the training portion and the Segway going into the final fight. Yeah, there's some cliché' elements, but the story build up of the two brothers is enjoyable and does a good job at making us root for both brothers equally (until the last fight when the one brother goes villain).Predictability isn't always a negative attribute and in this instance it's not and doesn't pretend to not be. The movie instead focuses on the story development of the two brothers giving them both equal development time. So the interest is just watching the story evolve into the inevitable conclusion of the final matchup. What we don't know is, how it will evolve, which brother will win and even which brother we'll be rooting for. At first it seems as though it's a no brainer. The homeless veteran Tommy vs. the brother Brendan with a hot wife who may be losing his home. As it develops though we see Brendan as always being the underdog even in their youth and he's definitely established as the underdog in the arena throughout, so it gives a good balance between the two brothers. The movie kind of overdoes it though, by making the younger brother unforgiving towards the older brother to a degree that doesn't make any sense... his extreme animosity towards his brother, particularly in the final match surpasses anything I could possibly reference.The biggest annoyance's throughout pertain to the unusually large periods of time dedicated to the unforgiveness scenes. It's like, we get it, your dad did a bunch of nasty crap and you don't forgive him for it and refuse to have a conversation about anything other than training with him, however you showed up at your dad's house only to then not want to talk to him? And to go through an entire training duration without having a conversation with your dad about anything other than training, must be some kind of Guinness record. I would definitely have trimmed the I don't forgive you interaction time from 40 minutes to about 10 minutes (especially since nothing really happens with it anyways) and split the 30 minutes to more training development time and more Segway going into the final fight. Both brothers win their final match before they face each other, then we blink and they're already in the cage fighting one another (5 minutes to be exact). The buildup for their fight at that point should be milked for all it's worth, especially since everyone in the Warrior world just found out that the two finalists are brothers. I don't understand why such a meaty part would be trimmed out or not included in the movie?Subtle annoyances/flaws.
1. So, Tommy goes from being a lush and popping pills with no recent training, to beating the ever living crap out of the top middleweight contender in the country? Then he ends up meeting that same guy in the semi finals? If he beat the crap out of that guy without training, we can only imagine how much of a mismatch that's going to be, so why would the movie do this? At the very least they should have made the first match closer.2. Oh yeah and I love the part where Tommy apparently carries 3 full bottles of pills on him at all times. Not 1, not 2, but 3 and his dad knows that he has exactly 3 bottles on him because he knows the difference between 3 pill bottles rattling over 2 or 1. That's like Sherlock Holmes type crap. 3. At first it seemed a tad farfetched that Brendan (teacher) would get suspended because he chose to partake in organized fighting in his off time. Then I remembered that the department of education isn't logical or consistent when it comes to anything, so I definitely wouldn't put something like that past them. 4. Why did the dad just make it to the fight in the 3rd round. At that point it had been at least a day and a half since he got drunk. It made sense that he missed Tommy's next fight after getting drunk, but why wouldn't he make the start of the brothers fight? Was the start of the fight at the same time as his favorite TV program? How did he know that the fight wouldn't be over at that point? It seems like the movie cut out an important part to the story before the brothers got into the ring together, but if it was more time dedicated to unforgiveness they made the right decision to cut it out. All in all, I was thoroughly entertained, so even with it's flaws this was a very enjoyable movie.
I get that companies have to show some cool stuff to attract the audience. But the trailer gives some key plot elements (as does the "PLOT" section on IMDb), as well as some MAJOR SPOILERS. For the first time, we have a movie, where there are 2 protagonists and 2 antagonists, which means the final fight, and the winner is not determined, and could be anyone. The only problem is, they show A LOT on the trailer, that you pretty much know how the end will be. Just watch it without the trailer, IMO finally we have a more evolved version of Rocky here.


                
Short and sweet review. Great acting and really a solid story. Much more than your typical fighting movie. Well worth a few hours of your time!!! Watch it!!! Go watch it right now!


                
I will start off by saying that I am by no means a fan of MMA or any fighting sport for that matter but this film is outstanding, its about so much more than just fighting. This is about disjointed family who have not seen each other for years, they all have past or present problems that they need to put behind them and to forgive each other and move on.We see a lot of character development in the first hour or so which allows us to root for them as we get to the fighting stage, we know how much it means to them and therefore we care. It really is such an emotional ride.Excellent acting throughout especially from Tom Hardy who is absolutely incredible. My only fault with the film is that I would have liked an extra 5/10 minutes at the end of the film to see what happened to the characters after the final fight. But overall and excellent film.9/10.
www.eattheblinds.comThe sports genre has become as much of a cliché as the many clichés it has spawned: Rocky's Theme, Eye of the Tiger, etc. At this stage of the game, breathing new life into this old genre and sucking in an audience while surprising them along the way, is next to a near impossible feat. Somehow, writer/director Gavin O'Connor has pulled it off with the MMA masterpiece Warrior. Despite its complete checklist of boxing film / sports movie clichés, Warrior reaches so far beyond these clichés it practically redefines them. While respectful to reference (the original) Rocky, O'Connor legitimizes Warrior as a serious film, crafting it with visual and thematic nods to Michael Cimino's grand epic The Deer Hunter. Simply put, this isn't a sports film for meatheads (not that it won't please them), this is a sports film for audiences hungry for stark cinematic realism.Burgeoning superstar Tom Hardy (once again) mesmerizes as the tortured lead Tommy Conlon, who -- along with Nick Nolte and Joel Edgerton -- make up a three headed beast with lethal acting chops. For a film I expected to detest, Warrior proved itself to be as big of an underdog champion as the unorthodox heroes it portrays.


                
I really had no intention of seeing this movie based on the trailer, but since we seem to be in a dry spell right now with no new big or must-see movies out there and because I saw that other people were giving this movie such high marks, I decided I should give it a shot.I was completely and pleasantly surprised at just how awesome this movie was. I am not into MMA or really any type of fighting/boxing at all in the real world, but you'll find that won't affect your enjoyment of this movie because the heart of this movie is about family and personal set-backs and overcoming obstacles and issues. There's no one out there who can't find someone/something to relate to in this movie.The story starts out at a slower pace and begins to build and build until the end - very cleverly crafted. I found myself actually reacting out loud in the theater to some of the fight scenes at the end, and as I said, I don't even really like MMA. But you really care for these characters and that's what makes the movie so engaging.The only other movie I've seen this year I'd put on the same level as this one is The Help. Warrior should at the very least get an Oscar Nomination for Original Screenplay with possibly a couple of actor nominees and best direction/picture nominees as well.Not much else to say except go see it for sure! I laughed. I cried. I grimaced. I cheered. If a movie can evoke that kind of emotion, what else can you ask for?!?


                
Wow! They took what could have been a maudlin concept and made it remarkable. Our group absolutely loved it. Most of us sat there and cried our eyes out. I cried toward the end, during the end, and even AFTER the film on the way home.If you have a brother or a sister that you love, you must see this film. And you should see it on the big screen. The score, soundtrack, filming, direction, editing.... all were integral pieces of this beautiful puzzle.What MOVING performances by all three men --Nolte, Edgerton, and Hardy. It has a brilliant, subtle, quiet kind of screenplay, to be a film with so much action and drama. You have to keep watching and don't miss a moment, as it's totally unpredictable. And yet, it's absolutely realistic.An incredible, moving story. Not just for men, but for women too. We absolutely loved it. I can't wait to see it again.


                
Warrior is directed by Gavin O'Connor and is the story of two brothers (Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton) that come from a disconnected background, and became MMA fighters. Their father (Nick Nolte) is a former alcoholic that is trying to get back in touch with his sons, but is seeming to fail. The two brothers both enter the same fighting arena, and must both learn once again how to be fighters, and, more importantly, brothers.Being a Tom Hardy fanboy, I was pumped for Warrior. I also love Nick Nolte, and respect Joel Edgerton as an actor as well, so this movie had me hooked. I thought the movie was going to be great, and I was right. Warrior is a great movie all around, with great action, and a lot of heart to it, to the point of tears. Warrior also features some great acting, from all three actors mentioned above, and more.In fact, the acting is the best thing about Warrior. Tom Hardy plays an amazing young man who doesn't like people, and just needs an output for his anger, which is mixed martial arts. Joel Edgerton also does really good. His character, Brendan, is a thirty- something year old that is in a bit of an unstable situation with his home and family. He plays this character very nicely, and adds a lot to this film. Nolte delivers yet another great performance, and plays this done-with-alcohol old man near perfectly. His chemistry with the actors that play his sons is what really carries this movie, and the acting is great.The direction, particularly during the fights, is great. O'Connor is pretty nice with the camera, and films all of the action smoothly. Rather than a shaky cam orgy, all of the cuts are paced well, and the camera near to never shakes. The script, also by Gavin O'Connor, is great. His combined skills with the camera and the pen add for some very heartfelt and tension packed scenes between the two men and their father.The only problem I had with Warrior was the back and forth element in the first hour or so. To summarize, the first hour or so is more intent on explaining the backstory between the disrupted family, and also focuses on getting all three of the main characters to the MMA tournament. Within this time period, the story will show part of Tommy's (Hardy's) life, and then some of Brendan's (Edgerton's). For this time, Tommy is being trained by his father, so those two characters are together, but the story bouncing back and forth between the two brothers is a bit distracting. Right when one side sucks in the viewer, the other takes over the film, and pulls you right out of the experience. Luckily, after the first hour or so, this stopped, and the rest of Warrior flowed evenly.In conclusion, Warrior is an amazing movie. With the combined acting, camera work, and tear inducing story, Warrior is another movie to add on the list of "great fighting movies," along with other giants, such as Rocky (1976).


                
As I've probably mentioned before in the handful of reviews I've done for sports movies, I'm not the biggest fan of sports or sports movies in general. Still, I know a good film when I see one and WARRIOR is more than that: it's excellent. Befitting a film that deals with MMA and despite the PG-13 rating, it doesn't pull its punches physically or emotionally. This is probably one of the most intense movies I've seen from a visceral standpoint and on an emotional level. Without getting into too many specifics, the story is about two brothers who have been separated and on the outs for quite a long time. Due to personal circumstances, they both (inadvertently) enter the same MMA tournament and deal with relationship issues that have gone long unaddressed. The two leads, Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton, both do an awesome job with the dramatic material while also bringing a believable physicality to their fight scenes. Although they are filmed and edited in a rather chaotic style, I thought that it worked here even if it came with the slight loss of comprehensibility. For the most part, however, you get to see all of the punches, throws and takedowns from a variety of perspectives. Also lending some dramatic heft to the film was veteran actor Nick Nolte, who plays the brothers' father, also on bad terms with his sons for a variety of reasons. He was as fleshed out as were the two siblings and even gets a couple moments that seemed Oscar-worthy. In general, this wasn't some mindless story with a bunch of fight scenes strung together. Every fight had a purpose for the overall story, and there was plenty of back story for each main character to get you fully invested. So much so, that by the time the end comes around you don't know who to root for because they both have such strong motivations. It's like the Sophie's Choice of fight films. My only complaint, which is minor at best, is that once it does come around to the conclusion it lays on the melodrama a bit thick, and the final moment in the ring which was backed by an acoustic song had me rolling my eyes a little bit. Still, this was a powerful drama with incredibly brutal fight scenes that actually meant something. Even if you don't normally go for sports movies, this is one of the few that transcends that genre's limitations and manages to be inspirational without pandering. Highly recommended.


                
Warrior is by far one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. Not only because it contains martial arts, but it contains something I find way more important; A well developed story. The character's in this movie gets a really nice introducing meanwhile you are watching the movie. Making it way easier for you as a viewer to put yourself in their position to get more attached to the movie. This left me crying after watching until the end, the amazing filming and editing in the fight scenes and the music playing makes it even more intense when dramatics scenes get played as well.Give it a try, you have nothing to lose, only a lot to win. 9/10


                
Who will win the fight? Bane or the guy who fought The Thing? Seriously now, the acting in this movie was way above the genre of this film. I know it was a sports fighting movie and I expected things on par with van Damme Asian tournament films. Boy, was I wrong!The first thing to note about the movie is that it is long. It spans two hours and twenty minutes. The first half sets up the characters and how their dysfunctional family got them to where they are. I expected the second half to be filled with fighting action and it was, but only half. The makers of the film realised it was more important to show the mindset and state of spirit of the characters, let them develop rather than show only fights. And so they got a beautiful film.Bottom line: for this genre, the movie is clearly amongst the best. It doesn't uselessly inspire the audience to take up fighting or hate or love one of the characters. Much better, they give us two characters to love and the decision, up to the final fight, is the viewer's: how would you like this fight to end? That question, that situation in which you get to think and choose for yourself is almost unprecedented in a sports movie and more appropriate to more philosophical high brow films and makes the end result irrelevant. Good job!


                
Okay, you've seen most of this movie before...Rocky, The Fighter...most movies about families reconciling through a championship fight. But beyond that familiarity, this movie delivers an emotional powerhouse. Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton (both non-Americans) delivers believable and memorable performances. You will most certainly find yourself rooting for both characters (despite their faults). The MMA fight are vicious and brutal, despite not being too graphic. Nick Nolte also does a fine job, although he may be a bit over the top for some people. Jennifer Morrison does an adequate job, despite being little more than the "wife" character. See this movie for Hardy, Edgerton, and the fights, and you will not be disappointed. The end may seem a bit forced and rushed, but I dare you to not feel moved by the end of this film. It thrives on emotion and delivers as a family sports film. Go see it in short.
What amazes me most about this film is that it perfectly develops the relationship between Tommy, Brendan and their Father without ever using flashbacks or long exposition sequences explaining why their relationship was where it was. You understand the complexities of their relationship by attaining a few details of the story during each sequence allowing you to slowly piece together the past so you can better understand the present. By doing this, the viewer feels an emotional connection to each character. Part of me cheered for Brendan while feeling like Tommy was unnecessarily cruel to his Father. But then later in the film I became much more sympathetic to Tommy in part because the pieces of history provided throughout the film allowed me to better understand that character. As a result, I was connected to every character in this film making the finale that much more emotional.The fight sequences in this film are some of the best I've ever scene in a movie like this. They feel visceral and rough while also feeling majestic enough to make the professional skill of these fighters believable. The fight choreography and cinematography work together seamlessly to convey a frenetic feeling to the audience while still allowing them to see the fights in all their glory. The little shaky cam that exists works beautifully, and I never felt cheated from the fight scenes as a result.This film is masterful in every sense of the world. There isn't one scene that feels out of place or unnecessary. It's edited in such a lean way often making you forget its two hour and nineteen minute run time.Director Gavin O'Connor is able to sidestep the rudimentary conventions that dominate most boxing movies. It's not just MMA that makes this film feel different from films like Rocky, Southpaw, The Fighter and Cinderella Man. This is an emotional story of two brothers and the pain that they must sift through in order to find true peace. And it's this story that separates it from the rest of the pack and makes it feel fresh and new.Story - 9.5/10 Action - 9.5/10 Cinematography/Score - 9/10 Pacing/Length - 9.5/10 Acting - 10/10Overall Rating - 9.5/10Overall Score - A+
Warrior begins when Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte) comes home to find his long lost son Tommy (Tom Hardy) in front of his door. Paddy doesn't have anybody in his life because he was an alcoholic. Tommy doesn't understand his fathers path and he doesn't care, he only wants to fight.Then there is Paddy's other son Brendan (Joel Edgerton), who is a school teacher and will do anything for his wife and two daughters, even fight for his life. Brendan has also no interest in his fathers life. This is the start of the movie and it's a simple story with simple characters.It's funny when you have looked so many movies in your life and then this movie comes in front of you. The way that the movie tells you the chemistry with the characters is beautiful. Gavin O'Connor has made a movie about family with violence in it, but when you look at the movie the violence doesen't matter. The violence doesn't have a place in the movie. It's pure drama, with a family which doesn't work.Warrior is a movie for viewers who looks movies with heart. These movies a very rare and aren't for anybody. You will have to look at some scenes that aren't enjoyable, but in the end you will think about the movie and realize that the movie has it's heart in the right place.


                
If you grew up with siblings and understand how deep the love of your brother or sister is than you'll love this movie! Like Rocky this is not just an underdog fight movie but a love story. Except this is about the love of two brothers and how in the end that blood runs deeper than all else! Hardy gives one his earliest best performances that you have seen since then in Mad Max, Dark Knight and Dunkirk. He is amazing with his stoic dark expressions and you can read his pain and torment without him saying a word. Edgerton and Nolte give strong performances that tells how even through deep dysfunction family love conquers in the end. The fight scenes are real and gritty filmed amazingly up close so you feel like your in the ring. The triumph is in the story and the characters that you feel for and are jumping out of your seat for as you root for them to conquer their openents which are hate, fear, and self worth. This movie does not feel like it's 2.5 hour running time as similar films of the same length. Well worth the watch and will leave you feeling exhilarated.


                
Rocky 4 and below, everything after 4 was complete garbage. I'm including Creed in that statement - Sorry... Not Sorry Sly. You fooled me too many times - and Creed was teerrrribblle.So if you hated Creed, you'll appreciate this fight movie. Ok so yes I'm old enough to have watched the Rocky movies and just get sucked in as a kid. I'm not a knuckle dragger and I loved those movies. The underdog wins, yes I've got a soft spot in my heart for this type movie when they're done well. This is one of those that was done well.So...gather around young haters - this may not be your type of movie but for those who remember Rocky when Rocky was awesome, you'll enjoy it. Plot gaps, cliche lines in my mind were forgivable because this movie got me excited about the fights and captured my attention. It's not easy to shoot a fight scene and make you feel the pain and get into the energy of the moment. This one does that. Kudos to everyone involved in making this film. Nice work. To all the young haters - it's a fight movie, relax it's not Twilight...It's a fight movie...breeeeeaaath. You'll be ok. After being entertained by watching this film continue your enjoyment and stroll down negative comment lane and listen to all the millennials wine about this move and plagiarize other's witty negative comments. Yes youngens 8.3, 8.3 8.3, LOL!!! If you're offended by this post...good, I don't care.


                
This must be the most exciting fight movie ever made. And it even looks real. All the actors does a wonderful job but there is one person who outshines them all and that is Nick Nolte. Wow!Even if you are not into MMA I am pretty sure you can enjoy it anyway, really. There is a little of everything for most people, in it. See it.
.


                
This mixed martial arts drama is not your average everyday drama following an underdog rising from your average fighter to the holder of the championship title, it is a superbly riveting exploration of family and a brotherly bond that is tested to the limits. In other words, it is a film that does not try to level up with classics like 'Rocky', but simply being something with a heart and soul blossoming through the electrifying nature of its story. Plus, one of the few things differentiating from the Sylvestor Stallone classic is the sport in focus of his drama is mixed martial arts fighting instead of boxing. But the emotional core of the story lies not within the action inside the ring but what happens outside that defines the action following the bell ring. Even if there are a few moments that feel burnt up emotional manipulation, there is hardly a minute in its slightly overlong runtime that feels squandered. The movie is orchestrated by director Gavin O'Connor who has a solid cast by his side, ranging from Joel Edgerton, to Tom Hardy, to Oscar nominee Nick Nolte. This film follows Tommy Conlon (played by Tom Hardy), a disconcerted Iraq war veteran who returns to his hometown in Pittsburgh to meet his father (played by Nick Nolte) who is a recovering alcoholic after the abuse and neglect he laid on his family years ago. With his goal on entering a MMA tournament to the win $50,000 championship prize, Tommy asked his father to be his trainer. Meanwhile, his estranged brother Brendan (played by Joel Edgerton), a former MMA fighter, has retired and is now a high school physics teacher who's family is in danger on losing their house in foreclosure. After a night of MMA fighting gets him suspended on his job, Brendan goes against his wife's (played by Jennifer Morrison) wishes and enters the tournament with his old friend Frank (played by Frank Grillo) as his coach. When this puts him on a collision course with Tommy, the two estranged brothers must come to terms with their dark pasts perpetrated by their father. The film more often not relies on typical clichés known the sports genre. Whereas as this serves as a detriment to most movies, this one goes for a more powerful approach and expands upon these clichés to present the fortitude of the story. The story is not all about MMA fighting or exercising male masculinity, it examines the harrowing family dynamics of the two central characters as they struggle to cope with their past that comes back to haunt them. Their old man was a drunk and abused them, and as a result, put a strain in the family altogether. When the two men finally come back to meet him as well as each other, their bond is greatly tested. This open doors to an exhilarating, yet emotionally raw climax when the two are forced to compete against each other in the ring. The MMA fighting sequences are superbly executed, shot with hand-held cinematography and staged such a powerful grit to the point where the heat and intensity of the fights are palpable. You may find yourself holding your breath. Nonetheless, it is the cold family drama that plays the golden role in the plot. And the performances by the cast which consists of mainly A-listers are the keys to lifting the atmosphere up high. Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton, both maintaining buff, muscular figures, are powerful revelations here and play their roles with an astonishing amount of emotional stride. Whether they are going head-to-head inside the rings or interacting with their family, these two do nothing to let a moment go to waste. Nick Nolte is also no exception, playing a man butchered by his past decisions and crying with a heart to do everything he can to keep his family together. But the question is, will the two brothers find it in their heart to forgive him? Warrior is an electrifying family drama built on both the gripping performances by its two main stars and Gavin O'Connor's powerful exploration into the family dynamics and brotherhood. It is a film that will touch your heart and win it over. Whether or not one holds interest in mixed martial arts fighting is no matter, it is a gripping experience that will stay with you long after the credits are rolling.


                
I was blown away when i saw this film. It was very unexpected. With a theme like this (Sport Fighting films, I thought this film would be terrible like the film "Never Back Down" which was mediocre. But With great performances by Edgerton, Hardy and Nolte, this film worked very well.Tom Hardy was very dark and mysterious and some his scenes were very powerful, same with Nick Nolte when he was drunk and aggressive. Joel Edgerton were very good too. Although the first half of the film was bit boring, it got very interesting when it came to the fight scenes, it was very intense and very entertaining, the ending was very emotional when the two brothers had to fight each other. I thought this was better than The Fighter there were three great performances, loads of entertaining fight scenes and the family drama between the characters, the script was very well written. I recommend you to watch this in the cinema for that surround sound that will give you goosebumps when watching the fight scenes...
I was really fortunate to watch this movie today. I have heard of this movie but was not a big fan of Tom Hardy but somehow I decided to watch it. I consider this as one of the best sports movie ever made. The film started slow to establish the characters in our mind but second half was really fast. I was crying in last few scenes and I have to really say that the film had its moments. My misconceptions about Tom Hardy got changed and I thoroughly enjoyed watching Nick Nolte,Joel Edgerton and Frank Grillo. MMA fight choreography was really original,some scenes I was so worried by the beating Brendon was receiving during the fight,I forgot that its just a movie. The movie will stay with you for long and has got some great emotional scenes which anyone can relate too which will be rare in sports movies. I recommend this film to all the people who love films..


                
I watched this movie about two months after a friend of mine lent me the DVD. I sat there, and I had full intentions of watching it, but never did... Until recently....Two completely different brothers end up fighting mixed martial arts. I'm not going to give away too much of the story line, but let me tell you it makes for a spectacular and powerful movie. It's heart-wrenching. Just to be clear, I'm not into MMA fighting, or UFC, or boxing. That may be the main reason the movie sat so long before I put it on. You don't have to enjoy these sports to love this movie. It has the power of Rocky, with a brotherly story line to boot.Please watch this movie. You won't be disappointed!!
