Watched last night at the theater with my girlfriend.It's a compilations of 6 tales, but they don't have the same type of lenght, humor or darkness. Each one is unique.1) Airplane tale: fantastic, hilarating and surrealistic story to open the series.2) Coffee shop tale: shorter, but dark and makes you wonder what's "freedom" for some people.3) Road tale: excellent. A really LOT of violence and a little bit of humor makes this one of the best tales in the movie.4) Human limit tale: a man that's having a couple of really bad days explode when he runs out of patiente. Great acting.5) Accident tale: 90% darkness. And the fact that could be a very possible story makes it even darker. Shocking finale.6) Wedding tale: almost impossible to qualify. Hilarious for the most part, but at the end, it will make you wonder to whom you are spending your whole life with.Seeing this compilation in a theater for the price of one, its a damn good deal if you ask me.Go watch it.


                
The movie is actually 6 short films, all related by brutal violence motivated by different situations. Family. Society. Government. It works very well like that, lasting over 120 minutes that go by quickly. It feels very fluid. Szifrón's eye is very precise. You can tell everything was very well thought. I wouldn't say this is a philosophical film, but it is clever entertainment, that makes you think if this wild tales are actually that wild... Even though this stories are taken to the extreme, everything feels somehow possible when you look back. Darkly humorous. Watch it.


                
Hilarious and very, very black comedy consisting of six episodes about people who get driven to the edge of reason (and a little beyond). The acting and writing in this gem from Argentina are superb, and the beautifully photographed segments keep you thrilled and unable to guess just what crazy turn they will take next. A wonderful joy of a film for film lovers with a rather twisted sense of humor. 8 stars out of 10.In case you're interested in more underrated film gems, here's some of my favorites:imdb.com/list/ls070242495


                
I went to see this movie hoping to get a brake from Hollywood production. And I did. It was amazing, one of the best movies I've seen on big screen in 2 or 3 years.Plot consists of different stories which all have one thing in common: they are about revenge. Every single story starts rather boring. At the very beginning I was thinking "What's so wild about it? It is just lame" and by the end of the intro I was like "Holy God! No, they did not just twist it like that! OMG!"And it gets better. A true masterpiece. I am from Russia so for me it was rather interesting and surprising that Latin America is so similar to Russia. The views, the behaviour of the people, the insanity - all like at home.You won't regret seeing this movie. Don't take your kid or your grandmother though.


                
6 Stories - 6 masterpieces! They perfectly combine thriller, drama, humor and the common topic is the violence.Each tale is independent from the other, but all of them have something special that makes you really enjoy.The situations introduced in each story are actually based on real life, of course the are intentionally exaggerated with a sense of satire and irony that really makes you laugh.The picture is the best I have seen in an Argentina movie and the music "made <U+200B><U+200B>in" Santaolalla is sublime.The actors/actresses are amazing (specially the bride - Erica Rivas) In my opinion it is one of the best non-English Language movies ever.


                
This Argentine film that found itself nominated for the 2014 Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award comes to us from director Damián Szifrón who has crafted a feature film comprised of a series of 6 vignettes/small stories about human beings from all walks of (Argentine) life who are all tested and taken to their limits ... until they finally lose control. While mostly disastrous the film is also WILDly thrilling and wholly original in its daring cheekiness ... as the film is a bitter dark comedy (with tinges of brutal drama).It is a film about a myriad group of people on a plane; a young waitress who still finds herself grieving over a family tragedy of the past; an encounter between two men from different social classes on a desolate highway; a man growing tired of the rat race of life in which we are all destined to lose; the aftermath of a horrible automobile accident; and a wedding reception like none you've ever seen before. All feature one or two characters taken to the edge ...It is how each of them handles their various situations that give us our WILD stories. Fascinatingly grim at times, the film almost always miraculously produces laughter and grins. Much of the laughter might be heavily muffled as one chuckles under his/her breath as others around them fail to see the director's (WILDly) wicked sense of humor come into play in some of the film's intense situations; but the dark tone pervades the entire film.While the film is most definitely tragic in many instances, Wild Tales is a comedy of errors about human nature and who we are. Some can watch this and most-likely not pick up even a hint of humor; but it is there ... and it is fantastically facetious.Wildly thrilling. Wildly fun. Wildly original. It is courageously wild.


                
This Argentinian movie was released in my country (Chile) on last Thursday, and since i heard very good comments about the movie i decided to go to a Cinema at Parque Arauco in Chile and this is what i wrote about it:The film is split into six unconnected stories, watching each story is around 20-30 minutes long and you feel like you're watching a live action short film. What do they have in common? All of them are a mix between drama and comedy. The script is hilarious, even if the lines are sad, it's so full of black comedy, that there were people rolling on the floor laughing at the Cinema. I'd write much more about this film, but i think i might be spoiling it, so i prefer to tell you that i can't wait to watch it again. So please do NOT miss it.


                
Wild Tales (Relatos Salvajes) is perhaps the darkest and funniest movie I saw in years; but is it really a comedy ?. No it is not. Six tales about human that are obviously related to the Argentinian reality (abusive government, corruption, people indifference) but certainly can be applied to many other countries in the world; USA included.Telling about each tale will cut the impact and somewhat surprise of each one. Let's just say that the outcome of each tale is sometimes predictable; but driven by logic not clichés.As always happens; some histories are better than others; but even that will be different for different viewers.In brief; an excellent movie that deserves to be seen by people with a brain and a will to think.


                
Time does not heal all wounds. One thing leads to another in six outrageous, hilarious and extreme stories of revenge. A jilted and emotionally volatile bride wreaks havoc at her wedding with an equally unstable new husband, a towing company hauls away one too many times the vehicle belonging an explosive expert, and two macho drivers – one in an Audi and the other in a pile of junk – go head to head with explosive road rage, among other delicious and fiery adventures. The utmost fantasies fulfilled, the extremes of emotions, and the riot of laughter that engulfed me from all sides, I cannot remember having such a good time watching a film. The director, who answered questions at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival, said the film is about the pleasure of losing control and giving in to unrestrained passions. Is it ever!


                
It's hard to review an unconventional movie, because this one is sort of six movies all in one. Relatos Salvajes (Wild Tales) is about six different and independent stories with one thing in common: the limit of our patience, or like it's tagline says..."All may lose control". Ordinary people that find themselves in awkward situations they didn't look for, and that's the beauty of this movie. It's almost impossible not to feel identified with one of the characters, with one of their situations, despite the awkward moments they struggle that in some passages make us feel uncomfortable. And the merit of director Damián Szifrón is to tell those stories with an exquisite combination of intrigue, suspense and a remarkable and effective dark humor. The acting, editing, photography and the music of Gustavo Santaolalla are all ingredients that give extra points. You'll get out of the cinema talking to each other which tale you enjoyed the most and reviewing some of their hilarious scenes.


                
I had an idea from the opening credits that Damian Szifron's WILD TALES, was going to be fun. Images of animals with the actors' names as counterpart, preparing the audience for the animalistic behavior about to come.The film is comprised of six separate vignettes, short stories, if you will. These vignettes all begin innocently enough, passengers boarding a plane, a man driving through the desert, a restaurant on a stormy night, a wedding, everyday slices of modern day life. Something occurs to break the routine, the main character responds, then the scene escalates, and escalates, and when you think you've reached the peak, it escalates even more, and finally in the end reaches a perfect balance of comedy and tragedy. The tales are all perfectly relatable and escalate logically and realistically, nothing comes out from left field. All the characters, each flawed in so many ways, remind us so much of ourselves, both at our best and at our worst... and make us laugh and feel in recognition.Great Movie.


                
i always thought that the real art is missing these days, the cinema is going on the wrong side, this movie was the hope, that there is still genius artist who can makes such a beautiful story, with excellence in direction and perfection in casting, this is the best movie i ever watched so far, it is black comedy and it is REAL, it is like what you think you DO, what you imagine COMES REAL, it is HUMAN, for those who really loves the art of cinema, MUST MUST MUST watch this movie, you will enjoy it from the beginning to the cast list, it is a THEATER in a cinema movie, 10/10 and we will wait a lot to see such a quality movie like this one.


                
Never watched any Argentine/Spanish film before. Actually, the number of foreign language (ie. other than English and Hindi) films I have watched till date is not even two digit. Still, this movie was mind-blowing!! Wild Tales, is a package of 6 short films which are dark and explosive comedies. All of them has the theme of revenge strikingly common and each one of them is unique and funny in its own way. Each one of them puts forth wild yet realistic situations. The first short story is the shortest of them and is shown pre-credits.Its story of a psych who is not even seen on the screen who makes revenge plan which ends on a bang giving us an overly wild ending. The second film slightly more dark and longer, will make you think before deciding what is right and what is wrong. Third one even longer, is my favorite alongside the fourth. Its violent and brutally hilarious with explosive ending(literally). The fourth one sheds light on realistic situation of a common man troubled by the abusive government system. Another explosion in the climax(again literally)! The fifth slightly less on humor quotient but portrays the human characteristic of greed perfectly. Its darker and has a shocking finale! Th last one, longest and wildest of them all will take you to one of the craziest weddings you have ever seen. Beneath its madness it subtly touches upon the issues of trust and betrayals in human relations.Besides the common notion of revenge and letting oneself lose control in rage, all these tales also focus on how tiniest of our actions can lead to monstrous consequences. The comedy is satirical and dark still its outright hilarious in many scenes. There are many actors (each story has different cast), can't highlight anyone as most of them have done a good job. Director Damian Szifron executes all the ridiculous madness and explosive twists with sheer brilliance leaving dazed at the end of each story. The soundtrack is also quirky and beautiful.The two hours fly away like a breeze. Even if you don't understand the language you will be so invested that after sometime you won't even realize that you are watching a Non- English film. Highly enjoyable!RATING: [4/5]


                
Mixing modern rage with black comedy this collection of shorts rises above expectations to become one of the best and funniest movies from Argentina along with The Secret In Their Eyes and El Aura, and probably the most accessible for international audiencesSix unrelated stories that share a common theme of revenge are shown back to back, and not edited back and forward like it's usual with these kind of movie, some of them are better than others: the opener, the road rage incident, the hit and run, and the wedding stand out, while the more conventional and predictable "Bombita" and "The Rats" still entertain thanks to superb writing and directingThere's a few annoying problems with logical plot holes like why would the rich yuppie go out of his way to put the damaged spare tired in his trunk (and thus leaving it open) when running for his life and factual errors like on the wedding episode the bride's threats about this husband's companies are meaningless because in Argentina possessions are considered marriage goods ("bienes gananciales") only if the are acquire during the marriage and not before like the screen husband's companies, and like these are others but among such high quality stuff glaring mistakes like these are more evidenthighly recommended


                
Hopefully Damián Szifron is on his way to Hollywood. Simply the most refreshing and entertaining film that I've been lucky enough to watch since Nightcrawler...really it's that good. The darkest comedy you'll have the pleasure to experience. Ticks all the boxes, cinematic, a superb ensemble cast deliver in every short story, dead pan humour, intelligent, thought provoking, terrifyingly realistic, wonderful camera-work especially in the final story, with a couple of explosions and some (thankfully) subtle CGI thrown in to complete this masterpiece. Lovely to once again sit amid an audience all happily laughing out loud, without the need to lower itself to racist, sexist, ageist, homophobic humour, though the scatological humour is surprisingly perfectly appropriate and carefully framed to make the point without unnecessary vulgarity. Ten out of Ten. A new name to watch. Kudos to Damián Szifron.


                
The Spanish title is more apt: Savage Tales. Six short stories show various ways in which savagery persists in the highest levels of civilization. The titles appear against a montage of wild animals. The twist is that here the savagery is celebrated not rued. Where civilization was supposed to free us from savagery, as in the American Western, here the savagery liberates the characters from their civilization. As director Damian Szifron told the Palm Springs festival audience, "The theme is the pleasure of losing control. Releasing the beast."In each story a modern frustration wells up until the character erupts. All the stories involve a furious revenge, with a broadening range of characters. To convey the tensions in modern life, ordinary sounds are amplified, like the luggage wheels in the opening shot. In the pre-credit tale, the pilot turns out to be a lifelong failure who has collected the various teachers, friends, psychiatrist, who have thwarted him, on a flight he will crash into his parents. In a diner the waitress recognizes a customer as the smalltown gangster who drove her father into bankruptcy and suicide. Now running for mayor, he is rude and abusive. As her anger and conscience struggle the cook takes over and kills him. She's content to return to the security and comfort of jail.An Audi driver rages at a redneck who blocks his way. When the rich guy stops to fix a flat tire his nemesis stops and assaults him. The road rage turns into class warfare. Ironically, when they're found burned alive their clutch suggests it was a crime passionel.When an explosives expert gets his car towed for an unjustified parking ticket his angry campaign for justice blows up his marriage, job, career and even shared custody of his daughter. When he blows up the tower's yard he becomes a local hero, Mr Dynamite. In jail his wife and daughter bring him a birthday cake and all the inmates and guards celebrate his day. His last act is blowing out the candles. Terrorism works.A spoiled teenager's fatal hit and run accident leads to a steadily expanding chain of corruption as his wealthy father tries to get the family groundskeeper to take the rap for him. As the bribery balloons no-one is innocent. Even the humble groundskeeper raises his demands. When the father decides not to pay to save his spoiled son, his lawyer says it would be dishonourable for him to renege on his bribery of the the public prosecutor. When the boy decides to confess the greedy renegotiate their scheme. As the fall guy is led away an angry citizen kills him. Amid all the bribes and false honour the poor worker pays the price.In the climax, a rich Jewish family's wedding, the bride explodes after the groom admits he had sex with a colleague who's a guest. The demure bride turns into a vengeful virago wreaking massive destruction, reducing the groom to tears, the ceremony to chaos, and her rival to a bloodied mess. When the newlyweds reconnect — making passionate love amid the ruins of the cake — their union feels more honest than the initial smiles and formality. Now their union expresses more passion than manners. The chaotic wedding is more honest than the ceremonial ritual was. The anthology structure hearkens back to Italian neorealism, where separate short stories provided a wide-ranging survey of social issues. Apt for a celebration of the unruly, the film is exuberantly comic but with a black undercurrent. As its initial frustrations are so common, the film provides its audience with a greater catharsis than most comedies or tragedies. We're left calm of mind, frustrations spent.
Greetings again from the darkness. Do you often get accused of having a slightly demented sense of humor? Do you have secret crazy thoughts of seeking revenge on those who have wronged you? If so, writer/director Damian Szifron has a collection of short stories just for you!Nominated for Best Foreign Language Oscar, Argentina's entry is just now opening in the Dallas market where I live. To say Wild Tales is a wild ride would be quite an understatement. There are six short stories blended together, and while you may not recognize the theme immediately, it doesn't take long before rage and retribution jump to the forefront in these seemingly typical slices of everyday life.The best short stories make a quick grab for attention, and manage to convey character and setting from the beginning. The writing is crucial and can easily collapse in the hands of a less-proficient short story writer. But when it works, it's fascinating to watch, and Mr. Szifron has a real talent for making us laugh in the midst of truly awful situations.Not to give away any details, but the six stories involve: a remarkable "coincidence" on a flight, an unwelcome customer at a local diner, a close-quarters brawl at a bridge, the frustration of dealing with "the system", misguided parental instincts in protecting their kid, and the most wheels-off wedding reception ever filmed.If you are ever searching for an example of a dark comedy, this one will provide clarity. The seemingly unrelated stories are woven together through payback, though the price is often pretty high. Mr. Szifron's stories remind us that life is not fair, but when it's happening to someone else, we can still laugh about it.


                
Being a horror and thriller fan, this movie was very interesting.Stories of revenge one after the other will keep you on the edge of your seat! And the stories told are short. Filled with suspense. You will not know what is going to happen next. And the stories will seem so real. Stories of day to day anger and real life occurrences. The actors are very convincing in their roles. Pace of the short stories is very gripping.Some of the shots captured are amazing. Overall very thrilling! And a must watch!


                
Great movie telling stories I would label centering around anger. I realized how powerful anger emotion is and how quickly it can ruin your life for good.1) Airplane: It was developed beautifully and gratz to the pilot for determination.2) Restaurant: The douche bag of a guy basically kills the girls father, girl thinks about confronting him and the chef lady thinks confronting him is not enough at all. 3) Car: Need to be careful about road rage, you don't know who is the guy in the other car. I think this goes for any rage. I think I can conclude that we shouldn't rage.4) Tow away: Really good criticism of government and it's fines. There should be a better method to determine which fine is just. Also I agree that most government workers are really annoying, they don't enjoy their job at all and the mind set "I am just trying to do my job" is absolutely true.5) Hit and run: Really good visualization of what money can make people do. Basically if you have enough money, you carry a get out jail card with you. The twist in the end was really awesome, poor gardener.6) Wedding: This was my favorite story by far. It shows that how things can escalate quickly out of hand. Also it is easy to make bad decisions while under so much pressure like a wedding ceremony. I must say bride was really good and very nice acting. But I doubt that make up sex will solve their problem...Awesome movie, really effected me while being entertaining.
This picture displaying genuine humor , thrills , chills , suspense , dark atmosphere and twisted conclusions , being skillfully proceeded . At the beginning, in the title credits each main actor of each tale is identified with a wild animal , and in the director's case, it is a fox . Subsequently , it takes place six short stories involving distressed people . They are titled : Pasternak , The strongest , Little bomb , Proposal , The rats and Until Death Do Us Apart.This exciting , bizarre film contains black humor , tension , thriller , drama , plot twists and shocks . Disconcerting black comedy packs crazy events , amusement and absurd situations . Sitting in a strange middle ground between the completely absurd and the stylish set pieces , adding some enjoyable moments . It is an Argentina/Spain co-production by El Deseo : Agustin and Pedro Almodóvar , that turns out to be an acceptable film because of the thriller , tension , Kafkaesque suspense , embarrassing humor as well as an interestingly written script concerning complex episodes episodes in which our protagonists are in such extreme situation and their subsequent instinctive urges for exploding violent feelings . We immediately see that the stories are going to be told from some unorthodox perspectives as each scene and its conclusion result to be surprising and shocking . Despite its disturbing as well as violent developing the picture manages to be intelligent , intriguing and thrilling , being entertaining to follow . The good thing about this film is that the director made it on an enough budget , including several sets , yet the movie works on many levels but is constantly reconfigured . The final outcome is an offbeat picture that's captivating , in spite of not being all that fun , resulting to be thoughtful and thought-provoking , dealing with the impact of violence nowadays . The interesting as well as original screenplay is 84 pages long and some of the six tales are featured in different order , it also includes a seventh tale , pretty much shorter than the other ones, called Bonus Track . Being official submission of Argentina to the best foreign language film category of the 87th Academy Awards 2015 . Top-notch cast formed by prestigious Argentinean actors as Darío Grandinetti , María Marull and Leonardo Sbaraglia . Special mention for Ricardo Darin ; in fact , this is the seventh film from Argentina to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, and the third in a row with Ricardo Darin as a leading star. Furthermore , colorful and evocative cinematography by Javier Julia . Rousing musical score by Gustavo Santaolalla , including an attractive leitmotif . Gustavo is considered to be one of the best international composers , his works in group production from the USA have turned Santaolalla into a prominent figure in that area, what gave him, besides, the chance to participate in big musical projects for cinema movies with successful results such as "Amores Perros", "21 Grams","The Motorcycle Diaries", crowned with the Oscar award by the music of the controversial film "Brokeback Mountain" and in 2007 for his friend Alejandro González Iñárritu's "Babel" . The motion picture was compellingly directed by Damián Szifrón who shot in 8 weeks and he wrote most of the tales from the movie in his bathtub , he actually said: " The bath is a great place to write". Damián was born in Buenos Aires, , location in which he often shoots his films . He is a writer and director , known for El Fondo del Mar or Bottom sea (2003) , Tiempo De Valientes (2005) and this Relatos Salvajes (2014) at his best ; being elected by Time as one of the best films of 2014.


                
If ordinary films are like novels, this one is like an exquisite collection of short stories. The film is divided into six segments, each with its own plot and character development. Director Damian Szifron is like a modern-day Guy de Maupassant, telling each story with meticulous accuracy, carefully measuring out each twist, detail and conversation. The segments are hilarious and over the top, but at the same time satirical and somehow realistic - the extreme events could happen to any of us. That's why this is such a great film: its shows the darkest side of human nature and of Argentinian society, but in such a way that it makes you smile. The director claims the theme connecting the stories is 'the joy of losing control'. It's also the tag-line of the movie: 'We can all lose control'. Indeed, most of the segments are about losing control, although one is about keeping everything under control in a situation that can easily spin out of control. In any case, all segments are about individuals solving a conflict in an extreme way. In most segments, the solution is extremely violent or deadly. Although the trailer splashes out the name 'Almodovar' because Pedro and his brother produced the film, the style is by no means Almodovar-like. Szafron uses a sophisticated style, very different from the extreme cinematography we know from Almodovar. 'Relatos Salvajes' also surprises with original cinematographic gimmicks. In one scene, the camera is positioned in an overhead bin of an airplane. In another, in the interior of an ATM, with the image filmed through the touch screen. The film is carefully constructed, with lots of little details. In one segment, about a man fighting the parking ticket bureaucracy in his city, we see the conspicuous towing trucks constantly moving through the image, as a sort of evil force. Once again, an Argentinian film maker pleasantly surprises moviegoers around the world. Maybe such wonderful, sharp-edged movies can only flourish in a country like Argentina, where life is a bit of a struggle and not everything is taken for granted


                
Wild Tales is the best film I have seen in a long time. The script is so clever and unique that is a must see for movies lovers. What is the border between tolerance and barbarism? We can all loose control in just one second even in the most ordinary situations. Action lovers will enjoy the ride more than romantic audiences since revenge is at the center of this master piece. In my opinion, this is the best Argentine Film in decades and a box office record in Latin America and Spain. Even Almodovar brothers are the producers the film has a unique style that is not crazy but real. Get ready for a different kind of movie that will take you out of your seat and even we shouldn't laugh about it ...well I can guarantee that you will. Clever mixed of comedy and drama that will make you think again and again and even change behaviors after you give it a thought. If Wild Tales doesn't get the Oscar for Best Foreign Film I might wonder who will.


                
This is an excellent piece that will entertain you from the very first second to the last. I am looking forward to seeing this movie again with someone that would appreciate it. While it is completely in Argentine Spanish (which is great for me as I am a fluent Spanish-speaker) it has subtitles which are excellent. The combination of acting and story are truly magnificent. Comparing this movie to a Tarantino film is inaccurate, however, this is better than Tarantino. Tarantino's films are mostly satirical. There is no satire in this movie.


                
I was recommended to watch Relatos salvajes some time ago, but was busy with some series and postponed it, plus I had no clear idea what it was about and how was it structured. But when the 1st tale was approaching its climax, it became evident that many catchy moments would be waiting me... Some parts are less realistic than others, but definitely not airy-fairy, and smart dialogues with distinct performances paved the way for lots of giggling, moments with black humour, and some grisly recognition how easily a rampage can occur... "El más fuerte" and "Bombita" are the tales I enjoyed most, they seem most sustained and elaborate, the final one - "Hasta que la muerte nos separe" - gave me mixed feelings and I found that its pace was somewhat uneven, rounding up the all bunch in less interesting manner, but still, after some delay time and considering the film comes from Argentina, I have decided to give 9 points - the film in question is highly recommended to all fond of dissimilar productions and approaches.


                
One of the best movies I have ever seen, the direction is superb, I didn't know anything about this movie, just another monotone foreign movie I thought, but no my expectations were blown away in the first 20 minutes, I won't give away anything, but if you haven't seen this movie, go and see it, it is explosive on a nuclear scale.The movie makes you think the world is crazy it's not us, whatever your problem is, leave it at the door, take your medication before watching this movie, this is one of those movies you have got to see with other people because it is so crazy, and you can talk about it with your friends later in days to come because this movie will stick in your mind and not let go.


                
