This film isn't deserving of the excess of praise it has been lauded with. It's entertaining, thought provoking at times, but not by a long mile, a master piece. The third short is the most exciting. I would have much preferred this story to have been a main feature length road movie. It captures beautifully the lush landscapes of Argentina, underscored by an 80s Giorgio Moroder music soundtrack. Leonardo Sbraglia is excellent in the lead and so is the insane brute, hot on his heels.By the end of this third short however, the film has climaxed. And there's still more than 1,5 hours to follow. How is that time going to be filled? More shorts follow where the corruption of humans is exposed and offset against pitch black humour. They are criticisms against sick modern day over-bureaucratic societies, in this case Argentina (but it could be transposed to most other parts of the world). It shows how people create hell for each other; and how some puncture that infernal catch 22 to cathartic effect. It does a decent enough job at it. The 6th and last short film is a relentless frenzy of noise and visual chaos, and fittingly so, the story is also a convoluted mess. Unfortunately this short is the longest of them all. It makes the entire film end on a bum note for me. Annihilating all the goodwill, the director had garnered from me up until then.It made me realise that at no single point during any of the shorts, had I been emotionally touched, nor did I have a moment of intellectual revelation. The film is made up of smoke and mirrors, hiding the fact that there's no heart in the film. Nor is it a product of a great mind; just some half-finished ideas strung together to add up to the duration of one long feature. It's simply one of those movies that a certain public must see and talk highly of, because it's a case of the Emperor's new clothes, really.


                
Among last year's nominees for the Best Foreign Language Oscar was "Wild Tales". However, in the US it really wasn't available in most cities until well after the awards were given. This is actually not unusual for this category of films, as often they initially have a limited release in California (thus making it eligible for the Oscar) and then are later released in the rest of the country. Fortunately for me (or perhaps not), I happened to be in Philadelphia for its recent release. After having seen the film, I had a hard time believing it would be nominated for anything--let alone an Oscar.The film begins with a scene that is terrifyingly similar to the recent tragic deliberate crash of a Malaysian Airlines plane. In this film, a disgruntled man arranges for all his enemies to receive free tickets for a dream vacations or a variety of other ruses. The people eventually realize they've been duped--but only after the plane is aloft. Then, it crashes into the ground--presumably killing everyone. This is how this Argentine comedy begins. I did hear a few nervous laughs throughout the theater--though even without the recent real air disaster, I don't understand how anyone could think this was funny.What follows are five more tales which all have the common theme of revenge. A few of them work (particularly the final segment--which is very funny) but many of them just seem very disturbing and gross. The audience is treated to seeing two characters vomit on camera as well as one defecating on camera....with a close up shot of the man's anus so you could see it was real! Additionally, several of the stories just seemed ugly, disturbing and, in a couple cases, would seem to endorse violence as a means to dealing with your problems. Considering it's supposed to be a comedy, I was just left shocked and horrified. And, perhaps, that is the intention of "Wild Tales". It IS shocking and presents as comedy things which aren't in the least funny or entertaining.While I thoroughly hated much of the film and worry that it might seem to excuse evil behaviors, I cannot completely condemn the movie for several reasons. Segment two and six were quite good and seemed far less nihilistic. Also, while I didn't like the tone of the other stories and found them disturbing, the production was extremely well crafted. The acting, direction and cinematography were as good as anything you'd see anywhere. But it all boils down to this....who wants to spend their night out and hard earned money to see something this unbelievably unpleasant and which might just be labeled 'revenge porn'?
