We might ask ourselves what we pretend of cinema. If we look for simple minded ideas burden with commonplaces, compliance with common sense and compromise, then this is your movie. Rich or poor people, fathers, mothers, brides, society: all is what you expect to be, all subjects are treated on the surface with no discomfort for the viewer. All situations are made with an effectist purpose to amaze you in a childish way, like a trick from a chip magician. If you were looking for a dark humored exploration of the Argentinian society in all his violence, desperation and the grim reality lurking in everyday social and political developments, you will be disappointed. There are a few great actors like Darín, but they are wasted in all their potential. Even the few funny situations are lonely islands in a sea of nothingness. Argentina is funnier, darker, and far more tragic than this flick, fellows.


                
Any viewer can have issues with a portmanteau film as there is no guarantee that all viewers are going to appreciate all the short stories depicted in a film. Wild tales is a good example of a portmanteau film with six tales which are more than merely being wild. These are the tales which are about situations which might have something in common with a lot of other countries and cultures. For example : everyday situations like corruption, traffic jams and road rage can be understood much better in Asian societies than some European countries. This is something which does not reduce the intrinsic nature of 'Relatos Salvajes' being an indigenous Argentine film. This is a positive quality about a film which has the ability to remain local while making attempts to make its presence felt on a global level. Most of this film's tales are based on the relationships shared by opposites which one finds in all societies namely rich versus poor, honest versus dishonest and strong versus weak. What is remarkable is that at least three stories have been able to deliver strong messages based on one of these opposites. This is the reason why 'wild tales' has fifty percent chances of being liked by viewers as its remaining three tales are not so powerful to impress viewers. Lastly, it is for an individual viewer to decide which three tales suit his/her tastes and personality.


                
If you relish at the act of forming pretentious psychoanalytic symbology of simplistic random, occasionally cartoonish collections of "edgy" stories whose leading characters all meet some form of gratuitously violent and disturbing demise, this is the film for you. While there is something that tries to pass as dark/black humour in there at all the usual cues, it just wasn't funny. Personally, I found it all quite predictable, boring and a little sad. The sadness came about as a result of the total pointlessness of the film. However, based on all the exaggerated glowing reviews, I think that sort of cynical, snobby, postmodern, existential, angsty "edginess" is exactly the sort of thing that this film was aiming for.


                
