This picture displaying genuine humor , thrills , chills , suspense , dark atmosphere and twisted conclusions , being skillfully proceeded . At the beginning, in the title credits each main actor of each tale is identified with a wild animal , and in the director's case, it is a fox . Subsequently , it takes place six short stories involving distressed people . They are titled : Pasternak , The strongest , Little bomb , Proposal , The rats and Until Death Do Us Apart.This exciting , bizarre film contains black humor , tension , thriller , drama , plot twists and shocks . Disconcerting black comedy packs crazy events , amusement and absurd situations . Sitting in a strange middle ground between the completely absurd and the stylish set pieces , adding some enjoyable moments . It is an Argentina/Spain co-production by El Deseo : Agustin and Pedro Almodóvar , that turns out to be an acceptable film because of the thriller , tension , Kafkaesque suspense , embarrassing humor as well as an interestingly written script concerning complex episodes episodes in which our protagonists are in such extreme situation and their subsequent instinctive urges for exploding violent feelings . We immediately see that the stories are going to be told from some unorthodox perspectives as each scene and its conclusion result to be surprising and shocking . Despite its disturbing as well as violent developing the picture manages to be intelligent , intriguing and thrilling , being entertaining to follow . The good thing about this film is that the director made it on an enough budget , including several sets , yet the movie works on many levels but is constantly reconfigured . The final outcome is an offbeat picture that's captivating , in spite of not being all that fun , resulting to be thoughtful and thought-provoking , dealing with the impact of violence nowadays . The interesting as well as original screenplay is 84 pages long and some of the six tales are featured in different order , it also includes a seventh tale , pretty much shorter than the other ones, called Bonus Track . Being official submission of Argentina to the best foreign language film category of the 87th Academy Awards 2015 . Top-notch cast formed by prestigious Argentinean actors as Darío Grandinetti , María Marull and Leonardo Sbaraglia . Special mention for Ricardo Darin ; in fact , this is the seventh film from Argentina to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, and the third in a row with Ricardo Darin as a leading star. Furthermore , colorful and evocative cinematography by Javier Julia . Rousing musical score by Gustavo Santaolalla , including an attractive leitmotif . Gustavo is considered to be one of the best international composers , his works in group production from the USA have turned Santaolalla into a prominent figure in that area, what gave him, besides, the chance to participate in big musical projects for cinema movies with successful results such as "Amores Perros", "21 Grams","The Motorcycle Diaries", crowned with the Oscar award by the music of the controversial film "Brokeback Mountain" and in 2007 for his friend Alejandro González Iñárritu's "Babel" . The motion picture was compellingly directed by Damián Szifrón who shot in 8 weeks and he wrote most of the tales from the movie in his bathtub , he actually said: " The bath is a great place to write". Damián was born in Buenos Aires, , location in which he often shoots his films . He is a writer and director , known for El Fondo del Mar or Bottom sea (2003) , Tiempo De Valientes (2005) and this Relatos Salvajes (2014) at his best ; being elected by Time as one of the best films of 2014.


                
"Relatos Salvajes" is a black comedy film divided in six segments. (1) "Pasternak": one model and a music critic in a plane find that they have a common acquaintance called Pasternak. Soon they discover that every passenger and crew on board know Pasternak. Cosmic coincidence? (2) "The Rats": a waitress of a diner recognizes her client as the loan shark that caused a tragedy in her family. The cook suggests mixing rat poison in his food, but she refuses. But the cook decides to proceed in her plan. When his son arrives, the waitress tries to fix the situation.(3) "The Strongest": Two drivers on a lone highway have an argument with tragic consequences. (4) "Little Bomb": The demolition engineer has his car towed by a truck for parking in a wrong place and he has an argument with the employee of the towing company. This event destroys his private and professional life, and he plots revenge against the corrupt towing company and the City Hall.(5) "The Proposal": The reckless hit-and-run son of a wealthy family hits and kills a pregnant woman. He wakes up his parents and his father calls the lawyer. They propose to pay the groundkeeper to take the blame. Soon the father discovers that he is victim of extortion of his lawyer and the detective in charge of the investigation. What will be his decision?(6) "Until Death Do Us Apart": During the wedding party, the wife discovers that her husband has cheated her with one of the guests and decides to payback. "Relatos Salvajes" is an insane and funny comedy, with great critic to the corruption of the public services in Argentina (but could be in most of the South American countries); to the corrupt elite and police; to the lack of justice. It is hard to choose the best segment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Relatos Selvagens" ("Wild Reports")


                
When i read it was going to be a movie with six short stories I was worried because almost all the other movies with short stories I saw before are just too boring. You never feel satisfied with short stories like that but in Relatos Salvajes you don't get that feeling. Every single story is fun to watch. They are all with a bit of violence , but that what's make it great. Watching people loosing it. I thought all the actors that participated in this movie did a great job. I didn't expect to be this entertained but at the end I was certainly pleased that I watched those short stories. Two hours of entertainment that flew by in a second.


                
"Relatos Salvajes" or "Wild Tales" is an anthology movie, consisting of six short tales, produced by Pedro Almodovar.One of the tales has, due to to the news involving airplanes we have seen over the past year, taken on quite a different meaning. Especially the tragedy involving Germanwings Flight 9525 and pilot Andreas Lubitz. I don't want to give away too much, suffices to say, that the impact of the story is felt quite vividly given what I have just mentioned.These tales touch on topics such as anger, frustration, revenge and feeling under pressure in our mad- dash, non-stop 21st century lives. Always connected, always on, always moving, and the resulting alienation, fragmentation and uncertainty which results out of all that.We feel it every day, in ourselves, in those around us, the places we live in, the uneasiness in our souls, minds and bodies...the feeling that we are no longer in control of our own being, or our destiny...only perpetual tourists relegated to a dystopian conveyor belt composed of regretful pasts, crumbling presents and a myriad of possible shaky futures.These tales encompass all of that in some form or other. Thoughts and emotions we are likely to dismiss and not dwell on in our daily lives and routines. Let's be honest, who amongst us wants to think about anger and frustration...when they are our most likely companions during the mundane process of going about to and fro', aka living? But anger and frustration, and yes even revenge, are part of our personalities, and of us as human beings.Without darkness there is no light. In the same manner, we would probably be incomplete humans without anger, frustration and revenge being part of us.It is about time we acknowledge them. This movie does just that...in a wonderful way!
There is much to praise about "Relatos Salvajes", and some in less extent to criticize. The positive in this episodic weaving of tales has most likely been said and repeated: stories are engrossing, ultimately effective in their message and of brutal pace and delivery. But what subtracts the movie of it's peak is the format. Granted, the format IS the movie; but we've seen coral stories work much better with the thematic cord weaving it into one common paste without abrupt cuts (Crash, Pulp Fiction). The division of short stories can be as rewarding as it is conflicting: some stories are better than others (which ones are subjective to the viewer, you). This results in a roller coaster in which one cannot settle comfortably. The better stories need more time and the worst ones have too much of it.In my case, I thought the wedding one was too much, and the airplane too little. Almost certainly this unevenness will compute to other viewers with their own particular tastes, who will prefer the whole over the parts if they adore it and divide the parts from the whole if they didn't. Although there is a common subject, and it is quite evident; I felt displaced when a story ended and another began. Unfilled. They weren't all in the same quality league (acting, pace, themes) and as such it felt like puzzle pieces some too big and some too small.The whole is approved, no doubt. It all depends if you want the main course or six appetizers to go. I felt a little hungry after leaving, but I could go back to the restaurant again.


                
My Rating : 7/10I watched it as it is on the imdb Top 250 at #179 (current ranking).All the 6 shorts are a combination of funny, twisted and fairly violent vignettes.It is for viewers who like dark humour. Give it a whirl if that sounds good to you!


                
It's a really great movie with 6 different stories.
It's really funny and a liked 4 out 6 of the stories, would definitely recommend this movie.


                
Wild Tales is a collage of six short films, all different in circumstance and characters. Yet they all deal with the same thing. What would it look like if someone reached their utter breaking point, was taken over the line of what is bearable, and just... snapped.It can sound a bit over the top, and the film is labeled comedy for a reason, but at the same time director Damián Szifron gives it a dark undertone. Many of the stories are more than critical towards Argentinian government and public offices, and lets face it, people rarely snap in a graceful manner. Still the balance is always there. It is ugly, jarring and sometimes even a bit unpleasant, but you can always find the humour in the situation.I'd even argue that it isn't played enough for laughs. The first story, taking place on an airplane, is easily the most outlandish of the six. A truly bizarre scene that ends just about perfectly. It raises the bar quite high and none of the stories that follow can match it. To be fair, they're not even trying to, being more realistic in scope and circumstance, but it's still somewhat a shame.My second favourite is actually the second most outlandish one. A man has his car towed on the day of his daughter's birthday, and being a demolition engineer, he figures it's a high time to do something about this veritable highway robbery that masquerades as a towing office.My least favourite would probably be the last one, taking place at a wedding. It's a bit on the long side and the humour just isn't there. It has some good moments in it, but overall it left me feeling quite ambivalent.Still, none of the stories were bad by any means. Definitely worth a watch for all fans of dark humour and for those wanting to check out what South American film industry looks like.


                
Big stories but less in numbers would have made the trick for me. The characters in all the stories are beautifully created. U can feel for each one of them. The characters are so beautiful U will yearn for more from them, but disappointingly it ends very quickly.


                
Yes, it is, indeed. It has it all: an Agatha Christie-style intrigue, peripeteia, remarkable dark humor, and psychological drama. This segment is so perfect that no continuation is really necessary, and the film should have ended with the last scene of Pasternak. Regrettably, it does not, and the remaining five shorts are no match to Pasternak, the last two parts being excessively long and merely intended to help the director to come up with a full-length feature. Nonetheless, the beauty of Pasternak justifies a solid 7.


                
(Flash Review)So yah...life can be stressful as well as irritating at times. That doesn't mean you can lose common sense. This film is a series of unrelated vignettes related only in tone and atmosphere. The tone can easily be described as dark as in each vignette the characters make the worst possible decisions. For example, getting your car towed followed by making idiotic choices can eventually derail your life. What other life scenarios will play out? Will you be able to imagine how far things will go? Often hard to watch at times from a cringe factor perspective, it will no doubt evoke the viewer's emotion. This had high production quality and good acting. Will you be able to hang in there?
(Flash Review)So yah, life can be stressful as well as irritating at times. That doesn't mean you can lose common sense. This film is a series of unrelated vignettes related only in tone and atmosphere. The tone can easily be described as dark as in each vignette the characters make the worst possible decisions. For example, getting your car towed when making idiotic choices, can eventually derail your life. What other life scenarios will play out? Will you be able to imagine how far things will go? Often hard to watch at times from a cringe factor perspective, it will no doubt evoke the viewer's emotion. This had high production quality and good acting. Will you be able to hang in there?
'Relatos Salvajes' - or 'Wild Tales' as it is better known - this Argentinean film spins six stories showcasing how wild human beings can become when stressed and vengeful. Best described as a dark comedy, the events at hand often seem outrageous until one realises just how tense the characters are, and all the tales other than the fifth one deliver laughs in the face of tragedy and misfortune. The initial sequence with a 'Twilight Zone' air is by far the best chapter and yet it is sadly over before the end credits roll. The last two stories also run too long, exhausting their premises quickly. The scattered memorable bits and pieces of 'Wild Tales' are, however, endlessly powerful. As mentioned, the first tale is the best with a mysterious plane flight. A follow-up tale in which a waitress cannot decide whether to poison a gangster's food is equally intense and a third sequence with two deserted highway drivers has the biggest laughs. The fourth tale involves bureaucracy gone mad and features the most relatable protagonist. The fifth sequence involving a covered-up hit-and-run is the weakest, lacking the comedic air of the earlier segments, and while comedy comes back in full force for the sixth tale of a wedding gone awry, the chapter is a little on the long side. If hardly perfect, 'Wild Tales' is well worth watching. The quality of the tales vary, but they overlap magnificently well thematically, and per as the opening credits over wild animals, the film intelligently explores how we all have the capacity to release our inner animal instincts in the perfect storm of circumstances.


                
Wild Tales is a great Argentine film, the cast is full of Argentine movie stars , especially Ricardo Darin , the film has 6 history, what I liked most were the 2.3 and 6 , my favorite was the broken car , the film is funny and violent, the funniest story in my opinion was the 3 , more is also very strong , the picture of the film is good , the weather completely changes every story , some stories can even be pretty boring , has good dialogue , direction and good and agile, the director has good camera rolls , I did not like the story 4 , I found very weak, most have good performances , Wild Tales is one of the best Argentine films ever made <U+200B><U+200B>, the way the story is told it is very interesting , has excellent performances and a great direction. Note 7.8


                
Sweet revenge, poetic justice and plain old sticking it to the man, who doesn't love such things? They're staples of cinema, from Once Upon a Time in the West, Oldboy through to what Damián Szifrón's multiple story filled saga Wild Tales could compare itself to most, Falling Down.In Joel Schumacher's well liked and remembered Michael Douglas starrer from 1993 where Douglas's William Foster had finally had enough and took his anger out on a city (and its poor fast food workers) audiences got to live viscerally through scenarios that our wildest imaginations have perhaps at times wandered off to and it's in this unlikely yet somehow relatable subconscious that Szifron makes Wild Tales work as some form of distant cousin to Schumacher's anti-establishment flick.Backed by famed director Pedro Almodovar, Szifron's Argentinian film (which was nominated for Best Foreign Film at last year's Academy Awards) is a well shot and highly dark collection of stories that all in some way, shape or form centre around revenge.As with all such films that feature a mishmash of stories, Szifron finds himself succeeding at some (a highway set piece and a hit and run cover up are highlights) whilst other scenarios like a diner scene or the films wedding finale feel a tad underwhelming but Wild Tales constantly engages the audience with its for lack of better word "wild" tone and lack of political correctness that would not be found in a Hollywood production of a similar ilk.Blood is spilled, explosions are ignited and rat poison is used in but a few of Wild Tales scenes and the film has an air of unpredictability about it that will often have you on tenterhooks even if the film could've lost 15 – 20 minutes in the editing suite thanks to a few segments that seem a little flabby around the edges, with drawn out situations and scenes, but there's little doubting the originality of much of what Wild Tales brings to the table.For fans of dark comedy not unlike early Coen Brother films or even a Tarantino creation, Wild Tales could just well become a new favourite and while some segments fall a little flat, Wild Tales is certainly one heck of a ride and the perfect antidote for those seeking a break from the usual Hollywood fair.3 ½ angry chefs out of 5


                
This is a suite of six short films. They are all hilariously surrealistic. In one film, the waitress in a smalltime restaurant contemplates spiking a politician's french-fries with rat poison, because she knows he is a masquerading gangster. In another, a demolition expert detonates a car park because he is angry with the city's extortionist parking system. Yet another film portrays macabre road rage on a spectacular road winding through the desert. And the final showpiece among the six is a black comedy triggered off by the bride discovering her soon to be husband's infidelity. Other than insane impulsive rage, there is no common theme bundling the six films together. They expose a flaw in the way our brains are wired and the dangerously thin line that seems to separate sanity from insanity. Many of us would recollect similar situations from our personal experience, when we managed to pull back from the brink. The characters in the film's six stories are not so successful and the consequence is destruction and death, which we relish vicariously. A hint of redemption is offered as a ray of hope in the last narration. This oddball of a film chokes us with laughter and therein lies our salvation.


                
This is a satirical movie, darkly funny and entertaining. I must confess I enjoyed this so much I had surges of unexpected pleasure throughout the viewing. Do not make the mistake of misinterpreting the reality in what some characters say in a joking manner. The big truth is often said in a joking manner. My favorite vignette is the wedding, how much utopia is broken and the lengths the character will go to get revenge.
Well, that certainly was... something. I had no idea it was going to be as erratic, as crazy as it was. I've seen people describe it as a crowd-pleaser, but I actually don't see it like that all the way. Some of the stories are so out there in their format and structure that I see a great majority of people just being bewildered and annoyed at it. Regardless, it's a thoroughly entertaining ride, at times more than others. I don't see it holding up well on a rewatch at all. It has the benefit of being one of the most unpredictable films I've seen in years, but it also comes together as very disjointed. None of the stories are bad, but the lesser ones aren't memorable enough to stand out, and the best ones are also just very messy. I don't know, I'm up for something crazy, but I didn't find much of anything here to be anything other than superficially interesting and entertaining, certainly nothing that held much depth in terms of how I saw it. That's another thing, it's sort of overwhelming. By the time it was over I felt like my head could explode. The cinematography was also quite distracting at times. That sounds like a very negative opinion, but no, I liked it. it works on a scene-to-scene basis incredibly well, and surely it takes talent to create such wild, uproaring stories like this where there's no actual structure that needs to be followed. Erica Rivas is also all kinds of amazing in this in her short screen time. She makes a huge impact. So yeah. I liked it, but I only finished watching it about an hour ago and I already like it less than while I was watching it. Certainly glad it didn't beat Ida.


                
This is in Spanish and is episodic. I hope no one is put off by that because these half dozen tales of mayhem are hilarious. Even as the tragedies deepen they tickle.Every story involves mere middle-class Argentine citizens engaged in the usual stuffs of ordinary life -- giving the finger to the slow driver in front of you, paying a parking ticket, keeping your kid out of trouble, trying and failing to bring a lavish Jewish wedding to a decorous close with as little blood spilled as possible.I won't describe any of the stories but I'll mention the close of the one dealing with the incremental increases in road rage. Two drivers have killed each other in a wreck at the side of the road, unwitnessed. When the recovery vehicles arrive, a coroner stares at the two charred skeletons inside one of the hulks. They're hugging each other now. He muses, "A crime of passion?" The acting and direction are unimpeachable. The portrait of the bureaucracy and its multiple dead ends is unimaginably precise. If Kafka had been given to violent endings --


                
