This Argentinian movie was released in my country (Chile) on last Thursday, and since i heard very good comments about the movie i decided to go to a Cinema at Parque Arauco in Chile and this is what i wrote about it:The film is split into six unconnected stories, watching each story is around 20-30 minutes long and you feel like you're watching a live action short film. What do they have in common? All of them are a mix between drama and comedy. The script is hilarious, even if the lines are sad, it's so full of black comedy, that there were people rolling on the floor laughing at the Cinema. I'd write much more about this film, but i think i might be spoiling it, so i prefer to tell you that i can't wait to watch it again. So please do NOT miss it.


                
Being a horror and thriller fan, this movie was very interesting.Stories of revenge one after the other will keep you on the edge of your seat! And the stories told are short. Filled with suspense. You will not know what is going to happen next. And the stories will seem so real. Stories of day to day anger and real life occurrences. The actors are very convincing in their roles. Pace of the short stories is very gripping.Some of the shots captured are amazing. Overall very thrilling! And a must watch!


                
Great movie telling stories I would label centering around anger. I realized how powerful anger emotion is and how quickly it can ruin your life for good.1) Airplane: It was developed beautifully and gratz to the pilot for determination.2) Restaurant: The douche bag of a guy basically kills the girls father, girl thinks about confronting him and the chef lady thinks confronting him is not enough at all. 3) Car: Need to be careful about road rage, you don't know who is the guy in the other car. I think this goes for any rage. I think I can conclude that we shouldn't rage.4) Tow away: Really good criticism of government and it's fines. There should be a better method to determine which fine is just. Also I agree that most government workers are really annoying, they don't enjoy their job at all and the mind set "I am just trying to do my job" is absolutely true.5) Hit and run: Really good visualization of what money can make people do. Basically if you have enough money, you carry a get out jail card with you. The twist in the end was really awesome, poor gardener.6) Wedding: This was my favorite story by far. It shows that how things can escalate quickly out of hand. Also it is easy to make bad decisions while under so much pressure like a wedding ceremony. I must say bride was really good and very nice acting. But I doubt that make up sex will solve their problem...Awesome movie, really effected me while being entertaining.
I was recommended to watch Relatos salvajes some time ago, but was busy with some series and postponed it, plus I had no clear idea what it was about and how was it structured. But when the 1st tale was approaching its climax, it became evident that many catchy moments would be waiting me... Some parts are less realistic than others, but definitely not airy-fairy, and smart dialogues with distinct performances paved the way for lots of giggling, moments with black humour, and some grisly recognition how easily a rampage can occur... "El más fuerte" and "Bombita" are the tales I enjoyed most, they seem most sustained and elaborate, the final one - "Hasta que la muerte nos separe" - gave me mixed feelings and I found that its pace was somewhat uneven, rounding up the all bunch in less interesting manner, but still, after some delay time and considering the film comes from Argentina, I have decided to give 9 points - the film in question is highly recommended to all fond of dissimilar productions and approaches.


                
Splendid and well crafted.A slightly radical film, this is a collection of six equally good short stories of different people from director Damian Scifron and producer Pedro Almodovar. Engaging throughout and entire film; well shot and performed with convivial dialogue. Thoroughly dramatic as well as humorous this film will keep you excited throughout, no doubt. An interesting blend of characters as well. To be able to create six funny, intense and ironic stories and combine them in one is really the work of a master director. A well chosen cast tops off this terrific comedy drama. Evidently one of the better films of 2015 so far A must see! Solid and comfortable 9.


                
More story por favor :) So there are 6 epic stories in this movie.Remember the Vengeance trilogy, the story is kinda like that but it is shorter and it has lot dark comedy in it.I love that the first three stories have short build up without delaying the excitement. I think it's just hilarious.I kinda hate the fourth story I think it is the weakest link, I would rate it six.The fifth story is kinda weak too.The last story is bit different than the rest, but is the most hilarious. It is about marriage and love but with dark comedy in it, something refreshing so just watch it.Overall it's quite refreshing, this is one of non-English movie that you don't wanna miss.


                
This has to be one of the most shocking and blackest comedies of all time. It's basically not a comedy, although there are a lot of laughs, thanks to the insanely surreal situations that unfold here, as well as the ridiculously exaggerated violence that will make you laugh, but also shock you to the core. However, it's the thrilling stories throughout this film that will leave you breathless at every second, because it's just so unpredictable and so tense every step of the way.Firstly, an overview of the film as a whole. The fantastic directing by Damián Szifrón is one of the most impressive parts of the whole saga, and it really shows off on screen, and adds a whole lot more to the excitement of the stories, whilst the stunning writing in every separate story transforms this into an unbelievably thrilling playbook that bucks the trend of so many anthologies that create a disjointed story that can be boring to watch, there are swift transitions throughout here, and every single story is always just as exciting and unpredictable as the last.So, now let's go in order of the six stories, starting with the very short, but what I think is the best, opening aeroplane tale. This is very understated and, despite its short duration, has an ingeniously gradual build up, followed by a shocking revelation and then a hilarious punchline, by far the most exhilarating part of the film.However, the second tale, set in a roadside diner, is not far off that. Here, we really see the plain horrors of people driven by revenge, and it's definitely one of the most emotional stories of the film, but it utilises its small cast and eerie setting to great effect to create something completely unpredictable and engrossing.The third tale, a road battle that is often almost identical to Stephen Spielberg's Duel, is definitely the most violent part of the film, as well as the scariest by far, because it's just got a terrifying sense of isolation and helplessness, as well as a horrifying villain, but also a protagonist who you're never quite on side with, making the tension and violence a bit more hilarious than just petrifying.That's followed by what is the longest section of the film, simply about a man who has had enough with everyone treating him like some sort of a criminal. Although this isn't the most exhilarating tale, it's the easiest to relate to, and brings across the element of stress in its main character in brilliantly clear form.The penultimate tale, although I thought it was the weakest, was still intriguing. It details the events about the lengths people will go to to protect those closest to them and then further their own agenda, and whilst the punchline was ultimately a little predictable, it was still a horrifying account of the selfishness of many people.The final tale, about a wedding gone wrong, was the greatest emotional roller-coaster of the film. It's full of insane laughs, as well as an astonishing central performance by Erica Rivas, but it finishes the film on a real high note, impressing on you an image of complete madness and shocking violence that brilliantly sums up this entire film.www.themadmovieman.com


                
Maybe I was just in the right mood after a frustrating, wasted day, but this wonderfully irreverent portmanteau movie hit the spot for me. In many ways it took me back to the days of Bunuel. The format means every story has to set its scene fast and be told with economy and unusually there is no weak link here. Most of the tales keep you guessing right to the end in a Twilight Zone kind of way, whilst you are being fed the best in cinematography and acting. There are several standout bravura performances, most notably from Ricardo Darin (also brilliant in "The Secret in Their Eyes" a few years ago) as a mild-mannered engineer driven to extreme measures and Erica Rivas, in the climactic section, as a bride who reacts badly to a setback at her wedding reception. If you are easily shocked, keep clear; otherwise, be prepared for a terrific ride. I already envy those who don't know what is coming next!
"Wild Tales" (2014 release from Argentina; 122 min.) is a collection of 6 seemingly unrelated tales which all bear the same theme: revenge. The opening (pre-movie credits) tale is a classic: a woman strikes up a conversation with another airplane passenger and they find out that by complete coincidence (or not?) they are both acquainted with the same person. Then it emerges that several other passengers also know that person... No worries, I'm not going to spoil anything. This first (and short) story sets the mood for the movie perfectly, as we get five more vignettes that are all one better than the other. I can't decide which is my favorite, to be honest.Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from Argentine writer-director Damian Szifron, and what a beauty he delivers with this movie. When I say "beauty", I certainly don't mean it in a sugary way, as in fact Szifron's film can be seen as a brutal assessment of the human condition. Check out the tale of the driver who gets tangled up with a 'left lane bandit' only then to suffer a flat tire and suffer the consequences... Or, even worse (should I say better?), check out the tale of the frustrated guy whose car gets towed without reason (according to the guy, of course), and wants to file a complaint... (this story reminded me of that Michael Douglas film "Falling Down"). The movie is also a blistering indictment of Argentina's judicial system (check out the story where a well-off family's son kills a pregnant woman in a hit-and-run). The very last story (about a wedding reception that goes horribly wrong) is also the longest (close to 30 min.), and capsules the movie's spirit perfectly. It is no wonder that "Wild Tales" was a nominee for Best Foreign Language Movies at this year's Oscars. I've now seen 4 of the 5 nominated films and honestly they are all worthy in their own right, and then some."Wild Tales" opened this weekend at my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati and I couldn't wait to see it. The early evening screening where I saw this at was attended okay but not super, which is a shame. I had high expectations for "Wild Tales" and they were met, and then some. If you are in the mood for a top-notch foreign movie that is MILES away from your standard Hollywood fare, you cannot go wrong with this. "Wild Tales" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!


                
This is my first Argentine movie and I am blown away.With an amazing opening sequence, Wild Tales is a collection of six short, unrelated live action tales that depict human nature in its purest form. The stories speak volumes about the types of lives we all live. A conversation at the beginning turns into a startling revelation at the end of the first short, which is as great as the remaining five. However, the final short is slightly dull compared to what the first five have to offer.Black comedy is the perfect genre this would fall in because the short tales are about ordinary people finding themselves in ordinary situations. The only factor that distinguishes it from the rest is that it goes ahead turning the ordinary into something wicked and super. It is a mix of drama and quirkiness that we all are accustomed to. And the best part is that the stories are to the point.Definitely the film is for people who have an eye for humor and cinematic art. You will love and cherish this and yearn to re-watch it. Excellent photography, backed by good writing and appropriate music. The score is so supportive, one awaits it in the screenplay. With some great performances and direction, Wild Tales is an appealing drama which will appeal even if you do not understand Spanish. BOTTOM LINE: Wild Tales is a masterpiece and once you watch it, you will be asking your friends to watch it just so you can discuss it with them. 9/10 - brilliant!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YES


                
This 2015 Argentinian film, directed by Damián Szifron, is a collection of six unconnected short stories, with both comic and catastrophic elements and carrying the tagline "we can all lose control." The six very different stories describe "how I would extract my revenge if only I had the nerve." The excellent ensemble cast keeps the unexpected happening . . . as people go to the surreal brink of absurdity and tragedy—and keep going. They carry out the vengeful urges we all feel in moments of betrayal, in flashes of road rage, facing overwhelming temptation, or confronting mindless bureaucracy. The first very short tale involves a casual conversation between two airplane passengers, strangers to each other, who happen to discover they both know a would-be musician named G-- Pasternak. One is a woman who once broke up with him and the other, a classical music critic who savaged Pasternak's early work. A passenger sitting in front of them turns around, saying, "Pasternak?" She was his elementary school teacher, and says he certainly had problems. After a few more people who've wronged poor Pasternak pipe up, the music critic stands and asks, "Is there anybody on this plane who does not know Pasternak? And who paid for their own ticket?" There is not. I leave the rest to your imagination. And his. The funniest story involves an explosives expert trying to reason with the local parking authority, and one of the most satisfying has a bride take her revenge on the groom who cheated on her. It's a wedding no one will ever forget! Said Eric Kohn in indieWIRE, "While adhering to an internal logic that makes each punchline land with a satisfying burst of glee, the movie nevertheless stems from genuine fury aimed a broken world." Be sure to catch the opening credits, where the names of key cast and production crew members are shown with photos of wild animals reflecting on their personas. The director, I noted, was a fox. An Academy Award nominee for best foreign language film last year.


                
The movie is an anthology of short stories. They are funny in an absurd way, and will definitely keep you entertained. The movie is a satire of modern society. Cinematography is wonderfully executed by Javier Julia. Director/Writer Damián Szifrón puts together six different stories that all have nervous breakdown as their common theme. In one of the story, the lead is Ricardo Darín (the secret in their eyes), most of us can rate to the frustration he goes thru before his nervous breakdown. This movie is really about what happens when we let frustration pile up and everything becomes too much at some point. It's about when so much bad stuff happens to you. The acting, direction and cinematography were very good. The first story is the shortest n da best.
Note:My top-25 list are based on the U.S. release date.. so while it has 2014 next to it on IMDb, this will be featured on my pending 2015 list."Wild Tales" was an orgasmic reprieve from the diluted, poorly written, oft-regurgitated Hollywood romcom's that saturated my rental selections the last few days.It's a collection of short stories that mainly focuses on the animalistic nature of human beings. It's often funny, sometimes shocking, and the quality of the work overall is exceptional.It looks great and sounds great, and is one of the more entertaining films that I've seen in a while. The acting is strong top to bottom, and no one segment pulls the rest of it down. They are all good, but personally I think the middle segments("road rage" and "botched wedding") are the best. "Dynamite Joe" probably the weakest, and that is primarily due to it's unrealistic climax.There's some spectacular moments of cinematography and music. Definitely reminiscent of films like "Babel", but the subject/themes are based more upon black-comedy-bad-fortune type scenario's. Think "After Hours" or "Creepshow 2" ONLY with the cinematography and overall attention to detail similar to "Babel". I highly recommend this. Very pleasant surprise that went directly onto my "Jeremy's B-Movie Marathon List Part 4".85/100 SOLID!Glad to see this was nominated for an Academy Award. Deservedly so.
Truth is stranger than fiction. Or so they say. "Wild Tales" (R, 2:02) is complete fiction, but is strange enough to compete with any truth you may have seen portrayed on film. Still, the word "strange" doesn't adequately describe the things that happen in this movie. "Wild" really is the best adjective for the film's content. The wildest part of the whole thing is that anything and everything portrayed on the screen could actually happen. In fact, some of it did. The film's opening scenes depict a scenario that is uncomfortably similar to an infamous real-life tragedy that took place in early 2015. "Too soon," is the phrase I heard one woman whisper to her companion after the movie's opening sequence. It may seem that way, but this film was released in Argentina and shown at several film festivals around the world well before the tragedy to which I am referring. This just goes to show the plausibility, if not the truth, behind the stories in this film. Yes, that's "stories" – plural."Wild Tales" is an anthology of six stories with no relation to each other, except that they all portray violent revenge. I think it's also worth noting that, on the Rotten Tomatoes website, this film received a positive rating of over 90% of critics AND moviegoers – and lead to Argentina being represented in the 2014-2015 Oscar race for Best Foreign Language Film. (The movie's Spanish language title is "Relatos salvajes".) Yes, that means hearing the dialog in Spanish and reading it in English, but these six tales are wild enough that most people probably won't mind the subtitles:A group of seemingly unrelated people gathered together in one place discover that they have something in common. Is it a cosmic-level coincidence or is there something else going on?A waitress in a diner is forced to serve a gangster whose actions basically destroyed the waitress' family and he doesn't even recognize her. Upon hearing her story, the cook suggests putting rat poison in the man's food, but can the waitress bring herself to be that ruthless? Then, a road rage incident near a bridge on a deserted stretch of road escalates to disgusting and dangerous levels and neither driver gets away unscathed. Karma can really be a bitch!An ordinary man (who happens to have an extraordinarily dangerous occupation) has his car towed while picking up his daughter's birthday cake. This frustrating situation sets off a chain of events that ruins the man's life. He falls down so far that he has nothing to lose by taking his revenge on a corrupt and uncaring system.When the son of a rich man is involved in a hit-and-run, the rich man offers to pay his groundskeeper to take the rap. The groundskeeper agrees, but enacting this plan is not nearly as simple as it sounds and this story ends in a way none of the players expected.An attractive young couple are enjoying their wedding reception when the bride makes a discovery that shakes her to her core. She chooses the bridal dance as the time to tell her new husband what she has learned. Without spilling the specifics, I can say that all this leads to a dramatic rooftop scene, tension and tempers rising to a fever pitch, blood on the bride's dress, paramedics treating multiple people with a variety of conditions and a cutting-the-cake scene that you won't soon forget. Suffice it to say that producers Pedro and Agustín Almodóvar and writer/director Damián Szifron saved the wildest (and possibly the best) wild tale for last. In "Wild Tales", you get a series of revenge fantasies that may make you feel guilty for allowing them to entertain you. But it will probably be a pleasurable guilt. It's the kind of movie that makes you think, "I can't believe they did that," immediately followed by, "I wonder if I would do that." Even with real-world events tinging the first story with an unintended pathos, this film gives us six tales that represent the best in dark comedy. The situations showcased are generally relatable and seem uncomfortably possible. The many movies I've seen over the years have left me with just about every conceivable emotion upon leaving the theater, but this is the first one that left me feeling<U+0085> naughty. For lack of a better word, I felt naughty for secretly rooting for people doing bad things in this movie – and for enjoying the outcome of each story as much as I did. I've never seen a movie like this before, never felt the way this movie made me feel and never enjoyed dark comedy so much. This is going to make me feel naughty all over again, but I'm giving "Wild Tales" an "A". I'm sorry. No, I'm not.


                
Just saw it. Reminds me of Tarantino of course but more of Almodóvar, the first Almodóvar specially, for instance that of "Matador". No wonder he decided to produce the film. Szifron is brilliant as a narrator, the screenplay is excellent and for the most part very well acted. Dark, funny, cartoonish. The road rage episode owes a lot to McLaren's "Neighbours". Very original and striking, should be very successful. Szifron's strong suit is, I think, not so much the plotting but directing actors. Darín is, as usual, so good you do not notice he is acting. Rivas, in the last episode, as an angry Jewish bride is absolutely sublime. And the fat cook in "The Rats", the cafe episode (maybe the least successful but still good), with just one look lets you know that she is a danger to all things alive. Also, it is impossible not to identify with the characters and root for them...Great movie. Go watch it.


                
Thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Went in blind not knowing what to expect. The movie centers around 6 separate scenes dealing with anger. They are all thoroughly engaging, making the viewer sit on the edge of their seat with anxious expectation of how it might end. Extremely clever and get to the real core of the key characters. You feel like you know this person or have met someone just like him/her. What stands out for this film is the intense emotion (without unnecessary drama), just real life expression of how the mundane can turn crazy. Often there is a twist or two hidden into each story which adds further delight to the story. Overall this movie is one I will certainly recommend to friends and continue to stay with me , especially the motor car story
This is a very watchable and often extremely funny anthology of six short films. The dialogue is in Spanish, the director and settings are Argentine. The stories are all slightly-over-the-top-realism in the manner of Almodóvar tinged with the dark surrealism of the Buñuel of The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie. The scenarios are graphic rather than subtle, but they all work well most of the time, because most of us can identify with the main characters, recognizing how little it can take to shake us from complacency into violence.The official English title "Wild Tales" suggests madcap craziness. But these tales are savage ("selvaje" in the original Spanish), a word that better suggests the ferocious beast lurking not far under the skin of all of us. The beast can be unchained by nothing more complicated than being cut off by a driver who doesn't signal or finding that our car has been impounded for an unwitting parking infraction. In the first and shortest episode, what appears to be an absurd series of coincidences linking all the passengers on a plane turns out to have a logical and sinister rationale. The ending explains why in the opening scene the woman checking in at the airport is told that she will not earn frequent flyer points for her trip! And the final, longest episode hilariously tracks the chaotic degeneration of a stereotypical Jewish wedding party, initiated by the bride's discovery that the groom has been cheating on her with one of the guests. This is not a film for young children or for people who aren't willing to admit how close they sometimes are to dissolving in animal rage.


                
As I'm working my way through the entire IMDb's top 250, I decided on a whim to watch this odd Argentinian film in-between all the long and slow-paced war epics. And wow! I had no expectations, but each short story caught me off guard and wowed me. And when I thought I got the hang of the style, the fourth part surprised me completely, and then the fifth and final ones did as well!I don't usually like short stories, but this film just works. The theme of "what may happen when humans are pushed too far" is fascinating, and it's always unpredictable, imaginative and entertaining. It being beautifully shot and boosts great music seals the deal: This is one of my all-time favorites!


                
The movie is a satire of modern Argentinian society that can easily be expanded to other countries. 6 very well acted and directed short stories have a common a desire of revenge against what they perceived, rightly or not, as a big or small injustice against them. All the episodes are an exaggeration of real life circumstances that all of us have been in (revenge against somebody who mistreated you, against a criminal, against the government's injustice, against the arrogance of some individuals and against a disrespectful partner). The dark hyperbole that permeates all the short stories gives the movie a very tragicomic vibe. 1) Acting: very well acted throughout, with a top notch performance by Ricardo Darin and Erica Rivas. 2) Directing: very entertaining and fluid, especially in the last short story. 3) Screenplay: short dark stories are not new in the Latin cinema, especially in the tradition of Italian movies in 60s-70s ("I mostri", "ieri, oggi e domani", "I nuovi mostri"). However, even if the formula lacks of originality, the short stories are engaging in their plot and they are very well built and concluded in the time allocated 4) Quit fitting especially in the episode of the "road tale" and memorable is the "titanium" opening in the last short story. 4) Overall: a very entertaining movie that makes you smile intelligently


                
Szifron shows he knows what he's doing. His acid humor, his sarcastic view of some Argentinian myths, a painful picture of our violent society.Enough blood to make us realize the outcome of violence, enough hate we usually hide, enough laughs to make the film highly enjoyable,enough love to clear the way. A film called to move spectators, not only from the River Plate area or the Spanish speaking countries. A film which shows the main wounds in the present Argentinian society,the system's corruption,the lies, the class struggle, the privileged ones. A film which is an open and crystal-clear window to Southamerica urban reality.
Though Gandhi said, "An eye for an eye will make the whole world blind," many of us deal with the frustrations of modern life by striking out against a society we see as oppressive. We rail against the politicians who misgovern us, the bureaucrats we tangle with, or simply against a world that does not always support our desires. Most express their anger in socially acceptable ways, others do not. It is the others that are the subject of Argentine director Damián Szifrón's (On Probation) Wild Tales, six unrelated stories filled with dark humor, stylized violence, unhinged emotions, and unexpected twists in the Twilight Zone tradition, tales that reflect the insanity of contemporary existence.Produced by Pedro Almodovar (I'm Not Excited) and nominated for an Oscar for Best Foreign Film, the assortment of characters that populate Wild Tales are not poster boys for forgiveness but are united in their desire for revenge against real or imagined enemies. Though in films of this genre, the expectation is that some segments will be better than others, here each twenty-minute segment is so impeccably written and compelling that they could each form the basis for a feature-length film. In "Pasternak," the bizarre episode that opens the film, Isabel (Maria Marull, Antes del estreno), an attractive model, boards a plane for a business trip and strikes up a conversation with Salgado (Dario Grandinetti, Inevitable), a music critic, seated across the aisle. After she tells him about her ex-boyfriend Gabriel Pasternak, he tells her that he also knows him as an aspiring classical music composer.Salgado relates how he emphatically rejected one of his compositions, though he recognizes his words may have hurt. Other passengers overhear the conversation and stand up to claim that they also know Pasternak and have mistreated him in one way or another. The sequence ends on a note that is so delightfully macabre that it cannot and should not be described but must be seen. In "The Rats," the film's second vignette, a waitress (Julieta Zylberberg, Extraños en la noche) in a restaurant encounters a nasty customer (Cesar Bordon, History of Fear) whom she recognizes as the loan shark who was responsible for her father's suicide.She would like him to suffer but is unwilling to do anything about it until her determined cook (Rita Cortese, Verdades, Verdaderes, la vida de Estala), speaking from experience, tells the waitress that prison is not so bad after all and decides to take matters into her own hand. Revenge escalates in "Road to Hell," a road-rage segment reminiscent of Steven Spielberg's Duel. A well-to-do man (Leonardo Sbaraglia, Aire libre), driving an upscale Audi sports car on a lonely stretch of road, has some choice remarks for the driver (Walter Donado, The Road to San Diego) of a slow-moving pickup truck who refuses to let him pass. Called a "redneck," the fun starts when the businessman has a flat tire and the confrontation escalates in very imaginative and bloody ways.Other stories deal with an engineer (Ricardo Darin, Violet) whose car is towed away once too often for his emotional well being, and a wealthy father (Oscar Martinez, Empty Nest) who tries to cover up for his teenage son's involvement in a fatal automobile accident with a scheme that involves payoffs to his lawyer, the family gardener, the prosecuting attorney and the police. The final segment, "Till Death Us Do Part," is, both literally and figuratively, the icing on the cake. In the episode, a lavish wedding becomes sidetracked when the bride Romina (Erica Rivas, Aire libre) discovers that her new husband and Ariel (Diego Gentile, The Hush) had an affair with one of the wedding guests.The wedding bouquet becomes a dart thrown in several directions as the celebration turns into a mixture of blood and wedding cake. The most commercially successful Argentine movie in history, Wild Tales is a wild ride that provides the viewer with a sense of how losing control may be cathartic and fun on a movie screen but counterproductive in our own life. As one of the characters in the film says, it may be better to just accept that bureaucracy will find a way to get most of your money no matter what and move on with your life, because in that way you'll live longer than if you give the unfairness of the matter any prolonged thought. That is probably good advice, that is, unless you find the idea of revolution attractive.


                
Here are six of the most fantastic, nightmarish stories that will depict people unleashing their inner demons under pressure that they have never before experienced in their lives. All have gripping stories filled with a dark humor that will leave your jaws dropping. And mind you, all these are situations that may occur to any of us which is what makes this movie even more interesting. There where places where i felt guilty about laughing but we always laugh at Tom & Jerry which is an entire show where a cat tries to murder a mouse. So i guess i felt guilty here because the characters felt so close and relatable . They say that deep down, people find violence fun and the makers of the movie have fully exploited this innate quality that we all possess. This was definitely a fun experience and it's mere uniqueness makes it worthy of IMDb top 250 list but i think it will not last long as it is already way below at 235 and only about 40k people have rated it.


                
Being a guy who works in advertising, I have always admired the quality of Argentinian storytelling in short format. They probably are the best in our industry. So, when I heard that this movie was Argentinian and that it was composed of 6 shorts films put together I felt instant curiosity, and went to the nearest cinema. The movie starts with a short story on a plane, which lasts only a few minutes but gets you hooked and in the mood to see a lot more.Every story is separated from the rest and there is absolutely no connection between them. Well, actually, the stories have one thing in common: all of them spiral into disaster. And all them do while making you laugh all along.So, if you want to have a good time, and come out of the cinema feeling that you have just watched a great movie (and in my opinion that does not happen too often), you should definitely pencil a session in your diary at the earliest possible time. You may even want to pencil a second session, if like me, you feel like watching it again!


                
This is easily my Latin American candidate for the 2016 Best Foreign Movie at the Oscar Ceremony; 'Wild Tales' has that Argentinean comedic expertise, with a dark touch that one rarely sees in LATAM movies. The movie shows that Damián Szifron has a great understanding of what needs to be done in order to maintain the stakes high for the sake of creating meaningful characters and have us routing for the evil side. I was grabbed from the first frame of the first story: set in a crazy and surrealistic plane in which all the passengers and attendants are acquainted to one-single guy, this first story shows that every minute of absurd violence becomes an experience that we want not to end.The common theme vengeance is marvelously executed as the narrative weaves between the wonderfully shot and wickedly paced shorts. It's liberating watching a movie that uses a non-traditional structure in which each plot is actually transformed by it's theme. Cinematography is wonderfully executed by Javier Julia, as he creates some sort of unity between the shorts by using witty and clever angles to depict emotion and enhance the overall theme.Watch it! You'll team up on the side of the revengeful and wicked characters. I promise.
Wild Tales is dark, hilarious and completely independent set of stories which have only one thing in common: the main character has been wronged. 
How the character tackles their situation is completely unique and the writing manages to form unique characters for the story so that it feels as fleshed out as a regular movie.
It's inventive, fresh and would be a shame to miss out on.


                
