I guess America needed a series where the producers and directors spoon feed them a heavy dose of predictable, childish, and completely overwrought melodrama every week. The only thing surprising about this series is how obvious everything everyone says and does is. The fat triplet - everything is about her weight which I guess gives her the right to be a total bitch to everyone. The actor triplet - immature, self-centered, narcissistic, everything is about him, which apparently gives him the right to be a complete bastard to everyone. The black triplet - angry, lacking self-confidence, defensive to a fault - which makes it OK for him to ruin everyone Else's life. Nothing interesting here except that every week, the show runners attempts at bringing on the tears becomes even more palpable. There is no way this whining time-jumping cistern of pablum can maintain these ratings for long.
I knew the twist in the storyline before I began the first episode. I have no idea how they will continue with this gimmick ;but I barely made it through the first episode. All the emotions and story lines are are perfect " Hollywood Fake". This show is cloyingly sentimental and predictable. The opening shots of the the woman battling her weight were clichéd and downright stupid. The post it notes in her refrigerator were ridiculous and not funny or touching. Not one thing in this show feels authentic. Really,I can't say enough negative about this show. The forced writing and syrupy acting make this show totally unwatchable.


                
A lot of people come from dysfunctional families and bad parents. Because of this, many do not adjust to the trials and tribulations of life. They don't learn to not be guided or swayed by emotion and impulse, which is subject to changed moods. They don't know how to learn from mistakes. If something works out in their lives, it is despite circumstances. They are fragile emotionally and can't stand the idea of compromise or delayed gratification. Many have addictive personalities and mood swings.This is a series made for such people. It features good well meaning dysfunctional people like them, who, like them, make bad choices. Sadly, this can come to the luck of the draw.The parents lose one of the triplets. They adopt (NOT LEGALLY) a black newborn. (Because of this, the mother won't let the biological father enter the boy's life, for fear that he will want his kid back. Of course when the truth comes out, the kid - now 36- will not even listen to the mother. In fact his bio dad seems to come ahead of his real one.) The father pushes his wife into the illegal adoption. Luckily she learns to love the kid, and neglects his brother. Much later their marriage dissolves because they have a minor argument, insult each other, and neither is willing to be peacemaker. No one in their right mind lets a marriage end this way. A later reversal does not change the nature of their irrational first impulse.Every person wants things their own way. Kate's boyfriend is ready to leave because she won't share painful experiences with him. Her pain matters not a whit to him. Each person can't seem to handle any crisis without calling on the others to be with them. Love is grand, but what about self reliance. During the new season, Randall on impulse (naturally) wants to adopt a kid, because he was adopted. His wife doesn't tell him right away how she feels. He confesses that he is a perfectionist with low self esteem. Despite that, he continues to bull his way. The wife, Beth, despite being a strong woman comes off as weak so that an emotional scene can play out.Throughout this series you will find your emotions manipulated for cheap affect.Pity the person who wants to draw life lessons from this mess. For those who are well adjusted and mature, this is anathema. None of these characters is smart, mature or really decent.You may want to watch this to see how the dysfunctional side lives. I'll stick with Bonanza,and Father Knows Best.
Very surprised at the high ratings. The whole thing is PC cliche land. The only bits I find funny are those which I'm pretty sure aren't meant to be. Every bloke runs around the women like a load of politically correct lettuces. The greatest achievement is how they've managed to give fat, young, old, black, male, female, gay, straight etc all the same amount of air time.


                
First off, I have seen that 99% of reviews on here came within the first few episodes!! The show is now three seasons in and is getting worse!! First off, everyone has enough heartache in everyday life as it is!! People stuggle with depression, trying to survive in a selfish society, so why make a show like that!! Used to be that shows and movies were away to escape reality for a bit to give people a chance to forget what goes on in their stress filled lives!!!
Next is the big girl!! WHY? Why have it in season one she is so much about weight!! That adds to others depression who are battling weight issues in real life!! Now in the third season she is trying to get pregnant at 300 plus lbs!! What direction are they going to go here to make things even more depressing. They going to have her have a miscarriage or die in child birth or she makes it but the baby is stillborn or born with problems because of her weight!! I'm not being mean but just honest!! This is how depressing this show is!! They killed the dad off when the kids were still in school for crying out loud!! They try to make it as sad & depressing as they can!!
Next, it's completely PC!!! Every show & movie this day & time is PC, WHY? Why does it have to be politically correct? Why can't it just be a show or movie like they used to be!!! Lastly, the last episode that aired before Halloween week!! The one they adopted is running for a political office & has a campaign event in a restaurant. As he talks about what he would do if elected, the African Americans all walk out!! He try's to talk to the owner & he tells rhe guy to leave!! He pushes the owner for answers and he gets the BS mainstream 21st century American answer, racist whites!! He says 15 years ago a white collar WHITE man bought the building & raised the rent way up there & they were going to close because they couldn't afford to pay that price!! The incumbent came to save the day back then & gets "THE MAN" to change his mind on the price. Really writers? Come off it for crying out loud!!!
What's even worse and truly said, there are people who really think that all whites are bad people like they tried making out the landlord to be on the episode!! These are truly the lowest & saddest times we live in now!! There are good and bad people in all cultures, REMEMBER that people!!!
I just saw the 1st season. I couldn't stop cringing through the whole show. The serie is packed with outdated tv show stereotypes that we've seen thousands of times and that are not pleasant to watch in the first place. For example, when a character is about to reveal something personal and/or painful, he or she often starts by talking about his or her childhood, "when I was young my dad would always take me to the big game..." followed by a sweet and sour personnal truth. Who does that in real life?!!! absolutely no one! Another cheesy tv trope in this serie is the use of secondary characters dispensing their great knowledge and life philosophy to other people who they don't even know in the first place. Who does that in real life?! again, no one! "This is us" is a show that brags about its cutlural liberalism, about being open minded etc. Alas, another cliché (and that one is actually more disturbing to me) is that one of the only black character of the show is married to another black character! Because as we all know black and white people don't mix. And it doesn't matter wether he's been adopted by a white couple in the first place since it looks a lot like his blackness is used as an argument to show how great those people are. In short, I felt I was watching a very demagogic and moralist soap. Of course I will spare myself the second season...


                
I am usually a committed viewer, meaning I stick to a show till the last episode just to show my respect to the creators. But the season 3 of "this is us" pushes me too hard. I gave up. Seasons one and two are soapy, but in a innocent and tolerable way. Season 3 is something different.


                
I had always heard about this show, This is Us, and how great it was. It had won multiple awards so I decided, why not give it a shot? So after enjoying the first episode, I then decided to watch the next 4 episodes. However, This is Us didn't do it for me because too much of the storylines are based on cliche stereotypes, unlikeable characters, and easily predictable episodes that made the show feel very cringe-worthy. The show follows three siblings as they live out their adult lives with flashbacks of themselves as children. Kate and Kevin are twins and Randall is their adopted black brother.Starting with Randall's storyline, every single episode thus far is about Randall sticking out from his white family because he is black. His brother Kevin doesn't like him, his mother has no idea how to properly take care of him and Randall's biological dad is a former crackhead (of course). To me, Randall's storyline comes across as very stereotypical. An infant baby given is up and adopted by a meaningful white family because his father was a no good druggie from "the hood." It also feels like the only reason that his character was written was to have a "token" black character for the show and for diversity.I just finished watching "The Pool" episode and some of the dialogue surrounding Randall's character made me cringe. There was a scene where Randall is at the pool and plays with the other black kids, Rebecca (Randall's mom) goes over there to get him, as she is leaving one of the black moms says, "Don't forget to put lotion on him when he leaves the pool or else he'll get ashy." Ugh. That line felt like a white writer trying to write from a black person's point of view. That line was painful, because, let's be real, who puts on lotion when they leave the pool, regardless of race? No one! Yikes.Then there is the obese sister, Kate, and like Randall's character, every episode is about her being overweight. She goes to some type of Overeaters Anonymous group, she complains about how she can't find clothes that fit and how she's not losing any weight. It again feels like the show couldn't just have an overweight character on it, without mentioning her weight somehow. Then I find the brother Kevin and the mother Rebecca to be the most unlikeable characters on the show. Kevin is very conceited and full of himself and his mother seems like she knows it all and is opposed to any kind of help. She tells Randall's biological dad to never contact him, she gives the black woman at the pool who is trying to help her and attitude. Overall, this show reminds me of a trainwreck. It's like it's so bad, you want to keep watching for more cringe-worthy moments. I do think that there should be more diversity in Hollywood, but it doesn't have to be at the expense of portraying that character in every stereotypical image possible.
First....this going back and forth bit is stupid. Just tell the story from beginning to end...and I hope it ends soon. Too many cliches and much too 'soap operish"
Too many unanswered questions. Acting for the most part is terrible, especially the actor playing Randall....OMG talk about over acting. He's horrible and not much better is the Keven portrayer..Ugh And whats with the Toby character. Does he ever go to work. Seems he's always available day and night. Not very realistic at all. Mandy and Milo are OK, but nothing special. Much too much schmaltz. And why keep Jacks cause of death so secret??? Hate to make this judgement after seeing only 10 or 11 episodes, but come on writers....be more realistic and stop with the back and forth concept. It doesn't work and I won't be watching the rest of this garbage. If one wants a great family show that makes sense and is done in a regular fluid style, watch Brothers and Sisters. Now THAT'S a winner!!


                
A friend in his 70's likes this show, so I started watching. I was a big fan of Six Feet Under and have seen all 63 episodes at least 3 or 4 times. The way he described the show made me think this could be like SFU. However I can't find anything to like about the show. I cannot relate to any of the characters, it's overly sappy and full of constant drivel. I don't know anyone who acts like these people, probably because real people are not overly constructed. Other reviews say this show is so real-to-life, I find most of the characters are clichés. For one thing, everyone has a lot of baggage from the past so there is a story-line in waiting rather than create something in the present. Most of the characters are so completely inept at conflict, their life is always in turmoil. Not a pleasant show and I cannot understand why some people find this is great TV.


                
All I saw on Facebook was my friends gushing about this show and how every episode would make them cry. I don't get it... It's seriously the sappiest show I have ever seen in my life. I gave it two starts because it does have it's moments, but I if these characters were people I knew in real life, there is NO WAY that I would have an interest in getting to know them at all. So contrived!!! Ugh... how do shows like this get made?


                
Watched a couple of episodes, but won't watch any more. The one episode I watched was the flashback one with the husband dying from the fire in the house. He dies at the hospital from exposure to the smoke. That was realistic. What was not realistic was him saving the dog just minutes after escaping from the flames and having to jump off the roof. Sorry, not realistic and dumb. My wife's favorite, but not my cup of tea.


                
I know a lot of people like the show, it's probably good for families who wants a family show to watch together. But I personally can find almost nothing to like about it. I don't like or relate to any of the characters, I thinks it's sappy, saccharin, overwrought drivel. I have never met anyone who acts like the people on this show, probably because real people are not overly constructed TV-characters. Everyone is either idealized or a cliché, or both. It seems the most logical reason they didn't work on all that baggage from the past before is so that there could be a show about it later. I would certainly blame my parents a lot more than the characters seem to do if they had been so completely inept at conflict resolution while I was growing up.


                
I'm a hard person to convince anything is good. And so many people told me this was good. It is not. No action. Nothing special. A man dies. His kids behave good and bad and grow up. Token gay man. Token black man. And the only Latino in show is jerk who takes the wife (Mandy Moore) of his best friend. I don't understand why this show has a high rating. Basically nobody has taste anymore.
I was a fan of the show until you showed a watered down version of what most serious ballet studios are like. I was one of those dancers and my training was far more difficult than portrayed. I understand that they want to be PC with the times but if you are going to show accurate times of the show than be accurate. I'm done with this show. It made the struggle that we went through seem trivial, you could've been honest and it would have made a deeper impact but you took the cheesy false path. Yes, nowadays they are more gentle in a dance studio but not then, and screw you for showing it this way.


                
