This show isn't terrible and it has some interesting moments, but I'm finding the characters, yes the same ones everyone else is in love with, to be fairly hard to like.Jack is probably the best of the bunch but he is too perfect to believe. What man has a tire blow out and smiles about it? Rebecca favors one child over the others to an abusive degree. Her son Kevin begs her for attention and she can't even be bothered to go to a single one of his shows, or learn the name of the play he's in. That's just cruel. She suddenly cuts of her parents forever, instead of trying to talk out her problems with them.Kate sits in weight loss meetings and belittles the concerns of the other dieters. She can't bring herself to smile or nod at strangers who pour out their hearts to her, in fact, she maintains a stone faced disregard of others most of the time.Kevin is horrible to his brother when he's a teen and not much better later. He's needlessly rude to his step-father.Randall makes snap judgments about his bio father and his adopted mother without giving them a chance to explain themselves. He has never ever watched his brother's TV show. When his mother drops in on the way to the theater, he says, sarcastically, "Thanks for not calling first."Miguel is insensitive to things like the family traditions, but everyone is equally insensitive to Miguel and treat him like a pushy, interloper even though he's been married to Rebecca for years.I can't care about people this insular and self-centered .


                
I just happened to watch some scenes. People were chasing me away, don't, you HAVE to watch the first episode, is gonna blow your mind. I don't need to. I watched some scenes with some overly "realistic" scenes, ending up being forced , exaggerated. Too much schmaltz, too much syrup, too much of everything. A husband tells some friends in a bar that he goes home , because he feels a crazy need to be with his wife, although she is a a kind of "exorcist' state. In reality, she is not, she just exaggerates every feeling, goes to a liquor store and wants to buy stuff to make a cake for him, bla bla bla...She talks in a cheesy way to the twins in her belly, and, wow, surprise, he was secretly filming her... So touching. Why would we care? The characters are perfectly, syrupy, totally correct, exaggerated, talking in great words, pretending that they are simple, miserable people, but acting with the perfection of a Gospel. Skip this...


                
First season would have been a 10, but now it's about a 1, so I gave it a 3. Kate's stuff/whining is so annoying and so is Randall's stuff and all the war nonsense too.


                
