Preposterous set-up, (so what's new? that has never stopped network TV before). The real downer is that the show doesn't use the set-up to generate tension or dramatize conflict. Everybody is so perfect and always has exactly the right, politically correct and "supportive" response. Every time a dramatic impulse threatens to intrude, the show squelches it.Jack (Milo Ventimiglia) is a very good-looking, devoted husband; he is even still sexually attracted to his wife in her last stage of pregnancy. He is every woman's dream, and that is the point: he is a fantasy, not a real man. Ditto the doctor. A slightly different fantasy, he is a good-looking (but not TOO good-looking), neatly dressed, authoritative older man; he knows EXACTLY the right words to soothe a mother's anxieties.Kevin (Justin Hartley) is introduced in a nude photo of him holding a baby, symbolizing that he is outwardly a grown man, but inside he is still a child. We first see him in bed, undressed, while at the foot stand two fully dressed women, signifying that they are in control. Obviously, Kevin's story will be a one of those fantasy "Bachelor" contests, revolving around which woman can maneuver him into committing himself. Kevin's career change happens so abruptly, that it clearly has nothing to do with his character, and everything to do with getting him into the right plot line.I confess that I ended up fast-forwarded through the last part of Randall (Sterling K Brown's) story. Everything about his first meeting with his father was so pat and undramatic, that I couldn't help it. How convenient that his father has kicked his habit and become so NICE! It's really too, too white-bread.Kate (Chrissy Metz's) problem is the opposite of Kevin's. She represents another fantasy: finding a mate even when your competitive beauty-power is severely compromised. Not to worry, though; her personality shines through, and her target is smitten, no problem. (And if Kate thinks that weight loss is a matter of will-power. . is she on the wrong path!.)A text-book example of one-dimensionally relationships, Kevin and Kate display not a single sign that one may be at once envious and resentful of the other for perfect looks (or lack thereof), nor anger on the other's part at how well s/he can or can't play along and fit society's expectations. Instead, all that is buried. Believe me, that is not in the slightest a realistic relationship between twins.The audience can therefore look forward to a lot of unmotivated emotionalizing and "relationship building exercises." Count me out.
Okay - what am I missing? I noticed a Tweet from the wonderful (and underrated) Janet Montgomery, saying that she's in episode four of this series, so I thought it must be British. But no, it's American. So I thought I'd better catch up with previous episodes via All4 streaming. I also read a review online - from the Evening Standard, I think - which said I should have tissues handy. I may be a grown man but I have been known to sob out loud at certain scenes in movies and TV, so fine.I watched episode one and had no desire at all to continue. There isn't one sympathetic character in it. It's tacky, corny, predictable and completely unbelievable. I didn't need tissues, I needed a bucket. I don't know how anyone can like this twaddle.I shall watch episode four, just for Janet, but I may cringe all the way through and I certainly will not be watching any more.
Loved this show when it first started but now it is just becoming boring. All of the characters are becoming irritating. It really is hard to feel any sympathy for them. Still Iove Jack though. I wish that they would age Rebecca more, it's hard to look at her and consider her a woman in her mid 60's. putting her in drab clothes doesn't do it!! If it doesn't improve I can see it being cancelled and I for one won't miss it.


                
On the golden era of TV, this show send us back to the 80's cheesy melodramas. The show has become quite predictable: characters cry all the time, they portrait this sense of condescending morality, etc. There are so many options on TV these days that this is a waste of time.


                
Usually.But the most recent episode..."Kevin, the clerk. She was racist.""What did she say?""She didn't say anything. She didn't know we were together, and she was short with me because she didn't like a black person invading a white person's space."That's a lot of assumptions. Does Zoe read minds?"The reason I need the pillowcase is so my hair doesn't dry out."Is this a massive racial thing? I need a fan on me constantly because I'm post-menopausal and I have leukemia. My husband won't wear long sleeves because he doesn't like the feeling on his arms. My son won't eat apples or ice cream because they hurt his teeth. Everybody is different. Stop making yourself so "special", and stop hating everyone that doesn't inherently know your particular high maintenance crap.You want to be accepted and treated equal. Really? Or do you want to be treated special?Almost done with this. What started out as wonderful and heartwarming is starting to get old and stinky
I don't think This Is Us is terrible, but I don't understand the worshipping this show gets from its fans. It reminds me of all the sentimental moments from Friday night lights and Parenthood all crammed into a new family but it lacks the same heart and soul the other shows had. The adopted son and Milo steal the show and the rest of the actors are just struggling to hold their own. I think it's a show worth checking out, but it's absolutely not the best family drama of the last decade and not the best thing on television now.


                
This is a unique and interesting way to tell a story and I love that characters that are dead still have a life in the story with the past being featured throughout the show. It feels a lot like reading a book. Too bad the story itself doesn't lend to the enjoyment of the series. Summed up perfectly near the end of season 2 by Kate with a comment about possibly not crying for once. All the characters are insufferable, self-centered, and unlikeable. I find myself rooting against them. They also try to tell the story for the most dramatic impact and it just gets tedious and wears on the viewer. 20 episodes a season with nothing but drama gets really old. In sum it is a drama about a set of triplets and how they all individually had issues with their childhood which of course they use to blame their issues as adults. The characters are all really damaged and so self-involved in their own little worlds. This is definitely a 'you made me feel XYZ so I am a compulsive eater, a drug user, prone to panic attacks or whatever'. It is such a victim oriented show - I guess that is what is so off-putting. Take some responsibility - eating to be 400 lbs isn't because your Mom made you feel insecure, or your Dad died or people were mean to you. Popping pills isn't because your parents didn't pay enough attention to you. And a remaining parent constantly crying 'this is the best I could do, you were my entire life'. Whatever. My other pet peeve is they make the past look like the 70s or very early 80s. Well it would be the 90s because the kids are only in their mid 30s so they'd be teens in the early 90s. There are a lot of elements of the show that miss the mark like this. The doctor that delivered them for instance was at least in his late 60s and still in the show 17 years later so he'd be like 95 and he is basically almost in the same condition. There are a lot of liberties like this that most people probably don't catch.I watched this out of boredom on Hulu. I'm sure season 3 will be packed with more crying and drama as previewed at the end of 2. We'll have to live through a now depressed but still morbidly obese Toby and Kate, drama with the adopted defect teen Deja, etc. Frankly the best thing that happened so far is Kate/Toby not having their baby and Kevin unmarried. These people do not need to procreate and have another generation of unhappy people mired in nothing but self imposed drama.
