The first episode was great and draw my attention to this show But then i realized it's just too much drama and emotional scenes And also too much set up, like Jack's death... Overall it's an OK show to get emotional and kill time. Thought it would be as deep as Six Feet Under, but i guess i was just expecting too much.
So, I've nearly finished Season 2 after binge watching this show for the last week with my other half. It's strange because I really like This Is Us, however I can see what they are doing to make me like it, they are forcefully making me feel for all of the characters on screen in probably the laziest way possible. I film wedding videos and use the speeches and emotional music to tug on peoples heart strings. I know what I'm doing and it works perfectly, for a wedding video. The makers of this show use the same approach, however the entire 2 Seasons so far are a series of speeches rather than conversations and its just so fake. Its like I'm watching some master puppeteer but the strings are far too noticeable. I just wish that the show would stop relying on having a speech in every scene and put the effort into making us care without being so forceful. I haven't said much positive about the show however I have rated it a 7 because I am addicted and will be going straight back to finish the season after this review.


                
This show is sooooooo overly dramatic at some point it just becomes hillarious! Every GD scene is some long drawn out poetic speech which is so unbelievable. At first you might not notice just how funny it is, because it's certainly not meant to be funny. But as you watch scene after scene it's finally kicks in, OMG everything anyone says is so overdramatic and sappy that after a while it's downright laughable. Yeah your girlfriend will be sitting next to you crying but at some point even she will "get it".Yesterday I watched the latest episode (not sure which they are all about the same). Someone (I think Many Moore's character), says to Kate "You were not in the way, you were the way." (Coughing up my sip of beer) that was some funny ass over the top corniness that we both laughed over.It gives a whole new perspective to the show and now I think I want to rewatch episodes because there's a whole new way to appreciate it now.
The story about three 36 year old adults in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is quite unique and touching. Kevin and Kate are the surviving siblings whose third sibling died during their childbirth. Their African American brother Randall was abandoned and brought to the hospital on the night of their birth. Their parents adopted them and raised them in 1980s. The series is going to go back and forth as they grew up. Jack and Rebecca were young and devoted parents. I now understand why Justin Hartley left daytime because this series is stellar and successful. He plays attractive Kevin, a bachelor and successful actor who returns home. His sister Kate is overweight or obese in actuality. Weight issues are often ignored by shows. Her boyfriend Toby is also heavy as well. By watching flashbacks, Kate has been struggling with it her whole life. The show is done intelligently.


                
A lot of repetition of scenes. Nice series but did get a bit boring with all the repetition of scenes. But a pretty realistic reflection of what family life is all about, the good the terrible and the tragic.


                
NBC's family drama concluded with a few more twists though nothing could match the initial reveal from the first episode. Four people are all having thirty-fourth birthday and are all connected due to a unique set of circumstance. Jack Pearson (Milo Ventimiglia) is not only celebrating his birthday but preparing for his wife Rebecca (Mandy Moore) to have triplets. Randall (Sterling K. Brown) has found his long lost biological father William (Ron Cephas Jones) who is afflicted with stomach cancer. Kevin (Justin Hartley) is a sitcom star wanting to branch out into more serious art. Kate (Chrissy Metz) is struggling with her weight and wants to make a change.A spoiler, but it is revealed that they are all part of the same family. Randall was adopted when their third baby died in childbirth. The show operates with a present day storyline and series of flashbacks all fitting a particular theme and filling in the characters' past. The show is also effective at endearing characters to viewers, which accounts for its popularity. One character that especially stuck out as hilarious and fun was Kate's boyfriend Toby Damon (Chris Sullivan). He falls for Kate at a support group and pursues her around Los Angeles.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
I was thoroughly confused with this show until the end of the second episode. I still didn't put it together that the new parents of the twins (triplets but one was stillborn) adopted the black baby. Your reviews helped me to piece it all together now. I will continue to watch and I have hope for the show. I do have to agree with one person on these reviews that the heavy set man seems egotistical or something, maybe I am reading something into nothing he just seems a little odd or off to me for some reason. I do have one huge pet peeve, the guy needs to get rid of the little patch of hair on the top of his bald head, it is very bad looking and I can't believe someone would actually want to look like this! Shave it off for goodness sake, it is annoying to even look at the guy without looking at his head!! LOL!! I love the new premise of the show. I am so tired of cop shows, these writers need to show more ingenuity and fresh imagination.
Really well done, the guy playing the doctor is doing some ace acting I really enjoy his performance. My only problem with it is the touching acoustic guitar music is way over played and over-accentuates what are already touching moments. I think a lot of places in this there should be no music, that's what a good musician does when writing to video is find where there should be silence, they don't do a good job of that here. Kind of just using the same soft emotional guitar almost all throughout it got on my nerves, they were way too liberal and slapped music all over the place hoping to achieve a certain emotion in the viewer instead of letting that aspect fall into place more naturally


                
This is a show about people who are obsessed with their dad. Not just the initial family but the adopted brother becomes obsessed with his biological father, his wife becomes obsessed with her father. It is definitely a great show but it is all about people with dad issues.
I solely started watching this now tonight all because I am a huge fan of Mandy Moore. I seen her in almost everything ranging from The Princess Diaries all the way to Tangled. And what do you know the man that did Tangled Dan Fogerlman created this show. Now I have no idea what genre this is fantasy/comedy/Drama I think I would say all 3. Moore plays Rebecca a married woman who is having triplets. While the rest of the show intertwines with a group of people who share the same birthday and age 36.Overall I thought the first episode wasn't bad yet I was confused when spoiler alert Rebecca lost one of her triplets and then we seen her with 3 babies in the end?. Could she be the mother to the 3 people who we see in the 1st episode? One who looks like Melissa McCartney who is trying to lose weight, another fella looking for his biological father whos dying, and a wannabe actor played by arrow actor Justin Hardley. Good show.
