I think we can all admit that it's hard to create a show that stands out, As we are at a time where television is at it's pinnacle point. So when I started this show I was expecting a mildly entertaining series. What I got, is, a show that is real. So much so, that it brought tears to my eyes. That should tell you all you need to know about this beautiful tale about life. The story revolves around a few characters that seem to be unrelated. Just like the facts that were stated in the beginning of the show. However they have more in common than you realize. What sets this show apart from most, isn't the ending, But the journey you take in-between. As someone who's seen many new shows this year, both comedy and drama, I can say with absolute certainty, this is the most memorable. Not only because of it's outstanding story telling but because of it's cast, who bring life to the story.


                
SPOILER ALERTFirst I am a hard person to fool. The Village. Figured it out. Many others. The Sixth Sense and Fight club got me and that's why I love them. I love to be taken down a path and then realize everything wasn't as it seems.When the fireman lit the cigarette I realized it was 1980. But I still didn't get that those three would be raised together until the nursery with the knit onesies. I'm good at this stuff and the acting and characters blew me away that I wasn't looking for it. Best Pilot ever. IMHO.Then I thought. Well they can't do that every episode because if you are looking for twists you find them. If I was told there was a twist at the end, I would have figured it out (everyone's birthday on the same day, etc). But the fact one was black and the other two were twins threw me. PLUS the fact one was "Ryan Gosling" body and the other was overweight threw me that they were twins. Both played on stereotypes which I Loved they made us look into ourselves a little.So where does the show go from here? It has a great premise. Dual time lines. You can do a lot with that. Have stories play out with flashbacks to tell a larger story (ala Lost). The casting was nailed with exceptional talent. I was interested in every character. They even nailed it by casting Simon and Simon vet Gerald McRaney. He was the glue that MADE that story line click. He speech on the chair was Emmy worthy. I hope he is a regular cast member and explore his wife's death and the death of his one child.I'm hooked for at least season one. No need for twists. The dual time lines and great characters is enough for me. They can bounce all around in the 80s when the "triplets" are 4 or 10 or 15. triple time lines or more. Milo and Mandy can be made to look older and cast kids to play the parts at different ages. So much room to explore. I predict a good 4-7 year run.


                
This is a very inventive story line so I won't refer to it, except to say that both the first and second episodes have real surprises. Avoid reading any reviews with spoilers. It will dampen your joy as you figure things out.The acting is excellent and the script is well written. This looks like a comedy but in fact it has some profoundly dramatic moments. I want to single out some of the actors who were terrific – Milo Ventimiglia (played Rocky Jr), Mandy Moore ("Tangled"), Ron Cephas Jones, Sterling K. Brown (Chris Darden in "OJ") and Susan Kelechi Watson ("Louie"). Gerald McRaney does a cameo in Episode 1 which may be some of his best work ever.The disadvantage of a TV series like this is that it requires the audience to participate and fill in the gaps. Many people will not understand what's happening, so this is the type of series that is best viewed twice, or however long it takes you to get it.


                
Think the World Will be a better place if most People would watch this show.


                
So, this will be my first official review on IMBD. I believe it's warranted because I have absolutely fallen in love with this show. The writing, the characters, the emotion..everything just feels on par and real. I'm really not much of a TV watcher. This show though, and specifically the relationship between Jack and Kate, reminds me so much of my own relationship and it's just a reminder of how much I love and appreciate the amazing man that I have. This show will make you feel things. I really can't say it any better than that. Leave all of your politics and judgement at the door, and give this a chance.


                
a portrait of lifeevery character is unique in their own ways. Every character has their own beauty.there are a lot of plot twists, which are unexpectedthis makes me feel human life resembles each other, being happy and sorrowful is a part of life.yet I feel family values are a bit exaggerated, and sisters and brothers love here are quite overwhelming. There are a lot of coincidences in the series and this made it unbelievable.


                
To give away any spoilers to anyone who has not yet seen the first episode would be criminal. The final few minutes of the episode are spectacular, so be sure to watch it in its entirety...and I don't mean, "watch it in the background while you do chores or play with your smartphone," I mean, "watch it without any distractions, and pay attention."All I want to say is congratulations and thank you to Dan Fogelman ("Crazy Stupid Love," "Tangled," and so many more) for giving us the best new show of the season. Sure, it's a little over-the-top sappy, but it just works. It totally works. The entire cast is a set of talented actors whose characters are extremely likable, whether or not entirely relatable."This Is Us" is set as a series recording on my DVR -- I plan on watching every episode, and expect to enjoy each one. This one's a gem.


                
It was love at first sight with the pilot (okay, it may sound like a cliché but I'll leave it anyway) and that infatuation was not just one night stand. I am only two-thirds through it but I put all my trust in this show for several reasons. First of all, the story is an excellently matched time travel collage which adds new pieces to the puzzle in moments when you are both caught off-guard but also feel that it was just the right time. Secondly, thanks to the excellent work the actors have done, it is a multidimensional live family photo which looks both romantically heartwarming and chillingly realistic. My last reason is thoroughly personal. Like in every happy love relationship I have the feeling that "This Is Us" makes me a better person. Not only because I can learn how to make my own amends (when I hurt the people I love or avoid instead of face and deal with sensitive issues), but because in each of the characters I recognize the perfect imperfections that make us humans. It will make you smile, it will make you cry, it will make you forgive (yourself included).


                
"This Is US" is by far the best new series on network TV as NBC has found a family drama that's a winner as this is filled with emotion and drama love, loss, regret, and search for happiness. This series is told a lot thru flashback to show how it made the present anyway it involves a couple Jack(Milo Ventimiglia)and Rebecca(Mandy Moore)who have triplets all on the same day with only two of them to survive and that's Kevin(Justin Hartley)and Kate(Chrissy Metz)who then become a sibling to the adopted son Randall(Sterling Brown). Now all of the kids are grown searching and trying to find their own way of life as Kevin is a want to be actor and Kate is an overweight mess and unhappy yet, she starts a "Mike and Molly" type relationship with Toby(Chris Sullivan). Now with Randall(Sterling Brown) he's successful and he finally finds his real life father who's dying with terminal cancer and this brings plenty of drama and conflict with his hard loving wife(Susan Kelechi Watson)as she feels Randall has to much of a big heart. Thru it all this family shares emotion and love thru the struggles of life and time as the viewer can see it's all connected to the bonding they had at birth and the flashbacks show how the trio was molded by Jack and Rebecca. Really this series is warm and touching it shows how change and life develops and it proves that love and connections last.


                
a few months ago in one of Cairo's lesser known theaters I watched a simple, yet powerful scene, a group of young people standing still taking turns to say either their age of year of birth, and every other sentence the one standing in the far left of group says: "I am thirty six years old", every time he said those words they sounded different from the times before. when I watched the pilot episode of the series only a few days ago, seeing Kevin, Kate and Randall celebrating their thirty six birthday, it hit me, people who are thirty six years old in 2016 are my generation's elders, they were born in the beginning of the decade when all the madness begun, slasher movies, PCs, mobile phones, people who are thirty six years in 2016 are the beginning of a current, and now they're in their late thirties with real issues and had decisions still ahead of them. and one can't help but relating to at least one of the characters, if not all of them. what do I do if my career went side ways 36? what do I about my food addiction at 36? what do I do about my lesser known side of the family at 36? is shifting to an office work for money a good idea? is having kids a good idea? and so much more questions this show is asking without shoving the answers in our faces. I love it, it's good, I want it stay good and close to our problems without shoving any answers in our faces or, God forbids, turn into a soap opera.


                
Formulaic or original, bottom line is that is a show that delivers a story that we all want to watch, love and be a part of. I am impressed by the cast, acting and editing. Many of the show regulars have a well known history of other shows and even movies, but I don't think most of them have them the opportunity to highlight their skills and capabilities.Each week a story is delivered that we want to relate too...we desire to know. Hyped or not, its the right story at the right time with a cast that by episode 5 is hitting it's stride and makes you want to tune in next week. A network show that is delivering an exceptional product with a story that just resonates, especially given the contrary stories we read in the news each day.It may be formulaic and fictional, but I want to believe that so many viewers are watching because they can relate with so many of the characters and the story lines still are so personal.


                
I refused to watch this for two years. I got sick and put on bed rest for three weeks, and decided why not. Every episode gets me in the feels, and I enjoy that this show captures the modern american family... as well as situations real people deal with. Only thing that kinda annoys me is that randall is forever making things sentimental and pre planning big talks with deja.. its cool he cares but bring it down a few pegs. Not all heart to hearts need extravagant buildup.
This Is Us really surprised me in so many ways. Before watching the Pilot, I was honestly expecting 'just another family comedy show', kind of. But ever since the first episode aired, I'm positively and repeatedly surprised and touched by just how beautiful and real this show is- on so many levels. Yes, This Is Us is a dramedy focusing on three families that appear to really have nothing in common, but episode by episode one really learns and loves to learn to look deeper. In a time like this, where TV seems to have reached some sort of quality peak, it doesn't happen too often do find a show that really stands out, especially in a genre like comedy. But This Is Us does pretty much everything right. The storytelling is superb, there's always new bits and pieces one picks up when watching the show, constant new revealings, a perfectly picked cast (really, they all work damned great together) and, as I said earlier, there's this honest and humble approach to it all that, for me, makes it stand out so severely. This Is Us doesn't (need to) rely on heavy special effects, over-dramatization or flat jokes, nor does it try to deliver some sort of big and important political message. It's strapped of all this and by doing so, one can really enjoy the work, thoughts and incredible skills that have been put into all aspects of this show. I find it really rare these days to find a pure gem like this and even more so to get so heavily attached to a show after just a couple of episodes. But, well. Here I am, already wanting This Is Us to never end, ever.


                
I am a man who is not afraid to admit that I have fallen in deep love with this show I need to catch up on episodes but it is a true treasure to watch I have related to the big man and woman so many times I am overweight myself so their story really speaks to me and I love them both but it doesn't matter fat or thin black or white gay or straight you will find some character in the show to relate to,even young kids if mature enough to handle it can relate to situations between the children in the show, I can't wait to catch up on this it's a real charmer not just a,female show as I mentioned I am a man who loves the show and how it speaks to you even sometimes without even trying to you gotta watch it if you haven't already please do i would say about 11 or older can handle the content but be aware that if you're kids are interested and do watch you might have to comfort them during the sad moments of the show but it could also be a relatable lesson for them at the same time use your better judgement on this but it could really help them reach out to you threw the characters enjoy


                
I have been watching this from the begging and I am not afraid to admit I 'a single straight man' have teared up more than once during the 1st season and have kind of grew a crush on kate who is adorable and has attitude I will definitely watch the next season you cant go wrong watching this one even young tweens can relate to it 'the show has kids going threw life's ups and downs as well as adults' and its a perfect older family choice that will leave you wanting more


                
This is one of those TV series that you will always need one more episode.. The amazing thing is that it is just about simple lives.. To create this TV show they didn't need murderers, terrorists or whatever.. they reach the audience by telling different stories in the most exemplary way.


                
This is a show for all of those who want to take a break from the violence, sex, politics and intrigue that most shows have, and just relax with a very well done family show. Hard to say how many main characters it has, but I can say that they are extremely well developed and you will fall in love with 7 or 8 of them. That must be a record as I've never seen a TV show with so many good characters. That's probably the best about this show. So many great characters with realistic dilemmas, with good and bad in every one. Every situation and dialogue is at least plausible if not realistic. And it's great that it doesn't abuse stereotypes. Kind of progressive, but again, is a very light show, and it won't give you life lessons against racism or gay scenes. Generally speaking it's about family/ies that have good moments and bad moments and have to deal with them. The most similar show I can think of is Parenthood, and I strongly recommend "This is us".


                
I must admit, when I saw the title of this series I thought, here's another hokey drama. Then I watched the pilot and thought, there might be something here. And then I was hooked. The stories are real, as in today. There is no cushioning reality and making it all better. Problems aren't solved in 40 minutes of viewing. It touches on all the normal issues in life and it is raw at times. I write this after watching the mailman tear up about William. Many moments that make you take a step back and adjust your perceptions. There is no happily ever after, you just have to turn the corner and move on. I am hoping the writers can keep this up, I am hooked. Now where's the tissues...I'm gonna miss William.
What can I say !! Have been hooked and can't seem to find anything else as good as this .Well, few things that I have trouble accepting .. here we go
Beth's anger in the last episode wasn't very convincing . The strong relationship they have had since beginning , this fight was nothing to justify sleeping on couch . Maybe they are building for future fights but it wasn't very goodhow does Randall have money to support his campaign ?Kate has been the most selfish character ever .Toby is my darling .Kevin has redeemed himself in last few episodesRebecca seems to " know all" . It is kind of put off earlier, but they have stopped doing it as often .what can I say about Jack! He is impossible love Goals "


                
I highly suggest that every couple watch this tv series,because it is soo heartwarming,presents such an ideal married couple in a authetical way with a lot of ups and downs.
I loveeeeed a lot the part where the kids are little and you get to witness the struggles they face and most importantly how hard it gets sometimes..
I don't loved that much the part where they are all grown up..it's not bad but..surely needs improvment.. And i dislike the actress playing Kate, such a poor choice..
Overall,it is great . I cried a lot..and i am dying waiting for season 3.


                
After a hard day's work, I came home and wanted to watch something lighthearted. I came across this series and thought "why not?"This is by far one of the best dramas I have ever watched. The first episode itself was a shocker. The scene I loved the most so far is where the surgeon comforts Jack in the waiting room after he breaks the news that the third child was stillborn. That scene has a little bit of advice for all of us and is one which I will never get tired of watching. Milo does a FANTASTIC job portraying his character. I am truly amazed. He has come so far in his career and this show truly brings out the fabulous actor that he truly is. He is a brilliant actor. Period.I am currently on episode 16 of the first season and cannot bring myself to watch the next episode as I feel very emotional after watching most episodes. Especially the one where Randall's biological father dies. I cannot bring myself to learn how Jack dies. I know its coming but I love his character so much, it would be too emotional for me. So currently I am on a break from this TV series. This is how good this series is!This drama is unlike any other. It manages to touch feelings that you have buried within you that you hope never to revisit again. Trust me, this series will take you on an emotional roller-coaster. Each and every actor and actress is so talented and portray their characters so well. This show will have many more seasons to come. I am so sure of it.
If you had the good fortune to previously have seen the TV series Parenthood (and presumably liked it). This one could be for you, seeing that it is similar in tone and style to Parenthood. It's equally intelligently written, acted and directed. Equal parts drama mixed with light comedy. Continuously switching story lines between several different characters and/or groups of characters through each individual episode.The different plots seem true to life (or at least come across as believable). No laugh tracks, or overly sappy music accompanying the scenes. It seems to me to be simply another high quality series, of which there are all too few and far between these days.


                
I was surprised by the pilot much like everyone else, and binged this show in just two days. It is beautiful in its simplicity. The characters are interesting, sometimes a bit far fetched, there are plot hole here and there, yet the story and the acting is beautiful for the most part. Plot twists keep this interesting and all in all this is a well written family drama with a wide variety of characters that makes it almost impossible for anyone not to find one to identify with.


                
Every so often, a show comes along that causes us to really think and consider how lucky we are, and really cherish the more important things in life. This is that show, worth all it's weight in gold. This has great writing and surprisingly good actors too, Moore, singer turned actress, for starters. She's one of the only real known of the main cast, who all deliver wonderfully, and wonderfully real, which too, I like this fact, of new talent shining through. They're very believable, where a few Golden Globe nods, are definitely and truly eminent. The show's about two connected families, their lives, ones of drama, angst, regret, relationships, whatever, where they cross paths, and new truths are unearthed. This show really causes the viewer to weigh stuff up. The show tackles real issues, amongst it's characters, one a woman, considerably obese, her younger struggling actor brother, a likable, dying black man, a fragile young black man, an unhappy co actress, who's family turned her back on her, etc. These people have real, everybody problems, where I urge everyone out there, to give this show a viewing. What really impresses me though, is the writing. I haven't seen great potent writing in t.v. drama, like this in a long time. For a viewer to watch an episode of this, and not be affected in some way, is just not feasible. A remarkable show and one of 2017's best, which I hope is around for many episodes to come. A welcoming surprise.


                
"This Is Us" is a gimmicky but affecting series with a strong time-shifting plot that delivers at least one big reveal in each of the first few episodes. Creator Dan Fogelman and his crew have a shrewd sense of how much basic info they can hold back for the sake of future surprises without letting things get too confusing, though after seven episodes the pilot's spooky-fantasy vibe's starting to settle into the more predictable rhythms of a family drama like "Parenthood" or "Brothers and Sisters." That's not really a problem though, since the three main characters are quite intriguing—a discontented sitcom star, his morbidly obese twin sister and a wealthy derivatives trader. We first meet them as squalling newborns, c. 1980, then again as adults in the present day, with flashbacks filling in the intervening decades (only the first two so far). The child-is-father-to-the-man (or woman) stuff is quite involving, and the cast is first rate. The weather derivatives guy (Sterling K. Brown) gets the best backstory; present-day Mandy Moore rocks those black-rimmed glasses like Sally Field in "Brothers and Sisters," and Susan Kelechi Watson (she was Louie's rarely seen ex-wife) is fabulous. We haven't watched much network TV since "The Good Wife" packed it in; this one's suspenseful and schmunny, as Larry David might say (= schmaltzy + funny?), definitely worth a look.


                
