I liked this movie when it first came out.  As a teenager, I saw it about seven or eight times (there was nothing else to do on weekends.)  About twenty years went by before I saw it again, on cable.  How time dulls the memory!  "Star Wars" now has an odd, nauseating effect on me: the 70's haircuts, laughable costumes, cheesy dialog, fake visual effects, corny music, uninteresting soap-opera plot... (I could go on and on.) I sat there, before the flickering screen, enveloped in "Star Wars'" suffocating stupidity, wondering how in the hell I could ever have liked this thing. I finally came to my senses and turned the channel after hearing John Williams' irritating "Darth Vader" theme for the 600th time in the first 40 minutes. Why George Lucas decided we needed to hear this high-volume musical cue EVERY time we see Darth Vader on screen is beyond me.  Maybe he just thinks his audience is extremely stupid and is incapable of remembering that Darth Vader is supposed to be evil.  I don't know...It would be easy to dismiss this movie as nothing but fluff to entertain kids (because that's all it is, and all it was ever intended to be) but unfortunately, for many people, this thing has become their religion. Folks, get a life before it's too late! It's just a movie.


                
When I first saw Star Wars I find it great. Really. I was 11.It's amazing how 40 year old people can enjoy Star Wars. Why? What this movie has it for you to enjoy it so much after you have pubic hair.Maybe it's just like those things you like because reminds you of your childhood. No more than that.I'm rating it 1 because it is a great movie for children, not everyone. So with all those people rating 10 I'm giving some balance.It has the classic bad guy "-I want to take over the universe" the typical good guy "-I need to save the universe" and robots and laser guns.Rent it for you kid, but don't tell me it's a classic for adults.


                
I don't know what is so great about this film that bores. So it was released in the 70s, that time there must of been better films. It has this stupid villain Darth Vader that irritates with his voice. If he is so powerful that he can kill with his mind. Why doesn't he just kill off the Heroes in that way, then wasting time. This movie is very childish, full of boring characters that annoy. There is a fight scene where Harrison Ford is shooting at 100s of Robots with lazer guns. Not a single shot gets him, how is that possible. I have worked in a cinema for over 2 years and witnessed the release of Revenge of the Sith. I am shocked that all these hundreds of people like this garbage.


                
Paul to the Corinthians - 'when i was a child, i thought as a child and played as a child; but when i became a man, i put away my childish things.' i was living near new york city when this film was first released - i think this was a test release in the new york area; the original promo suggested a serious science-fiction story, along the lines of the cult-favorite 'dune'. it bombed. shortly afterward, on re-release Lucas got the promo he really wanted - part fairy-tale, part Jungian Ur-myth, part retro-serial - and the rest is history. but the history of what -this film marks the beginning of the end of serious film-making in America. fairy-tales are for children; the old serial films were fun, but badly made; and 'Jungian Ur-myths' constitute a debatable psycho-babble theory; thus what Lucas was really telling his audience, in both film and promo, was that we all needed to be children watching bad films written by Carl Jung - or at least Jungian literary theorist Joseph Campbell, who was actually hired as consultant on this film.humans, to maintain their self-respect, need to grapple with difficult moral issues, we need to mature, and to learn how to relate to other human beings in complex and sometimes difficult situations; and we need the freedom to think for ourselves in such matters, to risk our own happiness and to live with the consequences. no one is saying that children should not enjoy fairy-tales, and perhaps they really do need these for psychological development. but even eventually children need to 'grow-up' - to stop being children.'star wars' would not have been so damaging to this culture if it had presented itself as a children's film. but Lucas was quite explicitly targeting, as audience, burnt out hippies, participants of the failed 'cultural revolution' of the '60s; and in doing so, he began steering them toward the political decisions that would at last put our culture and its economy, and its future, into terrible jeopardy - voting for Reagan, selfishly demanding tax cuts, mockery of dissent and dissenters, and flocking into paganistic 'fundamentalist Christian' churches seeking 'spiritual awakening' and, as many now proclaim, apocalypse.well, obviously, just one movie isn't going to accomplish all that. what the success of star wars did was to distract adult attention from ethically mature films where moral choices could be examined in their complexity; to such an extent that Hollywood - never all that supportive of such films, anyway - simply stopped making such films for a time. the bottom came in 1985, when the 2 best films to use truly cinematic storytelling to wrestle with mature choices were from japan - Kurosawa's 'ran' and 'Godzilla 1985'. and you know the world's doomed when a big green lizard has to be the one to make you ask important questions about the ecology, and history, and whatever place in the larger universe our tiny species finds itself.i mention Godzilla not simply for rhetorical effect. like the old fairy-tales, Godzilla is best appreciated by the young and the young at heart; like the old serial films, the Godzilla films are filled with gaffs and silliness; like the typical Jungian Ur-myth or archetype, Godzilla calls to some deeper part of our psyche, which is why we are entertained by his appearance.but unlike star wars, the Godzilla films never insist that they are the only show around - or at least the only worth viewing. and unlike star wars, they never pretend to be better than they are, or that they're accomplishing some necessary cultural mission. and unlike star wars, they do not insist that we remain 'forever young', only that we respect our having once been young, and that we respect the youth of others. and unlike star wars, they are inherently democratic - not because they insist we all be individuals, but rather that they insist that we all are already individuals, and yet to survive, we must come together and learn to depend on one another - democracy only has value to a collective of individuals, a human society. rabid individualists are monsters - rather like Godzilla's most intractable foe, king ghidorah.well, that's the big argument. for those who prefer simple solutions - star wars is a crude, fascistic, socially-retarded scam that the ex-hippies foisted on what was once a great culture. whether it will ever achieve greatness again - or whether it shall have cinema when it does - remains open to question.'now we see as through a glass, darkly, but then face to face.'


                
Star Wars is no "masterpiece of synthesis" or "triumph of American ingenuity;" it is a fraudulent copy of several good works of literature. Lucas steals the ideas of Frank Herbert in his work entitled Dune and plagiarizes even more off of unknown novel I cannot recall as it is so obscure, he felt no need to give it credit. I have heard arguments which claim that The Lord of the Rings is just as childish, but those arguments ignore the fact that The Lord of the Rings is a blatant and outright statement, a parallel to the horrors of the First World War. Additionally, the acting is phenomenal, the characters have depth, and the story has meaning. The authors of such arguments clearly view the battle scenes as similar to Star Wars, only having appeal because of the special effects. But things such as the gigantic war elephants actually represent something, whereas nothing is representative of anything in Star Wars. These elephants represent tanks, the new and deadly weapon that were finally used more frequently in war. I can overlook the discrepancies, such as the fact that the first time the Death Star was used it took but a few seconds to fire, but when the are attacking Yavin, they must maneuver around the planet to reach the moon, as there are such discrepancies in most movies. However I cannot ignore the lack of depth each of the characters has: Luke is like Dakota Fanning in War of the Worlds--he is paid to whine, and whine, and scream, and whine. "But Uncle Owen, I was going to go the Anchorhead Arcade, I don't want to work on the droids." His character is painfully dull, and the actor, Mark Hamill, lacks any sort of talent. None of the characters are relatable, none of them have any complexity. They are all straightforward representations of archetypes, with no combinations of emotions--in fact, they seem like the have no emotions whatsoever. Everything is superficial--I enjoy Star Trek: The Motion Picture ten thousand times more than Star Wars, and The Motion Picture is one of the most painful movies I have ever watched. Watching Star Wars, I can picture each actor--if they may be so honored by such a title--with a script in front of their eyes. It seems they are only reading; a common acting saying goes, "Show, don't tell," but I have never been told a more boring story. Besides the painful, shallow acting, the plot is poorly written. There are no twist or turns, no interesting facets or components which one does not expect to appear; everything is predictable, everything is as plain as can be. Star Wars is "a masterpiece of synthesis:" I don't think I have ever seen a movie so perfectly blend plagiarism, horrid acting, a lack of depth and emotion and complexities, and so many other despicable aspects. As for its "ingenuity:" well, if plagiarism and poor writing, acting, and characters constitute ingenuity, then this movie deserves a 10 out of 10--if not, Star Wars most definitely deserves nothing but scorn. Why so many have found this movie so enthralling I will never understand.


                
A Macdonald's meal of a movie, all fat sugar salt and caffeine, supersized with whiz bang special effects. Tastes great while you're eating it, but short on nourishment. They did it well enough that this junk food has squeezed pretty much everything good off the menu. The pic is just mediocre, but the trends it started have been horrid. Cornball plotting and dialog is one thing, but the simple-minded good vs. evil masquerading as some sort of authentic spirituality is vomit inducing. The sequel, with its Freudian undertones, has some real conflict and character development and is actually a pretty good popcorn movie. But the original may be the most over-rated movie of all time.


                
This movie might've been interesting for a 20th century audience, but that's probably only because the technology and visual effects were all new and thrilling back then. To those from the 21st century, who've already been exposed to much more exciting (improved) technological effects several times, this movie will be a waste of time. To me, besides the fact that the graphics that have been enjoyed by perhaps billions in the past were nothing in comparison to the graphics of the average 2010s sci-fi movie, this movie was horrible because of the fact that it lacked a reasonably good plot. The plot was all over the place, at times difficult to follow but mostly just downright boring. Even if you must watch this film because you're a devoted Star Wars fan, you're probably not enjoy this film.Lesson learnt: a movie doesn't need to be good just because it's at the top of the IMDb 250 list.If you're interested in sci-fi, I'd recommend watching more recent films, like (1) Interstellar or (2) The Matrix, or even something animated like (3) WALL·E.


                
This is one of the worst films I've ever seen - and I've seen thousands. If I could give it no stars, I would.It's just a children's fairy tale set in outer space. I can't understand how any adult can like this boring drivel - let alone how millions can claim that it's the best film ever. I watch better films than this every week. This isn't even one of the better sci-fi films: Starship Troopers, The Terminator and Terminator 2 are much better.


                
After wanting to see this for nearly 2 decades I finally got around to watching it...pathetic. First off, I actually did feel excited during the yellow bordered title sequence, I mean the theme music kicked in and I thought I was really in for a something special. My God was I wrong. This film is unwatchable. We have this tin can going around beeping every friggin two seconds. Easily the most annoying thing I've ever had to endure since seeing Julie Andrews (a grown woman btw) actually skipping while singing a song about confidence in the Sound Of Music. Then the dialogue sets in and let me tell you, I've never in my life heard anything so juvenile. Like I cant even revert my brain back far enough to an age where this dialogue would seem even remotely interesting, fantastic, or fun. The whole movie, script, costumes, story is just one tacky, immature mess that absolutely stunned me in its awfulness and I'm being completely serious. Turkey/5 Recommended for fans of Sesame Street, bandwagons, and all things overrated.


                
This movie is really convincing...for children. The storyline is so unbelievably vague and the special effects only serve as filler material for an otherwise lackluster movie. I am definitely not looking forward to another Star Bores film. *yawn*


                
The problem with this movie is the script.  It just never rises above the level of a Flash Gordon episode.  The camera work is pedestrian.  The pacing is glacial except for the last ten minutes and the back and forth storytelling (a problem in all the Star Wars movies, but especially those directed by Mr. Lucas) never lets any momentum build.  Like "Phantom Menace" and espcially "Attack of the Clones", Lucas just doesn't know how to write a "scene".  What we get is like a quilt of little bits that are cobbled together.  Each with basically the same pace.  The saving grace of "Star Wars" is some of the acting.  Alec Guinness really brightens up the screen whenever he's on.  And Peter Cushing brings some genuine class and star quality.  I saw this movie again recently and I was stunned by what a big bore it is.  I can't imagine how anyone over the age of 20 could be thrilled by it.


                
After having heard from almost everyone that I just had to see this film I finally caved.Big mistake. I Don't even know where to begin. Apparently , a young farm boy , living on a desolated intentionally forgotten back world is beginning his journey to being the hero of the universe. While the dream sequence should end here , sadly Hollywood continued financing. Our crop duster racing (speeders there called here , optional gun rack?) hero finds two lost robots ( no GPS in this future paradise eh?) and naturally has to clean them up before wasting time with his friends.In the meantime on a spaceship above his low value sand heap , a spaceship run by an Evil guy named Darth Nader ( Darth Vader sorry) stares ominously at this pathetic backwater burg , while breathing heavily through an anti -asthma mask a nameless nuclear engineer pieced together for him between stints repairing Mr. Radar.This is most likely why a ship known as the millennium falcon ( though after a review of its performance it might just have been built by birds and be a 1,000 years old) manages to elude this bad guy and swiftly escort the farm boy and his new Jedi friend to the empires base saving Darth Vader from shortness of breath ( he really hates that ya know)Anyway the crazy old guy gets in a fight with the walking breatholator and dies. During which time Han solo and the farm boy take an extensive tour of the enemy bases jail and recycle bin for kicks. Along the way they find the spokeswoman for galactic freedom. Between her political correctness lessons and a brief discussion of carpet relocation , they arrive back at their ford ltd. sized spacecraft in time to see the old fool get mowed down by Vader in to a much needed pile of certs.After escaping the base our political heroine decides that a back world yokel just might be good in an advanced technological military engagement where the very lively hood and well being of the galaxy are at stake. Of course. Why not. I would too if all it took to destroy my enemies planet sized war station was two rockets.Lame and unbelievable plot. Unemotional acting , especially from the two robots. The director probably wrote this drivel at some southern California film school between calculus and English 098.I have no idea why this is considered one of the greatest films of all time.
I watched this when I was younger, and I don't get what the big deal is. Extremely boring movie. Sure the special effects were great for its time, but nonetheless....BORING. The other Two as well. I won't even watch the newer ones now because of this. Probably the only thing I actually liked, was Princess Leah. She was hot. Carrie Fisher really had it going on back in the day. Luke, looked like a wuss. They should have got a better actor to play Luke. That moron couldn't act if his life depended on it. Darth was cool. He should have won. Everyone else should have died. Why do movies usually end where the good wins. Very rarely do you see evil win. I really HATE, Star Wars.


                
Usually I loooove mindless action movies.  Usually I'm all for senseless violence in films.  And usually, I like little furry creatures.  But here's what I hate- STAR WARS STAR WARS STAR WARS!!!  This is the a silly, hugely over-rated, egotistical, boring, contrived, joyless, cheap and morally bankrupt piece of garbage.  There is simply nothing entertaining about this movie, or any of the trilogy.  The acting is silly and self-indulgent. The story is a very tired hairball hacked up from the throats of who knows how many fairy tales (save the princess, save the universe, etc.).  I wouldn't be so vehement if it weren't for the fact that Star Wars is soooo popular and it's evvveryone's favorite.  *hack*  And people say Titanic is over-rated?  Hello? People aren't going to be jumping up and down over Titanic 20 years from now.  People are still screaming about Star Wars, but this film/trilogy is anything but something that could be considered a classic.  Lucas is NOT a genius, Darth Vader is a candy-a** villian, and, gentle reader, Luke Skywalker is a putz.


                
I can't see how any adult could sit through this mixed bag of Sesame looking,and Sesame named,characters. I took my kids to see this boring, boring, movie in it's debut. 10 min into the movie I realized, this movie is meant for the 10 to 15 year old mentality as are most of today's movies. Special explosive effects, stupid unpronounceable character names is the ticket for the Oscar, no need for a story. Although,this movie had a story that no kid or adult could understand . Then when you start remaking the movie dozens of times over like Jaws 15, Rocky 85, the Harry Potter series,and even the God Father 3 it destroys the original movie they start to look like all our cable re run movies. All those Star Wars chronicles are just a reminder of today's adolescent movie mentality. I fell asleep during the first movie and my kids 8 and 12 could not tell me what is was about. I tried again to watch it a few years later but couldn't make to the end it was like I was being put through a KGB torture interrogation. Sorry Star War fans but I'm on to TCM to watch an adult flick I'll leave the Stars War series to the kiddies and the Star Trek fans.


                
This movie wasn't bad because it was bad, which caused me to write a review about it! No it was just so bad that it left me flabbergasted wondering how the hell could this have made so much money!To be honest I always had a dislike for Star Wars. The weird creatures, the stupid costumes and the inkling thought that its popular but simplistic good vs bad plot, may have been a factor in causing the American people to support the 2002 Iraq war blindly, have made me always steer away from watching it. But the sheer amount of merchandise, trivia, commercials for reboots, web pages etc. Had caused me some doubt on my prejudices. I once read that there are more web pages about Star Wars than there is about WWII. In the Netherlands people are obsessed about WWII so maybe the movie should be better than the historical narrative behind it. However.....When I finally began to watch: cringe set in immediately, followed by annoyance, followed by sleepiness followed by a same loss of faith in mankind as when you watch a documentary on genocide, or when you wake up and realize that the world is a big fat lie, and everything that you believed turns out to be utter bullshit. This film was bad because1: There was no character or plot introduction, not even a simple save the cat or kill the dog plot device (like in House of Cards) to make you connect with the characters. Instead it begins with boom two Lego ships firing some lasers peeuw, two dumb robots saying random stuff. , robots flee to random planet peeuw. Only 15 minutes into the movie are we introduced to Luke sky walker and during those 15 minutes started to feel asleep. Gladioter also starts with a battle, but at least they let Maximus say some lines so we know what kind of character he is. 2: The worst, cheesiest and most infantile lines and dialogues I have ever heard. 3:The worst acting ever (except that from Harisson Ford ) even for 70's standards this was bad. people die all around them and there are no emotions. The main characters was the most annoying actor I have ever seen except for that girl from the series Revolution. 4: Really inane science fiction that makes you scratch your head all the time and make you wonder, would a woman still cook in the kitchen or a man work when there are robots around? There is no thinking behind it just some fantasy landscape in space with Furies, the Waffen-SS and an actress that doesn't wear a bra under her costume. 5: The golden rule 'show don't tell' is ignored here and instead we have characters saying everything they think or feel and even explaining you plot-points like they do in a cartoon. 6:Enormous amounts of plot holes and things happening because the script forces it through, no logic at all. A prime example is that scene on the deathstar when a stormtrooper releases the robots because of a very weak excuse in order for them to save the protagonists from the garbage dump. Or when Obi wan refuses to fight Darth Vader and gets killed for no apparent reason. 7: The lack of a plot, character developments and a reasoning of why the characters do what they do. Why is the empire evil? no explanation. Instead the empire is given some WWII German inspired uniforms and hide behind masks,Then there is this lame half explained quest of a whinebaby to become a jedi.( Which feels like it was put there almost as an afterthought. 8: The worst antagonists in movie history ever. Those storm troopers and imperial commanders act unbelievably dumb and inept. Stormtroopers never take cover they just stand there and blast away, they also don't hit anything. If you put this army of plastic Lego guys against some football hooligans high on speed and armed with bats and pocket knifes, they would all die in seconds. The Death star is filled with holes. Despite laser technology and super tech computers they can't hit a barn door. The most obvious solution for the empire is to keep up blowing up planets till the rebels surrender, but hey then you don't have a lame plot about a teenager saving the day. 9: Really bad sesame street costumes, kitschy plastic looking armor and sets, the battleships looked like they were made out of Lego. 10:Defiance of physics in space, holes are blasted into a space ship but there is no air leaking from it. Newton's laws of motion and gravity are partially rejected. Fire explosions in a vacuum universe. 11: The story plot arc doesn't make sense, Luke's family is killed, okay that set's him on his course. But why is he suddenly so dedicated to the rebel cause that he calls Han Solo on not joining it. What that happens when he sees Obi wan basically commit suicide? Some reviewer wrote that seeing this movie made him feel like being interrogated by the KGB I had exactly that same feeling. I can't believe that this movie has made billions of dollars. How is it possible that this trash has gained the same cultural status symbol as the Iliad, Shakespeare or Harry Potter in our modern day society? At least with Harry Potter I could understand why people loved it, but with this! And what does it say about Americans when Star Wars is put on the same level as the Wizard as Oz as a hallmark of American society? I have no answer for this, but really this movie is crap don't waste your time on it despite millions of dweebs writing on the internet that you must and should. Sight sometimes I question the sanity of modern day society, and the popularity of this trash is the ultimate example of why I harbor such suspicions. should!
I really have nothing but contempt for the Star Wars franchise.  They threw an "A" budget at "F" material and created a juvenile hit which lowered the bar for science fiction in the cinema, aborting the prior ("2001") trend upward in story qualities and thus depriving us of who knows how many *good* science fiction movies.  These days they reach back for sf classics like Heinlein's "The Puppet Masters" or "Starship Troopers", and trash them to the point where little more than the title remains.This is not generally a movie for the fan of adult level written science fiction.  You'll need to look elsewhere for a movie which is.


                
How do you hypnotize millions of film-goers into a quasi-psychotic state in which they honestly believe that have seen something, when they are just watching high-school kids masturbate? George Lucas seems to have that down to an art. I think he does it by rewriting every cliché in the book so that they all seem to have come out-takes from "The Wizard of OZ".This is definitely aimed primarily at the Mid-West US - listen to these voices - rather like hearing Johnny Carson make a serious pitch for the Jerry lewis Telethon. And these supposedly "weird" other worlds look an awful lot like Missouri and Oklahoma. And the big spacecraft - isn't that some Ford factory they closed down in Minnesota a few years back? What's alarming here is the sad lack of imagination. Really, you need to have taken too much meth and stayed up one night too many to be able to appreciate this film - to be allow Lucas and co. convince you that there's a film to watch here.An old Republic matinée western remade as a Saturday morning cartoon by/for survivors of one acid trip too many - or too few.Save your sanity; find something real to do.


                
Hype personified this film is little more than a routine cowboy film set in space. Good versus evil at the most banal and simplistic level imaginable. The performances are bland and uninspiring throughout.In short it's present day Hollywood doing what Hollywood does best. Hype. Not worthy of inclusion in a top 1 Million.


                
$TAR WARS$ (c) is badly made, particularly the special effects, the editing, the acting, the cinematography, the dialogue and the excruciating final scene. Worst of all, it is badly imagined.  By that I mean it is trite, with a mindless plot and without any original characters.  All this nonsense about icons and popular culture doesn't alter the fact that it is junk. To say it is one of the best s-f movies ever made is not saying much. All but a few s-f moves are nothing but escapism, and many of those are better than this. I have no problem with people being passionate about movies they enjoy. I love Old Yeller, but I would hardly call it the greatest movie ever made. The second was better - the battle scenes at the beginning, the "freezing" of Han and the battle between Darth and Luke. The third one was unforgivable.  Ewoks and that cheesy ending that would make Frank Capra vomit.


                
I am not going to comment on what this simplistic view on good and bad, space soap-opera saga represents to kids, but on what a hysteria it stirs among seemingly normal adults. Seemingly, because when you approach 40 and still get that sparkle in your eye talking about the dark side of the force or Death Star, you might consider getting your head examined. I think the "are you a Star Wars fan?" question should be asked on job interviews, because an affirmative answer is going to pretty much give you an idea on the maturity level of the applicant. -"Well, I'm an ambitious and hard working professional, I've been trained at blah-blah,...no, I don't have any children...Oh, and my friends at the Star Wars fan club call me Solo, because I kind of look like him..." - OK, that would be all...And one more thing - girls love to hear the deep and wise Yoda and Emperor quotes, too. You tell them these stories and they will open up like flowers to you. Oh, and yes - Mickey Mouse was cool, too, WHEN WE WERE 5!Perhaps it comes not as such a big surprise that there are virtual no female fans.


                
I wish I wouldn't write such a bad comment about any movie, but Star Wars is simply such a mentally irritating movie that it is simply chutzpah. I don't know if the pure cynical attitude of the creators resulted this disaster, that they thought the public can digest a movie easier if it has no plot, characters even below fairytale standards told for 3 years old children, and a lot of laser-lights, or they considered this one and the whole franchise seriously. The only one respectable effort in the movie are the special effects, but be sincere, now it is quite outdated and looks rather funny even when compared to Star Trek TMP came out just 2 years later. I would gladly criticize the storyline, but I can't figure it out, what was this movie all about except hunting down a big white sphere with an enormous satellite antenna attached to it, from the space (maybe this results that Darth Vader can't watch the Superball, and become lethally angry?). I particularly like Harrison Ford, but I simply can't believe he started in this one, and to tell the truth he doesn't gives an outstanding performance compared to the other leading actors. About the leading actors, well there is an obvious reason why they couldn't make other serious movies. Even the music lacks imagination. If you sit into a piano, and start to play randomly on the white keys, in 3 minutes you can play down the main theme of SW. OK the theme for the goods are accomplished, now we need some theme for the evil, what to do? Hoorah, there are black keys on the piano as well. Start to play on them, and in 3 minutes you can play down the Imperial March. These two is varying over the movie. OK, make these two grandiose, well what to do? Yeah of course, use trumpets and clarions. Did it really worth an Oscar? Even movies like King Kong, Godzilla, Tarzan, or any '50s Dracula or Frankenstein movie, or the worst zombie movies look intellectually challenging masterpieces, full of remarkable characters and imaginative script, compared to SW. Respect for Lucas, he made the Indiana Jones stories quite well, but SW is simply a humiliation of human intelligence. Recommended for masochists.
While it did spawn a nifty couple of sequels, the original Star Wars sucked. The rebels, so willing to die for a cause, seemed awful selfish in not wanting to sacrifice themselves to save the others.  How many ships did Vader blow up while in the narrow tunnels?  He'd pick off groups of three at a time, and each one would sit there and say, "Oh no, he's locking on.  I'm being killed!" None of them seemed to be willing to slam on the breaks and smash themselves into Darth's ship, killing the villain and saving the day in one move.  Give me a break.


                
Who hasn't heard about the "legendary" first Star Wars Film (now changed to Part 4 in the Star Wars series)? Who doesn't know the characters Darth Vader, Luke Skywalker or Han Solo? I am sure, hardly anyone doesn't. Despite these facts, I was surprised how bad this film was. Sure, you can't expect the SFX to be as good as in EPISODE I-III, but how about a plot? What about characters or good actors? The whole story occurs to me as just an introduction to the sequels. Why is there such an enormous cult about this crappy little SF-flick? I am not a trekkie, but I prefer every STAR TREK-film by far to this terrible no-brainer. The 8-best movie of all time? Nope, my Rating: 3 out of 10.


                
If this were a rating of technical achievement, "Star Wars" would rank very high  -- with state-of-the-art animation and groundbreaking visual imagery. But lack of any discernible character development (let alone acting) leaves an icy-cold dissatisfaction.  Indeed, the only character with an ounce of "humanity" is the robot.  It's ashame that today's younger generation is being so short-changed by the shallowness of our entertainment offerings.


                
