For the violence, I could not see this as a young child. Then my sister watched a Deal or No Deal episode that was Star Wars themed and just because of that, we could watch Star Wars.Well, okay, my mother let me see Return of the Jedi a little earlier, but that's what started this story I have to tell.When I saw ROTJ, I only made it halfway and decided it was actually boring. So imagine my feelings when I, bit by bit, saw the whole trilogy.Not only was my sister obsessed, but when The Force Awakens came out, that's all people were obsessed with. My Algebra 2 teacher actually dressed like a Jedi on it's premiere day!With everyone's hype, I don't understand it. What's the big deal? People say the special effects are cool. Sure...the 1st few times. "Revolutionary" is another word that is used. Really? 9 years before, 2001: A Space Odyssey released, and that is much more impressive! People enjoy James Earl Jones's performance as Darth Vader...that would be my only saving grace.I also keep finding flaws with the story-like In Empire Strikes Back, Luke believes Darth Vader is his father just because he says so. There is never a reveal that it's a lie(and why does Luke believe him in the 1st place?) Because of this, Luke leaves DV without killing him. But then in the 3rd movie, he comes back JUST TO KILL HIM! Like-really? How does that even make sense? I know it's just a movie, but it still needs some logic!Each movie just seems to be the same story. Each one serves one purpose-for Luke to kill Darth Vader. If it takes 3 movies to do that, then you are no hero. Disney movies can do that in one! Oh, wait....Disney owns Star Wars now....wow, what a down grade in story telling!And why would you start at episode 4, make a trilogy, and make 4 more movies, TV shows, etc.?There. That sets in stone what I hate about Star Wars. There is most likely more I could write, but this is enough.I wrote this review before, and people were voting this "not helpful." I'm guessing those are fans of Star Wars. To these people I say: If you enjoy Star Wars, why are you down voting a negative review? Why are you READING one? If you love Star Wars, good for you-but I can't imagine liking anything Star Wars related, aside from Space-balls.PS, I hate this more than The Wolf of Wall Street!


                
How I used to admire the Star Wars saga back in the times that I have never really watched it! I totally agreed with the critics that it has opened a new era to the sci-fi films and is one of the best films ever made. Well, now that I have finished the film, I can say fairly that, Star Wars: A New Hope has visuals and ideas that surpass its age, but they do not compensate for the extremely weak storytelling and character design and basically everything else. And don't you tell me that it is a movie that ought to be viewed, not thought, and merely enjoyed; try to do the same and sit through the Transformers franchise and Suicide Squad. Three things stood out in this film: the special effects, the sound design, and the first act. Mainly three things stink about the movie: the plot, the character, and the theme. I do not really understand how they made those ships and razors, but they look authentic to me. The best shot of the movie in my opinion is a POV of the ship flying down the ditch at the military base in the end, though they've used it twice if I remember correctly. That shot is also extremely well done, and the special effects team behind this deserve a lot of acclaim. The sound design is also great. Together, these two aspects help create a world (universe) that feels real, which adds bonus points. And that's why I liked the first act best: it exploited the novel world(s), and the experience is simply immersive. Now let's talk about the bad things. Firstly, the plot is bad. This film was made in 1977, and films with a plot of saving the princess and then bombing all the bad guys are quite getting old don't you think? There are also so many times of the characters just standing in the rain of razor gun fire and not get a single hurt, yet all the bad guys seem to be extremely vulnerable and easy to get hit. Even the princess hits much better than a trained soldier. And then the characters are as simple as those in the Forbidden Planet. But even that film gets to have a great robot, and now in Star Wars we get to have two robots: one is a human in tin, and the other is a dog in plastic garbage can. Most characters do not develop, and the ones who do do it in the most cliché and uncreative way possible. Seriously, I just do not understand how this could ever go into the same class with films like Godfather or Citizen Kane. It is just plainly bad!
Why would anyone ever want to watch a movie so horrible as this? To that I am clue less. Perhaps the Science Fiction theme appeals to some. I myself thought this movie was absolutely horrible. The acting was very very bad, and facial expressions were not good. The music also was lame, and there was basically no plot. I don't know why everyone likes this movie so much.


                
I first watch this movie a few weeks ago in television. Theard that it was a great movie from my friends, but I don't think so. It was so boring that I had to drink coffee to keep me awake during the movieAt first, it spreads the minds of violence. The people in the film were always fighting to solve the problems. The show of fighting skill is good. However, many children were watching the movie. They might confuse that only violence can solve problems.After that, the whole story was unrealistic. At the last battle of the story, the main character use "the force" to destroy the Death Star. It is not scientific. In the world, there are no energy make you shot a specific object without measurement.Lastly, the audience were confused about the content of the story. This film is the fourth episode of the story, but the producer made it first. There are not enough explanation of the whole story. The audience may not know what is happening when they watch the movie.This is a movie that is a waste of time to watch it.


                
I have to admit I didn't see this movie when it was released.  I was a pretty lazy 15 year old.  When my wife finally talked me into renting it I couldn't believe how bad it was.  A cliche in space, as I call it, was incredibly mediocre.  Bad acting, bad script, borrowed story.  Oh but the special effects! Sorry kids, effects a movie don't make.  I guess there's a lot of 7th graders (or folks remembering how great they thought this flick was when they were in 7th grade) voting on this so-called movie. I took my kids to see The Phantom Menace...at least Star Wars was better than that amazing waste of money.


                
okay so i know this movie is considerred a classic by most people of course but in my expert opinion this is not a good movie at all. The acting bad and the lightsaber fighting not as good as even the phantom menace or captain n the next generation episiode 23 of course. also how come darth vader didn't use the death star beam on the republicans probably makes a lot of sense of course. the soecial effects are not as good as the first 3 movies of course and i could have done them in after effects of course i could tell they were someimtes just toy models. of course. the only thing i really liked about this 2/10 this movie had potential but i could have done better tan george lucas Sign post John Xavier Cassese


                
Both Star Wars and Star Trek are not movies about the future, but about the past.Star Trek relies upon the adventures of Captain Cook (even down to red uniforms for the marines, the ones who always get shot). Star Wars relies upon the tales of Medieval Europe.Someone once told me that the white clad troopers in Star Wars were based upon Nazi storm troopers. Err...this is nonsense. Nazi storm troopers rape and pillaged on a mass scale, neither of which are evident in this movie. The white troopers are the equivalent of medieval crossbowmen; skilled fighters but far below the heraldic level of knights (Jedi Knights).Star wars is a variant of a late medieval version of Camelot but set in Jerusalem during the Crusades, with Luke Skywalker playing the role of Arthur, Obi Wan Kenobi playing the role of Merlin and Hans Solo playing the role of Lancelot. The robot R2D2 is the court jester and C3Po is a serf. Darth Vader is Saladin, the enemy of the white Christian Knights. Princess Leia is a dose of women's lib thrown in for good measure."Feel the force Luke" is the most putrid sickening phrase of the whole movie. It comes straight out of the late 1970's disco scene and is laced with homo-eroticism. "Feel the force." says monkish Obi Wan to his young male student with a twinkle in his eye. It sounds like the advice of Catholic priest to his preferred choir boy. So I ask myself, why did this movie became so successful? We know up until this point that sci-fi movies were largely serious affairs: 2001 and Silent Running just two examples. Prior to Star Wars the most successful sci-fi movie had been Planet Of The Apes. Is the re-direction from these genres sufficient to explain the success of Star Wars? Probably not. I believe the true answer lies in the year it was made and the political environment of that year. Jimmy Carter was the president and he was pushing for economic austerity in the use of energy supplies. Driving speed limits were 55mph and the Saudis were in control of most of the US energy supplies(note Darth Vader = Saladin).Along comes Star Wars where energy usage is limitless. There's plentiful energy for a Death Star, space buggies, robots, laser swords and space fighters. Nobody in the movie is concerned about how much energy they are employing. And the movie doesn't explain where the energy comes from...unless it's that homo-erotic Force? Energy is apparently limitless. No driving speed restrictions, no queues at the pump for your space buggy. Put away those energy efficient, slow moving space ships in 2001 and Silent Running. No need to ride a horse as in Planet Of The Apes.The audience felt a sense of relief from Carter's energy austerity. Soon they would actually get it when they voted for Jedi Knight Reagan and his "Star Wars" program.


                
Nearly half of the film is showcased on a desert planet. (The most boring ecosystem ever) I mean, who wants to see a desert for 45 straight minutes? And the social commentary goes on forever and does not even nudge the story along. Then after the desert, there is a rescue-the-princess cliche. If you like rescue the princess cliches, watch Shrek or play Super Mario Brothers. Not this awful movie. And there is barely any action in any of the movies except the 2003 anime, which is just barely enjoyable. 
Also, this movie is a blatant rip off of a Nazi propaganda film called "Triumph of the Will" so if you like this movie, then you support Nazis.


                
