There are two major problems with this film... 1) the plot 2) the actingI think this film is so popular largely because of childhood nostalgia. It is essentially a children's film.Spoiler? The Plot: When stripped to its bare bones the plot is essentially... princess gets kidnapped by evil sorcerer. Wannabe knight is trained by wizard to rescue princess from sorcerer. Wizard is killed by sorcerer. Knight comes back and destroys sorcerer's dragon (aka death-star). With the exception of death-star = dragon, each character is referred to according to those titles. Obi Wan is called a wizard by Luke's uncle. Darth Vader is referred to as having sorcerer's ways. Luke is to train to be a Jedi Knight... and Leia is a princess. A typical children's fairy tale story... and the twist being that it is set in space. The acting at times is so wooden that it is cringe worthy. Everyone has fond memories of this film from their childhood... and the reason why people don't like Return of the Jedi or the prequels is largely because they have grown up and have forgotten that this was a children's movie and was merchandised as a child's movie. However, if you look at it again on its merits as a film... it is actually quite a poor over-rated movie. It's one saving grace other than nostalgia is the model making and special effects for the time of its release were impressive but no more so than some previous sci-fi movies.


                
I have just seen this movie at my boyfriend's house (and I apologize for offending anyone who keeps reading this) but I have to say...WOW. I truly cannot BELIEVE this is so popular. I am beside myself in shock. Don't get me wrong - Episodes I and II are GREAT - LOVE THEM, but the original was so laughable. It was like watching a parody of the real thing. (Chewy is hysterical just by himself.) R2-D2 is adorable, he is just SO cute I could barely make it through his scenes. C3PO is a doll too, but they are just about all that was enjoyable about the movie. ***NO OFFENSE.*** Thank goodness for modern special effects! I'm watching "The Empire Strikes Back" tomorrow...we'll see. I have been told that it's a love story. Sounds good....


                
Just because you want this film to be Kurosawa or "The Searchers" or "a hypotext of classic iconographic scenes" doesn't make it so.Nothing more than a comic book on film.A bad comic book badly filmed.May the farce be with you.


                
'The New Hope' is the one that started them all for Star Wars back in 1977. It is only due to the prequels that we see its real place within the whole saga.It's a decent enough film, ground-breaking at the time.If you're going from prequels to this one you might find the opening 30 mins a little slow, but the pace really builds after the entry of Obi Wan and never really lets up from there.I find Mark Hamill a little too meek and wooden at times but Harrison Ford more than makes up for it, stealing every scene he's in as the brilliant Han Solo. His chemistry with Carrie Fisher's Princess Leia also adds to the fun.Start at Episode 1 and work up to this smart and funny sci fi film.


                
Star Wars, despite the butchering of the film in the late 90s remains a classic example of what Hollywood does best....great entertainment.Although highly derivative of just about every fairytale and comic serial, the film is so well put together that once you are on board for the ride it doesn't matter.Lucas has a very grand vision and the visual effects, whilst not quite up to 21st century digital effects certainly are effective.This film ushered in the modern era of use of sound which had languished since the early days of stereo soundtracks in the 1950s.Who can deny the impact of the opening sequence, especially in the cinema, of the starship zooming over the audience. It is one of the most brilliant beginnings to a film ever.(Even if the film unions despised not having opening titles!)It is a pity that DVD release does not have the original versions of the Star Wars trilogy. The bastardised digital updates from the late 1990s are simply not as good. Sorry Mr Lucas you are wrong to think they are better. The few extra special effects don't work and are very obvious.The new Star Wars movies simply do not have the magic of this film and its companion originals. The overuse of digital effects and the annoying JarJar simply emphasise this.But Star Wars is THE original and it is a must have in any film buff collection.


                
Star Wars is literally the definition of "aging badly" and "nostalgia shielded". Sorry I wasn't born fast enough to enjoy all the special effects that were only good by 80's standards. OK we will get the bad out of the way with first because I do have some compliments to throw this movies way. As said the special effects are garbage, for example in the trash compactor scene the eye of the alien briefly pops up and it clearly looks like a badly made puppet. If we all complain about CGI because it is unconvincing then why can I not complain about unconvincing practical effects? The action is also garbage. Seriously in the very first few scenes of the movie there are Storm Troopers coming a very small doorway, the rebels should have massacred them, but instead the opposite happens. Do I even need to mention how rubbish the light saber fight between Obi- Wan and Vader was? Do not give me any rubbish about production delay's, production of a film is irrelevant to critiquing a film. I have to really stretch my suspension of disbelief to believe the sequence of event's. Do the imperials at the beginning just forget droids exist? Can they not scan for droids? Why can they not just board up the pipe on the outside of the Death Star? Why did the Laser Luke fired bend with the pipe?. Loads of plot conveniences. By the way they never inform of the Empire's ideology, philosophy or motivation. Seriously the bad side of the force is literally called the dark side? that is really on the nose. Alright now for the good. The acting was good, the writing for the dialogue was good, the characters were great, the cinematography was great, it had a good concept (shoddy execution though) and it never really bored me. No I do not see being an industry influence for other Science fiction films as a positive. The influences of a film are irrelevant to critiquing a film. Now to finish off I am not saying do not like Star Wars, like whatever you want, just try and differentiate when you like a film for it's quality and when you like a film because it was apart of your childhood.
The worst thing about this movie is that people think this is science fiction, when it could have been a western or a pirate movie without losing anything in the trade. There isn't a single idea that has anything to do with science fiction. Picture horses or sailships instead of starships and you'll see what I mean.As for entertainment, it's an ok movie, no more.


                
I highly doubt a more scientific poll of movie fans would produce anywhere near this high a rating.  There seems to be a common thread between Star Wars and computer geeks, however.I hardly can follow the plot in three tries, and I find it boring.  I wouldn't say the movie is "bad" and I recognize its significance, but that's all I can say.  Overrated be the word.


                
Listening to the sound of fingernails screeching on a chalkboard is soothing compared to watching this movie. From James Earl Jones' surprisingly flat and uninteresting Darth Vader to Carrie Fisher's sticky bun haired Princess Leia, the main actors in this movie deliver strictly second rate performances, except for Alec Guinness, who does his best with a script that seems to have been written by a 14 year old fantasy gamer.The special effects started a trend which has never been broken, of ignoring physics and engineering in favor of cheap thrills and easy effects so scriptwriters don't have to think about reality and can simply transfer scenes from westerns and other shoot-em ups into "space".The non-earthlings were the best part of this movie, creatively done, with the deservedly famous bar scene being the film's shining moment.


                
Honestly, I just cannot see why this movie is revered so much, and I'm genuinely baffled when I see it topping the lists of all-time favourites around the globe. Ok, it was ground-breaking once, it changed the movie industry as we know it forever, it captivated the imagination of the millions, it became a cultural phenomenon, blah, blah, blah. I love fairy tales, fantasy and science fiction, but I just cannot bring myself to really love the Star Wars movies.The acting is abysmal, the main characters are shallow, uninteresting cardboard cut-outs, the script is laughable and the pacing is sluggish for the most of the film. The special effects were probably awesome back in the 70s, but they don't seem like anything special now. There're just two things I like about this movie: John Williams' terrific, rousing score and Darth Vader - a truly memorable villain with a real presence. You could argue that it is essentially a kids' movie, but I've seen a lot of children movies (like Toy Story and its sequel, which made me feel like an awe-struck, wide-eyed kid again) that are ten times funnier, sharper, more imaginative and exciting than the Star Wars.


                
'Star Wars' is the great American icon...I know that. I will be pilloried for saying it, but 'Star Wars' is just not deserving of the hype attributed to it. To say it is a fun film, fine. To say it was visually dazzling, great. But to proclaim from the treetops that it is the pinnacle of film, and that we should all bow down and worship the mighty Lucas for creating this wonder is simply dumb. Lucas set out to do two things: A) pay homage to the old Buck Roger's serials, and B) utilize the basic storytelling archetypes from the myths of old. (Joseph Campbell can tell you more about those than I). I feel he accomplished both of these goals. Unfortunately, he failed to insert an intelligent story along with it. For all those who say that film should be merely lighthearted entertainment, I say balderdash. You only think that because you've been brought up on things like 'Star Wars', which is just mindless laser battles and funny robots (nowhere near as good as its successor, 'The Empire Strikes Back', a film I really enjoy).


                
I can understand why there's such a big audience for this film. If I had been six and hadn't seen any other sci-fi movie before it when I first saw it, I might have been impressed too. As it is, I really had high hopes for it, and I really tried to like this movie, but eventually I gave up on it.What's the story? Well, I tried to watch the movie four times, and I fell asleep about halfway through every time. The first time I saw it, that might have been caused by watching it at 2 AM during a movie night. But the other 3 times I watched it in the early evening, and I just kept falling asleep.The bits I did see were utterly unconvincing. Mark Hammil is one of the worst actors ever. The story is one of the most far-fetched ever to be put on film.And then there are people who say this film "started the epic sci-fi genre". Really? You'd have to ignore the original "War of the Worlds" from 1953, "Planet of the Apes" from 1968, and "2001: A space odyssey" also from 1968.I think I can divide my friends into two camps, the Star Wars aficionados, and the ones who find it as boring as I do. And I know how worked up the fans get, whenever someone dares criticize this movie. The fact remains that I am definitely not alone among fans of Sci-fi to be quite bored by Star Wars. The pages and pages of worshiping reviews therefore, are understandable, but misleading.


                
Strip away the technology and any number of B scifi films and scifi TV programs done prior to 1977 will eat this scifi-film for lunch. Unfortunately, the masses do not see this and continue to believe that special effects and goofy aliens make a movie great. Thank goodness for Sir Alec Guinness!


                
I know when it came out the special effects were amazing and now they are inferior to the prequels, but i seriously think that the cult group that has evolved and has devoted itself to the trilogies certainly hasn't been wiped out yet. Here is a simple plot line for those alien people who haven't seen it yet. The Empire covering a whole galaxy is tracking down the last of a peace keeping force known as the Jedi Knights. The leader of the "hunting party" trying to catch the princess, a rebel, is Darth Vader, a second in command type of person who works for the Emperor. He is a cyborg, but that is made up for by him being very strong and talented with the use of a light saber. He and the Emperor along with the Empire have created a large space station known as the Death Star. Luke Skywalker, a young man from a desert planet, destroys the Star when he becomes a hero working for the rebels. I rate the film 4/10. The special effects are great. Acting i would class as in between blooper stage and good stage.
When I first saw this film, I was blown away. The space ships seemed so real because they weren't shiny and bright, but dirty and worn. I'd never seen a weapon as cool as the light sabers -- that, and the Jedi mind-trick made the film seem like science fiction mixed with a sword and sorcery world. The comedy from the androids, and Han Solo was also great, and to a young kid, the anti-hero behavior of Han Solo made it seem genuinely real.
I loved it.Looking back, I think it was a great film for its time, well deserving of a place in movie history. But today, we can see it, very clearly, that what truly carried this film, was its special effects. It was the Matrix of its time, utilizing amazing techniques never seen before. Apart from that, the film really doesn't have much going for it. Compare Star Wars with Kubrick's 2001, which was made several years before it. It is clearly a superior Sci-Fi film.The biggest tragedy about this film is that George Lucas did so little with his career, apart from this string of Star Wars flicks. In my opinion, American Graffiti was a far better film - I may not have considered it to be so when it was released, but in retrospect, it clearly is. It showed that Lucas really could do interesting things. Instead, he squandered his talents on remaking the same flick over and over. If Spielberg had done the same, we'd be left with no Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan, Color Purple, ET, or Jaws, but just an endless string of Indiana Jones, or Jurassic Park flicks.


                
The "silver screen" edition, which takes the film back to its pre-CG roots (and was indeed the first version I'd seen), is currently available (for the moment anyway) on YouTube. Wanting to see if it was as good as I remembered, I sat down one night and watched it.OK, yes, most successful franchise in movie history. Got it. Great soundtrack. No doubt about it. But strip away the layers upon layers of CG work, and what do you have left? Not a whole lot.The acting is almost as cardboard as the sets. The screenplay is a mash-up of things that even in their day were sci-fi-movie clichés. The models are clearly that: plastic and styro models. The puppetry and stop-action work is almost unbearably bad. The pre-CG post work looks almost laughably lame. Perhaps Lucas is right: this is not the version we want to remember, because it's just a cheezy 1980s movie. STAR WARS' advantage, at the time, was that it was so different from what else was being produced at the time. But now, with the perspective of all these decades? It ain't holding up well.It's still a great series of space operas, no discussion needed on the point. And God knows it's made a kazillion bucks.But is it *good*? Well, sorry, no.


                
Let me start off by saying I am not a fan of fantasy or sci-fi. I have yet to see any Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings movies, but I am a film buff. I remember going to see Star Wars when it first came out, and unlike my friends, never saw the fascination with it? Basically, the guy in white fights the guy in black, along with the goofy sidekick ( Solo & Chewbacca) to save a damsel in distress. All this with the slapstick character actors being C3PO and R2D2.If this not a total rip-off of many B westerns & Knights in shining armor movies? Another local boy does good thing? Yes, enjoyable to watch, but nothing outstanding here I have always felt?


                
A high action film with a decent story line is compromised by the Lucas special effects department.  I'd rather watch a decent 40s western where I am not continuously bombarded by unrelenting, gratuitous computer generated eye candy.  The sense of narrative story telling and graceful pacing is lost is a flash.


                
