The very first note of John Williams's horn-blaring score as the film's title in thousand-foot-high block letters flashes on screen is the very moment when American film-making turned inexorably to big-budget, grand-themed audiovisual extravaganza strung together with simple stories, snappy catchphrases & cutesy jokes. But if George Lucas decided to follow Henry Ford rather than John Ford, he built a Shelby Cobra & left Pinto-making to his many, many imitators. Ironically, he himself remade one of the finest works of film master Akira Kurosawa, the Western-themed "Hidden Fortress," with one scene (the fight in the bar) lifted from "Yojimbo." As a result, "Star Wars" has a bit of the jittery discomfort of characters trying to fit into a story that wasn't quite made for them, like people with past life experiences that intrude into the present. Kurosawa's hero is split not into two but THREE heroes in "Star Wars" (four if you include the princess, who has a more prominent role in "Star Wars"). Hamill's Luke is often overshadowed by Kenobi (Guinness, whose skill had aged better than any fine wine) and Solo (Ford, in the role that deservedly made him a star), though he often holds his own as the clueless but determined farmboy-turned-hero. In less than five minutes, "Star Wars" sets the standard of outer-space audiovisual special effects that the industry was bound to follow from then on, forever sweeping away the earnest, toylike realism that Gerry Anderson was then giving us in "Space: 1999" in favor of exhausting but beautiful orgies of fast, violent, sweeping movement culminating in explosions of bright color & blaring sound. No wonder there's never any sex. "Star Wars" is science fiction only because it's set in outer space, by which standard "Dirty Harry" is a detective story & "Last Tango in Paris" a romance. Little attempt is made to explain the technological wonders depicted (we never find out why light sabers never have to be recharged or get even a cursory explanation of the Death Star). What little science there is can't be counted on, as when Solo extols the drag-racing abilities of the Millennium Falcon in parsecs, which are units of distance, not elapsed time. But Lucas never means to educate, only to entertain. Solo is a smuggler, not a science officer, while the others are not doctors or engineers but warriors, royalty or villains. Lucas's hammerhanded excess works because it never lets up & never goes for the cheap & easy. Though the heroes are unconvincing, "Star Wars" creates an array of badguys in the Galactic Empire that remain unsurpassed in cinema, headed by Darth Vader, who makes the Wicked Witch of the West look like Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle. In another irony, the most memorable scene in "Star Wars" is the motionless roundtable conference chaired by Tarkin (Cushing, in the greatest role of his long career) which yielded phrases long & gleefully repeated by a delighted America ("This station is now the ultimate power in the universe!" "This bickering is pointless!" "I find your lack of faith disturbing"). Perhaps, with the space program petering out & the hard realities of nuclear energy coming home to us, our fascination with scientific exploration was wearing thin. In the 1960s it enabled the cast of "Star Trek" to bring the writings of sci-fi geniuses to life with cardboard & aluminum foil. Never again. What better honor, or infamy if you like, could there be to "Star Wars" than that the "Star Trek" movies of the 1980s followed the simple themes, cuteness & spectacular effects of "Star Wars," turning their backs on their own heritage of awed exploration? Perhaps that first detractors and then supporters of Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative nicknamed it "Star Wars" so convincingly that the original name was quickly forgotten. The film might be a bit dated with its holistic, New Age mysticism (feel the force FLOWING through you!) which likely owes more to Jack Kerouac than Musashi Miyamoto & which became more difficult to depict with a straight face the farther the sequels & prequels went. Nevertheless, it was a worthy successor to the Code of the West, especially in contrasting Darth Vader with Luke & Kenobi. "Star Wars" can't really be judged by the standards of other films, partly because it reset the standards & partly because it became, most unusually, the fourth in a series of six! But there's no doubt that it's a heroic sensory extravaganza that will leave the viewer at once exhausted & exhilarated--and will do it over & over again, without offending, condescending or making one think too hard. If you just want to escape to a galaxy far, far away, jettison all skepticism, lower your shields & prepare to make the jump to hyperspace.


                
Ok. Star Wars is THE most overrated movie series ever made. But it's still really good. But I still don't understand why everyone says it's the best.


                
Of all the movies I've ever seen at the theater, I remember this one the most. Not the actual movie really. I remember coming OUT of the theater. Why? Because we had just seen THE final frontier! We had seen space ships! We had seen other worlds! And not in black and white '50s style sci-fi. This was full color with incredible computer generated graphics. There were real live BELIEVABLE aliens up on the screen! We were flying at light speed across galaxies and star systems! And then the movie was over, the house lights came up, and we had to WALK on CONCRETE to our FOSSIL FUELED vehicles and DRIVE on ASPHALT to get home. How B-O-R-I-N-G. How mundane. I had just seen the future, and then when I left the theater it was all jerked away from me. I'll never forget that feeling. The disappointment of "reality". I've never experienced it with any other movie since, not even any of the other Star Wars episodes. I guess I was just the right age at the right time.At the time I hated Han Solo. Now that I'm "all grown up" I love Harrison Ford and it's Luke and Leiah that make me cringe. But this really was a special movie. The gateway to a whole new wave of movie making. (for better or worse)


                
Well, the only way to begin this review is to mention when I saw "Star Wars" for the very first time. I was merely a baby, from what I recall my parents telling me before their divorce. I wasn't even born when this first feature film hit theatres. I'm nineteen now, but I must admit that "Star Wars" was one of the many things that decorated my childhood. I always adored it, and always looked-up to Luke Skywalker. It was the type of view I can only assume all boys had; we all wanted to be a Luke Skywalker. We wanted to be the cool hero with a lightsaber. In this review, I will do my very best not to give you a biased review. However, forgive me, for I have always been a "Star Wars" fanatic. This was my first re-viewing in quite a while, so at least I'm reviewing the film with a clear set of eyes.When two droids, C3-PO and R2-D2, escape the clutches of a shoot-out on a spaceship, they land on a desert-covered landscape, only to find themselves captured as slaves. They are reunited among the slavetraders, called Jawas. The Empire realizes that Princess Leia Organa had sent a message along with one of the droids who managed to escape the attack, so they begin to hunt for R2-D2 and C3-PO. Little does the Empire know that a young man, Luke Skywalker, and his uncle, Owen, had just purchased the two droids from the Jawas. While cleaning the two droids up, Luke stumbles upon the message Princess Leia had left for an "Obi-Wan Kenobi". Luke considers "Obi-Wan" a possible relative of a man named Ben Kenobi and goes on the look for him. For now, I will end my synopsis for the fact that I just described the first half-hour of the film. I want there to be more for you. All you need to know is that Luke is taken on a journey that changes his entire life and purpose, helping him make a transfer from a teen who longs to leave the ranch he is stuck living on to a man seeking the fall of the Empire. This film isn't just a film; it is a true adventure.When it comes to the acting in "Star Wars", I truly don't believe it could get any better whatsoever. Mark Hamill was born to play Luke, Harrison Ford dominated his role as the swift Han Solo (a bounty hunter Luke ends up traveling with), Carrie Fisher is courageously independent as Princess Leia and doesn't fall into the shadows of her co-stars, but Alec Guinness was exceptional as Ben (or Obi-Wan) Kenobi. There is something magical and hopeful about the way Alec portrays Obi-Wan in this film. Also, Anthony Daniels is perfect as C3-PO! He may have been the simple comic relief, but I promise you he was the perfect choice for this character. I truly cannot see anyone ever playing this golden-plated character, who has practically become the symbol for any outsider who may have not seen the films. Without a doubt, the acting was exceptional in all respects. I believe the trickiest had to have been David Prowse, seeing as how Lucas ended-up not using Prowse's real voice for Darth Vader. With that thought, I must say that I enjoy James Earl Jones' voice much more for the character.Anyways, moving along! The writing of each character was phenomenal. I feel that the banter was so well-done that it brings these characters to life even more, seeing the situations each of them are in within the duration of the film. "Star Wars" was also plotted very well, with all events and scenes not feeling out of place once.The special effects, I must say, are top-notch, even if they have aged a bit in 2013 viewer's eyes. At some points, the effects look fantastic, while other scenes look like a "Star Wars" fan film from YouTube. That's common with classic cinema, so I don't mind it. I sincerely believe that people aren't the only ones to age.This "Star Wars" film is definitely not my favorite, but it runs right behind "The Empire Strikes Back" and "Return of the Jedi", on my list. Overall, it is still very enjoyable with set designs that look like legitimate places amongst the galaxy. The detailing of the sets in this film are just shockingly realistic."Star Wars" deserves the eight stars that I have rated it. I like it, hold it as a memory in my heart, but find it to be an action-fantasy film, for the most part. It is brilliant, it is intelligent, and it is worth a try. I highly recommend the film.May the force be with you all! God bless, and Merry Christmas!


                
I was never a "Star Wars" guy growing up. I wouldn't say that I was a "Star Trek" guy growing up either ("Doctor Who" was my sci-fi franchise of choice growing up, and still is, even though I'm not a big fan of Russell T. Davies' version of the show), but I would definitely choose my favorite episodes of the original series or "Deep Space 9", "The Wrath of Khan", and "The Undiscovered Country" over any "Star Wars" film. I've seen the original trilogy a couple of times previously, once as a kid, once in my mid-teens, and now I sit down to watch "Star Wars" again, having been inspired by catching half of "The Empire Strikes Back" on TV recently and being enthralled by it.The first thing that struck me is how great the opening shot is, just after the scrolling text that is. The rest of the movie was pretty much how I remembered it being- a collection of great set-pieces and memorable characters, and a great mythology, but with a story which wasn't nearly as grand and great as "The Empire Strikes Back". Although a point of criticism aimed at "Star Wars" by its (relatively few) detractors is that it doesn't quite match the real feel of a 30's/40's serial, I think that it really does, and not only in the way it is shot and the transitional wipes and all that, but in the writing, the acting, and just about everything else. It has that same sense of adventure, and although this particular film is nowhere near as good as some of my favorite serials, it remains something which very accurately captures the feel of watching one of those, and its popularity (and the popularity of "Raiders of the Lost Ark") is hence quite understandable, as very few of even the big summer blockbusters have the same sensibility and sense of adventure, and well, fun.Watching "Star Wars", in spite of it not being my favorite of the original trilogy, serves as a reminder of the talent which George Lucas had at one point. I don't think this film is as good as his previous effort, "American Graffiti", which is the greatest 'coming of age' film I've ever seen, and one of the most beautiful films ever made from a visual standpoint, but it's still got spirit and energy which his later efforts just don't. It's quite sad, really. There's really nothing I can say that hasn't been said already (which is true, certainly of many popular films, but this is freakin' "Star Wars", so trust me, I have NOTHING to add to what has already been said). There are "Star Wars" devotees who swear it is the greatest of the trilogy and one of the best movies ever made, there are detractors who think it's cheesy nonsense, and then there are others like me who like it quite a bit, but aren't sure where all the extravagant praise comes from. "The Empire Strikes Back"... Well, that's a whole other story.8/10


                
The first Star Wars I got to see were the ones made from the period 1999 to 2005. I saw them all. At the time I found them quite funny and didn't like as much as I assumed. Later, when Star Wars by JJ Abrahms came out in 2015, I saw it mainly 'cause I'm a fan of the director. It was good but again I wasn't impressed as much but now I realise that's because I didn't have any clue about who these major characters are like Luke Skywalker, Hans Solo, C-3PO, R2-D2, Chewie or Princess Leia. What prompted me to finally see A New Hope was the 2017 release starring Daisy Ridley. That movie was awesome and I decided to see the rest of the Star Wars I missed. Now, after A New Hope, I finally understood who these people are and also appreciate the passion of some of the veteran actors like Harrison Ford, the late Carrie Fisher & Mark Hamill when they came back nearly four decades later to be in the new sequels. The effects in this movie is still good for a 1977 movie. But more than the effects, I liked the story and there were many intense action scenes especially towards the end when the Rebel Alliance were hellbent on destroying the Empire's Death Star space station but closely pursued by Darth Vader & his army. Some of the action between the characters didn't convince but those were minor flaws in this otherwise first class thriller. Verdict: I'm glad I finally saw it. The force(entertainment) is strong on this one :)


                
Maybe not the greatest movie ever made, but is a cult, and needs to be watched


                
George Lucas was exhausted - and had lost several pounds - when his finished work finally was to be shown to the public officially on the big screen.The recordings had been very troublesome, and was on a budget shoestring until the end. (Did it stop at 11 M $ ?) In 1977 the movie landscape was very well mixed, but It lacked Space Adventures who was far out there.Spielberg's "Close Encounter" from the same year did not speculate in fantasy as deep as Lucas' adventure; here we got a whole table of pure imagination and creativity from a guy who just wanted to show us the eternal battle between good and bad, dark and light, his way.And by 1977's standards and special effects options of the era: What an enjoyable classic!It's an adventure who has a good mood from start to finish. Great locations, great humour, great acting.Don't want to cherish the old trilogy in front of the "sequels", but it brings heck a lot more charming and warm feeling re-seeing those 77- 83 flicks.I leave it that way......"Star Wars" is probably one of the 10 most important movies of the 20th century.


                
''Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope'' is the first movie from the old trilogy. I will always prefer the old Star Wars' trilogy than the modern one, and watching again this movie makes me feel very good! It is a period of civil war,since an evil Empire controlled by Darth Vader and the Emperor has the control of all the galaxies. Rebel bases finally had their first victory against the horrible Galactic Empire, and princess Leia, who is part of the Rebel Alliance is made a prisoner by Darth Vader, since she refuses to say where are the plans of the lethal weapon called 'Death Star'', who were stolen by the rebel spies. The Death Star is a big space station,capable of destroying an entire planet if it's owner desires. Darth Vader also wants to know where is the secret base of the Rebels to destroy it. Since Princess Leia is a clever girl, she placed the plans of the Death Star in R2-D2, and send him to a special mission with C3PO in Tattoine, where he needs to finds where Obi Wan Kenobi is.R2 and C3PO arrives in Tattoine with success, but after a time they are kidnapped by the Sand People, who wants to sell them; for their luck, their buyer is Luke Skywalker and his uncle Owen. At the same time that Lukes discovers that R2 needs to show the message for Obi wan, Vader's army went to Tattoinee to find R2 to recover their stolen plans. R2 goes after Obi Wan, and C3PO and Luke go after him. After being attacked by the Sand People and saved by Obi Wan, Luke tells him about the message in C3PO. All this time, Obi wan was hidden in Tattoine as a hermit with the name of 'Ben Kenobi'. Obi Wan then tells Luke many things about his past as a Jedi, and the fact that he was a friend of Luke's dad, Anakin. He also gives Luke a light saber that once belonged to Anakin. The Lars knows about the truth behind Luke's past, that's why specially uncle Owen never let him leave Tattoine. Worried that the Imperial troops are searching for R2 and C3PO, Luke runs in his home's direction, but he discovers too late that his uncle and aunt were killed by then. Sad and without any attachments in Tattoine, Luke decides to go with Obi Wan to Alderaan to help Leia.They two meet Chewbacca and Han Solo, who can take then to Alderaan. Once the money payments is sealed, they enter in the ''Millenniun Falcon'',Han's ship ,and they go to Alderaan's direction. The problem is: Alderaan is not there anymore. The ''Death Star'' destroyed Leia's native planet,since she refused to say where the rebel base stays.Once Luke,Han and Obi Wan comes to save Leia and they succeed in their mission,they know will have other problem: destroy the Death Star.Ps: I think that Obi Wan's death is too weak!Ps2: How does Luke understand what R2 says to him?
I recently revisited this, and remembered first seeing it. It wasn't the first movie to be heavily hyped. But I recall it as the first one to appeal to kids as a big adventure.In a couple ways, what's come since have ruined this. Lucas himself ruined it by deciding to make all those extra ones, making up the story as he went. And of course, every month on average we now have a new special effects movie that matches the star wars franchise in visual ambition. Many of these in fact are fueled by Lucas' several companies.So its impossible to recapture that thrill. At the time, yes we knew he stole from Kurosawa, and leaned heavily on Joseph Campbell's notions of myth. But it all seemed so fresh, and Lucas himself came across as a visionary genius. And we needed that more than we needed entertainment.Remember, the US had just been through its first sleazy republican scandal and the nation as a whole was discouraged. But the world of movies was exploding. Woody Allen gave us "Annie Hall." Scorcese became known. And then this. The thing that impressed us at the time was how seriously it took itself, despite how childishly goofy that intergalactic bar was. Also how powerful the sounds and images were.The mythology was so clear. We had it for decades in science fiction and fantasy novels, indeed much better. But this was the first time we had them cinematically, and cinema when it works may be the most powerful of packaged imaginations. Oh how I wish we could see it as we did then.Now we notice, for instance, how ordinary the dogfights are. These used to thrill. We don't have all the mystery that made the thing deep. Now we know who everyone is and what is going on, and it is all so much more ordinary than what we imagined at the time as possibilities.In later years, Lucas would let us down, as a person and in this saga. In fact, I think he ruined some things. But for the year of this event, he was the most celebrated singer in the choir. And by me as well.What do I mean about ruining? Things evolve. When one thing finds a niche and flourishes, it pinches off other things. When "Birth of a Nation" became a huge success, it froze movies as filmed plays with a larger stage instead of one of the several other directions it could have taken. Again, there was a period after talkies reinvented the medium where there was a struggle among various different directions. This you can clearly see in the period. In retrospect, it appears as if the world could have only turned out the way it did. But the trends that win aren't the best at all.So "Star Wars" opened up a gateway for how effects could transform cinema into something far beyond what we had before. And then it closed that gateway, so that effects now cannot show you something unfamiliar. Instead, it all has to be the familiar taken to some extreme.Yes, it was a goose at the time. But Star Wars killed the greater possibilities of science fiction. In film, at least, and because books are inherently cinematic now, in books too.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Star Wars (1977) is an interesting fantasy space movie,but the lack of action scenes and the slow pacing makes it boring(at least for me) a few times throughout the movie.Do not get me wrong,i like the movie and it's the one that started the saga. Maybe i am a bit unfair because it came out in 1977 and then it was something completely new, but that's the way i feel. There are some interesting and funny characters,the plot is pretty good,but the pacing is extremely slow for me. The actors are very good and convincing and the direction is good for its time(i guess). In my opinion, it is the weakest of the original trilogy, but still one of the best movies of its era.


                
This film single-handedly changed modern cinema to what we know it to be today. It is the ultimate modern fairy tale. A young knight runs off with a wise old wizard to save the princess from the clutches of evil. Of course, it runs a little deeper than that, and makes the old tale of good versus evil so much more compelling. Setting it long ago in a galaxy far, far away is pure genius and it introduces us to a futuristic galaxy of beautiful style and diversity that leaves us with a fantastic space opera. Despite its unfamiliar setting, we can relate to all the characters. There's the handsome maverick, the beautiful heroine, the aspiring young knight, the wise old mentor, and the darkly clad villain. Even the droids are characters we can recognise and relate to. What is so special about this film is that the distractions of things like politics, geography, and nationality are eliminated to leave us with simple humanity. This film has everything you could ever want. The characters are great; the action's great; the story is magnificent, and of course there's philosophy too.... Oh, what am I talking about? I just think lightsabers are cool...


                
SPOILERS Long ago in a galaxy not so far away, former film student and up and coming director George Lucas wrote and directed a modest story about good and evil. Entitled "Star Wars" this film would become one of the most popular films of all time. Spawning two sequels, a selection of weak re-masterings and an often dire set of prequels, this film is the film that changed the way people looked at cinema.Raised by his aunt and uncle, Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) dreams of the future. Accidentally discovering a message by a rebellion inside two droids, Luke sets off with his friend Obi Wan Kenobi (Alec Guinness) to save the day and help defeat the Empire and the evil Darth Vader (voiced by James Earl Jones).From the offset, "Star Wars" gives indications of it's intentions. A freedom based rebellion fighting against an evil Empire, the film draws a very strong line between good and evil (a line which will eventually become blurred) and simultaneously provides us with the ultimate Science Fiction Epic.Over a quarter of a century old, this film and it's two sequels is perhaps one of the most famous and popular films of all time. Entertaining and addictive, it has some serious flaws, but we overlook them due to the feeling of child like joy that it gives us.Written and directed by creator George Lucas, this first film, second sequel "Return of the Jedi" and it's prequels, contains some of the worst lines you will ever encounter. As one star said to Lucas "you can write this sh*t George, but you sure can't say it".The problem with George Lucas is that "Star Wars" has always been his baby. As a result, Lucas often gives the impression that the only person to be allowed to change it should be him. Releasing remastered versions of his original trilogy, Lucas is constantly cutting and changing his original film to degrees that it is beginning to loose a lot of it's original glory.Released in the 1970s and early 80s, Lucas's original trilogy is a joy to watch because of what it is. At the time an original, well constructed film, by modern standards, the special effects are laughable. Aliens consisting of men in masks or rubber puppets, part of the beauty of the "Star Wars" trilogy was always it's out of date style. Unfortunately though, as the times have changed, George Lucas has released altered versions of the film with new, inappropriate, special effects and scenes which feel out of place. Lucas needs to realise that films are good because of what they are, they don't need to be constantly updated. Films like "Battleship Potempkin" from the 1920s were good because of their story and because of the meaning at the time. If someone was to release an edit of 'Potempkin' with colour added, a new soundtrack and brand new special effects during crucial scenes, the film would loose some of it's beauty. With "Star Wars" this is what Lucas has done. Adding random animals to scenes and reintroducing an edited scene starring future bad guy Jabba The Hutt, Lucas has corrupted the wonderful film he worked so hard to create.Everyone who has seen it, tends to love "Star Wars". Often winning polls to find the best ever films, this marvellous trilogy is a reminder to so many people of a childhood past. Sadly though, as the films get older, George Lucas refuses to let them date gracefully. Constantly rehashing and rewriting, Lucas is already responsible for an atrocious script, only to add to his crimes. The series were wonderful when they were first released, and Lucas should have kept this in mind and kept his hands off. A classic in it's own right, but it won't be if it's creator keeps on changing it.
The Jedi knights have been exterminated and the Empire rules the galaxy with an iron fist. A small group of Rebels have dared to fight back by stealing the secret plans for the Empire's new weapon The Death Star battle station. The Emperor's most trusted servant Darth Vader must find the plans and locate the hidden Rebel base. Princess Leia, a captive Rebel leader, sends out a distress signal that is intercepted by a simple farm boy Luke Skywalker. Seizing his destiny he takes up the chance to rescue the princess and help the rebellion overthrow the Empire, along with some unforgettable allies as the wise Obi-Wan Kenobi, the cocky Han Solo and the droids C3PO and R2-D2.****/***** Very good


                
I saw this marvellously old-fashioned hokum with my girlfriend at the packed out Pics on March 25th 1978. Exhausted at all the screen wipes by the end all we were thinking of was hopefully not waiting too long in the cold for the last bus home; so much for intergalactic travel. Star Wars was a phenomena then, and still is – although I did warn a big fan I knew at the time that it wouldn't take too long for the special effects to go dog-eared with age and even recommended Kurosawa's original to him instead. However, he probably still disdainfully thinks, along with many others that movies, indeed history, began with Star Wars.Young stereotype joins forces with a disparate group of stereotypes to save the white universe and Princess Stereotype from stereotypical space baddies in a adventurous story bordering on corny with then innovative now dated film technology. Definitely nothing wrong with any of that, just that when stripped down it's not only incredible but incredibly ordinary and merely reflects back to me some lovely sunny days from the mid '70's. Even the sinister ugly aliens had somehow listened to the cleaner music of Frank Zappa. Fancy spending trillions of trillions on an immense battleship complete with a titchy flue with a security implication. I saw Lucas's 90's cgi cartoonery revision at the Pics with my daughter, the spacecraft still wobbled and there were many white borders on display but overall his team had done a good job trying to stem the onslaughts of Time on his cash cow. Many of my favourite films are pure - and poor - old fashioned corn but no one on planet Earth thinks they're life changing works of Art in the same way as they do this monument to Luck.The film I saw was Part I full stop; if Disney ever gets to Part XXVII what if they want to do a prequel to the prequel and more pathetic re-numbering and retrospective digital title re-jigging ensues, will Lucas let them? I've always favoured the originals of anything generally and also draw the line at altering future history.I enjoy it immensely whenever it's on UK TV, as I can feel the persuasive Force of not having to think for a couple of hours and to simply enjoy the ride.


                
In 1977 the entertainment industry was not quite up to the 21st century standards. The special effects in Star wars are not fantastic but they would have been in their time. Still, Star Wars is the best film ever made, it was released in a time where people were using special effects for disaster movies and no one thought it would do that well but it took the UK and America by storm and it became he 4th most attended movie ever (but the 3 above it: Snow White, Sound of music and Gone with the wind have all been re-released so it's pretty unfair) and the 2nd highest ever grossing film (Behind Titanic which was released over 20 years later when ticket prices were over double the price). The nobodies who played the parts became huge actors of the time, Harrison Ford is hailed as the most successful actor of all time. The rest of the trilogy was also very good, Empire strikes back is also one of the best films ever (dunno what happened in the Phantom Menace though, whose idea was Jar Jar Binks?) All in all i think it's a pretty good film.


                
OK, this was a pretty good movie with some pretty good effects (just make sure you don't overwatch it, or you'll get bored with it).The idea for Star Wars is pretty good. I loved the character of Darth Vader. I'm not saying I'm rooting for the bad guys, I'm saying that the idea of Vader is an interesting idea. I mean, think about it. The Jedi order is abolished, and the only one who is allowed to use the Force is the Sith (the dark side of the Force). My favorite characters are Han Solo, Chewbacca and R2-D2. I like Luke too, but I don't think he became a real big big favorite until ROTJ. I also enjoyed Obi-Wan Kenobi. The effects are fantastic, especially for its time. The aliens are interesting, the bad guys are well-done (though how humans came to be the dominant species is a little surprising. Sorry, but compared to some of the other beings I saw in the Star Wars universe, it's a little surprising). I love the lightsabers and just about everything about this movie. The only problem I have is with the Force, as pretty much all Christians do. But we're able to draw enough Christian elements out of it to tolerate it.humor, action, and a lot of tension with Solo and Leia, very, very good. I don't know if it deserved the standing ovations it got in the theaters, but still great. A new hope indeed!


                
It's the first one and everyone loves it. I have to admit, it is cheesy and has its faults, but that's why it's perfect, and doesn't need improving *cough* George Lucas!The practical effects in this are amazing for its time, the story is literally out of this world and no one had scene anything like it. The characters are brilliant, we get a young boy who wants more in life, an old man who use to be a Knight, a Charming Smuggler, a Princess who can kick ass, two surprisingly comic relief robots and a really tall villain which represents a Dictator and feared by all.You can't get any better than that. The Death Star Assault has to be my favourite scene in the whole film, as the Starfighters look amazing in space and you just want to be in those cockpits. And the fact that George Lucas thought it would never work, and yet it has a cult following and such a huge fan service, they have declared the 4th of May to be Star Wars Day. As in May the Force Be With You.If it wasn't for this film, we wouldn't have the inspiration as it gave us.


                
It's not often that a film is released and it literally changes society. Pop culture, modern film and cinema history took a hit when this film was released... yes even before the 'Episode IV' title was attached.'Star Wars' wasn't just another Sci-Fi film, it was the first time in a long time a filmmaker's vision transferred to celluloid untouched by executive hands and actually worked.Sure, millions will say that it's one of the greatest films ever... perhaps in Sci-Fi circles. It was, easily, one of the most influential. Not because it spawned a billion dollar industry for special FX, toys and marketing or five sequel films... but it led the way for all the films and filmmakers to follow in it's footsteps.Was it greatly acted? It was OK. Was it greatly written? It was an original, paced story.But with it's effects, score and direction, it all came together... and in the end, that is what great epic film is all about.


                
"Star Wars" was the first movie I ever sat down and watched (I believe I was two at the time). Over time, of course, the initial "Oh wow!" factor wears off and it becomes just another sci-fi movie. But it really shouldn't-- this is *the* sci-fi movie. That is not to say it is the best of the entire genre-- I really don't think it is, but this was where everything changed for the last time (other major genre changes occurred in 1968's "2001: A Space Odyssey" and "Planet of the Apes"). The photography and editing combine very well, making it flow better than almost any film the '70s ever produced. Harrison Ford (Han Solo) and Carrie Fisher (Princess Leia) have a great, well-realized, almost love/hate relationship. But the real star of the movie is Darth Vader-- that gigantic black-suited, raspy, evil mastermind who brings new meaning to the word "power". This is not only because of James Earl Jones' fantastic voice-over, but also because of David Prowse's physical presence on the celluloid. The movie's vulnerable point comes in the sweeping, epic style, which very nearly overdoes itself on numerous occasions. However, "Star Wars" is a classic, even though it cannot really be considered the best of anything. And a word to the wise-- watch the 1977 original. Those special effects shattered doors and set new standards, while the 1997 re-release's cheap digital work only serves to make a good movie look fake and inconsistent.


                
The original star wars has still got to be the best sci-fi's ever made, now 30 years old. George Lucas was on to a winner with star wars and these first 3 star wars are him at his best.The story is about Luke Skywalker (mark hamill) who buys two droids - c3-po and r2-d2 from the sand people, who unknown to Luke have just came from an imperial starship, Darth Vader is looking for these droids. (Anyway to keep the story as brief as i can.) Darth vader comes looking for the droids, kills lukes foster parents, Luke finds obi-wan kenobi (alex guinness) and old jedi. Obi-Wan takes Luke under his wing as he tells Luke that Darth Vader killed his true father (in a way). Luke is determined to train as a jedi so he can kill darth vader and avenge his fathers killer.
Star Wars, now known as Star Wars Episode IV, is a great classic. It's still amazing how it's held up after all these years. It tells the story of Luke Skywalker, a poor farm boy who, after meeting old Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, begins the greatest journey of his life. He goes up against the evil empire and Darth Vader, who has a past with Obi Wan. Not a whole lot happens in this original Star Wars, but it revolutionized sci-fi films as we know them, with battling space ships, laser guns, and hologram communication. The acting and the writing isn't the greatest there's ever been, but it doesn't stop the movie from being completely enjoyable. Star Wars totally deserves the attention it gets and the money it makes from books, video games, TV shows, toys, and it's following sequels.Star Wars will forever remain a classic, even if critics continue to ignore George Lucas's creativity.8/10


                
In simplest forms, Star Wars, like many other space operas, is basically cowboys in space. With also a touch of medievalist within it and with a simple distinction between good and evil, making it fun for people for all ages.This movie also succeeds in true escapism, with no references to Earth, with a culture unknown to us, truly taking us to a galaxy far, far away. And that concept may also have been played as to the success of the Lord of the Rings trilogy.The comedy duo between C-3P0 and R2-D2 will always be memorable. Though we can't understand what R2-D2 is saying, it's the reactions of C-3P0 that brings it to life.Though still 3 years away from reaching Star Trek's racial and sexual equality, the damsel in distress concept is not as painfully stereotypical as in others with that concept. Even breaking the stereotyping.This movie is inspirational in terms of visual effects and sci-fi art. Bringing forth creativity. And it was great idea to use dog fight footage from the 2 world wars as references for the incredible star fighter scenes.Though many of the plots for Star Wars comes from other stories and movies, they are seamlessly integrated into this movie.And if Star Wars could have maintained this level of quality all throughout the franchise, it would have been in an extremely close second to Star Trek as best sci-fi genre of all time, and ranking the movie 9.5 out of 10.Unfortunately with the disappointing prequels, the not-quite-up-to-snuff "Return of the Jedi", and the special editions that in many ways hurts the original trilogy rather than helping it, the Star Wars franchise is now struggling to maintain second place for best sci-fi genre and reduce the original Star Wars to 8.5 out of 10.


                
A long time ago in a galaxy far far away, an evil Empire has constructed a massive battle station called the Death Star, which can destroy an entire planet. Rebel forces, led by Princess Leia, have captured the Death Star's plans, but are being pursued by the sinister Darth Vader. Leia hides the plans inside a robot, R2-D2, who falls into the hands of Luke Skywalker, a restless farmboy stuck on a remote desert planet. Luke learns of the important plans and teams up with Obi-Wan Kenobi, an old Jedi Knight, and Han Solo, a smuggler and mercenary, to rescue the Princess and get the plans to the Rebels.It's difficult to review Star Wars objectively, for two reasons; firstly, it is undoubtedly the most successful and influential movie-making phenomenon of all time, and secondly, I was an impressionable young boy when I first saw it and instantly fell in love with it. Its genius is of course the great genius of thirty-two-year-old Lucas, who wanted to update the hair-raising science-fiction serials of the thirties he'd seen on TV with modern film techniques, and to enhance them with a profound sense of alien culture and classical mythology (he cites Akira Kurosawa's The Hidden Fortress as a key influence). The movie, despite being a very arduous and risky production, is an absolute triumph on every level, and redefined how populist movies should be made, both technically and artistically. The story seems both new and old, the characters are unique yet archetypal, the settings are wonderfully bizarre and the performances are terrific (Ford in particular). The technical realisation of the alien words is stunning, especially in the use of art-direction, unforgettable sound-effects (by Ben Burtt) and amazingly innovative use of mattes and model-shots - the movie pioneered the use of computerised motion-control for optical compositing. The credits list is a who's-who of brilliant visual effects men; John Dykstra, John Stears, Rick Baker, Doug Beswick, Richard Edlund, Dennis Muren, Ken Ralston, Bruce Logan, Bruce Nicholson, Joe Johnston, Peter Kuran, Phil Tippett, Dan O'Bannon and John Wash, to name a few. Finally, the incredibly powerful orchestral score by John Williams adds tremendous panache to the picture, sweeping along the emotions and the actions with deliriously dramatic music. That this film is a pop culture icon is undoubted - what makes it truly astonishing however is that Lucas made it on his own terms, without compromise, when everyone was advising him otherwise. The work of a true artist should always be measured in these terms. Okay, it's just a movie - but what an exceptional, original, exciting, dramatic, eye-popping, dazzling, brilliantly-made and unforgettable movie. This review is of the 1997 re-release, which features many new effects shots (mostly in the Mos Eisley sequence), a new scene with Han Solo and Jabba and a few other shots not in the original film.
I can't say anything about George Lucas coming directly from my opinion. I have never (maybe) seen any of his work; It's not interesting for me. I don't hate science fiction and futuristic films (because that's why he's known), it's just that those are not my types of movies. Anyway, I know some people that say he's great. He made "Star Wars" thinking he would make a trilogy, this was number 4, then he did 5 and 6; he probably thought it was over, but some years later he showed us the beginning of something we had already known the ending with "Episode I" and "Episode II". What happens before this film, departures from a movie that has not been released yet: that's "Episode III".There's a time (now) where the special effects are "show ups". I like to think there was a time when they were used to serve the story; for sake of entertainment. Now, plots are merely complex, but effects are totally outstanding. "Hero" was lauded by critics, but it was just the visuals for me; beautiful visuals, of course. Then the plot<U+0085>That's why I'm thinking of passing by "House of Flying Daggers": same actors, same director<U+0085>No, thanks.Well, special effects weren't remarkable in "Star Wars", but they were definitely the best they had at that time. I didn't care about them, anyway, because Lucas has fun creating his own world of adventure, fantasy and whatever you want so say; but it was fun! What can you expect of some big letters flying in space that say: "A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away"? The thing is Lucas' whole team worked their asses to develop this fantasy full of pleasure, and gave us the costumes, the sceneries, the characters<U+0085>Unique stuff!I wasn't alive at the time the movie was the phenomenon it was, and still is; but it's a thoroughly enjoyable ride that everyone should take the chance to experience. Getting out of TV, and very young, Mark Hamill looks natural as Luke. He seems very promising in his role; the role that assured his career's "take-off". Alec Guiness passed away some years ago, with the Oscar in his merits, and the recognition for his performances; including his classy and for always remembered Obi-Wan Kenobi. In this film specifically, Carrie Fisher wasn't much used and not as pretty as her character should be. However, intelligent enough to provide the qualities that launch a career. One paragraph should be dedicated to Mr. Harrison Ford. I heard he wouldn't have a career if it wasn't for George Lucas. The whole story I won't say, but I'm glad Lucas discovered some of the genius in Ford. Lucas gave Ford the character of Han Solo that would bring Indiana Jones after the trilogy. After Indiana Jones, Ford's career would be irregular, with some little peaks. But here, here<U+0085>Ford is magical. Incredibly natural and very good<U+0085>"Star Wars" is one of those movies that make you be supportive with the characters. We want their good, we want to join them in their journey and watch them survive; even when we already know what's going to happen. Excellent performances by Anthony Daniels as C-3PO, Peter Mayhew as Chewbacca and Kenny Baker as R2-D2: considering they hadn't got much to do but they were important<U+0085> They were funny and an excellently teamed up for their roles<U+0085>The ending announces a sequel; filled up with happy images, simple shots and that wonderful music by the amazing John Williams; who hasn't been more than five years without being nominated for the Academy Awards (he won it for this one). All of this, of course, all of this wouldn't exist without George Lucas' mind (he'll be remembered for this!). How he did it is a long story hidden behind one of the most fascinating cinematographic experiences of all time.


                
