Though now known as "Episode IV-A New Hope," for many of us, namely those of us who first saw this exhilarating entertainment in theaters back in '77, this will always be the first "Star Wars." We will always think of it as just "Star Wars" - plain & simple, no pretensions, no aspirations to deep film-making or high art. This is where we first met them all: Luke, Han Solo, Princess Leia, Obi-Wan Kenobi (old 'Ben'), Chewbacca, the 2 robots C3PO & R2D2 and, of course, Darth Vader. They were instant pop culture icons; you got the sense you'd seen them before somewhere, but were sure this wasn't possible. But they'd been there before in our minds. We'd read about them constantly in science fiction novels and short stories - tales of outer space civilizations, of spaceships zooming through asteroid belts, of exotic-looking aliens hanging around space ports. We'd dream about them at night and try to imagine ourselves in their midst; up until then, we could only imagine such things - there were no projected images to realize such dreams. "Forbidden Planet" from 1956 came close, and then there were the "Star Trek" and "Lost in Space" TV series, both hampered by dime store budgets and cheesy sets. We ate 'em up since there was nothing else. Then Lucas made it real.I remember when I first got wind of the upcoming movie, to open in May of 1977, I think. I saw the first publicized poster and bought the novel adaptation. On the poster, a young man stood with some light sword raised, a princess at his feet, numerous spaceships flying all over the place. I was in my mid-teens and felt the first pulse of building excitement as I realized all those fantastic tales I'd been reading the past few years were going to come alive on the big screen for me. It didn't disappoint. Luke Skywalker, who stood in for all the boys pretending to be on a galactic adventure, gets swept away from his mundane desert home smack dab into the middle of an honest-to-gosh galaxy-wide civil war! The strength of the narrative is / was amazing. There are no slow spots and you can't wait for the next scene during the entire experience; and, experience is the better description for it, rather than just 'movie.' You can't wait, for example, for the moment when Luke actually meets the princess; what will happen then? It's a textbook case of an exciting narrative and what I believe makes this superior to all the sequels (knowing that many feel "The Empire Strikes Back" is superior - I must disagree).The one character you really can't wait to see again is the ominous Vader, naturally. The instant he steps into view during the first few minutes of the story, you just know this is the ultimate villain. This is the baddest of the bad, the coolest of the cool, the supreme uber-evildoer of the entire galaxy. You just know it by his stance, by his attitude, and by the electric chill that runs through your frail form as he steps down the corridor, moving into the annals of film history with one fell swoop. You can't wait to see what he does next, what nefarious action will send someone or some planet to its doom. Sure, he seems under the control of Tarkin (Cushing) here and later, the Emperor, but you just know he's simply biding his time until he takes over the whole damn universe. There is no precedent for Vader, and nothing close to him after. He's at his best here where there's still much mystery attached to his dark frightful form, a minion of Satan and Nazi stormtroopers all rolled into one.This was also the movie-experience which catapulted Harrison Ford (Solo) into superstardom. He seems almost childish here, not really straining to create a character, and it's this flip charm that makes it work, against all odds. He really does appear to have stepped out of the pages of some juvenile space opera, laser guns blazing, all snide remarks and foolhardy bravado. But he also becomes the older brother figure to Luke, who cannot carry the story by himself. Hamill, whose movie career began & ended with Luke, epitomizes the center of destiny for a galaxy. Both humble and arrogant, he's perfect in the role. Fisher's main surprise is that she's not all sugar and sweet as one would expect of a princess. These three characters evolved in the next two films, but they were always at their best here, icons given life for a short period - but also forever in film. The same could be said for Alec Guinness as Kenobi, a first class act all the way. You almost believe this elderly warrior could topple an empire, given enough time. Unless he runs into Vader...


                
Star Wars is a movie that has had great social impact, a fact that has often gone unnoticed.  A harbinger of a changing mood within the United States, Star Wars was one of the few movies rated General that was released in 1977. Where movies had for a decade been depicting ever more dark topics (Taxi Driver, The Exorcist) Star Wars was a lighthearted adventure.  While some may decry the move back to swashbuckling from social comment, I for one celebrate the fact that Star Wars made it possible for families to go to movies together once again.


                
The film turn on the endlessly renewed battle between good and evil, the former represented by the Jedi knights and the mystical Force which they are in touch with, and the latter by the Galactic Empire with its Nazi-like storm-troopers<U+0085> Luke Skywalker's simple farming life on a remote planet is dramatically changed when he intercepts a distress call from rebel leader Princess Leia Organa<U+0085> The message leads him to Ben Obi-Wan Kenobi and with the two droids C3PO and R2D2, and later Chewbacca and Han Solo, their journey to release the princess from the evil Empire begins<U+0085> Now a quarter of a century old, Lucas' project has benefited from improvements in special effects technology, but his vision has remained the same: a naive, even childlike belief in absolute good and evil, a preference for action over character and spectacle over everything<U+0085>


                
Star Wars begins not with opening credits, as the guild would enforce in those days, but with a scrawl that has become legendary. Back then, it was a few lines of yellow text scrolling across a lengthy screen that would be photographed on the backdrop of an infinite star- field, losing itself in a vanishing point far, far away. A modest effect, yet those words instantly paint a picture so incredibly vivid that it would kick-start a hugely popular and successful franchise. And it is nothing without its iconic fanfare by John Williams. Take a listen to Holst's Mars movement and see how Williams transforms all the heroism, all the grandiosity and glory into one of the most recognisable themes of all time. And then we pan down and observe a little ship being pursued by a gigantic one, something so immediately identifiable, and we already are entranced. It is a film that is at once lifted and tainted by Lucas' love for it. We see an entire world envisioned, and the production design so effortlessly ushering us into this aged future. When we crash land in the desert planet Tatooine, we recognise the arid setting, before just a hint of alien and droid life instantly transports our minds to millions of stars and galaxies away. Something so simple as adding an extra sun bathes the horizon for miles and miles with an air of mystery and other worldliness. When we encounter civilisation of sorts, Lucas gently pushes in an intergalactic band, a sleazy bar, aliens and creatures of all sizes - the usual alcoholic suspects. And when we need to take to the skies, the matte painted backgrounds do much of the work; hordes of stormtrooper minions, a grimy and worn Millennium Falcon, the great big grey walls of the Death Star buzzing with machinery and lights. Lucas would later insert his own little (or not so) CGI creations not because of any real need, but because the technology was now available, but this only highlights how perfect the world-building was in the first place. The new digitally rendered beasts look impressive yet noticeable shiny and over- expressive in the worn and dusty Mos Eisley, and sometimes the camera will linger unnecessarily as if to say "Look at what we can do now!" But we had been long immersed before that. The story is of course a familiar one. It has roots in Joseph Campbell's Hero and Flash Gordon and even Kurosawa's Hidden Fortress; a story with mythic origins. And there are tell-tale signs of Lucas own American Graffiti a few years back. But Star Wars has evolved beyond those and becomes a treasure in its own right. The original created a world beyond the imaginable scope of that time, a sci-fi universe so living and breathing that people flocked again and again to experience it in theatres. Little details and mistakes become cultish and infamous themselves; the stormtrooper who bumps his head on the roof, Solo's comment about his ship's speed, and when a character's characterisation is marred, fans respond; Han shot first. Looking back on it years gone by, it is inescapable to notice the ageing special effects. That is simply a fact of changing technologies. Yet I still marvel on how impeccably and competently Star Wars is crafted. The sound design is alien and fantastically so; simple acts of pulling on steel cable and microphone interference create these iconic noises, and of course the bright and noisy hum of the lightsabers. Years on we had incoherent and frenetically choreographed battles that seem more like acrobatic dance recitals, and the blades of light flashed at a hundred miles an hour, but here we have Guinness characterised in these simple but powerful strokes, the intent on his face, the recognition of an old pupil, the concentration of a chess match as they probe for a weakness. The space-fight scenes are edited like a dogfight from WW2 with precision by Marcia Lucas (a remarkable presence you don't notice until her absence), and the simply act of placing these fighter pilots on the backdrop of a whizzing and laser filled backdrop is thrilling. As the motion control photography soars through the space and trenches of the death star, these miniatures and models looks immense and engaging. A gigantic bear-like creature and a small white droid speak not a word, but become fan favourites anyway. There is Darth Vader, who becomes even more menacing when comparing the original voice before the iconic wheezing of James Earl Jones was brought in. There is the plucky young hero, who's fate is only hinted at here, and it takes another two films for the story to become more mature, and his circle to complete. The roguish Han Solo is likewise expanded further in the sequels, as is his relationship with the Princess Leia as they continue to bicker. But is is here in this special film that it all began. The magic of Star Wars is that it takes place in a galaxy so far, far away, but it has become so close over the years, and so familiar.
This film came along at just the right time for me.Upon it's initial release in 1977,I was 12 years old,which is the perfect age to see something this eye opening and different.I remember sitting and watching with just as much awe and amazement as perhaps 12 year olds from past generations seeing their first cowboy movie.I remember the thrills as though I saw it fresh yesterday.Upon seeing it again recently for the first time in many years,now well into my adulthood,I find,unfortunately,that the thrill that came with my first viewing did not come with me across the years.Despite this fact,I still saw a great film,one worthy of any home library.It's suspenseful,thrilling,and contains a great story line and interesting characters that we care about.It was great looking back on Harrison Ford when his hair wasn't quite so gray,Mark Hamill,whom we all thought would go on to be a great film star,though he has done little beyond this trilogy,Carrie Fisher, and,at least in voice,James Earl Jones(Darth Vader).Though the initial childhood thrill is gone,this is still a great film.


                
NEW HOPE - a film that does not require presentation. The phenomenal creation of George Lucas for decades has become the standard of a fantastic adventure in the best possible form.Now it's hard to believe that in the distant seventies the studios did not believe in the success of the Star Wars. In the movie series that broke all box office records and spawned the world's most gigantic army of fans.Of course at that time in America, light cinema was not in high esteem. The Vietnam War, mass rallies, crises ... The situation was just like the then movie. And the young Lucas decided to wake up the society from this gloom and show that there is still a hope for peace and happiness in the world.Having written a somewhat unsightly script called The Adventures of Mace Windu - the Reverend Jedi-Bandu from the planet Ofucci, and afterwards having rewritten it several times, Lucas got the go-ahead from the 20th Century Fox studio. Basically thanks to the same as he is a revolutionary with Fox-Alan Leddu-jr.About those troubles that hit the film crew can be spoken for hours, but it's best to watch the wonderful documentary film The Dream Empire - the story of the original Star Wars trilogy.Looking for the first time Episode 4, I began to look at the movie differently. This is the ideal mixture of various components - from the Star Trek to the Lord of the Rings. Lucas took the best stories from different stories and put them together into one. Probably, Star Wars is the most organic fantasy of all time! And although the story takes place in the Far-away galaxy, it will directly affect each of you.As for the soundtrack, you can say one thing - He's great! Taking composers John Williams (who constantly works with Steven Spielberg), the creators also took a little of their main special effect. Well, who does not agree that the March of the Empire and the Introductory melody are the most memorable melodies of the cinema!Just as true was the decision to take on the main roles unfamiliar to the mass audience of actors, because they will not obscure their starry history itself. And the more it is pleasant to know that New Hope gave the world Harrison Ford.Luke Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi, Han Solo and Chewbacca, Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine, Princess Leia and Wedge Antilles - each of us in our dreams associated ourselves with some of those icons. Empire and Alliance, Jedi and Sith - in all of us there is something from them.I watch Star Wars 33 years after their premiere and clearly understand that they give odds to each of today's megadoro blockbusters.In 1977 Lucas released STAR WARS to raise the spirit of people, to make them believe in a dream! It's 2010 now. Turn on your DVD and relax. All will be well, and may the Force be with you!


                
The world of cinema was divided into 2 parts - until the 77th year, and after. Well, just imagine: you were born a year ago in the 1950s, or the 60th. What did you see as a science fiction? Well, "The Day the Earth Stood Still" as it was dashing and stylish at the time of the release. What else? Ah, the great and terrible Stanley Kubrick showed the overseas viewers the "Space Odyssey: 2001", in the far-away such a 68th. Such a riot of technology, and now it looks somewhere stylish and, even, fashionably and effectively. Further, our viewers already saw the "Solaris" of Tarkovsky (another master, only the Soviet one). All these films were essentially revolutionary, but for fans of anti-realism, and masterpiece. But they are unhurried, abstruse, and the people in the cinema though in a certain euphoria, but ... they did not see what could be squeezed out of the fantastic concept.And now, the date has come: May 25, 1977, this is an unforgettable figure for millions of fans, as well as October 5, 1962 for all categories of fans of another, longer franchise. But, "Star Wars" in the USSR was immediately called "Star Wars", and its genre was called Soviet movie distributors as "galactic western". And if you are interested, then you can look at this stupid poster in all respects, here in KinoBoisk, although ... There are a couple of Soviet posters of this Lucas's film masterpiece, but they are not as stylish as transatlantic, and naughty, lousy.But back to the situation. Before us, the unfortunate rebels desperately trying to shoot back from the clone soldiers (the Imperials who are behind the dark ones), Princess Leia and 2 cheerful robots: C-3PO (faddy anthropoid and golden) and R2-D2 (only to look like a bucket ). Just the same, these two pieces of iron and fall on the sand planet Tatooine, landing from the rescue capsule. They are enslaved by local barygami and bought by a young guy with the super-known (now) Luke. Luke Skywalker. And in the robots contain a lot of information that is able to properly save the galaxy from the yoke of the imperial.Imagine, this is only the first fantasy of Lucas (started with the IVth episode, thinking that he risks and the series can fail), and we are waiting for 2 masterpiece episodes in front and a semi-pop trilogy behind.Many charismatic and memorable characters distinguish Star Wars from other serials. For example, in addition to the above-described robots, the rogue, the pilot and the smuggler Han Solo (young Ford), the terrible dark commander Darth Vader, and countless other attributes of the series: the original design of the Imperial costumes, the death star, the Jedi Knight robes and their main attribute - a light sword, which every spectator certainly would like to receive, despite age, nationality and gender. And so many epic scenes, and copied by John Williams, that sometimes a tear comes to naught (in each of this series), and I still have not seen (nor heard) a single topic that I did not like.I did not find any shortcomings in the film, and I do not seem to find it while George Lucas is alive. Not only that for its time an unreal number of hunches, not to mention the audience likes, so also all this tape is trying to remaster, redraw, re-sound, add special effects, a stylish divide menu, and just box packing. All is alive, juicy and dynamical, and the Russian audience was lucky even more. The quality of the voice recorded in the 77th (eternal cinema, by the way!). 98th (eternal cinema, by the way!). 90's with tapes, 2000's on DVD and now, the lucky ones who bought home theaters and Blu-Ray players.


                
Director/Writer George Lucas's immensely Influential Film was itself Influenced by a Myriad of Classic Stories, Films, and Mythology.He Packaged all of the Seminal Hard-Wire of Humanity, Soul Searching, and Hero's Journey into a Kid-Friendly, Action/Adventure, Sci-Fi Template that Everyone, including Adults, immediately Tapped into and the Movie became an Entity so Enormous and Epic that it Remains to this Day Synonymous with a Religion.The Movie is Entirely Entertaining at its Core and like all Classics can be Viewed with Multiple Meanings with Layers of Characters both Good and Evil Battling for the Control of Existence.Decidedly Deconstructed and Rendered Under a Microscope from Pop Culture Scholars and Cultists the Film has been Analyzed, Annotated, and Admired for what it was and what it has become.The Formula has been Broken Down to its Individual Elements and Commented Upon by the Countless Voices of Fanatics and Film Historians. The Simplistic Sophistication is how it Finds its Way into the Hearts and Minds of the Masses.It Changed Film and Film Merchandising Markets Forever. It Redefined and Resurrected the Sci-Fi Genre in a way that Stanley Kubrick's "2001 A Space Odyssey" (1969) could not. Mostly because Kubrick's Film had a more Restricted Demographic Target. Namely Adults. "Star Wars" Awakens the "Kid" in Everyone who is Not a Kid and makes the Youngsters Stand Up and Cheer Universally and Unanimously.


                
It's what movies are all about, really - sitting in a seat that's already been worn in by a thousand other tushes, crunching as much popcorn under your feet as you crunch in your mouth by handfuls, sipping a soda that's three times as big as you would ever really need... and then there's this very quiet little opening line written on the screen, like a new way of saying "once upon a time..." and you know the fairy tale is beginning, but before you can even get ready to get interested, that fateful, stirring, uplifting and scary chord throws you deep into your seat, in time with a logo that's too big for the screen... and the rest is just a ride. That's what movies are all about and that's what Star Wars gave us.If you never saw it in the theater, get yourself a really great audio visual system in your house, pour soft drinks on the floor (prep this a day prior to get the proper sticky effect) put too much salt and too much butter on a bucket of popcorn that's too big, and hit the "play" button on the remote.


                
This is an incredibly entertaining and well crafted space epic that has become a modern day legend and spawned several (for me, disappointing) sequels and prequels. This classic is a basic story of good versus evil, combined with a futuristic space setting and special effects. While it may be kind of fun to jokingly tell others 'May the force be with you', no one should seriously be getting their theology from it (as a few cult like followers seem to) since really, it's essentially a science fiction fairy tale.As everyone must surely know, this original Star Wars tells the story of a handsome young farm boy and our hero, Luke Skywalker, who teams up with Han Solo, Chewbacca, a couple of 'droids' (C-P3O and R2-D2), and of course the grand master, Obi-Wan Kenobi to protect the galaxy from the villainous Darth Vader and save the beautiful Princess Leia from the clutches of the Evil Empire.The movie became part of everyday life in the late 1970's and 1980's, and the phrase 'Evil Empire' so commonplace and universally understood that President Raegan used it to describe the Communist regime of the former Soviet Union. His proposed plans for defensive space weaponry even became known as the Star Wars missile defense program.The actors are all perfect in their roles. Mark Hamill gives a charming boy next door heroism to the young Luke Skywalker, Harrison Ford a charismatic magnetism to Solo, Carrie Fisher a vulnerability, yet smart and feisty competence to the captive Princess, and Alec Guinness a mature wisdom to Kenobi. Of course the real stars of the show are C-P3O and R2-D2, an extremely lovable character who never actually speaks but simply pops and whistles. Each droid has a clearly defined personality and their interaction together is priceless.It's a great story with wonderfully noble, courageous heroes and dark, dreadful villains. Wonderful special effects of course and star fighting action sequences. In fact, the problem for me with the later Star Wars movies is that, apart from developing the character of Darth Vader and revealing the origin of his wickedness, the other films are primarily effects, star fighting, and galactic bars. Short on plot for adults, in my opinion. I really enjoyed this original picture, but found the prequels and sequels boring to sit through. Also, the Star Wars movies do not have anything comparable to the character interaction present in the Star Trek TV series or films, which I much prefer to Star Wars, even this original episode.However, George Lucas and his string of Star Wars pictures are a legend, and this first movie at least is a barrel of entertainment for both kids and adults.


                
In the early 1990s when I was about 8 or 10, I had a VHS copy of "Star Wars: A New Hope" that I watched repeatedly. It was a recording from a television broadcast and was missing the first few minutes, so the opening shots were of C-3PO and R2-D2 walking over the dunes of Tatooine. That planet is not, of course, named in the movie; strange as it is to think, there must have been a brief span of time when I knew the movie pretty well but didn't know the colossal amount of trivial information that I permanently internalized during my teen years. For a while I had no idea there were sequels. But the details and backstories that books and games and movies and TV shows have filled in over the decades were in a way already present, at least implicitly, at the outset. It is well-known that George Lucas was inspired by old sci- fi/adventure serials, and that he tried to give this "episode" of Star Wars the feel of belonging to a far grander saga whose beginning and end were far off. It was an audacious, brilliant move, and it worked on my younger self exactly as intended. I was able to conjure images of Luke's heroic father, supposedly killed in the off-handedly mentioned Clone Wars, and I was able to get a sense of what those conflicts were like from the way that Alec Guinness looked and sounded when he talked about the past. I could feel the long history of Obi-Wan and Vader's relationship in the way they appraised each other during their showdown. I could imagine, vaguely, the previous ups and downs of the rebel alliance and the off-screen machinations of Imperial Senate. That these things were planted in my imagination made the movie feel big and epic, though it is probably the "smallest" installment in the Star Wars franchise in terms of the size and number of sets, the number of characters with speaking roles, and other metrics. The series has not always benefited from trying to depict on-screen the people and events that were at first only evocative allusions. I sometimes wish I could forget everything I've learned from the ever-expanding Star Wars universe (and that, believe me, is a lot) in order to feel again the way I felt when all I had to go on was "A New Hope," and it was more than enough.
Before there was a trilogy, before there were prequels, before there was an expanded universe with hundreds of books, comics and video games, before Greedo shot first and before Jar Jar Bink was a speck of light in George Lucas' eye, there was Star Wars. Even if it's not the best film in the series (it's not), Star Wars deserves its own place in the history of cinema, as a work that changed Hollywood forever. It brought back the grandness of the epic cinema of the 30's and 40's and multiplied it, creating a new era of spectacle and excitement.Unlike the rest of the films, there's absolutely no need for an expanded universe or a complete saga to appreciate the original Star Wars by its own right. It's a complete tale, a classic saga that takes its queues from historical epics, samurai films and serials, and contains every aspect of the timeless hero's journey. The fact that it takes place 'in a galaxy far, far away' is trivial - though it did help the film have a bigger impact.Star Wars has very little to do with science fiction; not much of the science in it makes any sense, it might as well be magic. But that's what made it so powerful, and what made the prequels - that tried to explain everything away - so disappointing. Luke Skywalker's story is a classic story of the simple farm-boy who leaves his home and becomes a hero, and for that reason exactly it's timeless, and resonates with audiences even now.Now go see The Empire Strikes Back.


                
It's 2018 and I just watched it for the very first time. Yes, I am late.But after watching it, I realized why it was an instant classic. The cinematography was great and the music is the reason why John Williams is one of the best musical composers of our time, bar none. Just amazing.If you have still yet to see Star Wars, I won't judge you. Just go watch it. Absolutely amazing.


                
There is no denying that this film was the start of something big, and you cannot take away from it the fact that it changed the face of the sci-fi genre, maybe even the whole film industry, in to what it is today. For its time, the effects, story, characters and detail in this film are are beyond exemplary. Most action and sci-fi films aim to be compared to star wars, a feat that is rare and, in my opinion, has only been achieved by Terminator 1 and 2, the lord of the rings trilogy and marvels: the avengers.A new hope works brilliantly as a first chapter to a saga, however, I feel that it works better as a stand alone film. Unlike many films that are a 'first part', it has a beginning, middle and end, tells everything that needs to be told and leaves the characters in a satisfying place. I feel that having seen the prequels does not diminish anything about this film like it does to episodes five and six.The only problem that I have is that the original theatrical release doesn't really exist anymore, you can only really get the version that has been tinkered with by Lucas to put needless CGI extras in. This is the original and best of the star wars saga, however i do feel that many people see this through rose tinted glasses and will not see any faults in any of the three original films, even though they are happy to say that the three prequels do not exist as far as they are concerned. Awesome film, great legacy, and now that Disney has the rights away from Lucas, a great future too.
"Star Wars" became a movie classic because it was intelligent science fiction that went beyond what had been done before in the genre.  Lucas' space opera incorporated themes from world mythologies into a movie that both adults and children could appreciate.  The result was a franchise that had both popular and intellectual appeal.  I have heard college students discuss the Star Wars trilogy as if it were the "Illiad", and it does not seem silly at all for them to do so.What was the appeal of "Star Wars."  The first film in what is now sometimes referred to as "the original trilogy" (to distinguish it from the prequel trilogy) introduced the movie audience to "the force," which had both a dark side and a light side; as well as a "will".  The universe at the beginning of Star Wars is controlled by an evil Empire, which is in turn being resisted by the "Alliance."  The movie begins with the capture of an Alliance ship by an Imperial cruiser.  As the movie's villain, Darth Vader, boards the ship in search of secret plans stolen by the Alliance, two droids (including one who has the missing plans) jettison to the surface of the planet around which the Alliance cruiser was orbiting.  There they encounter a young farmer (Luke Skywalker), whose father (Anakin Skywalker) was a pilot in the "Clone Wars" (an important war, as we later find out), and an aging jedi knight named Obi Wan Kenobi (the jedi's having the power to use "the force" for combat and enlightenment).  As the movie progresses, the jedi knight teaches the young farmer the jedi skills, and they join forces with a blockade runner named Han Solo and a princess named Leia, to fight the evil Empire.This movie brilliantly sets the stage for events that occur during the next two films, but you have to see the entire trilogy to fully appreciate Lucas' contribution.**Note: While it might be tempting in light of the release of the prequel trilogy to see them first, I think that it is best to see the original first, with the prequel trilogy filling in the gaps later.


                
When I was 12, I went to see Star Wars in the theater 32 times. This is the film that made me want to make films. Star wars is a classic in my mind, full of fun, and campy lines.. The story is about a farm boy named Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) who discovers that the used robot recently purchased by his family plays back a message from one Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher), begging for help from Obi-Wan Kenobi. Luke asks his father's friend Ben Kenobi (Alec Guinness) about this, and he discovers that Ben and Obi-Wan are one and the same. Kenobi tells Luke of the battle of the rebels against the ruling Empire and the spiritual energy called "The Force." Soon Luke, Kenobi, and a mercenary named Han Solo (Harrison Ford) join forces to rescue Princess Leia from the Empire's mammoth warship, the Death Star, controlled by evil genius Darth Vader (David Prowse, with the voice of James Earl Jones).


                
Luke Skywalker is raised by his uncle in planet Totooine. One day, he buys two droids, R2 and C-3PO, to serve him. Accidentally, while cleaning R2, he discovers a message coming from princess Leia which has to be deleverd to an ex- Jedi, Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi. When Luke finds him and tells him about the message, Obi Wan suggests him to become a Jedi knight. Luke accepts and these two together meet a pilot called Han Solo who is paid so as to fly them to the Death Star where princess Leia is kept prisoner by Darth Vader and the evil empire. After they rescue her, Luke , Han Solo and princess Leia travel to meet Rebel Alliance, princess Leia's team, and hand them the plans which will help them destroy the Death Star. Luke together with Rebel Alliance destroy it and escape. The "Empire strikes back" and "Return of the Jedi" come next and the epic tales continue. <U+03A4>he fantasy galaxy George Lucas invented, along with the different languages and technological creations (light saber, droids) are far beyond our imagination, but if all these existed, we would definitely die to pay a visit.
A long time ago in a galaxy far far away a young farm boy named Luke Skywalker encounters two eccentric droids, gets attacked by sand people and is then saved by an old wizard by the name of Ben Kenobi. After a brief chat the farm boy discovers that Ben and Luke's father used to protect the universe as Jedi Knights until his father was killed by the evil Darth Vader. After his aunt and uncle are killed Luke realises his destiny has been chosen for him and he and Ben are going to have to take on the empire, and from this point movie history will never be the same again.Much has been said about this movie and it almost feels redundant to discuss it, but, as it was the first film I saw at the pictures I feel almost duty bound to add my two penneth to the mix and so I will. This film was groundbreaking in terms of effects, but what we have learnt since Star Wars is that all the good effects in the world can't save a poor movie. The thing that makes this movie as damned good as it is, is the mixture of urgent direction, wonderful performances, a damned good script, that often gets blasted as being terrible, (If it was the film would also be terrible ...it isn't, ergo sum ...), a pioneering use of sound effects that really reinforce the more alien characters with a real sense of emotion (specifically Chewbacca and R2-D2) but of course the last big star of the movie is John Williams sweeping epic score, which even today is probably one of the greatest pieces of movie music ever.These days I understand why a film like "Casablanca" and "Citizen Kane" cannot be appreciated by a modern audience because they are so hailed for their enormity on their first appearance that it often cannot be re-experienced by viewers after that. The first time we watch Star Wars we don't actually know that there is anything but Jawas on Tatooine, or that Obi-Wan Kenobi (That wizard's just a crazy old man) is a secret bad-@ss or that Han Solo, good for nothing mercenary, is seen right through by Jedi Knight Ben Kenobi. We who experienced it the first time will always feel it again, but the modern audience, who know so much about the film, cannot.The film is full of classic moments, from Ben Kenobi's reveal, R2-D2's fall, Luke switching off his targeting computer, Han's constant irreverent humour, Ben's "that's no moon", and a dozen more, but even after all these years my favourite moment is that knowing look that Ben gives Luke at the end of his duel with Vader. His wry smile and the blend of music and performance by both Hamill and Guiness is sensational and still gives me goose bumps now. Amazing.Since then the impact of the original three may have been watered down by the prequels, but as much as you can't polish a turd, you also cannot dim the brightest star. Which is why the term "May the force be with you" will always mean so much to so many.
The latest TCM production entitled TCM Presents A Night at the Movies: George Lucas & The World of Fantasy Cinema, was really 2/3 about Lucas's films and it seemed that 2/3 of that was about Star Wars - but that was OK because it finally drove home to me what I have suspected for years - that George Lucas did not and does not have a clue as to what made Star Wars great. He got lucky with the first one (this film) because it was a product of its time and was what people WANTED to see in 1977 - something hopeful and fun. Remember - or maybe you are too young to remember - movies in the mid 70s were extremely cynical post Watergate and post Vietnam. This one was different and even religious in an ecumenical way. Lucas got lucky with the second one because of the director and his input. To me, all the ones that came after The Empire Strikes Back were special effects filled duds. Now back to the original.In that cynical era in which nothing was black and white and everything seemed at least gray and a little tainted came this little space western. The sound effects were hokie, the graphics were poorly rendered, and all of the creatures were real men and women in rubber suits not CGI. But that was not the point. The point was that HERE was a force of pure evil - The Empire - that everybody could be completely against. The heroes were imperfect yet you could rally around them. You have a young boy of about 19 who is treated well by his farming aunt and uncle but wants a bigger destiny, you have an old man living in the hills like a hermit that wants that young boy to join the fight against the empire, and not until The Empire touches the boy personally does he make a rather hasty decision to do so. There is a girl, a princess, who is not waiting for somebody to come rescue her and helpless. She's tough, she can handle a weapon, and she can handle the fourth in their little band, Han Solo, who sticks his neck out for nobody a la Casablanca's Rick Blaine and seems completely mercenary, yet he gets involved. If you like science fiction and good old fashioned adventure you'll like it. If you are young and feel that your destiny is slipping through your fingers and are itching to make a difference, or if you are older and want a chance to right a wrong that you feel at least partially responsible for you'll love it. And you CAN shoot first in the face of danger, have lived a pretty self involved life, change, and become the hero. As the 1977 original trailer said "Star Wars - for the fun of it" and for the philosophy of it too.


                
In all honesty, I didn't plan on watching "Star Wars" on its 38th anniversary, but a happy accident nonetheless. To see this movie is to go back to a time when the mythology was in its nascent stages, before all the merchandising and parodies (really, a testament to its cultural impact, which is immense). It's deceptively simple; all of the classical elements are here - clearly defined heroes and villains, robots, space pirates, wizards, princesses, sorcery - remixed and flung off into a faraway galaxy. It all makes for a potent brew, to say the least. And when all is said and done, the movie's real power is its ability to tap into the kid in all of us. This is just plain fun, and not even Lucas' shoddy CGI rejiggering can tarnish that.9/10


                
When this movie came out back in the days I couldn't understand most of it. I was young, I didn't knew a thing about space travel, plasma stuff or force fantasies. Over the time I must have watched it over 50 times and bit by bit I understood more and more and this movie grew into my heart.The effects were colossal at the time, unheard and unseen. Can you imagine a light saber back in the 70's? I mean wow... And the costumes - glorious. And the story was marvelous on it's own, it was a space western. A new, unexplored genre full with space action. The music was made by geniuses, it was powerful and memorable. Acting not so great I presume...


                
Classic film. Great story & characters. graphics & technical stuff was good for its time! The Sci-fi era had started to really boom after this movie. Character chemistry & casting were really great. the interaction with Luke, Han, Leia, Darth Vader was brilliant. Music is timeless, always fun to listen to, especially the French horns! The sound effects, robotics & animation were so ahead of its time, simply awesome. modeling were brilliant. Costumes were spot on for the vision of the film. Make up only enhanced the costumes. Classic good versus evil is always a good sell. I am now a sci-fi watcher because of this film, and I now can really appreciate the hard work & far out vision it took to make this film.


                
Probably the best Star Wars movie ever made, if not the best movie ever made. Great Sci-Fy movie which should have been seen by any who like science-fiction (or any who enjoy cinema). The actors are great, especially Harrison Ford and Alec Guinness. This movie is a Masterpiece, flawless, never aging. George Lucas greatest work (followed close by the Raider of The Lost Ark). The Star Wars Universe is rich, grandiose, with so many opportunities, this movie really is the beginning of the greatest movie series of All time. Every scenes are really impressive, might feel avant-guard for the time it was released in cinema but still receive a great public appreciation.


                
The one that began it all is also the best in the series. Whereas the later films become too bogged down with plot and perhaps take themselves too seriously, this one is just plain fun. It pays homage to the great adventure films of yesteryear, including "The Searchers." Hamill and Fisher failed to capitalize on the success of this series while Ford parlayed his role as the wise-cracking Han Solo into super-stardom. Despite his disdain for the film, Guinness is masterful as Obi-Wan. The majestic score by John Williams definitely adds to the excitement. Interestingly, Lucas did not direct the two sequels, but returned to direct the second trilogy.


                
I have seen the first three movies evolve from their VHS-releases to their newest DVD-releases. Of the three movies of the "ancient era", this really sticks out as the best of them all.I was very young the first time I saw this, and it captured me with its fantastic creatures, the action, the whole universe was so convincing to me, and the characters were really good and left a good impression on me. Seeing it again more than 15 years later, still makes me feel like I did back then.This movie is obviously very influenced by 2001: A space odyssey, as seen in the interior design of the rebel space ship in the opening scene, and the docking scenes with the Death Star. Not that it's a bad thing, it is something I felt added a lot to this movie.Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi both fail to keep up with the goodness of this movie in terms of consistency and use of scenes. In particular, there is this new CG-enhanced music scene in Return of the jedi that is so embarrassing to watch it almost destroyed the movie, and the coming of the Ewoks just goes from bad to worse. Luckily, Star Wars does not have this sort of bumpy-ride feel to it, and one that had the most graceful evolution of the three movies with the new releases, except for the "Han shot first"-scene treatment.9/10


                
