Poor Paul Mazursky. Hounded for life by portraying a rape as a somewhat ambiguous, even comic manner in "Blume In Love" he felt guilty for life and even made the film "An Unmarried Women" as a sort of apology to his critics. In "Scenes From a Marriage" Bergman has his sniveling hero lock his wife in a room and beat her before signing divorce papers. And She, of course, loves him all the more. I've never heard anyone object to this this, and the film is generally hailed as a classic. Well, an international rep as a genius has it's privileges. Generally a big Bergman fan, with a couple of his films among my very favorites, I was surpassed how repellent I found "Scenes From A Marriage." Men are worms, and women love them for it, would pretty much sum up things here. The picture would be more offensive, perhaps, if it were more credible. It is said Bergman wanted to "stay with the couple" but the Husband's utter disinterested in the children, and his wife's indifference to said, is either not believable or marks the couple as such coarse dunderheads that it's impossible to care about them. Or, it makes it fashionable with the era's feminism, or male bashing if you like. Either way, the notion that this women works with couples going through the agony of divorce but is oddly indifferent to the suffering of those going through the process is another salvo Bergman aims at contemporary life, but another oddly vacuous one. There is an element of snobbery here, Bergman seems to view these people as empty middle class mediocrities with pretensions to Art they are unworthy of. No wonder Woody Allen loves this movie. In terms of executions, the movie is all you could as for-it's unsloppy Cassavettes. In terms of ideas, however, it's even lower than Cassavettes.


                
The tiresomeness of this cannot be endured.A Swedish couple long married with children, manage to give the impression that they've only recently met and spout long speeches about how they really love/hate/are indifferent to each other while maintaining the preoccupied air of those who are worried that they might embarrass themselves by involuntarily breaking wind at any moment.The trivia section claims the text of the film is used as a stage play. I can believe this. The piece is static.The acting is stagy. The dialogue is totally unnatural. It's an exercise in eavesdropping on a couple of self obsessed bores.I suspect the modern equivalent audience for this 34 year old film now watches 'Big Brother' and those other 'reality' entertainments designed to allow shameless exhibitionists to show off in front of jaded voyeurs.


                
This was the first film of Bergman that I had a go at, and for sure it is the last. Everything in it is so terribly trivial. Shallow and painfully boring story and endless monologues of terribly shallow, weak and boring people. Every moment in this horrible movie just made me want to slap the characters. It has nothing to do with reality. Not mine, anyway. They both are so lame, so weak, the dialogue is pretentious, unnatural. If I've known people like this in real life I would avoid them like fire. Watching them in a movie was painful, the only thing that made me go all the way through was the reputation of the director. Which is by ruined now. Watch dogs sleeping for three hours instead is my advice. For them you will at least feel something. For these 2 losers, no way... Horrible.


                
