There are few other films that have the direct authenticity of this one. It is very frank, honest, tender, and heartbreaking. The performances of the two primary actors are amazing. Never once did I doubt their sincerity. In every single scene they overwhelmingly conveyed the intense and nuanced emotions of the couple. I use the word "overwhelmingly" because that is exactly what it is. At times it is hard to watch. Especially the scene in which Johan admits his infidelity. I could feel Marainne's hurt/anger/confusion. There are moments of intense tenderness, as in the last scene where Johan comforts Marianne after her nightmare. To be sure, the actors had some incredible material with which to work. Bergman knows human nature as much as any of modern writer. His dialog is poetic at times, and achingly authentic at others. They way the couple eviscerates and dissects each other is alarmingly, yet honest. Rarely is a character saying what they actually feel. Rarely do the characters know what they feel. They, like many people, really are "emotional illiterates." Bergman's direction is minimal, and that is what makes it so effective. The emphasis is completely on the characters and their existences. This is a powerful, evocative film. And I have seen only the theatrical version. I can imagine the full TV version is even more detailed.


                
Rarely can there have been a wordier, more intense film than Ingmar Bergman's 'Scenes from a Marriage': over three hours of near-continuous dialogue, over 90% of which is shared by just two (of a total of six) characters in what are effectively just six lengthy scenes. Set over a number of years, they observe a couple's changing relationship, and in particular the gradual and ambiguous transfer of power from the husband to the wife. The characters fit a Scandanavian archetype, reserved rather than fiery, and intellectual to boot: of more modern films, only David Mamet's 'Oleanna' comes to mind as remotely similar, although the dialogue in that film is more forced and contrived than that in this one, which closer resembles that of Kieslowski, although the latter's films were of course much less wordy. If it sounds dreary, the surprising thing is how riveting it is: superb, economical acting, and the splendid script, keep you focused, even though not a lot (in the conventional sense) actually happens. And while you'll watch more accessible movies, it's certainly fair to say that you'll rarely see a film this old that feels less dated. It's not quite entertainment as usually defined; but it's certainly interesting.


                
Scenes from a Marriage (1973)Written and played with amazing honesty. It's simple on the surface, and plain (which is different), and it might just seem insignificant as it goes. Even in the 2 ½ hour version, instead of the 5 hour one.But the two (and pretty much only) actors are so utterly convincing, and transparent, and the writing is so everyday and so profound, the result is something deeply moving. It's never especially fun, though it is often warm. It's absolutely not exciting, and in a sense very little happens, bordering on nothing. Except for what is said. This is a five hour conversation between two bright people who seem to love and understand each other better than most people every hope. And yet it isn't enough. They have a love without real passion, and without drama, or even surprise. The question for them, and us, ends up being, who cares? What really matters? What's the meaning of life after all?Famed Swedish director Ingmar Bergman doesn't worry about making inaccessible or offputting films. He makes them so subtle in their probing of life's mysteries (and it is the mystery that we are confronted with, not the events under out noses), they stand apart, almost from anything anyone else has made. It's not for everyone. If you are new to his films, don't start here. It isn't fair. (Start, maybe, with Wild Strawberries.) But this one is interesting if not exciting, and deeply felt. Woody Allen often professes a tremendous admiration for Bergman's films, and you can even see an influence here, where ordinary, educated people deal with ordinary, profound issues.


                
Two of Ingemar Bergmans' most famous works were originally released as TV miniseries: Fanny and Alexander, and Scenes From a Marriage.  Finally, after many years, the 6 episode long mini-series version of Scenes has been released in America.I never saw the original 4 hour movie version of Scenes, but something tells me I wouldn't have liked it. The movie is very talky and most of the scenes are just long conversations between two people. My butt hurts just thinking about having to sit in the theater that long.As a mini-series, though, it is possible to break the film up into 6 easily digestable parts, as was intended. It wasn't great in terms of cinematography, or exciting plot points, but I don't think it was intended to be.It was obviously something meant to be watched slowly, so that the characters could get a chance to grow and develop realistically. While it was still a little slow going at times, it is worth checking out if you like probing psychological character studies.The leading actors Liv Ullman and Arland Josephson give what must be  one of the most realistic portraits of a marriage that exists on film. Mostly this is because the actors get 5 hours to depict their two characters. This kind of intense focus almost never happens in cinema, and for this reason alone it is worth watching.  Give yourself a week to see it, you will be highly rewarded with one of cinema's most intense character studies.


                
Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson star in "Scenes from a Marriage," an Ingmar Bergman miniseries/film from 1973. The two leads are Marianne and Johan. In the beginning of the film, they are being interviewed and we learn that they both have careers, have two daughters and seem reasonably happy. He's a bit egotistical; she is shyer. One day Johan comes home and announces he's in love with a woman named Paula and is going away with her for at least six months if not longer. Marianne knew nothing of his unhappiness, that he had been thinking about leaving her for four years, and is devastated, particularly when she learns that all her friends knew.We see Marianne and Johan's relationship unfold over the next years, fighting with verbal and physical abuse, love-making, anger, and honesty.Johan, as we find out from one of his colleagues, did not live up to his potential. This is perhaps one reason for his unhappiness. What is puzzling to many who see this film is how these two got together in the first place. Their love story doesn't sound like much of one when it's related at the beginning, and he is incredibly cruel to her, the way he talks about having sex with her and how he hates her body. And yet somehow, a connection remains.The other question is why such a strikingly beautiful woman like Marianne would have given this guy the time of day when she probably could have had her pick.Some of this may be answered in the six-hour version - the version I saw was only three. It's an emotional roller-coaster, no matter which version, and realistic in its honesty. What can be said about the acting - I can't think of a word for Ullmann other than amazing. Josephson has a difficult role - he's completely unlikable, but then at the same time, he's pathetic. Bibi Andersson is magnificent in a small role.Bergmann has made a film about feeling and being loved, about the ups and downs of a marriage, the expectations of both people, and asks what is love really - sexual passion or the comfort of knowing someone intimately and sharing a history.These two characters show up again in "Saraband," which takes place thirty years later. There are some connections that just can't be broken.


                
