After "Wild Strawberries," this is perhaps my favorite Bergman movie, though be warned: it will take the wind out of you, especially if you watch the full five-hour version in a condensed period of time, as I did.Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson create perhaps too realistic a version of marriage in this emotionally bruising film. When Marianne (Ullmann) finds out that Johan (Josephson) has been cheating on her and has decided to leave her, the safe, secure world she has built around her crumbles. She plays Marianne as a wife blind to her own husband's unhappiness and embarrassed that she didn't see it coming, and her's is a convincing portrait of a woman whose partner has decided long before her that what they have isn't working.Josephson makes Johan into a contemptible ass, but he still manages to earn our sympathy. It's easy to dislike Johan but difficult to hate him, so we're in many respects thrust into the same emotional straight jacket as Marianne.The saddest thing about "Scenes from a Marriage" is how much affection and love there actually is between these two people, and how it's going to waste. When they get angry, they lash out to hurt one another with words and even with fists at one point. There are tears, laughs, reveries. It's obvious that there wouldn't be the need for all this if there wasn't so much ingrained affection between them, and it's tragic to see them become each other's enemy rather than each other's ally.For a very good if not quite as brilliant sequel to this film, see "Saraband," which has Marianne visiting Johan for the first time in many years after each has established a life of his/her own without the other. It brings a peaceful sense of closure and in many ways stitches up the raw wound left by the first film.Grade: A


                
Enormous success it had with audiences of Swedish TV, where it was shown in six episodes paved way for its theatrical release. This however called for compromising almost half the original length of celluloid.As one of more easily understandable Bergman films, "Scenes From A Marriage" met much enthusiasm on both sides of the Atlatic.The film showcases great two of Ingmar Bergman's favorite actors. Both Liv Ullman and Erland Josephson give lively mature performances, lauded by critics.Being a down-to-earth family drama with strong social commentary of great relevance, "Scenes From A Marriage" has something important to convey. It is a meaningful picture.It reflects on the nature of relationship between man and woman. It invites us to ponder on this basic issue, a cornerstone of human society Although not quite in the same league with bona-fide Bergman classics like "The Seventh Seal" and "Persona", "Scenes From A Marriage" remains a powerful movie.


                
Scenes From A Marriage is one of the best films to address the issue of a marriage slowly falling apart. The film is directed by Ingmar Bergman and stars Liv Ullman and Erland Josepson.Lawyer Marianne(Liv Ullman)is married to the kind Professor Johan(Erland Josephson)and they at first appear to be a prime example of how to have a successful and happy marriage.They agree with each other,never argue and share many similar interests.However Marianne secretly harbours some little doubts about exactly how happy and solid their marriage actually is.When two of their closest friends(who are nearing divorce)come over for a dinner party,a drunken fight leads Marianne to take a closer look at her marriage to Johan.She advises women who wish to get divorced and after one client describes a situation, and emotional strains which Marianne herself is starting to suffer from,she feels the end is near.However she is stunned when Johan turns around and says he wants a divorce,after he has been having an affair with a younger woman.The rest of the film centres on Mariannes attempts to win Johan back,their divorce proceedings and finally looking at when they become friends and occasional lovers after their marriage ends.I've only seen the version which is just under three hours,but I understand there is a five hour version available.I will try and find that as I'm interested to see what else could be added to this stunning film.Scenes From A Marriage is emotionally draining,gripping,believable and features two of the most unforgettable performances on film.Liv excels in the scenes where her face conveys so much more than words possibly could, she is matched well by Erland as the man torn inside out by his huge mistake,who's trying to make things right again for them both.If you haven't seen this yet try and find it as you won't be disappointed.
This is not a film for those who don't like to see the issue of love and marriage dissected as never before, I think. And, for this review, I cover every major plot point and what I see as the underpinnings of the story. So, if you haven't seen it, you may want to read other reviews first.I know of no other film that takes such an uncompromising view of the truth <U+0096> according to Bergman <U+0096> about marriage; although Kubrick made a valiant attempt in Eyes Wide Shut (1999). This story is just too emotionally painful, however, because it asks questions that, I would suggest, most married couples have thought of, if not discussed, but most would avoid answering honestly. Because there is a strong implied argument, by the end of this film, that romantic love within marriage is a contradiction <U+0096> mainly because a marriage between two is a business, just like any other. So, if you want a marriage to work <U+0096> if it indeed can <U+0096> then it must be worked at, by both, in the same or better way as a business.Scenes from a marriage is an episodic exposition of distinct events <U+0096> scenes <U+0096> that occur over a period of fifteen or more years between Marianne (Liv Ullman) and Johan (Erland Josephson). The version I saw was the 164 minute theatrical presentation for cinema. The original story was filmed for TV and was much longer.For clarity, I've labelled the scenes as follows: 1. The Interview; 2. The Dinner Party; 3. The Client; 4. The Truth; 5. The Separation; 6. The Return Visit; 7. The Divorce; and 8. The Affair and Revelation.1. The film opens with a magazine writer interviewing and filming Marianne and Johan as representing what can only be described as the perfectly married couple. Johan is insufferably confident and bombastic about himself, barely admitting that he can even make mistakes. Marianne, in contrast, is subdued, uncertain, deprecating <U+0096> almost a parody of the good wife who defers to the subtly domineering husband.2. At a dinner party later, with married couple Katrina (Bibi Andersson) and Peter (Jan Malmsjo) <U+0096> and during which the magazine article is discussed - Johan and Marianne discover that the marriage of their two friends is a sham, with the excessive drinking by Peter very much helping to loosen his tongue as the evening progresses, much to the embarrassment of all.3. Later, at work, Marianne, being a lawyer, is interviewing a woman client who wants a divorce. During that emotionally draining and frank disclosure, Marianne learns two things: the woman wants out of a marriage in which there is no love and, on Marianne's face, there is the growing realization about the similarities between the two women vis-à-vis their separate marriages.4. Eventually, Johan comes to Marianne one evening to announce that he's leaving her for Paula, a much younger (of course) woman. Stunned, aghast, and totally sandbagged, Marianne finds herself agreeing to let Johan go, after a long and tortuous discussion.5. Johan leaves and Marianne despairs to the point of calling a trusted friend for advice <U+0096> only to learn that the friend had known about Johan's infidelity for two years. Marianne is shattered and Ullman's performance here, in extreme closeup on her face, is beyond describing. Somehow, however, Marianne pulls herself together; like many women, she's a survivor and sets out to find out more about herself.6. Still married though, Johan carries on, as does Marianne, both separately, although they've both agreed that a divorce is best. Johan, however, tires of Paula and her ways, and returns after two years to see Marianne and the children (who are now growing up, of course). They discuss their situation once again and Johan eventually comes clean: he wants to dump Paula and come back. Marianne is surprisingly hopeful, but <U+0096> as expected <U+0096> Johan chickens out at one o'clock in the morning and leaves again.7. Time passes but finally, they meet to sign the divorce papers. And yet, Johan still wavers, wanting to think it over, but Marianne is obdurate: she's moved on, and relishes her freedoms. The deal is done.8. Many years later, after both marrying and settling down with new partners, Johan and Marianne get together for a more-or-less continuous affair, quite happy apparently to cheat on their spouses while maintaining their happy(?) marriages. During the final conversation, however, they both recognize their innate inability to truly love anybody <U+0096> perhaps even themselves.So, with this story, there is no dramatic denouement, no great finish to a love story that might have been: it's just the brutal reality of the need for communication and romance, unfettered by responsibility and accountability. Freedom at last...Almost certainly, in my opinion, this story has a lot of Bergman in it. He had quite a few marriages, I understand, so an autobiographical slant wouldn't be surprising. And while there is the obvious need for love and understanding for all of us, Bergman seems to be saying, in effect, that the individual is primary. Hence, although each must abide by the dictates of society's norms for functional acceptance and survival, it is only when free from those strictures that the individual is truly free. Of course, there's a paradox in that thinking <U+0096> without structure and stricture, the idea of freedom is nonsensical <U+0096> with many philosophers expounding thereon. Suffice to say, I think, that the French, above all, have succeeded where others have failed.The acting is just flawless. Ullman and Josephson are on screen almost every scene and significantly, we never see the children or Paula. And, as with most Bergman films, the lack of frills <U+0096> just excellent photography, editing and script <U+0096> allows the viewer to take it all in, unexpurgated, unsullied and, for some, probably unwelcome. Recommended.
Ingmar Bergman provides us with a very intimate portrait of two people in a marriage that dissolves into bitterness and hatred; and yet ultimately they both love each other and come to understand each other in a way they might never have done were it not for the divorce. Liv Ullmann, an extraordinarily captivating presence, plays a woman who can be irritatingly passive at times; but I was mainly on her side, even though it becomes clear eventually that her passivity masks her aggressive manipulation. Erland Josephson, with his rodent-like features, is harder to like, especially since his character is vain and petty. He's the one who leaves her for another, younger woman. I spent much of the movie hating and despising him, but by the end, I came to understand him and understand that Ullmann was as much responsible for the dissolution of the marriage as he."Scenes from a Marriage" is a very, very rich experience in its original form as a 299-minute miniseries. I've yet to see the 168-minute theatrical version.


                
In a six-part series: Marianne (Liv Ullmann) and Johan (Erland Josephson) have been married for over ten years and have two daughters. Each has an affluent career. While the marriage has been reasonably happy, various crises threaten it.In the more-than-capable hands of Ingmar Bergman (the director and writer of the series), this series is a great display of brilliant acting - not only by the two leads (more on them later) but each of the supporting roles are also very well played. Each segment has many close-ups that the actors use to display even the most subtle of emotions. In other situations, this would be the precursor of extreme boredom but Bergman and his cast make this chosen technique pay off immensely. Even during extended moments of what would be considered mundane or non-dramatic, the actors keep the story engaging.Some situations seem to be relevant today (a middle-aged university professor who feels stuck in his career as his politics isn't 'to the left of the left') while others were very much of their time. 1970s phrases like "I don't know who I am" were frequent. It's worth keeping in mind, though, that it was this time period when the broader culture was re-examining the roles they were given in life especially when they seemed to contradict deeper aspirations. This is best examined in a very powerful segment in Episode Four when Marianne reads a diary she has kept for her therapy sessions. Indeed, the characters are scattered, narcissistic, and compulsive yet the soul of the human condition is on full display.As mentioned above, Ullmann and Josephson give superb performances throughout but they are truly at their best in a brilliant confrontation scene in Episode Five. This episode alone should be mandatory viewing for all acting students.(Previously, portions of this mini-series were released as a condensed feature film. A sequel to the series, the equally superb "Saraband", was released in 2003.)OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Acting by Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson


                
