Hynkel, dictator of Tomania, is a spoiled child who becomes angry when he cannot gets what he really wants... And what he simply wants is nothing less than the world...In one of the extraordinary scenes of Chaplin art, Hynkel performs a ballet with the 'world' which bursts when he thinks he has it in his grasp...Chaplin also has some biting words on war and war films... In a scene at the beginning of the movie, which takes place during World War I, the Tomanian messenger crashes the plane and thinks... He is about to die... In a state of delirium, he begins to say ridiculous words... The empty double-talk continue ascending into a brilliant take off on all the heroic death scenes of War films...In another scene when he becomes a fugitive in the Jewish ghetto and assumes command of the resistance fomenting rebellion among the old men, he plans to kill the dictator... One of the group must kill the ruthless conqueror of Austerlich... Whoever is chosen will naturally die, but his heroic death will be rewarded and his name will shine like a star in Tomanian history...The sequence in which he and four other characters eat cream cakes containing coins to determine which shall sacrifice his life to murder the dictator is a bitter hilarity filled with great fear...For all its disappointing shortcomings, "The Great Dictator" is still a significant movie for the ironic tones of the film adding something that neither Chaplin nor anymore else could have given it: the irony of history... The necessity to murder Hynkel presages the assassination attempt against Hitler by his generals... The force of the original satire is only surpassed by history's imitation of art...With a splendid sequence like the duck-shooting accident which leads to the dictator being mistaken for the humbly Jewish barber and vice versa, "The Great Dictator" is Chaplin's first talking movie... This time 'Charles' and not 'Charlie,' wanting to say more through his movie and not through an amusing comedy, the last in which he uses his celebrated 'Tramp Character.'
This ingenious and innovate comedy packs many priceless moments and great sense of pace , though overlong . Chaplin's satire with several classic scenes , he has dual role as a Jewish barber and dictator Hynkel , an offensive portrayal of Hitler . Then the barber is mistaken for the Hitlerian tyrant and there happens bemusing events . Funny and extraordinary acting all around , as the stunning co-stars Jack Oakie as Napolini (Mussolini-alike) , Henry Daniel as Gasbstich (Himmler-alike) and Billy Gilbert as Herring (Goering) . Chaplin's first spoken film is brilliantly photographed by Karl Struss . This splendid film contains numerous amusing scenes , the funniest are the followings : 1) The one when during the WWI the barber-soldier along with a co-pilot are flying in a turned plane without to be aware 2) When Dictator Adenoid Hynkel tells overacting speeches , including a twisted microphone 3) Hynkel playing with an enormous world balloon 4) The Jew-barber shaving a man while fitting to Hungarian Dance : number 5 by Brahms 5) when Hynkel and Napolini each try to keep his body higher than other in a barber's chair , among them .Production on the movie started in 1937 and shot in 539 days when not nearly as many people believed Nazism was a menace , as was the case when it was released in 1940 ; however , this film was ultimately upstaged as the first anti-Nazi film satire . Hitler banned movie exhibition to the Germans due to its satire of him , and put him in his death list after his proposed conquest of America . The movie is co-starred by Paulette Goddard , third of his four wives , they were married in 1936 , although no announcement of the marriage was made later, one time finished The Great Dictator . The picture was released in 1940 , when Chaplin had survived a moral scandal by a paternity suit but a brush with the House of Un-American Activities was the signal for the USA to refuse him re-entry from Britain and he fled to Switzerland . This movie was Charles Chaplin's biggest-ever box-office hit , grossing about $5 million at the time.


                
When a film opens with the above note, referring to Chaplin's dual role, but also a cheeky dig at the fact that Hynkel is a not-at-all disguised parody of Hitler, you know exactly what you're in for. This two-hour long lambasting of the Nazi regime may not be subtle, but by God Chaplin knew how to rip the p***.If rumours are to be believed, Hitler had him placed at the top of his death list after this film's release – now that's street cred. We first see Adenoid Hynkel addressing the German (Tomanian) nation, giving a speech that involves much arm-saluting, nonsense English that makes use of the phrase "sour kraut" and his more embittered rages descending into coughing fits. "His excellency has just referred to the Jewish people", informs an announcer after a rage-filled moment that causes microphones to bend and quiver in fear. His first German-language dictates to his minister of war (Herring) involve "banana" and "cheeseuncrackerz". Look out too for instructions to his Minister of Interiors, Garbitsch.I've never really gotten into Charlie (always credited as Charles) Chaplin, as I find his innocent sentimentality a little hard to get to grips with in today's society. W.C.Fields, and, to an extent, Harold Lloyd and Laurel & Hardy can still entertain, as they have something of the attitude, or edge, that Chaplin lacks. Ironically, it's modern times that mean we now find it hard to fully appreciate Modern Times. However, dialogue and a harsher undercurrent – including a Jewish barber (Chaplin, again) being hung from a lamppost mean that even today The Great Dictator is relevant.There are some nice silly jokes, such as the barber, confronted by a Stormtrooper, being told: "and I thought you were an Arian". "Well, I'm a veget – arian", replies Chaplin, trying to fit in. Many jokes – such as Hynkel making a long speech and his secretary typing up just a couple of words; then saying just a couple of words only for her to translate it into paragraphs – were originated here and have been repeated countless times in other places. Some of the most amusing slapstick is when Hynkel meets fellow dictator Mussolini (Napaloni), and tries to impress him by having the greater psychological perspective in all their meetings. In a gag much honoured by Bugs Bunny, the two crank themselves up to ever-greater heights on barber's chairs.Elsewhere, the film also has a grand scale, with ceilings on sets and news reports propelling the narrative – you know, the sort of thing Citizen Kane was so highly praised for the following year. If there's a fault with this film then it's not so much with the sentimental, whiter-than-white Jewish population, but with Chaplin's interpretation of Hynkel. Although he gets all the best jokes and scenes, he's simply too likable to really convey the threat Chaplin was trying to stop. Nevertheless, this is forgotten as the ending gives us the Jewish barber taking Hynkel's place, and Chaplin making an impassioned, three-minute speech in the name of freedom.Charles Chaplin played two roles in this movie, wrote, directed, produced and, uncredited, composed original music for it. To claim it changed the world is an overstatement. America still had a good opinion of Hitler at the time, and, after it was released... they still had a good opinion of Hitler. It was still some time before they would even enter the second world war, and with the final speech being adopted for Communist pamphlets in England, this only caused Chaplin troubles when it came to the McCarthy witch trials. There's a sense that Chaplin isn't the master in the field of talkies, and that his use of mime was beginning to date. History was overtaking him, but The Great Dictator still stands as one of the most personal, and risk-taking films ever put on celluloid.Postscript, April 2012: I've since watched all of Chaplin's features and every short. So, I was talking rubbish when I said twelve years ago that he didn't have modern appeal. Sorry about that. However, I stand by most of the review, even if "Chaplin on Hitler's death list" is a "fact" I've only read in Trivial Pursuits. Oh, look out for the documentary that's included on the DVD - "The Tramp and the Dictator" - well worth seeing, as well as Chaplin's extensive thoughts on this film and its aftermath in his 1964 autobiography.


                
I once caught about a 20 minute portion of this movie on Turner Classic Movies about 6 months back. I thought every minute of what I was watching was gold, and, because it was somewhere in the film's middle and I didn't want to spoil the whole thing if I were to watch it from the start, I decided that I would rent it immediately. Well, the video store which I frequent did not have a copy, so it took me six months to finally go somewhere else and rent it. I had previous to that experience only seen some Chaplin shorts, funny but not greatly artful, but after I saw the snippet of The Great Dictator, I checked out three of his other films, City Lights, The Gold Rush, and Modern Times (City Lights was great, I found the Gold Rush a little overrated, but still worthwhile, and I found Modern Times to be one of the funniest films I've ever seen (second funniest, behind Keaton's Sherlock Jr., more exactly).Finally, the whole of the Great Dictator. Well, to be honest, it had its moments, both of comedy and of drama. But these moments don't always mix well. Chaplin's comedy worked well when mixed with melodrama (City Lights is the best example of this), but it didn't always work with social commentary. Plus, the fact that there was dialogue lessened the impressiveness of Chaplin's talent. Don't get me wrong, I liked the movie as a whole, but I thought it of little consequence. I would have given it a solid 7/10 on the ratings scale...if not for the ending. The final speech that the Jewish barber gives is enormously powerful. Yes, it is adressed to the tempora et mores of 1940, but his message is perfectly applicable to the world today. The speech brought me to tears, and I consider it one of the best endings I've ever seen. Final score: 8/10.


                
I think Charlie Chaplin is the bravest man in the world. Why? Facts about The great dictator that show that either Chaplin was a genius or just crazy.1.He was Jewish 2.Although he was Jewish he dared to make fun of Hitler 3.He did this when Hitler was more powerful than ever. 4.the name of the dictator was so similar to Adolf Hitler, everybody could notice it (Adenoyd Hynkel) 5.everything the Hynkel does and looks like is really similar to Hitler 6.Hitler threatened to kill him if he'd publish the movie but he still continued! 7. and so on and so onGet my point?


                
Charlie Chaplin is "The Great Dictator" in this 1940 comedy-drama also starring Paulette Goddard, Reginald Gardner, Henry Daniell and Billy Gilbert. Chaplin has the dual role of a Hitler-like dictator, Adenoid Hynkel ("Hail, Hynkel") (all the countries are fictional, and the party logo is one X on top of another) and also a war veteran, a sweet barber who looks like Hynkel. There are some truly hilarious parts of this film as well as some truly dramatic ones. The barber trying to keep from falling out of a plane is just one; the nonsense German Hynkel speaks; the barber shaving one customer in time with the music, playing to Chaplin's silent film strengths; Hynkel's dancing with his world globe, which is really a huge balloon.The serious parts take place in the Jewish ghetto where the Jews are persecuted by Hynkel's men - Jew is written on the store fronts, and the soldiers are violent. In such stark contrast to the comedy, these scenes make a strong impression. The ghetto never knows what to expect - when Hynkel is trying to get a loan from a man named Epstein to attack and take over Osterlich, he has his soldiers lay off the Jews so as not to upset Epstein. Eventually the barber winds up in a concentration camp but escapes and is mistaken for Hynkel.Under Chaplin's direction, none of the film seems to be played for comedy. Hynkel himself is a buffoon, but he means it. The most amazing part of the film for me was the very end, when the Barber gives a speech as Hynkel. It's absolutely brilliant and very timely. The beautiful, radiant Goddard, looking at the sky, hope in her eyes, is not something I'll ever forget.Highly recommended. Made in 1940, the U.S. had not entered the war and Europe's problems were just beginning. Alas, the barber's speech wasn't reality.


                
A movie that transcends generations and yet is particular to it's own. Conceived in a time just before some of the most acclaimed atrocities of human history it encapsulates a wonderful, modernistic mentality. A mentality that says it is sometimes necessary to make light of a dark character, so that people may pierce through the veil that shrouds the man in mystery, awe and fear. And this is something that Mr. Charlie Chaplin does exceptionally well while at the same time making us chuckle at his natural slapstick humor that he brings to all of his pictures. This movie is one of the most important in film history and not only because it set the precedent for future film makers. It is important because it promotes an ideal outside of its time. One of equality and of acceptance. Bravo Mr. Chaplin


                
Charlie Chaplin made the great dictator in 1940. In it he plays a megalomaniac intent on taking over the world; wonder who that might be? The little tramp wears a very familiar mustache, making him look like Adolf Hitler.Chaplin plays both a Jewish barber at the beginning and then a dictator named Adenoid Hynkel later on. The leader gives a rallying speech in pure gibberish, Chaplin studied Hitler's voice for real and does a vicious impression, gesticulating like the lunatic Nazi and portraying him for the fool that he was.Only could a genius take such a tragic and harrowing story and make a searing and funny satire. Chaplin has done it with style and grace.


                
The Great Dictator was Charlie Chaplin's first all-talking picture, and the first in which we heard the Little Tramp speak. Chaplin never used the Tramp character again after this film.This heartfelt satirical assault on Hitler and anti-Semitism is a tremendous badge of honor for Chaplin. Demoting Hitler to the level of a clown, he exposes the farcical base of fascism, much the same way Stanley Kubrick did with militarism in Dr. Strangelove.With Oscar class actors such as Paulette Goddard and Jack Oakie, and featuring the original Storm Troopers long before Star Wars, this film was one of the greatest of all times.


                
As a kid I thought Charlie Chaplin could be very funny but now I know that he could be very sad as well and at the same time. All his films although funny on surface have melancholic undercurrents and that's what probably makes him one of the most influential filmmakers of our times.When this movie came out, some felt that it was badly done and some felt that it was in bad taste but over the years it has acquired the status of a great classic and a great satire. It seems Hitler, who sported Chaplin mustache in his efforts to be loved and admired like Chaplin, watched this movie twice and Chaplin later admitted "I would give anything to find out what he thought about the movie". We can only guess and wouldn't be very wrong in thinking he must have hated it and would have thrown Chaplin in one of his concentration camps if only he could lay his hands on him somehow.Hynkel with that globe balloon is hilarious and the last speech by the Jewish Barber brings tears.


                
Charles Chaplin's The Great Dictator is a political statement wrapped in a comedy with a little bit of drama here and there. It is not his best work, but I would definitely recommend it to Chaplin fans. I feel that Charlie Chaplin was at his most powerful in his silent films. Here, he seems a little unsure of himself, in terms of balancing acts that he could pantomime with verbal jokes. Don't get me wrong, there is some hilarious dialog in this movie. It is not short on laughs by any means, but Chaplin's best films had a brilliant sense of balance to them, a balance between drama and comedy that few have ever been able to match. It is a very good movie, but, unfortunately I don't feel it matches up against Chaplin's best, although, I can't think of many films that do! What this film does have going for it, and it has quite a bit going for it, is another brilliant performance from Charles Chaplin. Only this time, aside from his spectacular physical comedy, Chaplin proves he also knows how to deliver his lines with a comedic timing that is every-bit as precise as his pantomime. The highlights are the brilliant dance with the globe and the powerful, moving speech that Chaplin gives at the end of the film. His performance as Adenoid Hynkel, a biting satire of Adolf Hitler, is so off-the-wall, so silly that it accomplishes exactly what Chaplin sought out to do - to make the world laugh at Hitler, to rob him of his power. Mel Brooks would do a fine job of defaming Hitler twenty-eight years later in his hilarious debut film, The Producers. If there is one lesson to be learned from this movie (that isn't expressed in the speech at the end), it's that laughter can sometimes be the best medicine. While no one can ever undo the atrocities that Hitler exposed the world to, we can survive, as long as we have our ideals and our sense of humor.


                
Currently #55 of 250 best movies.
Herr it comes. I am watching first Chaplin's true talkie, as well as a legendary film on its own.
I enjoyed WWI part, an introduction to Jewish Barber character. Early bit was fun. The war scene and the plane scene totally marvelous. Then goes first speech by the Dictator. It is good and funny German-English gibberish. But as soon as dialoques change to English the movie gets boring.
Well, whole movie can be devided to three parts: classic silent comedy, Hynkel's mixed language monologues and everything else. And that "everything else" doea not provide neither fu nor sorrow, gives no emotion.
Final scene, the well known Ductator's speech in itself is valued 10/10.
Conxlusively, the movie has more advenages than disadvantages. Definitely a "must see", but doesn't hold up for me considering other Chaplin's work I've seen.


                
Charlie Chaplin's hilarious send-up of Hitler and his regime. Ending is a bit sappy and Hollywoodesque, but that would be the only major negative.


                
Very funny, a hilarious movie that makes everyone laugh. It has a hilarious story, with fantastic characters and fantastic jokes. Although it was the last film by Charles Chaplin (due to several factors, such as being shot in the U.S.A.) it was his first movie with sound (which brings another emotion to the film). Highly recommend.


                
If you know Chaplin at all by now, and by that I mean you actually have seen his full films attentively, you know he rightfully deserves the legendary status he's so widely given. The man was a genius of his own craft, and besides being a film-maker/story writer and obviously very good actor/entertainer of many fields/music composer... as a mere comic, just as a mere comic he could be hilarious in many different ways: through his nervy mimics and tricks and facial/whole body gymnastics, his interaction with surrounding props, situational comedy, coming up with ridiculous visual ideas for a scene, ridiculous concepts for a character's name or attributes, with his own voice... he was the complete entertainer/performer, and this being said not nearly in the cold academic,'accomplished artist' sort of way, but truly a creator of on-screen magic, provoker of visceral and sincere laughter, and a man whose greatest quality were in fact none of these things, but the weight of his heart and the great warmth of his humanity. All of this finds truth and application in this film in particular as he's in full-blown Chaplin mode and displays his full effect here. The famous speech this film is notorious for deserves recognition as it is in essence good while of course utopic, and although it seems the film was made for that scene they did a good job really crafting a good motion picture in itself, as a whole. Structurally the film isn't perfect, it's very good for the first 3/4s but then perhaps slows down in pace for a little while towards the end before lifting off again with that final speech. All in all, it's a great comedy. You'll find at least something funny somewhere in it, and as a film it's an entertaining, well made bit of cinema.


                
I find the comedy bits hilarious, in spite of the fact that it's a Nazi holocaust film, and I find the dramatic bits terrifying, in spite of this being a parody.Alternating between Chaplin the dictator and Chaplin the Jewish barber shop owner keeps this film at an energetic up and down pace. The third act is sillier than I would have expected it to be, and in some ways it is anti-climactic, but the speech at the end is very beautiful and satisfying.It's unsettling and Chaplin himself regrets making this film, but this film serves as a window toward how people viewed Hitler before the extent of his actions was revealed. It's hard not to extrapolate that death camps are the next step after the persecution of Jews, but hindsight is 20-20.


                
Judging from this films the jokes don't really change (if we compare nowadays and 1940). I mean the jokes are a bit lame and a bit predictable, but I definitely enjoyed it more than some cheesy comedies of the last years. The jokes in the movie seemed more pure. It is a bit sad to look at the impression of concentration camps and violent actions towards Jews, as in reality it was all incomprehensibly tragic and much more terrifying. But the movie is nice, sometimes it is a bit hard to follow and not to notice some editing details, for one who's used to modern movies, where you can't really find visual flaws that much. But I truly enjoyed the movie as it was more of a philosophical piece (as the speech at the end has become quite popular on the internet), but with some moments that I could laugh, though it is not easy to make me laugh. I really think this movie was ahead of it's time.


                
Charlie Chaplin is amazing to watch.He brought the very talents that mesmerized us in his great silent films to the sound era,thereby giving us the best of both worlds in this film.The sound era was unkind to many a silent star,but not Chaplin.He made the transition with flying colors.He showed us new talents,while not letting us forget all of those elements from his silent films that made him a star.There is great support all around him,and his final speech at the end was stunning.Upon seeing it once,I had to go back and watch it again several times,not only for Chaplin's great performance,but for it's rousing message,which could be considered just as relevant today.Great comedy film and great film.


                
The Great Dictator is famous for its final speech. Dubbed by many as "The Greatest Speech Ever Made", Charlie Chaplin puts all his soul into his defense of liberty and human progress. Indeed, I've never heard any speech feel so passionate, yet so genuine. If you don't watch this film, you should at least listen to that. Its easy to find on YouTube.As for the rest of the film? It depends on how much you like physical comedy. Its strength doesn't lie in writing or character, but their performances. Many scenes emphasize the actor's movements and reactions. The parodies of Hitler and Mussolini often speak in foreign gibberish. Its a style common back then, but rare now, so its pretty niche. I thought it was okay - a few scenes made me chuckle, and no joke completely failed. It could have been 30 minutes shorter.I wouldn't watch this film for its satire of fascism alone. There are some good lines and scenes, but it generally lacks depth. Its far from my favorite comedy of all time, but that's personal taste. I also respect it for having more ambition and empathy for humanity than most movies back then, let alone comedies. And of course, the ending alone guarantees a respectable rating. Watch the film if you're a fan of Charlie Chaplin or The Three Stooges, and watch the final scene regardless of your opinions.


                
Charlie Chaplin turns his comic focus on the dictators of his time - Mussolini and Hitler. He mocks their mien, their speech, and their policies. Chaplin shows himself to be brave and shows again that he is a comic genius. His imitation of Hitler and the scene of Hitler hanging from a moving plane shine in this film as Chaplin's shoe eating did in "Gold Rush". In contrast to the dictators' policies, he offers a beautiful vision of the future.Chaplin obviously is a comic genius and was deeply committed to opposing tyranny. He used the talents he had to oppose it, and for that he should be commended. Hitler is seen as blustering and Chaplin hilariously lampoons his overheated style, practically spitting into the front row so overwrought does he become. The speeches are comic gems because of his use of pseudo-German, some actual German, and that aforementioned overwrought style. His advisors Garbitsch (Henri Danielle) and Herring (Billy Gilbert) are oafs and psychopaths by turn. Garbitsch, obviously modelled on Goebbels, is the psychopath. Danielle chills the blood with a stark, cold depiction of a man whose quiet confidence about extermination only re-enforces the psychopathy of the Final Solution. Herring is an oaf who can do nothing without making a fool of himself. By mocking Goebbels, Goerring, and Hitler so mercilessly, Chaplin gives us a release from the stress that comes from hating people.On the other hand, there are residents of the Jewish Ghetto who live fearfully owing to Naziism's escalating oppression. They have tough lives but live with dignity and self-respect. They are routinely harassed and badgered by roughneck SS officers. One day however, a chance World War I encounter between a Nazi officer and the barber brings some of the harassment to a close, at least for some time. The difference between Hitler and Mussolini on the one hand and the Ghetto residents on the other is stark, but given the horrors that Hitler and Mussolini inflicted on the world, they turn out to be prescient. There are some good performances from Paulette Goddard as a humble resident of the Ghetto, and Reginald Gardiner as an informal leader in the community. They bring humility and decency to their characters.As usual, Chaplin's comic gifts shine through in set pieces. In this film, the set piece of Chaplin hanging from the wing of a moving plane is hilarious. Another hilarious scene is that of a bumbling crew messing up the debut of a new weapon. Neither shoe might hold up to the famous shoe eating in "Gold Rush" but they are worthwhile rivals.The film comes to a head as the Ghetto barber as well as arrogant dictator Hinkle (both played by Chaplin) are mistaken for one another. The humble barber must address an assembly of Hinkle's most brainwashed followers and the unexpected speech leaves the crowd shocked.As a statement opposing authoritarians it is very powerful movie. It is a pity more artists haven't used their power to condemn authoritarianism. It is a bit pie in the sky but at the time, the Final Solution hadn't yet happened and so what we see in retrospect was not inevitable. Chaplin's movie offered the world a beautiful vision of the future, but if idealism isn't expressed, it doesn't even stand a chance. Chaplin showed his cards and stuck his neck out and as I said, I have a lot of respect for Chaplin making a movie that was obviously deeply felt. It might not have happened but it's a beautiful, as well as very funny, vision to aspire toward.


                
The Great Dictator is far from what I thought it would be, I thought it would be stupid people falling over on things and calling it humor. But it's certainly not such things. The Great Dictator has layers, the first layer is the layer of slapstick humor, under there's the layer of humor parodying the Holocaust, then there's no humor. Only sadness and despair, which makes it hard to believe you're watching a Chaplin films. In this excellent film, Charlie Chaplin stares as a Jewish barber who wakes up and little does he know, there's the seconds world war going on around him. Meanwhile The Great Dictator of Tomania Hynkel (who resembles Adolf Hitler a little... hmmm...) searches for his way to conquer the world by starting of with ridding it of it's Jews. Hynkel has also has a strange resemblance to the Jewish barber... very strange... The Great Dictator is hilarious and truly moving. I give it a well deserved 10/10 and a place somewhere in my top 100 movies.
Gambling with the set-in-stone Chaplin character developed over decades was daring, and it could backfire any time. The film's climactic sermon, for instance, spills over of schmaltz. When a dictator's imposter nervously approaches the loudspeakers, then starts to talk, Chaplin himself is inexplicably bootlegged into the story. He condemns repression and eulogizing social equality, but it collapses the farce and ends the movie as a lecture, followed by swelling music. It's terminal when Chaplin suddenly retunes the movie's strings, which might've been his purpose for making it.Chaplin speaks straight at us, in his own voice. No comic relief. Even as Chaplin acknowledges and utilizes sound's potential here, he reminds us of the more real assets of silence. For instance, Dictator Hynkel spurts a lengthy sentence to his typist, who hits a couple of letters. He bids a split-second expletive, and she types for numerous lines, tolling the carriage return. He's speaking pseudo-German, basically discontinuous coughs and stammers, with intermittent words like "cheese 'n' crackers" and "Katzenjammer kids." When a pen won't abandon its holder, in exasperation it's just repetitive, abusive English. Sound mostly is just ineffective rage.There are other German terms that reappear among the claptrap<U+0085>like Juden. He's particularly keen on shouting these words, his face cramming the screen like Melanie Laurent's vengeful big-screen visage in Inglourious Basterds. Hynkel doesn't like brunettes either, but his counselor proposes pursuing Jews first. Then he can handle the brunettes and govern an entirely blonde world, himself the sole dark-haired individual around. He's so delighted by this, he waltzes with a bouncing globe to Wagner's strings. It's pure Chaplin, simultaneously fluid and silly. The nonchalant intermingling of terror and absurdity here and elsewhere is disturbing. It's not always hilarious and wasn't meant to be, but the celebrated gags and wealth of comic pantomime here are all indelible, a translation of the world into burlesque.Watching Chaplin's simulations of losing physical control, he appears to be truly collapsing into inopportune objects and people, but with accomplished, athletic poise. But it's not spoof or derogatory commentary. It's also not just the idea that totalitarianism can be deposed with hilarity. It's also the idea that anyone can be a fool. And the disconcerting result of Chaplin's becoming Hynkel is that he gives him some of his own charm. Hynkel doesn't actually dictate so much as take counsel, fantasize, love himself, throw tantrums. He's too timid and persistently uncomfortable around the sunny, unsubtle Napaloni.Chaplin relegates world history to a string of acts and caricatures sponged from his own work. The Gestapo are adaptations of the big bully who'd been chasing his Tramp since his dawn period. The Jews communally befit a Tramp variation, tender, crafty and reasonable in a mad world. Paulette Goddard reprises her enchanting urchin, but she's not so innocent here, with an enormous amount of rugged sex appeal. It's not much of a riposte to Nazism's upsurge. But Chaplin was up to something else. Ultimately, the Nazis aren't condensed into comic-strip clowns, but elevated to a much broader human madness.The movie's charm rests on the link Chaplin draws between the little guy and the oppressor. The brutes chasing Chaplin as prey are under the auspices of Chaplin the predator. He's his own tormenter and the voice of defiance against his own madness. The casting keeps tying what its plot undoes. The barber momentarily wielding a razor over someone's throat seems more threatening than Hynkel ever does. Hynkel in his demure moments essentially acts like the barber. In the climactic sermon, Chaplin begins to tirade like Hynkel. Wrath with good intentions is still wrath. He attacks the dictator in everybody, and his equating of oppressor and oppressed not only suggests that the clown could've been the evildoer but that even the good and the victimized, characterized by the world's favorite clown, aren't to be entrusted with such power. Chaplin's best extra hint, having made his authoritarian silly, is to evoke how much destruction even silly folk can cause.


                
"Desperate times calls for desperate measures" goes the saying, so it is fitting that the second world war and its concentration of some of the most inhumane atrocities in human history yielded one of cinema's most overt and audacious political satires as response. The roots of legendary comic mastermind Charlie Chaplin's decision to lampoon looming Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler allegedly stemmed from his outraged discovery that Hitler had imitated Chaplin's own 'Little Tramp' moustache for the sake of acquiring an iconic image, provoking Chaplin to ridicule Hitler's own image in the same way he felt his own had been defiled - a fascinating case of art imitating life imitating art. And one cannot overstate the role of Chaplin's The Great Dictator, raising awareness of the atrocities of Nazi Germany to largely unaware overseas audiences as courageously as it sends up the man figure-heading the conflict. Nonetheless, there remains an interesting process of collective cultural memory in which the quality of the actual piece is considered synonymous with its historical impact or relevance, and Chaplin's wartime satire is no exception. As such, while unquestionably still a very strong film in its own right, on contemporary examination, while The Great Dictator is unquestionably one of the most important films of all time, sadly it cannot also claim the title as one of the best.While Chaplin is notorious for obsessive perfectionism, one gets the sense that with The Great Dictator his mind was more occupied with its socio-political relevance than its construction as a film. Predicated on parallelling the lives of fanatical Hitler surrogate Adenoid Hynkel and the stand-in Tramp figure, a shell-shocked Jewish barber (both played by Chaplin), the intercutting between narrative strands feels awkward and uncomfortable, both requiring too much exposition to blend seamlessly together. Equally, the film on the whole feels unnecessarily drawn out, its two hour running time consistently lagging through overextended gags (as unforgettable as the two main comedic set pieces - Hynkel impishly playing with an inflated globe and the farcical battles for dominance between Hykel and Mussolini surrogate Nappolini - are, both run past the point of remaining truly funny) and frequent patches of 'dead time' which are neither comedic nor serve to further the plot (the extended WW1 opening sequence feels largely unnecessary). Similarly, banking the narrative on a highly contrived climax (the barber being mistaken for Hynkel) makes the entire film feel somewhat forced, also detracting from the enjoyment. However, the main concern is that the film, for lack of a better term, simply isn't that funny, with the general tone pitched uncertainly between pantomime silliness and sympathetic reverence and thus functioning as neither as enjoyable or proactively poignant as it could have been.Despite the film's essential function of raising audience awareness of the devastating cruelty inflicted by the Nazis, there remains the feel of Chaplin soft-pedalling the inhumanities depicted, whether for the sake of not overly upsetting audiences or due to legal concerns, but either way lessening the film's potential impact. Equally, Chaplin's infamous ending monologue remains a source of eternal contention, yet no matter how ham-handed a disruption of the narrative or excessively saccharine, there remains a tremendous power and resonance in his earnest words, serving as a fitting message for hope in the midst of a time sorely lacking in it. Finally, the film's hefty production values (despite the discordant presence of some obviously fake sets) ably elucidates the absurd opulence of the Nazi propaganda displays in a more tastefully subtle (and thereby more effective) fashion.As with the majority of Chaplin's films, the true joy is to be found in the performance(s) of the man himself. In fact, the real shame is that Chaplin resisted the temptation to drink in his own antics more, as his Hitler impersonation is a comedic triumph, each bout of mangled German profanities, enraged flared nostrils and over-important strutting a wonder to behold, and his Jewish barber nostalgically recalls the best of the Tramp (though both characters sharing Chaplin's never before heard reedy voice feels another piece of poor planning). It comes as somewhat of a shame that Chaplin generally pitches for the obvious humour, rather than allowing for more unorthodox moments to breathe life into the picture: one of the most hilarious points in the film is a throwaway moment when Hynkel, hurrying between appointments, stumbles and staggers across a sumptuously decorated hallway - an exquisite moment of slapstick belying the humanity beneath, and ultimately a more effective method of undermining Hitler's steely persona. Apart from the star's dual roles, the majority of the cast feel too sombre and straight faced to infuse much of interest into the film, though Paulette Goddard rekindles the feisty warmth and spunkiness she displayed in Modern Times and Jack Oakie appealingly tramples the scenery with a deliciously campy Mussolini impression.While more problematic as a film than its reputation suggests, Chaplin's The Great Dictator remains a timeless testament to the power and importance of satire and film's potential to function as a vehicle for urgent social commentary and information. Despite being one of the lesser Chaplin efforts as a film, its vibrant daring is one of a variety simply not attempted by contemporary cinema, making the film worth experiencing by itself.-8.5/10
This is the story of a Jewish barber and another Gentile man who happen to look alike (both played by Charlie Chaplin). One grows up to become a ruthless dictator, the other feels the wrath of said dictator for being Jewish, despite his military service.Aside from being funny (which it is), the film really attacks Hitler and Nazi Germany in a very direct way -- there's no denying the target. And to do so in 1940 (or earlier, if you consider when filming started) was a bold move. America wasn't at war yet, and to my knowledge there wasn't a big outcry about the treatment of the Jews. So Chaplin was really ahead of his time here.The film was robbed at the Academy Awards, but that's typical... there's always some scandal there. Looking back, I think Chaplin won in the long run... this film stands as one of the greatest of all time, and has easily eclipsed that year's winner, Hitchcock's "Rebecca" (which has failed to match the legacy of other films that year -- "Grapes of Wrath" and "Philadelphia Story").


                
The eerie resemblance between Chaplin's Little Tramp character and Hitler is used to good advantage in this satire. Chaplin waited until this 1940 film to make his first talkie and much of his dialog is gibberish! However, comedy is the universal language and there is much here that is quite amusing. One of the iconic scenes has Chaplin playing with a gas-filled globe, as he contemplates world domination. The scene goes on a bit too long, however, as does the film in general before concluding with an unnecessarily preachy speech. Despite some heavy-handedness, Chaplin is to be applauded for bringing attention to Hitler's atrocities before they became widely known.


                
