I see I am not alone in deploring the decline in watchability of Doctor Who with the 2018 season. The series rose to absolute brilliance with many of the episodes of the David Tennant and Matt Smith incumbency. Although I loved both of them as Doctor Who, the real excellence was in the scripts, full of wit and whimsy allowing the characters to engage your interest, love even! Some of the stories were good too, but even if they were a bit feeble the ongoing stories of the Doctor and his companions carried you on. The enigma of the Doctor is the main interest together with the paradoxes of the time jumping. I just put up with the snarling monsters and special effects!
The current series completely lacks the wit and whimsy. How can anyone criticise Jodie Whittaker as the Doctor when she is not given anything interesting to say? The stories are complex and the action convoluted. I can't and don't follow them to the end of the episodes, and only my long history as a Doctor Who fan keeps me watching at all.
I don't say bring back Stephen Moffat as writer because despite his absolute brilliance at his best, I think he was losing interest. But please, please find a new writer who can put something in the mouths of the Doctor and his companions that is entertaining. A good story wouldn't hurt either!
Failing these I'm afraid we may be looking at the last series of Doctor Who. I'm 68 so may not last long enough to see another revival.


                
I was ready to like Season 11 and the female Doctor. And in fact the actors aren't bad, but the writing has gotten increasingly bad. I've watched and loved the Doctor since I was a teenager in 1973. Now I'm considering not watching anymore. This season has lost the sense of whimsy and fun that Doctor Who has always had. In the past the Doctor sometimes tackled serious themes, but it never got preachy or beat you over the head with it's "message". I just got thru watching the last episode, "Resolution", and there were holes in the logic big enough to drive a car through. And I don't think Chibnall's ever watched an old episode of Doctor Who. If he had he'd know the original Daleks couldn't fly. I as willing to suspend disbelief as the next guy, but I can't suspend my reason. I really hope the rumors are true that he wants to leave. Maybe a new show runner would be able to write something original without forgetting about everything that went before.


                
I binge watched most of the earlier seasons and was excited for the new season. But after watching two or three episodes that were fraught with political BS I just gave up. I watched this show as an escape. Very disappointed.


                
Today (18/11/18) we are going to explain to you why globalism is nothing to be afraid of. Yes it will automate many jobs and any that are left will be menial but it's not the system that is broken, you just have to get used to it. We'll blame the usual baddies . . no not the Cybermen (it appears they had it right all along) . . those pesky protestors who place freedom over economics. Don't worry though, the nice people in HR will be there to save us 'cos they really care.


                
Feels like a 10 yr old has taken over the writing. I've tried to enjoy this last season but it's as suspenseful and creative as watching grass grow.


                
This week (25/11/2018) we are going to teach you about 'offence archeology' and how you can get yourself offended about pretty much anything in history by comparing it to today's norms. Intervening in the timeline is also totally fine because the needs of the one now outweigh the needs of the many . . . 'cos 'feelings'. We'll blame the usual baddies . . . no not the Sontarans . . the Monarchy!! But don't worry, your timeline has been screwed anyway so your probably not even actually here.


                
There were times when 'Doctor Who' had a really interesting plot with complicated and funny story lines but this times are gone. I can't stand watching this plain isolated from each other characters with lacks of charisma, style and speciality. Moreover, they get into politics and you have to watch this with feel that you watching dumb propaganda: "oh, look at that bad man with the big gun who have just killed a diying insecure spider - he should be the US president." - how dumb, stereotypically and not funny AT ALL! Fix it or you will lose your audience.


                
I've been open to a female Doctor and the new showrunner wanting to change things up, but the writing has been atrocious. First, they rip off the Predator, and in Rosa, they've ripped off Timeless (and just about every other time travel cliche). Has Doctor Who series run out of ideas? Any more sci-fi tropes to exploit? Perhaps this Doctor should really be the very last regeneration and a very short stint at that, because it's just too painful to watch. After Davies and Moffat, Chibnall's turn at the Doctor is an abomination so far. Jodie Whittaker deserves better than this, and so do we. And to read the critics who are fawning over the show just to prop up its PC agenda tells me that it's time for us to move onto Doctor What.


                
Some of my favourite televisual memories were of Doctor Who saving the world, the universe even! And the new series had brought me back to that! It was amazing! But the BBC has now turned it into some kind of soap. Please make decisions on what the expectations are for doctor who. It was never sexist was it? It was an impartial story about battling evil surely.


                
Been a who addict and stayed with all the various incarnations until now.
No discredit to the cast but the Dr. seems to be used for a constant monotone of exposition. Not seeing the heart and depth of character needed to pull me in.
The companions...too many of them to get to know at one time.
It just lacks being personal and poignant as it was in the past. The stories seems to be for a child audience. Not particularly inventive or well executed. Very two dimensional show now.
It used to touch me, now I find myself losing interest during the "action".


                
The actors are all capable, and Whitaker as an actor has a much greater scope of rendition. But the narrative flow of each episode has been all' rush and stop', 'rush and stop'. The production values are high; including locations, set dressing, CGI, lighting and camera work - but there's something missing in the direction. Maybe the current writing and directing team have yet to find their feet - here's hoping! Dr Who as a character, is meant to have an air of other worldliness about them - this has been lost by far too much banter bringing up current day politics and social tropes. This is going to get very boring fast, if it continues to be the box ticking exercise it is so far.


                
On the positive: No problem with a female doctor at all.
On the negative: These story lines are bad enough on their own. Where's the adventure? Where's the fun? Poof! Capaldi was not a very good choice (not blaming the actor, but it was getting a bit too dark and the fun was vaporizing - I blame the writers, though there were some good, non predictable, episodes), but many of the story lines were energetic, but since his arrival, the show has begun to descend into PC hell. Now it's firmly entrenched in it and, along with it, any creativity. What happened to the side kicks? They're written in a woefully lame way (must they be so average and banal? - Is this to make up for the weaker doctor(s)?). Why not poke fun at the establishment instead of a few bullies from the past?
Very disappointing. Jodie Whittaker could benefit from better writing, for sure - she has what it takes, but with the story writing lameness (and bad acting side kicks - characters), she doesn't stand a chance.


                
I feel like the writers and director are sabotaging the new Doctor. She is an incredible actor, but the writing is some of the worst I've seen on television. Once richly complex subplots and adventurous narratives, the show has transformed into boring civics lessons. Less Sci Fi and more Sesame Street. Its actually work to sit through an episode. The companions have no chemistry, and why would they? They formulaically threw in the token white old male who is always correcting everyone, and two multicultural side kicks with a vague back story of knowing each other, the woman who doesn't even seem to like the actor playing the Doctor. Someone needs to beg Neil Gaiman to write another episode and actually give the new Doctor a chance.


                
Firstly I have no problem with a female Dr. It makes sense to me. However the writing needs to be good whoever it is. I felt the Capaldi era ended strong and was looking forward to what Jodie would bring.So far though it's been bland sci fi sprinkled with a pinch of worthiness. It reminds me too much of torchwood with its throw away villains etc. The stories as well are really boring. Seems to be a massive political agenda too, which is sad.They have a great cast, but the writing needs to be light years better. And any criticism is because we are anti diversity. Could it not be that we are anti bad writing and bland stories?Diversity should be a positive thing not a shield for poor writing.


                
I grew up with the old Dr Who, and wasn't particularly into the reboot, although it was watchable.The latest one, with the female Dr, though...It felt like there was a PC checklist, and boxes were being ticked. That companion #1 (whatever his name was) started the series by being an emotionally violent thug, drawn into the Dr Who world by an act of senseless vandalism didn't help.By the time the checklist was complete, I wa groaning, and then the violent conclusion to the meagre plot demonstrated that this was far from Dr Who original territory.Oh well. Another one bites the dust.


                
Sorry but I am writing off this season. The Doctor has just become the champion for some boring left wing political agenda. Wake me up after the Christmas special!


                
'This isn't Doctor Who' ; 'Where is The Doctor?' 'This is Impostor Dr Who'. Everyone is asking similar things to this rhetorically. Perhaps we need to actually ask the right questions?
Perhaps we all feel it in our bones. Yes, this isn't Doctor Who. The Doctor has been replaced by the TARDIS energy matrix. His life-force is trapped inside the TARDIS.
When the regeneration took place the Doctor was suicidal. To prevent his death the TARDIS changed places with him. This is why the gender changed. This why she was completely blase at having new genitals, despite noticing last time that he had new kidneys. The otherwise crap second episode was called the 'Ghost Monument.' This was a clue that that was where he really was. Jodie is running around looking confused because she is the TARDIS, not the Doctor. In actual fact she is acting her socks off pretending to be a machine in a woman's body.
If this isn't true, the series is beyond awful and needs cancelling.
WHY? If you have a formula that works, you don't mess with it.
Having a female Doctor Who is a mistake.
Her character is weaker and less charismatic than her male counterparts.
And she needs 3 other 'travel mates' to make up for it when the others only had 1? THAT'S how pathetic they've made the Doctor.
I do not like her, Sam I Am. I do not like this female Who. Good luck to the next actor who plays the Doctor. They're going to need it. And new writers!


                
Jodi Whitaker is an excellent incarnation of the Doctor. She's young, witty, intelligent and optimistic and a good transition from Peter Capaldi who started his reign as a dowdy, unsure and cynical Doctor. But the writers seem to be throwing a timetested formula (possibly due to pressure from BBC to reinvent) for something that could spell doom for the Franchise. Firstly, the first four episodes which should have been invested as usual in narrating the personal turmoil the Doctor faces after regeneration has been cast aside to develop the characters of the companions. Three is crowd when it comes to companions. The chemistry between Tenant and Billi Piper, Capaldi and Coleman and Matt Smith with Karen Gillan thrives with a smaller cast. It's easier to see how the Doctor becomes a better person by learning from the companions with fewer companions. I hope the cast gets trimmed in the future. Secondly, rumour has it that there will be no Daleks, cyber men or Angels in this season... REALLY? What makes this the longest running sci-fi franchise is that both the Doctor and his/her villains reinvent themselves just as often as the Doctor regenerates. This also brings into light the lack of continuity so far in the first four episodes. Each episode seems to be a stand alone. What happened to the "Bad Wolf", "Silence will fall" crack in the wall themes that added mystery to each episode and connected every episode leading to a season ending revelation? Yes it's awesome to finally have a lady play the Doctor especially after the Master became Missy (Which I might add would be cool if Jodi's doctor meets Missy) but we shouldn't have to rewrite the Franchise on that account. I may be wrong in the long run but let's see how the season unravels. The season is young. Stay tuned folks.


                
Firstly I have no problem with a female Dr. It makes sense to me. However the writing needs to be good whoever it is. I felt the Capaldi era ended strong and was looking forward to what Jodie would bring.So far though it's been bland sci fi sprinkled with a pinch of worthiness. It reminds me too much of torchwood with its throw away villains etc. The stories as well are really boring. Seems to be a massive political agenda too, which is sad.They have a great cast, but the writing needs to be light years better.


                
Rose <U+0096> Does anything actually happen in this episode? It introduces our two leads, a slow-witted grinning idiot of a Doctor and an utterly un-interesting companion. There's no plot to speak of, childish humour, mixed with some extremely bad pacing and incidental music. What else is there to say, really?The End of the World <U+0096> A marginal improvement, in that we see our first outer-space scenario. Subsequently brought down by poor contemporary humour, paper-thin logic, very poor pacing, and tired SF clichés.The Unquiet Dead <U+0096> Best episode to date showing what can happen when someone knows how to structure an episode, write interesting character dialogue, AND integrate an intriguing plot. Let down solely by the Doctor and Rose.Aliens of London/World War Three - Doctor who degenerates into farce. What more can be said. Penelope Wilton brings the proceedings a little gravity, trying her best in dire circumstances. Some poorly written, and out-of-place soap opera elements come to the fore in these two episodes, and a return to poor pacing, bad plotting and cringe worthy humour/satire.Dalek <U+0096> Not great, however still far above the RTD fare to date. The pacing and script are all fine (though the Doctor and Rose still irritate). The effects and menace of the Dalek are introduced well. The finale, however, took an interesting premise that reduced the Doctor's most notorious foe, into a cuddly touchy-feely mess, and turning a previously un-seen menace, to a blue rubber squid that looked like a child's toy.The Long Game - The first RTD script to show any plot, even if it was in a clichéd 80s style. Still, it was marred somewhat by his usual over-reliance on juvenile jokes, placing it too far in the future to make logical sense, and again poor pacing. Not as bad as his previous efforts, but instantly forgettable.Father's Day <U+0096> The initial premise could've been vaguely interesting, but common sense and logic abandon this episode from the very beginning. Also, we are treated to a whole episode of Soap Opera. Before you start thinking this is all about characterization, remember, there's a big difference between lame Soap Opera and characterization. On the plus side, it does prove RTD isn't the worst script writer so far.The Empty Child/The Doctor Dances - This started off in a mediocre way, with some cringe worthy moments, and some illogical mistakes that even a primary school pupil wouldn't make (Well lit windows in a blackout, anyone?). After this, the first part takes a more interesting and sinister turn. Florence Hoath truly steals these episodes, showing us what an interesting companion could've been like. She could also act. Instead we get the annoying and politically correct Captain Jack as the new companion. The conclusion was a little hasty, but sufficient. The pacing and script improved with a reasonably good storyline, making these two episodes quite atmospheric and intriguing. Boom Town - I have to be honest, except for a few examples, I had been so disillusioned by the current series, that upon seeing the trailer for another 'Slitheen' episode, I gave up and didn't subject myself to the torture.Bad Wolf - Reality TV, arguably the worst facet of the modern media, is basically used as the premise. There's no subtlety whatsoever. Do we get any interesting social commentary as in the likes of The Running Man or Truman Show? No, of course not. This in an RTD episode, so they're basically here to cynically try and pull in the audience of said shows. Once again, logic goes out the window, as we're placed 200,000-something years in the future. RTD tries pointlessly to shoe-horn in some 'over-arcing' story here, with no relevance other than it's own existence and when the villains are revealed at the end... They make empty threats, and the Doctor grins once more like an idiot for the climax! Faster paced for the most part, than RTD's other efforts, this has one or two interesting moments. Otherwise, another lacklustre instalment.The Parting of the Ways - The big finale. More of a damp squid, literally. All of the Dalek menace set up in 'Dalek' is brought crashing down, as they become rather pathetic. So many plot holes riddle this episode, with typically poor contrivances. Daleks want to harvest humans as Daleks, but then vaporize entire continents? Dalek's can vaporize said continents, but not destroy the Tardis in space? The Tardis is now indestructible and can land anywhere, even over people so they can be saved in it? This ability can't be used to easily destroy the Dalek 'god'? The Daleks can vaporize entire continents, but don't just nuke satellite 5 to destroy the doctor, and instead let him play around? The doctor is a pathetic coward without the conviction of his actions, after eradicating his whole species to try and eliminate the Daleks? These and many other holes aside, we are treated to the lamest dues ex machina solution ever conceived, joined with a near pointless story arc.So what can we say about the new series, all-in-all?Would this have gained a second series if it were anything other than Doctor Who, with RTD behind it? Would most of the episodes have been seen as anything other than un-original and forgettable, if they were anything other than Doctor Who, and had RTD's name attached? I think not.Some people would have us think we can't say anything against RTD, since we owe him for bringing Doctor Who back to our screens. However, this at the expense of good characters and stories. Personally, I'd rather not have a poorly planned, ill conceived product, churned out at that price. I'd rather wait till someone could come along and make a genuine effort. For the most part, this is the kind of puerile rubbish that gives SF a bad name, marring what is otherwise the most creative genre.
This season felt like a watered down version of doctor who and had dull characters and very lazy scripts
Doctor who has always referenced social issues
But that shouldn't come in the way of telling a good story all the companions are clearly there to check social boxes and jodie whittiker comes off as a Doctor who cosplay more than the actual character and that's a shame. The only good thing about this season would have to be the cinematography cause even the score is bland this could be the end of the show if they don't fix things and atleast hire a showrunner that knows what he's doing


                
Einfach nur langweilig. Hat so garnichts vom alten Charme.


                
Dr Who has been one of my favourite for a long time, but after this season, it might be time to cut it loose.The writers push their agenda so obviously and incessant, to the point of making this show unwatchable for me.Dr Who was about the Mystery, the humor, the fantasy elements, for me. This last season almost felt like some weird public service announcement, with the Doctor telling us to be ' nice'.Jodie Withaker probably does as good a job as she can with the horrible writing they put her through. She deserves another go at being Doctor, but seeing the producers are doubling down on this PC schlock in 2020, I am not hopeful for her.


                
Not sure what has happened to this classic series but it it the latest regeneration the excitement and wit of the originals isn't there. Such a shame, I believe there is a new chief writer for this series which I assume has something to do with it as cast aside (doctor who has always been more about the story than the cast anyway) there is nothing here in the way of interesting villains or good sci-fi. Maybe they can sort the stories out as the cast seem pretty good and I have seen them all in other things that are good so not sure what happened here.


                
