I thought nothing could kill Dr. Who, but apparently I was wrong. Bad writing can, and did...First, let me say two things that writers/producers/directors seem not to understand:#1 - People do not watch television to have moral lessons shoved down their throats. They watch television to be entertained. Moral lessons are (typically) not entertaining.#2 - Never, ever trade good writing for special effects. You will always end up in the red. Nobody cares if there's a superbly-crafted monster shown on the screen if the plot doesn't make sense.Now, let me cover why (in addition to these two points), why this season went horribly, horribly wrong.First, let me say that it isn't a problem that Dr. Who is female. Or, rather, it didn't HAVE to be a problem. The writers (and wardrobe department) made it one by not dealing with that shift properly.1. WARDROBE
Dr. Who is an absent-minded, eccentric genius. The suits that previous incarnations of Dr. Who would wear would give him an air of respectability while he was making a fool of himself on his way to ingeniously solving some complex problem. This incarnation of Dr. Who looks like she stole the clothing of a gender-fluid toddler. It doesn't give her any air of respectability, so she ends up looking ditzy, crazy, or ridiculous. The very obviously bleached hair doesn't help because it goes against Dr. Who's very long history of not caring much about appearances (and when Dr. Who has cared, the fashion choices were more geeky/dorky, not superficial).2. PREACH, PREACH, PREACH
I watched years worth of Dr. Who and never - EVER - have there been so many moral lessons shoved in my face. Typically, there is a good balance of: (a) random adventures, (b) the occasional horror episode, (c) races that were interacted with in the past come to continue the story line, (d) an old acquaintance of Dr. Who asking for help (so we get to learn a bit more about Dr. Who, who is a bit of a mystery), and (e) some well-crafted moral lesson. This season is completely imbalanced. Every episode is some social justice lesson and it's not entertaining. Beyond the irritating condescension, it is incredibly presumptuous. Even if I did manage to make it to my age without any knowledge of morals, quite possibly the last place I'd look to educate myself on how to be a moral person would be television. Not only isn't television a trustworthy source, it's also not the point of television: ENTERTAINMENT is. If I were watching Mr. Rogers or Sesame Street, that would be one thing. But, this is Dr. Who. Come on!3. POOR EXECUTION
Dr. Who doesn't like guns. This is established. Dr. Who gets ANGRY when people are killed. This anger is driven by empathy, but also by having seen too many people die and being fed up with it. Having this Dr. Who play that anger off as mopey (as in the witch-related episode) is weak and pathetic and shows no conviction. This is very out of character. I realize that anger can be harder for a female character to play without seeming hawkish, but deal with it. This is Dr. Who's established personality. You can't just change who Dr. Who is as a character. This is something that even stayed the same through previous male incarnations, so biological differences didn't make a difference. You need to keep the continuity. Write it better, act it better.4. TOO MANY PEOPLE
Another huge mistake was adding so many sidekicks. Imagine the episode duration as a pie. More people? Smaller slices. BAD plan. We're hungry. We want a generous slice of Dr. Who - not fifteen or fewer minutes, with the rest of the time dedicated to humans and their personal problems. Dr. Who is a Time Lord. We're still unfolding all of what that means and trying to learn more about Dr. Who's past. There are so many species out there, so many unexplored worlds. But, here you are filling up our time with the problems of a few human characters. If we wanted that, we could've watched another show! ANY other show. The point of this one is to see all of time and space - which (believe it or not), does not revolve around a few humans.5. IDENTITY CRISIS (!?)
The whole "I don't know myself," "I'm lost," bit was taken way, way too far. Yes, we get it, it's disorienting being reconstructed from scratch in a new body and having to reorder hundreds of years worth of memories. But, having a female Dr. Who in the midst of an identity crisis is more the plot for a Lifetime movie than an action/adventure sci-fi series. It makes Dr. Who seem neurotic. This incarnation could've been made a bit more serious to compensate for the difference in sex stereotypes and norms. That would've kept Dr. Who's personality and personal strength more intact. But, as is, it's a mess. You turned Dr. Who female and didn't do enough to compensate for it and now female Dr. Who seems weak, pathetic, mopey, and ditzy. What a total disappointment! (And, I say that as a woman, myself.) It didn't have to be this way.6. BAD WRITING
The writing for this season (11th) is absolutely horrendous. Have any of these writers ever actually watched Dr. Who? Do they know what the word "continuity" means? How about "character" or "established personality"? It doesn't seem like it. It seems like you recruited people on to write for this show who didn't give a toss about the personality of Dr. Who, the continuity of that character, and the balance of themes that previously existed in the series. Get people working for this series that actually care about keeping it as good as it WAS (I say "was" because this season is the worst I've ever seen). Not only is the character of Dr. Who being slowly dismantled over the course of this season, the overarching themes are imbalanced, and nothing about this series which drew me to it to begin with has been left intact. Find a crazy, obsessed fan that can recite lines from various episodes by heart. Then, hire this person as a consultant (they'd probably work for free just to be part of the production, so you might not even have to pay them). Make sure you actually LISTEN to this person when it comes to wardrobe, character, and plot lines. If you did that, maybe you'd actually have a chance of recovering from this train wreck of a season. To be clear, it's not bad because Dr. Who is female. It's bad because your writers don't know what they're doing and your lead actress is either not being properly instructed on how to play off certain personality traits (see the previous note about anger over people getting killed) or she doesn't have the acting ability. Either way, this isn't a problem with Dr. Who's sex. It's a problem with other people not doing their jobs sufficiently. Please fix it, otherwise you will not only have ruined an incredible series, but you will have ruined it with a woman (which, given your seeming obsession with moral lessons, would probably be a big no-no).
I have watched the first three episodes of the new season and I'm sorry to say that Chris Chibnall's writing has let down both Doctor Who and Jodie Whittaker.I thought the show was meant to be 'family entertainment', but the infantile writing has aimed it at just the children. Chris Chibnall has a fantastic budget to write with, but so far has failed (imo) to come up with anything with dramatic tension. And Jodie Whittaker has had some god-awful lines that will make it difficult for anyone to endear to her.Episode 3 'Spiders in the UK' left me aghast at how bad the ending was. The build up was OK and the SFX with the spiders was very good, but to end with 'Oh, well, they'll die. Let's go home' was the writing of a teenager who just wanted to finish his homework.The episode also contained an attempt at a Donald Trump joke - a contemporary reference in a sci-fi show is not a good idea. It just helped to show the amateurish nature of the writing.This might be a little unfair on poor Jodie - David Tennant could run and it was used to generate tension in many episodes. Jodie can't run! She looks like your mum in an egg-and-spoon race at a primary school sports day - not good for dramatic tension.Having three 'companions' is the dumbest idea I have ever seen in Doctor Who. The point of the companion was they either got into trouble or they helped the Doctor out of trouble. Is that possible with three companions? So far they have just been an advert for inclusivity (BBC at it again!).I loved the reboot by Russell T. Davies, but this show no longer tries to equal the standards set by the man. Disappointed.


                
The latest season staring Jodi Whitaker is Doctor Who in name only.
Where once we had great science fiction stories with great monsters and villains, we now have a preachy shame fest aimed at white men.
The show runners should be wholly embarrassed by the sub par writing and racist undertones against white men and Western culture--the same culture that invented liberty for both men and women, and created the original superior show format.


                
Doctor Who has lost its way. I cannot bring myself to believe that the team writing and directing this have any actual love for Doctor Who. I suspect they see it as an opportunity to make it what they want, but unfortunately in doing so they've blown a fat raspberry to long time fans like me.People became upset during the Capaldi era, but honestly his episodes were some of the best. Even after Bill came along, who was a terrible companion, Capaldi's force of character and Moffat's writing made the series enjoyable and worth watching.Now, we have terrible, one dimensional companions. A doctor who lacks any charisma and style, and story lines that are NOT clever or funny at all. All the villains have been weak too. I'm kind of glad we aren't seeing some of our favourite Dr Who villains, because then they'd be ruined too. No doubt they will be eventually though... that will truly be the death of Dr Who for me. I watch every episode in the hope that I see some glimpse of the brilliance of old Who, but if they ruin the classic rogues gallery then I really do think this will be the end of my Who fandom... at least until (if ever) they get back on the right track.


                
The problem with Drwho is that Jodie was not the natural evolution of the character because there was no for shadowing
The first female doctor was suppose to be Mary Tamm as romarna it was set up all though it never happened unfortunately but we were all ready for it
The other problem is the series is boring and imho that's the worst crime


                
I have watched Dr Who forever but now I am thinking if I can continue watching all this PC based nonsense. The writing sucks.I like Jodie Whittaker and I'm all for representing diversity and equality but she's simply not bringing a commanding enough performance bring it off. It's looking like she was miscast. Ok, it might be the scripts which is just ludicrously unhelpful but having seen her in other stuff, she tends to play vulnerable types.The other Doctors were dominating characters who you have confidence in they know what they are doing. In this season Jodie's much more passive than she could be. The companions are elevated to semi-equal status which is laughable - it's called Dr Who, not "Dr Who and some random people off the street".Thinking back at others, the one person who I think would have been very acceptable as the Dr to the viewing public is John Barrowman - he's got history with the Doctor.I would have thought something like Thandie Newton as Missy and John as the Doc with a more aggressive and dynamic script, far less PC nonsense, more aliens and more bangs and flashes could bring it back.


                
I have been a life Long Doctor Who fan. I watched Dr Who through all his incarnations including the weaker Dr Who's such as Sylvester MCoy and Colin Baker. For me during the time of Sylvester and Colin shows.... some of the stories were weak "not all" but some of them. That together with the weaker Dr who actor made me question the show..... but I persisted and continued watching the show.Now we have a fairly strong Doctor in Jodie Whittaker..... she is very good but certainly not as good as my 2 favourites Tom Baker (the best) and Dave Tennant (the only thing that in my opinion let the show down during David's time was the character Rose, who was continually moaning and feeling sorry for herself - the weakest companion- in my opinion)Anyway I digress..... Jodie Whittaker is a fairly strong Doctor.... I have previously mentioned in another post that the story lines that Jodie has been given to work with do not reflect the high quality of her performance as Doctor Who. Furthermore, I watched episode 6 yesterday and I was completely speechless, the story line was even weaker and unengaging than the previous 5 Episodes - it was throw back to some of weaker stories during the time of Sylvester MCoy and Colin Baker.I am seriously concerned for the future of Doctor Who not only because of the weak story lines but because on the constant "soap boxing" of PC and political retoric - Doctor Who is not the correct platform to push out constant messages of political bias.It really upsets me to post this, because I love Doctor Who and the BBC are letting us all down.
What happened to this show? Jodie Whittaker seems nice, but the scripts are awful. This show is now unwatchable. I used to wait with excitment for the next episode to air, but now I can't even watch the entire episode. It sucks that much.. I'm out of this for now. Maybe next season will be better.


                
Please bring back Steven Moffat, new series lacking engaging stories of previous reboot episodes. Predictable vanilla stories. Haven't given new cast the opportunity to shine.
To much focus on gender of new Doctor and not enough on what made the show so awesome.


                
I've really enjoyed the series since the reboot in 2005, but this last season (2018) is such a disappointment. Jodie Whittaker is fine as the Doctor - nothing outstanding so far, but certainly good enough. The companions are so-so... but the plots have been dire. Barely any excitement, no real story, just a series of very obvious moral messages being shoved down the throat of the viewer ("racism is bad"...) without the slightest touch of subtlety or humour. Huge illogical holes in some of the episode stories also. Unless the BBC fires the entire writing team and hires a new set who know how to develop stories then I am afraid this series is going to die.


                
I only gave theee stars because there are a few characters I love and it was a fun change to a female doctor. Unfortunately, the show is hammering the audience with in-your-face social commentary. The Doctor is just odd and I tried to grow with the new Doctor, but she isn't interesting or fun. The stories are perhaps the worst I remember, and I can remember some very poor stories. It's unwatchable, but three stars for Doctor Who as a "Participation Award". Thanks for trying, but no thanks. Time to retire the franchise for awhile until some core issues can be addressed.


                
For me, Seasons 1 to 6 were a revelation. Doctor Who was back and in superb form with engaging stories and great characters. I was well and truly hooked and supported the view that this was up there with the best in TV viewing.Season 7 took a noticeable downturn with the utter drivel of 'The Rings of Akhaten' providing a foretaste of what was to come. The gushing 'love conquers everything' theme was dangerously close to producing projectile vomiting. It appeared that the PC brigade were starting dominate the scripts and they clearly thought that the viewers needed to be front-loaded with this nonsense.Season 10 appears to be the culmination of this twaddle superseding the need for excellent storytelling. Take 'Thin Ice' as an example. On the plus side they got the British infantry uniform of 1814 correct complete with the Belgic Shako which had only been introduced a couple of years earlier, although they did get the Union Flag wrong. Having taken the trouble to get the set looking something like 1814 London they then filled the characters and extras from every ethnic background you can possibly think of. You could almost see the BBC bod in the background ticking off the diversity check list. It not only insults the intelligence of the viewer it detracts from the story. Which in this case was pretty poor anyway.During the course of this season we have had adverse references to Donald Trump, a stereotypical and one-dimensional view of the British Empire, an implication that racism is the number one problem facing the human race, and a companion who has reminded us in every episode that she is a lesbian. Added to this is a noticeable drop in the quality of scripts, repeatedly poor use of CGI, and the loss of Murray Gold has lead to a decline of the quality of music that so enhanced the atmosphere of earlier seasons.The final 2 episodes were an improvement but overall I get the sense that Doctor Who is sliding back into oblivion. The reboot may offer an opportunity to recover its excellence but given the prevailing attitudes within the BBC I am not holding my breath. A starting point would be avoid politics and tone down the Political Correctness. There is so much quality TV drama around these days, much of which is now eclipsing Dr Who in just about every department, the BBC's credibility is on the line.


                
Visually it looks good, the music is excellent, but then comes the flaws. Over time the Doctor turns into a full blown Gary Stu, the antagonists get dumber and the entire series more cartoonish and childish. In the end pinko lefty propaganda ends up ruining the show. The old 'classic' Dr Who is far superior to the 'nu who'.


                
Jodi Whitaker seems like a wonderful actress, but the scripts are very weak. Missy had so much more personality. Make the Doc have fun being a woman, finally. The outfit is boring. Too much sonic screw driver. Too many companions. Real bizarre stories. Could she meet some past characters and see their reactions at her new gender and show a woman can be a great hero. The show Victoria, with Jenna Coleman, depicts a strong, smart, passionate woman. This interpretation of the Doc is too politically correct and boring. I regret purchasing season 11.


                
I think it might be my age, but I have found the increasing political subtext increasing oppressive. This was a well-loved family show and I think the BBC have to be very careful how they wish to develop it, especially if they wish to promote the show abroad.That said, Sunday's episode (Demons of the Punjab) was very well done. I was surprised, however, that the BBC chose to tackle as contentious an issue as partition, which I suspect many viewers will have found uncomfortable. They just about pulled this off by concentrating on personal tragedy rather than the broader political context.I felt that the extra-terrestrial theme was added very much as an afterthought and had no real connection with the story line. The science fiction element was, in reality, reduced to time travellers going back to witness family tragedy.Despite rave reviews, I am also not convinced at Jodie Whittaker's portrayal of the role of the Doctor. To me, it lacks any element of otherworldliness or a reflection of the Time Lords as the most evolved race in the galaxy. At times, she comes across as confused, frantic, and often inaudible. This is shame as I have considerable respect for Miss Whittaker as an actress.Good science fiction has always addressed political issues, I do feel, however, that the BBC must be careful not to become too didactic and loose the fun element of the show.
I don't know what they were thinking with the latest 2018 season of Dr. Who. While the actress playing the Dr is great it seems like they hired the worst possible supporting cast and cut the special effects budget more than half. Are they sabotaging the show or what?! The latest season should just be erased and redone because it is horrible


                
This latest series has gone downhill fast. The standard of the stories is abysmal and tired. The actors are terrible Including Bradley Walsh who does nothing but look flummoxed. The overuse of the sonic screwdriver is embarrassing and lazy. The whole series needs revamping from beginning to end
Must do a lot betterPete


                
Doctor Who has truly lived up to the name of its Season Finale. It has fallen to a new low. Given that this new season has gone out of it's way to slide in at least one unneeded and unwanted Liberal comment every episode, and given that there were more snide comments about Donald Trump than cool sci-fi tidbits about the TARDIS (I've counted) I can clearly say that this season has been all about 2-3 socialist writers pushing the Liberal Agenda at least once an episode every episode, and thus ruining the whole Season. For this reason I have cancelled my order of the DVD's from this season and will not be purchasing anymore.Pushing the Liberal Agenda, turning the show into a Venue to promote propaganda, and going above and beyond to sling mud at the Vatican, The President, and everything that's not PC, has earned a new low for what was once a great show.


                
Doctor who was a Fantastic sci fi series before jodies episodes began. Series 1 -10 were much better it's true that they had episodes that were meh but they had a lot of fantastic ones to. Series 11 has no fantastic memorable episodes. The episodes range from ok at best to plain horrible because of it's wrting/Direction. The acting is meh, the characters are boring, the villains suck, jodie isn't very good as the Doctor due to her facial expressions looking like she doesn't care and the companion's don't have much personality also. Jodie being a women has got nothing to do with it since i am not sexist she just can't act very well here due to the scipts she is given. The pacing was very bad a lot of the time making it more unintresting. It's a shame because the doctors before were great and they had stories worth talking about ( Hell the doctor from mlp called doctor whooves is a better doctor then jodie in my opinion). Overall I am disapointed in this mess and I hope Chris can make a big come back with series 12.


                
As a huge Doctor fan, I can no longer watch this mess. Why take a great show and ruin it just to be politically correct? Next, the Doctor will be a radical Muslim extremist female.


                
Let me say to begin with, that although I am a fan of the original series, I do not consider it to be perfect and recognise that many episodes were poor. The special effects were laughable, often consisting of people covered in green bubble wrap and small model plastic dinosaurs. Almost every 'alien planet' was the same disused quarry from the look of things. However there were many great and imaginative stories and distinctive acting that managed to transcend the rather low production values.Of course a remake was always going to be difficult and some changes were going to have to made since times are different from its cancellation nearly 20 years ago. Unfortunately with Russell T Davies this has gone too far and it no longer resembles the original story or characters. It seems these days that if a writer has one success they will suddenly be given everything. Casanova was very good, but the new Doctor Who and Torchwood are really not up to that standard, possibly because he is not comfortable writing Sci-Fi. Hardly imaginative since about 90% of the stories so far have been based on Earth and more specifically in Cardiff, which rather belies the idea the the TARDIS can go anywhere any time and removes one of the best plot devices of the original series and indeed probably gave it most of its longevity.The CGI special effects are nothing to write home about as they are rarely much more convincing than the cardboard sets in the original series. CGI never really lends itself to making scary villains either, especially not when it is so overused.Christopher Eccleston was good in the role, even if he did seem uncomfortable and 'gurned' far too much. I used to think that David Tennant was a great actor, but I have had to revise my opinion a little since his performance in this is nothing short of panto, SHOUTING all the time for no reason. Billie Piper was better as the assistant but from reading some reviews you would think it was the performance of the century. Like many other programmes this now seems to rely on guest appearances, sadly these are usually by unfunny comedians like Peter Kay and Catherine Tate who I am not fans of. Unfortunately for the series it is going to struggle for continuity since the actors involved seem to see it as barely more than a springboard for Hollywood stardom, which to me is a bit optimistic. The finale of the second series was supposed to fantastic, but I found it a complete washout with the battle between the Daleks and the Cybermen being unbelievably one-sided. There was barely any time for this plot-line anyhow as all the writer was interested in was the love story which I din't find very convincing and the tears in my eyes were from laughter rather than from sadness.The programme is hailed as a massive success despite rarely pulling in more than about 6.5 million viewers. It is worth noting that the original series was nearly cancelled in the first place every time the viewing figures dropped below 12 million. There is a lot more competition now with the extra channels, but trashy talent shows such as the X-Factor can still often pull in more than this. Having said that, I am always in support of original drama over reality shows, and this is far better even in its worst moments than watching the childish squabbling of Simon, Sharon and Louis.It has been revealed that even allowing for inflation the William Hartnell episodes cost £30,000 each in todays money, while the re-make costs £800,000-£1,200,000 per episode (depending on who you believe). Is this 30-40 times better? Even if you really like the remake it is hard to agree.Overall it is not my cup of tea but I can see its appeal especially to children and those who either did not see or were not fans of the original series.
Nowadays, the original version of Doctor Who (1963-89) is often mocked for its bad special effects, allegedly slow pacing and lack of popularity...even though it was popular, for most of its run.However, the new version of Doctor Who (2005-??) tends to get a free pass for its goofy soap opera dramatics, shallow "arc" plots, lame CGI and dumbing down of the Doctor's character. Well, I know one cranky Internet review will hardly tip the critical balance in favor of Old Who, but I'm gonna contribute my two cents on the subject anyway.In case you haven't guessed it, I LOVE classic Who. When I was a child, the original series intrigued and amused me, got me interested in history, and gave me a great intellectual/heroic role model in the Doctor. Certainly, the show lost some steam (and ratings) over the years, but it actually made a nice recovery in its final, flawed-but-fascinating seasons.Since 2005, I've followed this revived version of Doctor Who, and basically hated every second of it. I fundamentally disagree with the new show runners, who focus all of their storytelling efforts on the Doctor's young human companions. They've literally dragged a once high-concept show "down to Earth," emphasizing tedious plot elements like shallow romances, family dynamics, and the companions' boring jobs. Sue me, but I liked the show better when it was primarily about the Doctor - the magical character. The interesting one. Not the mere mortal.Indeed, all of the sci-fi elements in New Who are just window dressing. For example, the Doctor's sonic screwdriver can now solve all of his problems, because the new writers don't know anything about real science and need an easy gimmick to get out of tough spots. Also, the Doctor hardly ever visits alien planets any more, and when he does, he rarely encounters an interesting or well-developed alien culture. Alas, these far-off worlds end up being mere CGI backdrops for the latest round of arguing and flirting between the Doc and his companion. And how about those new villains? In the original series, the Daleks represented the Nazis, while the Cybermen reflected our anxieties about technology taking over our lives. But what do the mighty Weeping Angels represent? They're...um...creepy statues that freak you out. A nice image, but a totally hollow idea. That's why they were only good for their first two appearances. And don't get me started on the Slitheen, who combined flatulence with far-out 9/11 conspiracy theories. (Does anyone else miss Roger Delgado?)Now, many of New Who's defenders say that it represents a more emotional, human take on the concept than Classic Who. But I don't think the emotions represented here are genuine. Characters in New Who are largely shallow and dumb. They fall in and out of love and lust, seemingly at random. (For example: Amy suddenly hating Rory in "Asylum of the Daleks." I bet he regretted that whole Lone Centurion thing!) And when characters die, they are often resurrected by the power of LOVE, combined with sci-fi nonsense. Geez, pass me the air sick bag.Speaking of death, it isn't handled very seriously in New Who. In the classic series, death was violent and final. This hammered home the human cost of fighting evil forces like the Daleks. In New Who, characters tend to get brought back to life by pixie dust. Or, the violent deaths are hardly shown. It's such a toothless re-imagining of the whole concept.Of course, I'm in the minority here. Longtime Who fans like Steven Moffat and Gareth Roberts are the ones writing this stuff, and claiming that it's faithful to the spirit of the original series. But it isn't. It's sold out to get higher ratings. So we'll never see a really smart episode, like Kinda or The Aztecs or Ghost Light again. But we will see nonsense like dinosaurs coughing up the TARDIS, Rose becoming a goddess by looking into the heart of the TARDIS, and the Doctor saying "bow ties are cool" several hundred times. Goodbye intelligent writing, hello stupid catchphrases.Thankfully, the show's production team changes so often that there's always hope it will get better. But as of October 2014, we have a great Doctor in Peter Capaldi who is being badly served by lame scripts. Even when they get one element right in New Who, there's about 15 other elements they have wrong.
I like Jodie Whittaker as Doctor WhoBut I really think the script writers need to take look at the quality of stories they are delivering.If the script Writers want to heavily load each episode with morale lessons and messages, OK fair enough - but - make sure the stories are high quality, original and entertaining.For me the female doctor is carrying the show and compensating for the weaker story lines ..... but that cannot last forever.
I watched all of season 1 with Eccleston,and found that it was something I have never seen before,and I was quite intrigued by the series.However as the series progresses into the middle of season 2.It has become repetitive,with the doctor and Rose enduring a TARDIS anomaly ending up in a battleground for a greedy alien.There are some grotesque scenes.Perhaps even an army of evil beings.The doctor is victorious,whatever! I mean,i do respect the series.The episode in the parallel universe was an emotional episode and one of the best Britsh dramas iv'e ever seen,but the story writers had better make some original scripts...and fast


                
Well, at first i must point out that i've never seen earlier versions of doctor Who. So i'm starting with nothing else than passion for sci-fi. I did read review before watching tho. And most of them said it's a great show worth watching. So i watched first episode and after ten minutes or so i gave up. Than one day nothing to do and i watched it again. This time i saw whole first episode and i was disappointed as before. Maybe even more. In four months i was able to see only four episodes and that's only because it is not worth watching. OK, the actress is cute and that's about all i liked. As i see it, fans of 2005 series are the ones who liked previous ones. Show looks like it's mixture of sci-fi and humor, but i doubt that humor was intended. Whole show looks to unreal, with acting included. Better for UK to stick with humor shows, because by the look of doctor Who they obviously are not capable to make good sci-fi shows. Like i said, you probably wont like the 2005 series if you are not big fan from earlier. But judge your self.


                
