I'm going to be honest. I never had the desire to watch Dr. Who. I knew there was a growing fan base out there, but I didn't understand why. Then my son decided to start watching it on Netflix. I thought "ok, why not?" It was a change from the usual boring Disney shows he watches. I watched a bit of the first episode (9th Doctor) not bad. Not great, but not bad. My son was hooked. I missed most of the following episodes after that. Then I sat down and watched a couple episodes with the 10th Dr. (David Tennant). OK this is getting good.... I suddenly found myself hooked. Omg I actually like this show. I even went back and watched all the episodes I missed. I try to keep myself from binge watching the entire series but it's not easy. One of the main things I love about Dr. Who is the fact that it is a show that I am 100% comfortable with my kids watching. You can't find a show like that anymore. Thank you, for a show that my entire family can sit down to and not be bored out of our minds or worried about if the content is appropriate for kids and young teens. I am extremely grateful.


                
It was September 2003 that I heard the BBC were going to resurrect DOCTOR WHO and make it " Bigger and better " but I'd heard these rumours in the press before and thought that's all they were - Rumours . But it was then mentioned that Russell T Davies was going to executively produce and write the show and then one Saturday afternoon in March 2004 Channel 4 news interviewed the actor cast in the title role - Christopher Eccleston . Yes that Christopher Eccleston an actor I've always been impressed by since watching his film debut in LET HIM HAVE IT and if he was getting interviewed on television it must have been true . As the months passed more and more information was leaked , Billie Piper was being cast , the Daleks would be returning and The Mill , the Hollywood effects company who had done the FX for GLADIATOR were contracted to do the special effects for the show . For several weeks before the first broadcast trailers galore heralded the return of the new series , massive billboards in London informed the public about the return of the show , tabloid newspapers carried massive photo spreads of the aliens appearing and Christopher Eccleston appeared on programmes as diverse as BLUE PETER , MASTERMIND ( Which had a special DOCTOR WHO night edition ) , THIS MORNING and Friday NIGHT WITH JOHNATHAN ROSS . In fact this new series of DOCTOR WHO must have been the most hyped programme in the history of British television , it had better be bloody good So was it bloody good ? Undoubtedly it has been a major success with nearly every episode making the top ten shows in the TV charts . To give you clue of its rating success only one episode ( The Ark In Space episode two - Febuary 1975 ) from the old series had made it into the top five TV chart . The opening series episode made number three with two more episodes either beating or equalling the previous record and this is in an era where there's far more competition in terms of TV stations and choice . Let's laugh and cheer at the fact DOCTOR WHO stuffed HIT ME BABY ONE MORE TIME , CELEBRITY WRESTLING and mauled ANT AND DEC'S Saturday NIGHT TAKEAWAY . Of course much of the success is down to the breath taking visuals and the casting of a well known prestigious actor in the role . For the most part everything you see on screen here equals anything you'll see in a Spielberg / Hollywood movie . There's a Dalek invasion force numbering tens of thousands , exotic aliens , a 19th Century Cardiff that looks like a 19th Century Cardiff and night filming that is actually night filming and not done by sticking a dark filter over the screen . I promise you'll be hearing a lot more from the directors who worked on this series , Joe Ahearne especially will one day be in the Hollywood A list There are some flaws to the new series of DOCTOR WHO and all of them should be laid at the door of Russell T Davies . It may be contentious whether the soap opera and post modernist elements are successful or not ( In my opinion they're not ) but what's not in dispute is that the weakest scripts are all written by RTD . As I mentioned in my review of CASANOVA he cheats the audience and he does the same thing here: when faced by armed soldiers pointing their guns at him The Doctor bellows " attack plan delta " which makes no sense to anyone in the audience but allows him to escape from a tight spot , a naked Captain Jack suddenly pulls out a laser he's been hiding and RTD scripts are full of these type of cheats and deus ex machina type endings . In fact the final episode is spoiled greatly by the ridiculous concept of what the " Bad Wolf " is which seems to have got RTD out of a tight spot more than The Doctor . And of the endings I'm trying to remember if any of them were actually down to The Doctor ? More often than it's a supporting character or the Doctor's companion who saves the day . The show is called DOCTOR WHO not ROSE TYLER so can we see the title character save the day please just like he did in the classic series ? One final point about the portrayal of the Doctor is the way he's written as a grinning loon . Eccleston is best known for his serious and gloomy roles and he's absolutely breath taking at scenes when he's showing grief , like the tear running down his face in the End Of The World but more often than not he's written as a " Tom Baker on speed " character . It's obvious why Eccleston hasn't done much comedy in his career - He's not very good at it Am I starting to sound like I hate this show ? Sorry I didn't mean to but it's just that while some anticipations have been met or surpassed some others haven't and they're nearly all down to Russell T Davies who thankfully is contributing less in the way of scripts in the next series of DOCTOR WHO . Let's see more traditional stories of a human outpost being under threat from monsters like we saw in the 1960s and 70s , imagine a story like The Sea Devils with a massive budget directed by Joe Ahearne ! Oh and one last request - Can we see these " NEXT TIME " trailers scrapped ? They reveal all the best bits of next week's episode


                
Peter Capaldi wasn't the best Doctor, but he's tons better than Jodie. Same for her team, too many to follow, and doesn't compare to past companions. The actor who plays Ryan can't even act. Same blank emotion in every scene... how did he get the part?It's a bad sign when you wish your favourite Doctor Whos can come back. Think #11, Amy, and River. Think #10 and Donna Noble. #10 and Martha Jones. They sizzled. They commanded the action. Even Clara Oswald had a striking presence despite her cool demeanour.This team? Looks like characters I could meet in a shopping mall. Nothing standing out.I'm starting to hate the short pants on the new Doctor Who. The striped shirt and cloak are pretty cool but the shorts ruin everything. This is a serious mission not a walk on the beach. Now, when I see those pants, I cringe. All they need to do is lower the hems on the pants by about three inches. There! Problem fixed in that one tiny fashion sense.Some reviews have commented on the bad scripts featuring otherwise good actors. Nope. It's both. Bad scripts and bad actors. The guy who plays Graham is quite good, but he doesn't seem to belong there.I'm wondering if it's better to cut losses and start over?Other Doctor Whos had shaky starts but their worst episodes are so way better than this disastrous season.Seven stars for the entire season, notched down by two stars for this disastrous start of the new one. If successful reboot I can change my rating back to 9.


                
I think that DW is one of the best and most original sci-fi projects of 20th and 21st century. The series is - just as the Doctor himself - inconsistent, crazy, playful, sentimental, changing and rightly legendary. Funny fighting with aliens in 21st century, sentimental stopping of an apocalypse at the end of all spacetime or bickering with Robin Hood in medieval Britain... There are many adventures with this likeable two-hearted alien. Sometimes it's lame, sometimes brilliant but the series as a whole really got me. I also give credit to Murray Gold because without his music new DW wouldn't be that good.--- Season 1 - 6/10 ---
Beginnings aren't easy. Low budget, inconsistent quality of episodes but Eccleston's Doctor and Rose managed to keep me interested and I was excited in the end. Also, let's not forget the great captain' Jack.--- Season 2 - 7/10 ---
Second season is bigger, more confident and unlike rigid first season it succesfully builds up momentum and character development and some really great episodes emerege (The Impossible Planet + Satan's Pit). It all culminates in two finale episodes that logically make no sense but are pretty OK as a character-driven soap-opera.--- Season 3 - 7/10 ---
New (and great) companion, Doctor whining from time to time and besides that it's the same (and bit more polished) as in previous season. Another bunch of great episodes (Blink, Human Nature + Family of Blood) and three-part finale that starts perfectly (Utopia) but ends weirdly. It misses logic but works great emotionally. Great pity that Martha left after only 1 season.--- Season 4 - 8/10 ---
Fiery Donna as a full-time companion. The chemistry between her and Doctor is glorious. The burden of being a 1000 years old space travelling alien begins to show and Tennant can act those dramatic moments just as greatly as those where he jumps childishly around with his sonic. There's other super episodes (Sontaran Stratagem + The Poison Sky, Silence in the Library + Forest of the Dead, Midnight, Turn Left). The finale is, again, illogical deus-ex machina that (as usual) saves itself with character relationships.--- Season 5 - 8/10 ---
New showrunner, new Doctor, new companions. Evolution of the series at its best. The Eleventh Hour is probably the best post-regeneration episode of the entire series, Smith's Doctor became my favourite just as the previous one and overall the quality of writing and sceneries got higher. Although I liked lot of episodes (he Eleventh Hour, The Time Of Angels + Flesh And Stone, The Vampires of Venice, Amy's Choice), I didn't feel excited about the finale.--- Season 6 - 9/10 ---
Sixth season continues in the same vein as the fifth, adds an intriguing story-arc and shows Matt Smith at his best. Moreover it has lot of amazing episodes (he Impossible Astronaut + Day of the Moon, The Doctor's Wife, The Rebel Flesh + The Almost People, A Good Man Goes To War , The Girl Who Waited). Surprisingly, the finale felt somewhat poor/lazy as opposed to overall high quality of the season.--- Season 7 - 9/10 ---
This season set the (already high) bar even higher. I didn't care much about departure of Amy and Rory because (unlike other fans) I never grew fond of them in the first place. Matt Smiths demonstrates his great acting skill and I liked new companion immediately. There's ton of great episodes (Asylum of the Daleks, A Town Called Mercy, The Bells of Saint John, The Rings of Akhaten, Cold War, Journey to the Centre of the TARDIS) and it all ends in one of the best finale of new DW that decently prepares ground for both the big anniversary special and for the departure of 11th Doctor.--- Season 8 - 8/10 ---
It took me few episodes to get used to Capaldi's Doctor and although he's significantly different I loved him as much as two previous regenerations. While seventh season prepared ground for big finale of 11th Doctor, 8th season starts anew. Episodes are mostly just fillers and there aren't as many great ones (Listen, Mummy on the Orient Express, Flatline). I also didn't like Doctor's constant asking whether he is a "good man". And Clara's boyfriend was horrible. But Moffat outdid himself with Missy portrayed by Michelle Gomez, who is one of the best characters in the series so far.--- Season 9 - 10/10 ---
At first I was worried that season containing mostly two-parters won't work. But it did! I won't mention my favourite episodes because then I'd have to write all of them (including Sleep No More which is hated by many people). The Doctor isn't grumpy anymore, Capaldi and Coleman are great actors. Put it together with good plots, few superb mythological episodes and strong characters and it becomes the best DW season so far. And it also has the most personal, saddest and most suprising finale in the entire new DW so far.--- Season 10 - 7/10 ---
Tenth season is just filler until Moffat's showrunning contract expires. Big surprise for me was Bill. I thought I won't like her but the opposite is true. She's not on par with Clara or Amy, but even in one season I grew fond of her. Capaldi feels a bit tired but he still shines as the Doctor. Episodes are mostly mediocre and only few of them caught my attention (Knock Knock, Extremis, The Lie of the Land). The finale wraps up most of the story elements and loose ends, but the fading creativity (of Moffat's writing and of the series as a whole) is apparent.--- Season 11 - 3/10 ---
New showrunner, new writing team, new composer, new companions and a female Doctor - simply the biggest change since 2005. The potential was great but it was all for worse. Even the most stupid and boring episodes from previous 10 seasons are nohting when compared to the stupidty and shallowness of all (!) episodes in season 11. Doctor behaves like a hyperactive retard and not as a 2000 years old wise space traveller. Her companions are extremely unlikeable (perhaps not Graham), the dialogues are incredibely dull and soundtrack is bland.It completely lacks dynamic and sci-fi style, instead it's patronizing, full of political corectness and social issues. This season is horrible and the only thing that it has in common with Doctor Who is its name.


                
I really hope the writers have worked the 'awkwardly goofy but enduring hip pretty boy pining away for his attractive but already attached companion' thing out of their system because I'm finally watching the show again.Look, I understand that they wanted to try something new, and they clearly wanted to appeal to a younger female audience, and it spawned a whole horde of heart-filled fan art of the would-be couples in 'maybe' love, but it really got to the point where I felt they lost what Doctor Who was all about.The Doctor isn't standing in the rain pulling a sad-face because he thinks his companion might be in love with another person. The Doctor isn't some flirty young hipster in an ENDLESS quasi-romance with his quirky travel companion that really distracts from everything else and makes the show feel like a cheesy romantic comedy with time travel.Why was he pining away for Amy for so damn long? Isn't he married? Who wants to even see Doctor Who become a paperback romance novel and not the kick-ass sci-fi fun it used to be? Who asked for this? Yes, the female fan base may have loved it, and yes they deserve to, but at what point does the Doctor cease being the Doctor? When does Doctor Who start to turn into 'Twilight'? All hope really seemed completely lost and I was about done with the show entirely.THEN PETER CAPALDI TO THE RESCUE! Wait, we have a Doctor that actually doesn't see his companion as an attractive young female he'd like to awkwardly court for a year like most of the more recent Doctors have?Wait, he looks at her almost objectively and as more than a giggling cute chick hitching a ride? Wait, he sees her as an abstract individual, and a partner? Wait, he's more pensive, a bit distant, mysterious and even aloof? He feels like an actual alien being and a learned master of time and space? Oh yes, Capaldi is the quintessential Doctor. He's an alien not desperately trying to find love or be more human, he's a mature time-lord that doesn't behave like some schmaltzy guy on a blind date trying to awkwardly impress his fidgeting A.D.D. would-be love interest. He's perfect and they've written him like the Doctor needed to be written. I actually like the show again, and I praise them for not pursuing the already worn out quasi-companion-romance angle.I'm really glad he's not some goofy hipster-like pretty-boy or some other obvious fan-girl bait. I'm ecstatic, actually.The last couple of seasons felt like one long schmaltzy awkward 'first date' that may or may not end in a kiss and it was torturous.I don't need to see the Doctor Rom-Com for a while.I can only hope the boastful "Don't you know who I am? I'm the Doctor, now tremble and fear me!!!!" monologues will also NEVER return.I cringed every time Matt delivered those, and he did quite often.


                
Doctor Who encourages your imagination with superb stories & great acting. It got a reputation as having bad special effects but we ignored that because the scripts were so good. After the hiatus, Russell T.Davies (RTD) was great as Exec Producer bringing it into the C21st with better production & great scripts. Steven Moffat's one-off episodes during this time were excellent, so much so no-one complained when he took over from RTD as Exec Producer with a new Doctor. This is when the show declined. Moffat created nonsensical storylines & muddled scripts explained away by rebooting Time or just ignoring the flaws. But the main foul-up caused by Moffat and the BBC's PC insistence, was reducing the great Doctor to a sideshow to his companions who treated him as an annoying parent, the stories turning into preachy lessons & riding roughshod over established history. Moffat's latter writing of Capaldi's Doctor made him a parody of himself, much the same way John Nathan Turner ended up doing to McCoy in his last series as Exec Producer. With a new look show starting in 2018, will the Rot continue or will it regenerate back to greatness?..


                
Absolutely brilliant show until (for me) peter capaldi. He just didn't fit the character quite right for me.


                
They finally pulled it out. I have to give them that. And not only pulled it out but took it to its peak. But it took the tossers three years to get there, and two and a half of those were middling at best.At the start, it wasn't Doctor Who any more, but another show with a Time Lord. They should have called it "Time Lord," I thought. The Doctor was engaging, and so was his companion--especially his companion--but they seemed more like Sapphire & Steel. And they were the only good characters. The show itself had taken on a style like that of Farscape: bright and colorful, harnessed to special effects, and alternating whimsy and violence in a way that led each to pull the chair out from under the other. But the biggest problem was that the stories weren't very interesting. The show had little of the old show's moral sense, and little sense of wonder. Also, it was no longer a children's show--but it had probably surrendered that status in the first go-round.Then, unexpectedly, things picked up. The show did a really fine story--purest Doctor Who--about children lost in wartime and returning horribly mutated. It was intriguing, scary, and touching. And the stories that followed, though not up to the standard of that one, were good, too. The leads had thoroughly grown into their roles; and the season went out with a bang. I looked forward to the second with great enthusiasm.Which was doused almost at once. The new Doctor didn't measure up to the old, and the stories had sunk to the same level they had started at, often trailing off into meaningless action, and--most of them being written by the producer--too much of the kind of thing he found funny, e.g. fat people farting. Also, almost all were set in London; and there seemed no point in the Doctor's having a TARDIS if he never left London. The exception was a story about prerevolutionary France by Steven Moffat, the same writer whose story about the children had seemed to set the first season aright. That didn't happen this time, and the series closed with an endless cycle of leave takings between the Doctor and his companion and his companion's family and friends; all very East Enders, and too much of a (possibly) good thing.Others than I must have voiced complaints about the Doctor's travel restrictions, because series 3 got him out and about again. The actor had learned how to wear the role, or had had it tailored to him, and had gained a lively new companion; the stories had intriguing backgrounds; and there were good ideas floated about. But like the previous series, this one had too much violence, too many screaming victims--and too many Daleks. The stories all seemed to be about fascist subjugation, and to hit the same depressing note.Then along came Steven Moffat's story for the year; and another by a different writer, but much in the Moffat mode--and both were fabulous. Both used the Doctor in ways other than the conventional one, playing on his in-and-outness in time, and were so superior to most of the stories preceding as to suggest that this might be a way for the show to evolve. Moffat's story was a horror mystery that was genuinely baffling and scary--"The House That Jack Built" for a new generation. To my mind, it not only bettered Moffat's previous work but was probably the best Doctor Who story ever. It was also the best Buffy story not to appear on Buffy (if Buffy had been what I'd wished it had); and the other story the best Quantum Leap (with the same condition). Series 3 was bidding fair to repeat the trajectory of series 1. Then, as in a game of chutes and ladders, it went down the chute, streaming an endless serial (by the producer, again) that revived the Master with a new and unbelievably irritating persona; and back we were where we'd started.The series 4 opener didn't bode well: it was the obligatory fat farting story for the year. However, the "monsters" in it were funny rather than icky, and the villainess responsible for unleashing them played her role with comic aplomb. Above all, the episode reintroduced Catherine Tate as the Doctor's new companion. She'd been paired with him once and then, apparently, cast off, very disappointingly to me--and I didn't even know who she was. Now here she was again; and I thought she was superb. Not only better than the two prior companions--both of whom were very good--but the best one ever. And the perfect match for her Doctor. Almost every actor who has played the role has found one perfect partner, and she was his. Their playing together was a joy to watch.Whether she inspired the writers, or whether Moffat--who it was announced would be taking over as producer for series 5--brought his influence to bear, or whether the show had more money to hire writers with, I don't know; but once the flatulent episode was out of the way, the season went on to the best set of stories, taken together, that the show has probably ever had. Every one took us somewhere, stimulated our brains, and had something to say. The show had retrieved its bearings and its moral voice. Once again Moffat contributed the season's crowning achievement, a story about a cosmic library, who ran it, and why; and this was even more awesome than his others. And he's the new producer! (I could almost wish he had a new Doctor, too, so we could see what he would devise starting from scratch.) From series 3 there would have been nowhere for him to go but up, I'd have said; now, after series 4, he well and truly has something to live up to.*** Postscript, Fall 2010: But alas, he didn't.


                
The thing about Dr. Who (and this stands for the new, as well as the old) is that about a third of the show is absolutely horrendous garbage, a third is mediocre, and a third is pure brilliance which makes you enthusiastic about watching the rest. At the point wherein you find yourself hooked on the show, getting absorbed into it and obsessed, your friends may come by. You'll urge them to watch. They will make comments about seeing it as a child, when the Doctor wore that long scarf, and will question whether you're serious about liking this show. You'll urge them to watch, to give it a chance. And if it's an episode that you haven't already seen, odds are it will be an embarrassingly wretched episode which will make you question your allegiance to Dr. Who.This keeps happening to me.The thing is, the new Dr. Who is, in a lot of ways, much better than some of the older Dr. Who --- a better effects budget, better acting, and in many cases better plots. Where the new show fails, it's generally in the episodes wherein it tries too hard to pay homage to old episodes, or where it tries to offer some alien-based explanation for a stupid one-off (werewolves? Ah, they're an alien race! Witches? An alien race! Vampires?...) New Who is more reliably good than Old Who, but it still has it's fair share of stinkers. The Season Specials are almost all horrifyingly awful. Any episode that relies on a particular historical figure (Shakespeare, for instance) is usually bad. But these are the same weaknesses that the show has always had.I've watched most of the Dr. Who from the 4th doctor (Tom Baker) to the present. I even watched the 8th doctor 'movie' (yaaaawwwwwnnnn). All in all, the show has gotten better. It helps to have a long mythology and an expansively defined Universe to work with.As endearing as the old Dr. Who was, it was often wretched. Many people who claim the show is no longer as good either reflect too fondly on memory or have only focused on the admittedly bad episodes which do crop up in the new series. When Tom Baker became the fourth doctor, and the writers wanted to make the show more science fiction than ... well, whatever silly nonsense it was before --- there was a huge outcry from the public that the show had changed for the worse. In an effort to appease those who want an 'old school' more 'magical' Dr. Who and a more sci-fi, somewhat darker Dr. Who, the show has straddled quite a gap. The result is that neither audience will be totally satisfied, but both will find enough to enjoy.Dr. Who is a fun show. It also can be thought-provoking at times. And it's absolutely addictive, like televised crack cocaine--- which I know nothing about, but feel comfortable referencing. The new Dr. Who does very well at creating grandiose story arcs, and while sometimes the resolution of these story arcs relies on some overly convenient plot twists, overall the result is some thoroughly enjoyable TV.I'd recommend it. Just be sure to watch several episodes before making a final decision, or else you may miss one of those brilliant episodes which makes it all worthwhile.


                
I feel sorry for Jodi Whittaker, she is not bad at all.Unfortunately the stories for season 11 have stank, very weak and boring. They also have strong PC undertone, I guess the writer(s) are on the Social Justice Warrior band waggon.Finally I think there are too many side kicks I feel it works best with the Doctor and one side kick.


                
One of Doctor Who's main ideas is change, and this series is not the exception.
I won't disagree with the fact that some former series were more engaging. Recently I started watching modern Doctor Who. I've just started series 7 and I've loved it so far, but I decided to skip a bit to see what's the whole fuss with series 11. So far, it's had no memorable villain and the fact every episode is isolated make the stories a bit rushed and as if we were wondering about the time vortex. I cannot say it's hopeless, though. I do like Jodie Whittaker's performance. She gives the Doctor a refreshing spirit. I don't know why people are criticising her performance... I bet they wouldn't be any happier if she'd become a femme fatale.
Besides, her companions have become stronger characters after every episode, particularly Graham.
Stories are not "wow", but they're not terrible, either. I want to see more of the current Doctor in a personal struggle that characterises every Doctor! I just hope writers change the episode formula a bit. I do agree dealing with social issues is "fundamental", Mr. Chibnall, but it can be done in a far more creative way.
All in all, just remember... Everything changes! Let's see how series 12 goes. :-)


                
Who was/is ur favorite companion? Mine is definitely Donna


                
1. Keep Jodie but dump her team. Reasons: Ryan can't act, dull personality. Graham good acting, but out of place (seriously where do you see senior citizens in science fiction?). Yaz... good too, but reducing the main cast to just two women would be a bit much. Replacement? How about finally a companion we haven't seen for a very long time... a good-looking, young, curious male, like 20's or 30's. New Who had so many male Doctors <> young female companions, so why not the reverse?So... just in the next season, in the first episode, no one dies. Just mercifully drop off all three cardboard characters (Ryan, Yaz, and Graham) back into their hometown (they all live there anyway) and say thank you and goodbye. Then the new young man hops on board from somewhere else, maybe even a 1950's guy who finished college? Who says companions have to be in the same time era as the Doctor? Think of the possibilities. A 1950's guy, about 25 years old, formed by the attitudes of his era, cocky and thinking he knows it all... outdated but still young and open-minded, and the Doctor has to "educate" him slowly... he would think aliens like 1950's green-headed type, big eyes, only intent upon invading the Earth. Cool or what?2. Lengthen Jodie's slacks by a good three inches. Please.3. Stop blabbing that you shouldn't interfere with the timeline and then proceed to do just that in ten seconds. Or, actually set it up so that she doesn't walk up to a historical era unless she's all dressed in historical garb that matches and is in a place where her presence is not out of place (i.e. not showing up as a woman in an all-male battle from hundreds of years ago). Ditto for her new companion, when one boards in a future episode introducing him.4. Explain how your wand (sorry, sonic screwdriver) can give readings. Or at least catch up and put a decent LED long and thin screen on the side where you can actually read findings. If you're gonna change it to a scientific instrument that can measure. Previous Doctor Whos never read anything off it, so for goodness sakes, add something to it that makes sense.5. Better scripts quick. Pronto! And use lots of sci fi, that's what your series is all about. And don't worry about contemporary politics, just focus on the story first. You'll find that it's nearly impossible for any show to escape the mindset of its time anyway, so no need for a sledgehammer.


                
OK, so my first introduction to the revived series was right when it started. I was 11 or 12 when 'Rose' aired in 2005 and I was in awe/terrified when I saw the first episode. I would catch the odd episode here and there. Eccleston was very well cast and he did a great job, but David Tennant was the standout performance for me, and I began watching the show religiously.Russell T Davies did a great job in my opinion, although I do have to admit that the whole Doctor/companion romance wore a bit thin. (*cough cough* Rose) The Davies era was helpful in my general knowledge as well (i.e. throwaway lines about history/maths) So when Davies and Tennant stepped down to make way for Moffat and Smith, I was initially skeptical. Smith's Doctor in the first few episodes seemed to be doing his best Tennant impression, so it seemed a bit out of place. Smith grew on me as the series progressed but Moffat's writing pattern became repetitive and formulaic (i.e. massive buildup throughout the series resulting in a lackluster anticlimax) The sendoff for Matt Smith was done so poorly in my opinion, in that is was literally just a hurried attempt to tie up loose ends, which came across as a complete mess.When Capaldi hit the scene, I was excited. I'm a fan of his work on The Thick Of It so I was intrigued to see if any of those mannerisms would be carried over. And, in a sense, yes they were.Capaldi's Doctor started off fairly well (bit iffy about the sonic sunglasses and the general mid-life crisis vibe). However, there was waaaaay too much focus on Clara that it wasn't fair. The character of Clara was an uninteresting, bossy 'Mary Sue'-like character that slowed down every aspect of the plot. So when they were building up to her death, I was intrigued. But they just ruined it. Why devote so much time to saying goodbye to a character if ultimately, she's just gonna be resurrected and left to go off again? This was the point where I was fed up with the series.Davies, in a sense, was conscious of the reality and science behind the drama during his run, but to Moffat, it's just an absolute fantasy. You can't just use "wibbly wobbly timey wimey" as a get-out-of-jail-free card every time the plot is getting too convoluted. It just got too repetitious and ridiculous.I have my fingers crossed for whatever Chris Chibnall does when he takes the reins, but as it stands now, the revived series has suffered a major fall from grace.
What can I say about this series that isn't going to make me sound like a crazed Doctor Who fan? This series is my personal series from the gripping first episode where you see The Doctor killed by somebody in a Space Astronaut costume, but then in a major twist, a younger doctor from the one that the protagonists, Amy and Rory meets earlier in the episode and as the famous saying goes, we are off to the races! And as these episodes in the series progress, we find out more about who the mysterious River Song is and why she is in prison.I will not spoil too much but this is a must watch for all new fans of this product.


                
Back in 2004 when I first heard that the BBC intended to produce a new Doctor Who series, it made me cringe. For me, Doctor Who had reached its zenith during the Tom Baker years and ended when Peter Davidson left. A new Doctor Who series would be like the Beatles getting back together. Like the Beatles, Doctor Who was of its time and the series had run its course. Anyone who needed confirmation only had to see that Paul McGann movie from 1996.Fortunately, I was proved wrong. The writers and producers at the Beeb had successfully brought the Time Lord into the twenty first century with hour long episodes and big budget special effects. Although the wobbly sets and cheesy effects of the classic series add to its charm, it is interesting to see how the show looks with a real budget. Being spoiled by films such as Gladiator and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy, 21st century audiences would not find cardboard sets believable. The writers broke new ground with the ninth incarnation of the Doctor and his assistant going off in directions previously unexplored. At the same time, the general continuity was preserved with the return of some of the doctors adversaries from the classic series.As a fan first and foremost of the original series, I have to say that there are some aspects of New Doctor Who that do not sit well. Like most current BBC programs, Dr Who has been infused with a fair amount of political correctness. Rose's boyfriend is most certainly an unnecessary nod to pc gibbish. The theme song seems to have been watered down and no longer has the same power it once did. And the cliff hangers have disappeared from the end of the episodes.While the updated version of Who has its flaws, it is never the less still an interesting chronicle of the Doctors endless journey through time and space.


                
There is a an underlying spirit to The Doctor and she nails it. Each actor so far has brought a unique flavor to the role, usually for good. Jodie is already off to a better start than Peter Capaldi or Paul McGann, having established key traits 3+ episodes sooner. She is already owning the role and we can only hope the writers don't let her down.
Season 11 is off to a great start with some updated technical approaches creating a new story telling variant. The writing and acting is solid, with room to grow and refine. This is huge because BBC projects have been known to paint themselves right into a corner when a new showrunner & writing team takes the helm.The key thing they pushed a little hard and would be foolish to hammer on is repetitive dialogue to justify her in the story line... unless it makes a great catch phrase like her predecessors. Everyone who is watching already knows about how regenerations affect the doctor so don't dwell on minor points that are already established with the character.
I also hope that as they move forward, they don't rely on creating 1 and done antagonist for her, don't get cliche or use lazy writing gimmicks, which this first one bordered on. It is okay if the drama comes from situational causes rather than malevolent antagonist.


                
The overall episode was amazing and noticed around 20 minutes in that the production budget had risen as the acting has been highly improved upon and the camera work was inspirational. Reason being is because the camera work really reminded me of a mini movie like when we go that special called the day of the doctor. I also preferred the humour in this than the previous season as it was more subtle and not to in my face when with the "companions".
I honestly loved Jodie's portrayal of the Doctor as she used her acting chops from her St Trinians role to set a base of a wacky and witty character. This really reminded me of David Tennants early performance of the character as the witty, funny and merciful hero we know he Doctor to be.
My only complaint would be some of the lines that were said by Jodie as I don't think they matched the rest of her performance. I also thought that interactions between characters would often have long pauses which could be intentional but at the time I thought it was a bit awkward as a viewer and slowed down the pacing. However I would only class these as nitpicks of the episode so I decided to give it a high rating for the premiere.
Not my favorite premiere I don't think but not my least favorite either as it was inspiring, imaginative, refreshing and great story telling with great pacing.


                
Doctor who is really quite brilliant. One of the main things that makes it legendary is how many of the story lines play on our most common fears. The latest episode was about statues and if you looked at them you would die. Telling the story like that sounds rather boring but however watching it it's absolutely brilliant and the mindless scientific woffle the doctor comes out with is actually plausible.I never watched Doctor Who as it wasn't on for my generation 1995-2002 odd time frame...but as a teen i really love watching it. I must say it isn't scary for me but for children i can see how it would be.David Tennant by far is the best between him and Christopher Eccleston.I highly advise watching this little British legend peace of TV. It really is the only science fiction English TV programme ... :O! Anyways very good and all the actors are entertaining garanteed every week.


                
When I was little, my sister and I used to stay up late on Saturday and watch Doctor Who with our dad. I still have no idea why, as a young child, I would put myself through that. It would scare us so much that we would refuse to return to our basement room to sleep. Eventually, for reasons I cannot remember, all of us stopped watching. A few months ago, though, I was flipping channels and happened to stop on SciFi. The new Doctor was on so I decided to watch it. To my surprise, I found myself enjoying the show immensely. I don't know, from my very limited recollection of the 80s Doctor, if I have changed or if it has. I do know, however, that even with a few intense moments, this show is an excellent blend of fantasy, humor, suspense, and downright plain fun. As the Doctor would say, it's "fantastic!"


                
As a child I was never in a situation where I could be introduced to Dr Who and though I had heard of the series in passing, I never really realized exactly what it was. It was, then, with some hesitation that i sat down to watch the ninth Doctor and his antics having be told that he was something like Arthur Dent (from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) but cooler. I can't believe what I've been missing out on, seriously, why had no one told me about this before? My entire childhood was deprived of Doctor Who adventures; me being a tremendous fan of most sci-fi and fantasy adventures. Honestly, i thoroughly enjoyed it and look forward to any future episodes.I have to admit that at first I was not so sure that Billie Piper would be the best actress but I'm happy to say that she did very well, i thought, and added a very realistic touch to the series. I think, actually, that was one of my favourite aspects of the series; the contrast between great alien conflict scenes contrasted with the infuriating normality of the South London Council Estate life. I'm always interested in instances where people's ideas about the world are drastically challenged and how people can take any situation and edit it in their minds so that it may fit in with their mundane lives. I also loved Christopher Eccleston. I haven't seen many of his films and I've never seen another actor as Dr Who, but I thought his portrayal of the Doctor was brilliant, immensely likable and yet dark enough to make you wonder. I find that many other characters with his sort of character history tend to be a bit two-dimensional; they have all the right emotions and actions, but they always seems slightly shallow. This Doctor, on the other hand, earned my loyalty with his stratified personality. I agree with some of the other comments that a higher budget for the special effects, aliens and whatnot, might have been a bit more effective. but then again, this isn't about special effects (though they help) from what I've read and heard from long-time Dr Who fans; it's the spirit of the whole things that really counts. And I don't think they did a bad job with what they had. I quite liked all the aliens but my favourite had to be the Daleks; if I ever knew anything about Dr Who before watching the series, it was that there were things in it that looked like upturned dustbins on wheels. Previous to watching, i was quite sceptical about these pepper-pots threatening the existence of humanity but some of them were quite scary! Which I loved,of course.Overall, a good show. I look forward to future episodes with delight. The Doctor has a new fan.


                
All the new doctors get off to a slow start. Soooo, I'm waiting to see how this doctor develops. Things I like: she's starting to get a feel for her version of the doctor's patter. Her earnestness and touch of insecurity reminds me of Peter Davidson's doctor, something we haven't seen in the 'new' series. And the companions are carrying their bits relatively well, so that's good. Things that worry me: the chemistry between the doctor and her companions isn't there yet. I know it takes a while, so I'll just wait for it. Also, the message from each episode has been very didactic so far ("and here's what we learned tonight"). It's like the writers feel like they have to spell everything out; it has had a bit of an after school special feel so far. It's early days yet, so no panic yet. Usually, new doctors hit their stride in their second season. Something that really worries me though is Chris Chibnall's (hope I spelled his name right) implication that they wouldn't be revisiting familiar faces and foes. Some continuity is the bedrock of the show.


                
At first when I began to watch this show I thought that it seemed a bit hokey and the graphics weren't the best. However I found that after I got over how hokey the aliens were I enjoyed the show.Eccleston who plays The Doctor (at least for a while) takes his character to all new levels. Like his other performances, including Heroes and some other shows, he is extremely believable. You soon find yourself being carried along with every emotion The Doctor is feeling. At times Eccleston proves to be a bit strange for the part of The Doctor but you also find that his quirkiness keeps you watching the show. To put it in simple terms he is absolutely brilliant and I can't imagine someone playing the part better than him.My suggestion is if you are bored and have absolutely nothing to do, take some time, sit down at the computer or turn on the television, and find Doctor Who.


                
I never saw any of the old series (which was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Kids' TV Shows, and number 3 on The 100 Greatest TV Programmes), I might have wanted to see the ones with Tom Baker or Jon Pertwee. Doctor Who in today's time is very good, some weird or slightly corny episodes, but still a bloody good series. The two Doctors so far, National Television Award and BAFTA winning Christopher Eccleston, and National Television Award and BAFTA (UK and Wales) winning David Tennant have been very good. His two companions, fit twice National Television Award winning, and Wales BAFTA nominated Billie Piper as Rose Tyler, and also fit Freema Agyeman as Martha Jones are also good. They have had some good cast members and guests, including John Barrowman as Captain Jack Harkness (who got his own show, Torchwood), Noel Clarke as Mickey Smith, Camille Coduri as Jackie Tyler, Simon Day, Zoë Wanamaker, Sara Stewart, Simon Callow, Coronation Street's Bruno Langley, Simon Pegg, Tamsin Greig, Richard Wilson, Davina McCall, Anne Robinson, Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine, Anthony Head, Roger Lloyd-Pack, Shirley Henderson, Peter Kay, EastEnders' Raji James, Tracy-Ann Oberman, Barbara Windsor, Dean Lennox Kelly, Ardal O'Hanlon and Life of Mars's John Simm. A weird and wonderful journey through the past, present and future with aliens, flying saucers, Empty (gas mask wearing) Child Zombies saying "Mommy", K9 and Sarah Jane (who also got their own show, The Sarah Jane Adventures), Cyberman, the Daleks (of course) and a very good Doctor (he was number 6 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters). It won the BAFTA for the TV Audience Award and Best Drama Series, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Editing Fiction/Entertainment, Best Visual Effects, Best Director for Joe Ahearne, Best Writer for Russell T. Davies, Break-Through Talent for Edward Thomas and New Media Developer, it won the Wales BAFTAs for Best Editor and Best Drama Series/Serial, and it won the National Television Awards for Most Popular Drama twice. The Daleks were number 39 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments. Very good!
I love Dr. Who. Always loved it. From the Tom Bakes series to Christopher Eccleston and on. Chrisopher did a great job and the script and effects were great. Then David Tennant took over and also did a good job, also here the good stories and effects helped a lot. Then Matt Smith took over and it took him 2 seasons to get into the role of "Dr. Who", but in his last season he did achieve it, sadly the script and effect went downhill every season. Then Peter Capaldi came. Peter Capaldi is a remarkable actor and from his first episode he was Dr. Who, but he had to battle boring script, lack of special effect, etc., you could describe is as the 20th century Sylvester McCoy episodes, because all the scenes were shot in the same place, very cheap. So sadly I have to announce that, if you could bare season 6 and 7, from season 8 it's a boring series, lack of originality, low budget and so on, a real shame cause Capaldi is a good actor.


                
