I have to agree with the consensus of viewers who like Jodi Whittaker as a female doctor, but can't bear the terrible writing this season.I come back each week hoping for better, but the plots are very simplistic and insipid, and full of holes. The writing seems to run out of steam well before the end, so there is little or no satisfying resolution before the episode is over too abruptly, and I am left with questions of "well, what about (this or that) dangling plot point?" Attempts to be topical are misplaced, as in the Rosa Parks and India/Pakistan partition episodes, which are important historically, but not within the scope of Dr. Who. They tried and failed to send social justice messages, whereas in previous seasons, the WWII plots with Churchill, or werewolves with Queen Victoria, were mostly fun and sci fi, with thrills, humor, and cleverness. I really miss the brilliant plots of Steven Moffat. The cleverness is markedly missing from this season.I also get annoyed with the new companions when they are told by the Doctor to stay put, not interfere, etc, at the risk of screwing up history and/or their own timelines, and instead the companions behave in petulant, stubborn ways, with mutinous looks on their faces, and the Doctor doesn't take a firmer hand. She doesn't seem to be able to say "no" to the kids. It was insane for the Doctor to take them to India, where things could have gone wrong in myriad worse ways than the nonsensical plot line that they actually used in the episode, as could have their ill-thought-through interference with Rosa Parks.SPOILER ALERT!!!And Nana the grandmother was by far the most appealing and compelling of the companions in the first episode-I truly wish that they hadn't killed her off right away, because she brought depth, bravery, and fun to her role, and the dynamics of her interactions and relationships with the other characters were fascinating. I regret all those lost opportunities for better, more layered storylines with her in them.After it is over each week, I think through the same episode as if David Tennant (my favorite Doctor) or Matt Smith played the Doctor in that episode-and it's really hard to imagine. I miss the Doctor as a slightly arrogant-but-fun brilliant genius, with whimsy, passion, and charisma. Chris, David, and Matt all had that, (even though Chris was harder, with less humor). Yet Jodi seems wide-eyed with wonder and almost accidental discovery as she goes through her problem-solving process, which just makes her seem a little slow on the uptake in comparison.I want this Doctor to be just as brilliant and quick and several steps ahead of everyone else that all the Doctors have been, with the same sense of confidence and personal power. It's still the same Doctor in her person, after all, and there has been very little evidence that she retains the same history and memories of her previous incarnations.
First off, I never got into Dr. Who until recently. Honestly, I never got the opportunity to watch any of the previous incarnations (pun intended) since it was never "big" here in the US as it is everywhere else.That said, I must say (obviously) that after finishing the 2nd season, that this is one of the best sci-fi shows I've ever seen.Now, I watch a lot of Sci-Fi shows from all over and this show stands out.The first season was tops to begin with, with Christopher Eccleston in the title role and I thought he was terrific. Of course, so was the lovely Billie Piper who just adds such humanity and warmth to the character of Rose that no one could've done it better. Let's not forget Camile Coduri as Jackie and Noel Clarke as Mickey/Ricky who are just a blast to watch. Then there's David Tenannt. At first, I thought he was too gawky-looking to play the character (his ears!!), but after watching the 2nd season, he fits in just fine. His sharp acting and physical comedy is almost flawless. He's great with snappy dialog and can turn serious without batting an eye.Aside from the great acting from the cast is the acting from most of the guest actors that have appeared. A lot of them are veteran actors but some are new to me and are damn fine.The production and direction of the show is top notch. Occasionally, there'll be some cheesy effects here and there, but that's always been a factor in the original series and, like those episodes, is negligible.My favorite thing of all about the series: The stories. Writing folks, is always the key to great entertainment. Russell T. Davies has written many of the episodes along with a few other writers and they have done an excellent job. They've managed to bring excitement, ingenuity, intelligence and fun with clever concepts and great dialog. I also appreciate the fact that they can breach the older Doctors' past story lines and enemies well (my friend explains much of this to me while we watch the show) and respectfully.I won't mention anything about the 2nd season and how it ends since the Sci-Fi channel just started airing the 2nd season.I wouldn't want to spoil it. It's so much fun and excitement. You'll never want to take your eyes away nor miss a word of dialog.It really is that good.PS: Thanks to the producers for Nicholas Briggs back! **EXTERMINATE!**


                
I'm a 46 year old man, but I'm not ashamed to tell you I wept with all the regenerations of the Doctor, and for other episodes too (for example, the Van Gogh episode broke me).But when Whitaker's time's up, I think I'll be having a sigh of relief. But only if Chibnall also going away. Especially when Chibnall is gone. Maybe even if Whitaker stays, and she's getting good stories, less companions (or "fam", for f* sake).The stories are weak, boring and preachy. The Doctor isn't a force of nature that stops planets rotating, she's not the oncoming storm anymore. She's a boring, bland, preachy dimwit, who doesn't belong in the Tardis.Get Moffat back, get Davies back, get people in the seats that love and understand Doctor Who and scifi. Otherwise this will be the death of the undying Doctor.


                
I remember when I first watched it in 2005 on CBC, the Canadian Broadcast Channel. It was the reboot and the writing was pretty good and some of the effects. Then during the David Tenant years I started to love it and it imprinted a lot on me since I was growing up around that time. Then I started watching the classic Doctor Who on Netflix, iTunes, and anywhere I could find it. I even have some of the DVD's of the classic who even the very first episode arcs. I was shocked to know that some of the early work from the 60's was lost in a fire. I learned that from this episode recap from Channel Awesome from some guy called Diamanda Hagan. Some of the behind the scenes stuff he talked about I was shocked to know. Like in the Colin Baker years and the Sylvester McCoy years. In new Doctor Who I was a little skeptical of the Matt Smith years since you might not know what you get with a new doctor. He ended up taking a lot from the second doctor Patrick Troughton and it seemed to work. This show also made it into the world record book for the longest running TV show ever. I even remember they did a thing on BBC America where they did a Doctor every month. To get you hyped for the Day of the Doctor 50th years special and when they actually aired it I just loved it. Also the end of the special I didn't quite see coming but it was pretty clever. The Peter Calpaldi years I'm a little skeptical since he's different from the last doctor but maybe I just need to let him sink in.


                
After crying during Doomsday, I awaited the Doctor's return after Runaway Bride (which was, by the way, brilliant). When I heard that Freema Agyeman was to play the next companion, I wondered if she was a good choice. I was and am a Rose Tyler fan and I was not willing to let my loyalties die just yet.I suppose Martha (Freema's character) is good in her own way. However one thing that annoyed me was her breathy "Doctor!" which sounds like a hysterical teenage fangirl. Her character seems a little one dimensional, and the chemistry between the Doctor and Rose was not there with him and Martha.The episodes in Season 1 and Season 2 were perfect: emotional, humorous and smart. The new season, however, has been disappointing. The episodes have been cheesy and feel recycled. What Russell T. Davies seems to be delivering is that all female companions (at least in the new seasons) fall for the Doctor after seeing "what an amazing man he is." I hope that there will be some improvements in the seasons ahead. But, for the moment, I can only give the third season a 4 out of 10 stars.


                
I've only viewed the 5th season and so forth, because of my interest in the writer steven moffat. And the show has been a real BBC treat. This show has a small similarity of the main protagonist Matt Smith's Doctor to the brilliant Benedict Cumberbatch's BBC's Sherlock. I love them both.Doctor Who IS the sherlock holmes of all of time and space! But he's fun and friendly and like sherlock he is quirky and too intelligent to handle by the common folk ignorant to the world of time travel. I love how the writers handle the characters and intertwine the story from the pilot to the other episodes. Matt Smith is great to watch along with Karen Gillian as the feisty Amy Pond. Also i felt Rory was going to be a lost thought but the writers brought him back and he is a great joy to see with the doctor who team. I would never have thought to see this show but im already addicted and looking forward to season 7.


                
I came late to this new "Doctor Who" series, missing most of the first season. The first thing I was aware of was that it was respectful of the classic series - seeing an old friend like Sarah Jane at the start of the second session for example. The second thing I noticed was the companion Rose was not just there for the Doctor to rescue, she was a strong force in her own right, so gone was the paternalistic sexism of the classic series. The third was the bittersweetness of many of the episodes that I don't remember being there in the classic series. Most of the bittersweet comes from the mixed emotions of the Doctor himself. He is a being, the last of his kind whose loneliness and not yet revealed reasons why he survived mix with his joy of the infinite variety in the universe and his fascination with the still full of potential humans. I don't know where the Doctor's journeys will take him or how his personal past will affect his future, but I'll be there along side him hoping he finds what his looking for.
Over it's 56 year old runtime Doctor Who had many seasons and many spin offs, but the most notable two are: Torchwood and The Sarah Jane Abventures.
The reason these two show are the most notable(other than them being the best) is because they can highlight the shows ability to be interesting to all ages. The Sarah Jane Adventures being really family-friendl(except for the nightmare man) even more then the original DW, because while Doctor Who is still ff it is rather in the middle while Torchwood is for a more mature audience with it's darker tone and more complex narrative.The Doctor Who review:
DW is a truly special show. Not just because of it's insane runtime or the genius idea of the regeneration witch can always keep the tone fresh and also able to explain the changes of actors but because of it's insane foreshadowing across many years that give for one of the most exciting and coolest reveals and big events(Doctor 12, River Song, Day of the Doctor) it's amazing! The show had it's ups and downs whit RTD bringing it back and making it the best show ever, then Moffat coming and continuing it, then in S7-S10/S33-S36 making it worse, but still really good. Then in S11/S37 came Chibnall. The person who we all trusted and thought will make the show amazing again ended up ruining it. S11/S37's boring awful writing is the reason I only rated the show a 9/10. Overall still go watch it(and if you like it go back and watch the previous 26 seasons) just skip S11/S37!


                
While this show is far from perfect, it certainly is one of the best ever made. The writing is incredible, the acting is so wonderful it can make you laugh or cry within seconds, and the special effects really pop out. The only downside is that, depending on the main characters, this show can be so good it's almost indescribable and so terrible, you wonder why you watch it in the first place (fortunately the latter is a rare occasion).The show starts out with Christopher Eccleston as the Doctor and Billie Piper as the shop girl/companion, Rose Tyler in one of the best seasons of the entire show's run. The chemistry is perfect, even the weaker stories have plenty of great moments, and the finale is epic and phenomenal. Eccleston delivers a wonderful performance and Piper follows his lead. The writing is nearly flawless (just ignore the Slitheen episodes, they're only good if you've seen the whole show and want to see some great character moments). So I was hooked and couldn't wait to see the new Doctor when Eccleston left the show.Unlike many, MANY people, I was actually disappointed in David Tennant's performance. He didn't have any of the previous incarnation's cleverness, though he certainly boasted about how clever he was through his entire 4 years in the role. He continually sank into depression about what happened to his planet (yeah, he killed everyone and the planet was destroyed; we see him heal a lot in the first season and then this Doctor came around to never let us forget how sad he is. It gets annoying FAST). The worst part of the second season is Rose. It's like a switch goes off in her brain and she becomes bratty and annoying, unlike her character in the first season. While the second season produces some really good episodes and has great moments, it is really bogged down by two weak main characters. This whole season made me knock off the tenth star and it is as bad as the show ever gets (which, admittedly, is still good and I still recommend it).Then season 3 introduces Martha Jones, played by Freema Agyeman, and we see a vast improvement. In fact, one episode in particular, the eleventh episode of season 3 called Blink, is so good, so clever, and so delightfully creepy that it is still one of my all time favorite episodes. I won't spoil it, you have to see it for yourself. The only drawback of season 3 is that the Doctor spends the entire time pining for Rose, which wastes the amazing Martha's potential.Then there's season 4. This one is one of the best since the first. The Doctor pairs with fiery temp, Donna Noble, played by British comedienne, Catherine Tate and it is absolutely incredible. No more moping Doctor because Donna simply won't let him. This leads to some of the best stories and the best moments of David Tennant's tenure. Unfortunately, the finale feels a little overdone, but it's worth it to see the antics of the Doctor and Donna.Then the show went off the air for specials, which, I have to say, were horrendous and another reason this show only gets 9 out of 10 stars. The Doctor travels alone and becomes more mopey and depressing than ever. There is not a single special worth watching, not one, in fact, the only salvageable part of the entire run was the regeneration scene in which Tennant's Doctor dies and regenerates into the 11th incarnation, played by Matt Smith.And THIS is where the show gets more incredible than ever. Season 5 does not have a single dud in the bunch, every episode is absolutely wonderful and entertaining. The Doctor joins Amy Pond, played by Karen Gillan, and her fiancé, Rory Williams, played by Arthur Darvill, and this season is one of the best sci fi seasons I've ever seen. The chemistry is perfect, the stories are nearly flawless, and the acting is perfect. Without a doubt, season 5 is the best one Doctor Who the 2005 series has ever done. I could go on forever as to how everything works so perfectly together but you have to watch it and see.The sixth season is currently running so I won't say anything about it but so far it hasn't been as good as the fifth while still being one of the best ever.So, bottom line, this show is AWESOME. I mean AWESOME. Yeah, it's got some moments which are terrible and David Tennant's Doctor really bogs the show down for a while, but Matt Smith's Doctor more than makes up for it when he takes over. I give this show a 9/10 stars, a star off for the bad stuff in the Tennant era. If you haven't seen it, grab it on Netflix, a video store (if they still exist), whatever, just don't miss this gem of a show!!


                
NuWho is amazing and Dr Who is my favourite show ever lets break down each era.Christopher Eccleston era the era that started it all for me and were I started watching Dr who which makes this era so Nostalgic for me with great episodes like Dalek and Empty Child and Doctor Dances.
However this is my least favourite era overall in NuWho just simply because it hasn't aged that well and he only did one season so I find it hard to get attached to this Dr personally I do respect Eccleston alot for bringing back the show and without this season we wouldn't have it but I enjoy 10th 11th 12th era's overall just my opinion.
However there are some great moments in this season and the first time I ever saw a Dalek is a memory I will have forever and it scared me alot.
The first time I saw inside the TARDIS I've never been more thrilled and it still gets me every season.
I love the Badwolf story arc and it's definitely one of my favourites I also love the introduction to Captain Jack one of the coolest characters ever on Tv.
There are some underrated episodes in this season like Father's Day and I don't think Unquiet Death gets enough love.
However im not a big fan of the Slitheen two parter just abit to silly for me which didn't suit this era and I much prefer Boom Town.
My favourite episode is definitely Dalek some of the best acting in any of Dr who in my opinion and the first time we saw the Dr be scared and abit of his bad side which made me like this character more.
I was really disappointed that Eccleston left although the introduction for new fans to regeneration was very interesting and very shocking to see for the first time.The David Tennant era of Doctor Who I love this era Tennant still remains my favourite doctor of all time and will always be my Doctor even though I do prefer more stories in Matt's era.
However this does have some great stories and some excellent moments in Dr Who history I love Season 4 it's definitely my season of NuWho and there isnt a single bad episode in that season.
It also sees the return of some classic Dr Who characters Like the Sontarans and I love the new design It also brings back Davros who is a Dr who legend and his amazing in this season finale in Season 4.
This era brings back the Master for the first time played by John Simm who I think is brilliant in the role and plays a really sinister Master.
However this era does my least favourite companion in Martha wasn't really an interesting character in my opinion.
The era also has some really bad episodes like Love and Monsters and Fear her.
I love the way they bring back the Cybermen in this season really interesting origin story for them and a cool design.
Very upsetting saying goodbye to Rose at the end of season 2.
This season also has my favourite companion of NuWho which is Donna such a cool character and the companion that in my opinion has the best story arc in Doctor Who.
We also meet my favourite character for the first time River Song in a two part story which is amazing.
I also love specials from David and these are he's best episodes such a great way to end his era and the first time a TV show had me crying when he left David will always be my favourite Doctor and just a great era.
My moment in Tennants run his definitely the Timelord Victorious scene in Waters of Mars such well acted moment by him.My second favourite era in NuWho the Matt Smith era I love this era and this Doctor is my second favourite Doctor in all Dr Who after David Tennant.
The Stories in this era are just amazing and definitely think Matt has the best overall story arcs in the New series of Doctor Who I love the story of River Song and The Silence in Season 6 which is my second favourite season in NuWho.
Matt's era also has some of my favourite stuff in it I think he the best Sonic Screwdriver and his first TARDIS interior is my all time favourite I love it.
However I do think season 7 is definitely the weakest season in this era some episodes in that season I'm not a fan off like the Crimson Horror and Hide I've never really liked.
But I do think Asylum of the Daleks and Power of Three are very underrated.
My favourite episodes in this era is definitely Flesh and Stone and Time of Angels I love this episode and in my opinion it's better than Blink as it feels more like a Dr Who story.
There are so many great moments in this era my favourite being the Rings of Akkatan speech and the moment with Vincent Van Gogh in the meauseum is just perfect and really emotional.
The 50th anniversary episode is in this era and I think it's amazing I love everything about this episode love that we get to see stuff from the Time War and John Hurt as the war doctor is awesome and the Zygons came back and look incredible and the scene with Tom Baker is perfect for any Dr Who fan.
I also think Matt had the best acted regeneration scene his speech always gets me and it just make for a perfect end to a great era.
I also really like the twist that he is the last one in the first cycle really interesting twist and makes the overall story more complete for me.The Peter Capaldi era of Doctor Who i love this era and think it is slightly underrated now i will admit that Season 9 is definitely the weakest season in this era and in NuWho in general and the Hybrid Story wasn't really that interesting in my opinion. However there some really great stories i love the whole of season 10 definitely one of my favourite seasons and i love the introduction of Bill and the fact they brought back the Original Cybermen which made me go back and watch the Tenth Planet.
i also really enjoy season 8 and thought it was a great way to kick off the era with great stories like Into a Dalek which is very interesting i also really enjoy Dark Water and Death in Heaven really like the idea with the Cybermen in thar story.
i love the introduction of Missy such a great twist on the character of the Master and she gets better each season in my opinion.
Now there things in this era which do my head in i hate the Sonic Sunglasses such a stupid idea which didnt work in my opinion, However i do love his Sonice Screwdriver he gets after Hell Bent.
Hell Bent is my least favourite episode of Dr Who ever just huge disappointment and the Doctor is way out of character in that and undermines Heaven Sent which is the best episode in this era in my opinion.
i also really love the the dalek two parter in season 9 just because the scenes with Davros and The Doctor are always great to watch and i love them.
Capaldi in my opinion had the best Christmas Special in the Husbands of River Song which ties in with when we first met her in a 10th doctor story and we get to see there last days on Delirium which was a great way to end the River Song story.Verdict 9/10 great series and my all time favourite show a must watch for Sci-Fi fans
1) It has a Star Trek-esque "optimistic" tone to it. Rather than villains suffering a violent defeat at the hands of the protagonist, villains are often forgiven, healed, given a new perspective, or revealed to be "misunderstood monsters". (Exemplary line: "Because I'm The Doctor and I cure people!")2) It's a show with "boundless horizons". There aren't a lot of settings that can potentially be a mash-up of any / all other genres. Superhero & Anime milieus are about the only ones I know of. Dr. Who is another one. On any given day, you could go from the stone age, through the Renaissance, up to modern times, and on into the far-flung future. Along the way, you could find magic, science, superstition, the mundane, and the supernatural all colliding together. Infinite possibilities.3) It has the charm of a British hero. There's something quaint about a protagonist who saves the day at the same time that he's checking his pocket watch, or pining for a cup of tea. This is a quality we love about Bilbo Baggins, Arthur Dent, and Sherlock Holmes. Turns out we love The Doctor for the same reason.4) It's a show that mixes mystery, terror, humor, and romance all very well. Not a lot of shows can do this. Buffy pulled it off week-to-week. Supernatural has done a reasonably good job. Dr. Who mixes them all expertly, sometimes blending them all together in the same scene. (The episode "Doomsday" is perhaps the best example.)5) It has cute trappings / furnishings: A time machine shaped like an old 60s police box, it's bigger on the inside, the sonic screwdriver is the universal do-it-all tool, psychic paper is the license to go anywhere. Not only are these intriguing in their own right, they're also useful plot devices.6) It evolves over time. The ability to have The Doctor regenerate and pick up new companions keeps things from getting stale. There aren't a lot of shows that have run since the early 60's (with one large break in the middle). If you don't like the set of characters they've got now, wait a bit and they'll deal out a new hand that they might like better.7) It's welcoming to newcomers. You don't need to start at the very beginning and ingest hundreds of episodes to get up to speed. Just jump in anywhere you like 'cuz they'll re-explain things like the TARDIS and Time Lords and whatnot to the viewers at regular intervals.8) It's a show that can be watched with the whole family. There are some scenes that are a little scary / frightening, but not gory or disgusting. There is occasional romance, but it's pretty innocent stuff. It means something to me to have a show I can watch with the wife & kids that we can all enjoy and talk about later.9) Many of the scripts feel like they're written by a 6-yr old (kind of like "Axe Cop"), to wit: "The Doctor falls out of the sky! Then some green, spiky-headed, aliens show up! Then a bunch of planets appear in the sky!" Instead of rolling my eyes though, I'm delighted with this. I think it helps me to tap into my own "childlike sense of wonder" from days of yore.


                
after the end of 4th season Dr. who is just masterpieceRose (1x1) Dalek (1x7) Father's Day (1x8) The Empty Child (1x9) The Doctor Dances (1x10) Bad Wolf (1x12) The Parting of the Ways (1x13) The Christmas Invasion (2x0) The Girl in the Fireplace (2x4) Rise of the Cybermen (2x5) The Age of Steel (2x6) The Impossible Planet (2x8) The Satan Pit (2x9) Army of Ghosts (2x12) Doomsday (2x13) The Runaway Bride (3x0) Smith and Jones (3x1) The Shakespeare Code (3x2) Human Nature (3x8) The Family of Blood (3x9) blink(3x10) Utopia (3x11) The Sound of Drums (3x12) Last of the Time Lords (3x13)end of timepart1,2 (specials)after watching this episodes u can directly jump to the 5th season
I remember my first episode. Midwinter 2010/11, snow had turned to ice, you really did not go out of the house unless you really had to. Now you have to know that for a few months I did not get BBC 1 and 2, but BBC Entertainment..Just finished watching the news and the weather report came on... Not interested it is going to be horrible again, so I started to flip channels.. And got to the BBC and instantly I realised I had stumbled into something about Shakespeare, I just couldn't figure out what that guy in the trench coat and sneakers was doing there (not to mention the woman in a red leather jacket and jeans) but it is the BBC there must be a good reason...I sat there for about half an hour (missed the first minutes) letting my coffee get cold, totally mesmerised, the next thing I did when it finished was 2 things, book tickets to see Shakespeare live in London and google what the &#@@ was I just watching.I got my hands on the whole series and watched them, I have favourite episodes. 9th doctor: Unquiet dead, 10th doctor: Blink, Girl in the fireplace, and the emotional 'End of time' duo) 11th doctor: Eleventh hour, Vincent, LodgerI was hooked, but on what exactly, it is not a real SF, it is not a real drama, it is not a real comedy, it is in my eyes something typically British, basically mad with a lot of sub-sets.Can I be more specific?? All I can say give it a try, start with Blink I always say, that is a doctor-light episode, or if you are interested in Shakespeare (the Shakespeare code), if you are interested in Vincent van Gogh (Vincent and the Doctor, if you are interested in Dickens (The Unquiet dead), Agatha Christie (The Wasp and the unicorn), that man gets around..


                
If you are a new viewer of Doctor Who, I strongly suggest watching the series in order(since the 2005 reboot that is) because the series between 2005 and 2010 were the best so far. Here is why...I have been a big fan of this show since I started watching it at a young age, however, in recent years I feel like the episodes, particularly the plots, have been taking a turn for the worst. Specifically, this began to happen after Steven Moffat took over as head writer for the show when the brilliant Russell T Davies left. Don't think for a second that I don't like Moffat's work because I admire his work on earlier episodes of the show such as "Blink", "Silence in the Library/Forest of the Dead" and "The Girl in the Fireplace" as some of the show's best episodes. I was particularly disappointed in the plots of the episodes when Jenna Coleman joined as Clara and Peter Capaldi's first series and did not find the show as entertaining I once did when Davies was head writer. I feel like Moffat tries to bring too many Sherlock style, confusing plots to Doctor Who, especially in series 6 where you really have to watch every episode in order and concentrate very hard to understand what is going on. I also disagreed with his decision to scrap two part episodes, although they are beginning to reappear in the current series. Christmas specials. Now, between 2006 and 2010, the Doctor Who Christmas special was the best piece of Christmas TV and episodes such as "Voyage of the Damned" are still entertaining today. But then, Matt Smith's first Christmas episode happened and, in my opinion, since then there hasn't been one Christmas special that was even half decent. In 2010 I thought that Russell T Davies might have made the right decision putting Moffat in charge of the show because neither of these writers had done one bad thing for the show so far. How wrong I was. Even though I am enjoying the current series(9) much more than the last one, Moffat's opening episodes were the poorest of the series so far. I mean, THE MASTER IS A WOMAN? PLEASE LEAVE, MOFFAT! Again, I have the utmost respect for both his work on Doctor Who when Davies was head writer and his work on Sherlock which is unquestionably one of the best TV shows of our time, his current writing on this show is POOR.


                
5 December 2011. It's rare to continue discovering strange new worlds and new life in a television series, yet Dr. Who retooled and redesigned with a new team of scriptwriters has managed to break into new thresholds of emotive and imaginative speculation in a nice balance of humor and drama. Building on the revived seasons before it, by the time Season is wrapped up the energy, the substantive quality and richness of the scripts are amazingly progressively involving and captivating, a rarity among television series. Among the movie classics of A Wrinkle in Time (2002), The Truman Show (1998), Being John Malkovich (2000), Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004), Slaughter-House Five (1972), Silent Hill (2006), Super 8 (2011),even Wall*e (2008), and Spirited Away (2001), and television classics of X-Files, Fringe, Heros, Charmed, and Buffy: The Vampire Slayer. Even so, the last two television series even though based on magic - resonated even more directly with life in the contemporary world and The Lost Room (2006 TV) and Defying Gravity (2009 TV) were focused compelling sci fi drama, whereas Dr. Who seems to spiral its audience into fantasy of far away places even as it sometimes deals with our world at home, albeit United Kingdom, mostly.


                
11th Doctors episodes were the best episodes filmed so far.Tthe way that the story links between seasons and the way of connection between The Doctor and his companions. Amy, Rory and The Doctor. The Silence, The pandorica... Steven Moffat must return.


                
It was a new idea, a female Doctor. An idea met with quite a bit of apprehension. But..... it works. The story is good, a very polished look, a brand new monster, and very solid actors who have already started to develop and personalize their characters. Oh yeah, and The Doctor is a woman. But it didn't bother me at all. Worry for no reason. The gender switch doesn't add anything, but it doesn't diminish anything either. It's still The Doctor. a solid start. Maybe Chibs knows what he's doing. Now, if he can just keep it fresh, new, and strong. I give it a 9, it really should be an 8, but now that it has finally gotten here after what seemed like forever, I'm jazzed enough that I'm bumping it up an extra point.


                
Doctor Who is great. I loved David Tennant, as the tenth Doctor, he has some really great acting skills and the episodes were amazing. However, when Stephen Moffat became the new show-runner, I haven't really enjoyed the episodes as much as I liked the Russell T Davies episodes, as I thought that some of the more recent episodes were over complicated, uneventful and sometimes very unentertaining. The reason I am giving the show a 9 is because I feel that the new writer Chris Chibnall will be able to deliver viewers a great new era to Doctor Who, and I think that the choice of casting Jodie Whittaker was a phenomenal choice. Jodie Whittaker is a brilliant actress, and it is the best they have made since David Tennant who became the Doctor in 2005.
I give the whole series a 9, with the exception of all episodes with Peter Capaldi which if I could I would give a ZERO his portrayal of the doctor is truly awful, please BBC dispense with his services. The doctors in order of merit, in my opinion are, David Tennant, Christopher Ecclestone and Matt Smith, I will not insult the series by mentioning the latest inept actor, once again truly awful character that is Peter Capaldi.


                
I really, really love this show. It took me until Capaldi to realize how much I love it though. After finishing the 10th series, I went back and re-watched the Eccleston, Tenant, and Smith episodes. They are so great!! Steven Moffat's writing is truly great. As great as Eccleston and Tenant are (undeniably great, especially Tenant), my favorite seasons by far are Matt Smith's and Peter Capaldi's. River Song is such a great character. The companions were great (though I must say I hated Bill at first, but she did grow on me). The continuity of the episodes was great. The writing, again, was brilliant.All that being said...I've been pretty severely disappointed with this latest season so far. I think Jodie is really great, but ultimately the writing and the character and villain development is so poor that the episodes are not only unmemorable, but overall a letdown. As I saw another user say on here, this season feels very childish and watered down, lacking the intricacies that for me characterize Doctor Who. With writing like Moffat's, Jodie would absolutely crush it.The latest companions aren't bad. But they aren't great. I really loved Amy and Rory, Clara, and Rose. I eventually learned to love Bill. I'm hoping the same will happen for the newest 3 companions, but right now they seem very half-assed and not very integral to the show or to each other. Overall, I think they lack a certain chemistry that I've loved in the previous companions.
Season 1 might seem a little bit cheesy and a bit of a turnoff, but if you stick with it, the rewards are incredible. It just gets better and better!! (until season 11...sigh..but maybe it will get better, too? =/ )


                
I never thought I was such a sci-fi fan, to see how the creating of their world is created and how it all just falls in together. From seeing how even music can make me emotional in it and seeing characters leave us to meet new ones, I never hatted a character yet from it. I'm still watching season 10 so I don't know what people think of the new ones but to my opinion, making this series go on is great!
The camera work and light are my favorite things in it other then the geniusly built characters. As much as this series gives me a vibe that it's for kids it still entertains me a lot and it keeps me stressed out on some things and humor is pretty decent.
Of course sometimes, things don't go well and it feels blend and too rushed in but none the less it's good.
last thing to say is how great it is when they add in real science facts and even theories in the show.


                
Before I begin, DO NOT START AT THE BEGINNING OF THE OLD SERIES.I started Doctor Who with the new series, the 11th Doctor was my first. After the two angel episodes, I started at the beginning of the new series. After the first three episodes I stopped. Specifically because Eccleston annoyed me. But a few months later I gave it another go, made it through Eccleston, and found Tennant. David Tennant is by far my favorite doctor. He has a certain hit of crazy that the others don't grab. I wasn't sure what to expect when I started, which also might have turned me off first time around. Prepare for the most strange and quirky plot lines, the likes of which you have never seen. Pay delicate attention to everything, so many episodes will reference and effect the way you see other ones. Though what you may think is insignificant, could possibly change the entire story.And don't worry, when the characters you love the most leave, you'll fall in love with the next batch as well. But I guarantee you'll cry at least once, most likely more.Addiction is close at hand, become a Whovian.


                
I really really use to love the doctor and could watch it every day. But seriously... so far this new season doesn't catch me.
The other doctors had a really good personality but no offense I haven't find jodies yet and that makes me a little sad. I really hoped that I would like her.
I hope it gets better, because season 1-10 was just fantastic


                
I'm honestly a little disappointed in my fellow Whovians right now. I am so freaking excited for the show right now. We've got multiple companions that bring a wide array of traits and qualities to the table. A female doctor who's got a combination of traits that are reminiscent of so many of our previous doctors. A brand new, shiny TARDIS and sonic screwdriver and honestly... I am so stoked.Now, I'm not saying it's my favorite first couple episodes of any of the doctors, BUT, it's got so much promise and potential and I think people need to stop searching for Moffat's lack of involvement in the writing and just remember that these are the adventures, the monsters, the companions we've adored for years. We've always had cheesy monsters or villains and there's a lot to come back to now. But I've got faith in this series and where it's going.


                
At the time of this review I just finished the New Year's Day special for season 11 (2019) and decided to go back and watch/review the entire series (2005 onward) before season 12 premiers sometime 2020. So hopefully it allows me to edit this review as I go lol.But first, a disclaimer: I never really watched the classic show (I've seen some episodes on Netflix, etc but by and large I am not super familiar with it and for me the 2005 reboot is the show, so bear that in mind.With that said, I have some comments about the show in general. Basically, I love this show. It is probably my favorite show but it is definitely not without its flaws, some of which are rather glaring. However, the overall tone and quality of the show keeps me wanting to come back for more with each new episode.As I rewatch each season I will edit this review with my thoughts on said season (I am hoping to do a season a month) along with whatever other comments spring to mind. So I should have season one up by February 2019 and so on and so forth. We'll see how it goes :)Season 1:
How it all started (well the new series at least). To be honest I began watching this show on the recommendation of a friend. If I were watching it just for myself I honestly don't know if I would have continued past the first few episodes. To me they weren't bad, but weren't all that great either. But I was assured there would be better things to come and that proved true.There were a few standout episodes such as "Dalek," "The Doctor Dances," and "Parting of the Ways." But the majority of the season, while excelling in drama and character dynamics, suffered quite a bit from over extending the special effects they didn't have the budget for. I give this season props for the good job it did in making the show fun and exciting for a contemporary audience but i feel it hung onto some of the more campier aspects of the classic show a bit too much.
7/10Season 2:
I thought Christopher Eccleston was decent as the Doctor in season one but I definitely prefer the wacky eagerness that David Tennant brings to the role. To be honest this is really the only improvement season 2 has over season 1. Again, if not recommended by a friend I may have quit here, but I am sure glad I didn't cause after the first few seasons new Who will finally hit its stride.This season is still hampered by campiness but definitely also managed to have some strong story driven episodes, ("Christmas Invasion," "Girl in the Fireplace," "The Impossible Planet" two parter, among others) much like the first season. I do like season two slightly better if only for David Tennant's brilliant and quirky performance as the Doctor.
7.5/10Season 3:
