His first few shows were funny, but then his topics took a far left turn. I stopped watching him. If he wants to expand his audience beyond liberal children, he should take a more balanced view otherwise he is just a small niche player. i am sure he has a loyal following because he panders to a certain demographic, but if a viewer is looking for someone who is truly funny that possesses an open mind then John Oliver is not a good fit. He is very similar to John Stewart in that regard as they are both extremely politically biased and, as a result, cater to a young audience. I am sure Oliver (just like Stewart) would derby his bias but it is clear to anyone with an analytical mind. I don't have anything further to write but the minimum is 10 lines so I added this last sentence.


                
I was initially impressed with the show. I particularly enjoyed the way the show highlighted the use of "A new study shows" by the media. He did a great job of criticizing Trump and I wholeheartedly agreed with much of it. The investigation of Hillary's alleged crimes was completely disingenuous. I stopped watching. It's a shame, the show had potential. The few clips I've seen since have only reinforced my opinion. They are completely uncorked like the rest of the media over Trump becoming president. He does plenty wrong but you lose your credibility when you try to claim that everything he does is wrong.


                
I used to really like John Oliver, ever since he was on Colbert. However the blatant over the top political bias is now more prevalent at the sacrifice of the comedic value. It has followed the same lines of Colbert which is to propagate dangerous globalist elitism at the expense of common sense or truth. These guys have shown themselves as sold out to the cocktail sipping elite and flushed the working class down the tube as they produce a divided world and spread race baiting lies to poison the minds of the young or vulnerable. Unfortunately he has become nothing more than a deep state establishment media sycophant.


                
Parading as a likable "funny" news commentator, John Oliver is a force for the destruction of truth. His pattern is simple: first, he presents an idea which is in opposition to the ideas Time Warner wants his viewers to hold. Then, he makes a derisive quip mocking it— and anyone who holds it. Lastly his audience erupts into laughter, affirming to the viewer that it truly is stupid for anyone to hold that idea.Meanwhile... the idea hasn't actually been logically or rationally disproven at all. Absolutely disgusting.Here's an example:John Oliver did a segment on scientists who "believe" in climate change and those who don't. The catch? The one who didn't was actually just an actor... not a real scientist. And then Oliver brought out a bunch of other actor scientists who did "believe" in climate change. Making it seem so "obvious" that anyone who holds any skepticism about the topic at all is an idiot or doubting what is clearly such an overflow of credibility.Say and believe what you want about climate change. My point has nothing to do with the subject— and everything to do with how Oliver presents his own "facts". In my world, proving an idea wrong takes rational and intelligent dialect from both sides. Oliver simply presents one argument then makes it seem like anyone who holds the opposing idea is clearly an idiot— without presenting a single argument backed up by fact. Hope to see him, and all of his ilk, scrubbed from television, as he does nothing but stoke ignorance and hate in a world that is already filled to the brim with it.


                
John Oliver is the unfunny current year guy who does 20 second rants. Then repeats his act for 20 minutes, he attempts to display a form cultural Marxist political view that is common place on the left today. There are the oppressors and victims, if you are a woman or not white you somehow being oppressed by a system that is full of institutional racism. It gets boring quickly, it might be entertaining for SJWs who have been lobotomised.John Oliver has decided that it is his mission to attack the next President of the United States Donald Trump. Sad really, John Oliver has become a meme on the internet, Current Year Guy. A lot of conservatives tuned in after the presidential election to receive their free intake of salt.They found a sad discredited man, continuing with a discredited progressive movement. Comedy Central have moved pretty far left, they may have cancelled shows such as Larry Wilmore's show which was trash. I bet this is the next one.


                
This show suffers from the same syndrome that affects our increasingly narcissistic society overall, and that is the tendency to believe that your very blatant, extreme political bias is not bias at all, but based in "objective scientific fact". As if it's been proved by science that we should all be liberals. Liberals always do this - they believe that all of their super biased political opinions aren't actually political opinions - but fact-based conclusions informed by science. As a result of this, they constantly stick science where it doesn't belong, and start claiming that science can answer questions like "how should I live my life" "should I respect my elders?" "should I tell the truth"? etc. More and more, young people are starting to think that spiritual questions like this are the domain of science, and as a result of this, they come to believe that their personal take on such questions isn't a personal value judgment, but a scientific conclusions that only religious conservatives and science-deniers could possibly disagree with. The fake news and spin in this show are so blatant that it's honestly worse than Soviet-Style propaganda - it's Soviet-style propaganda with an arrogant, narcissistic smirk. You know, that smirk that says "everything I say is based in objective fact, and the only people who could possibly disagree with it are the type who believe dinosaurs used to wear saddles". Almost every single thing Oliver says is either a lie, or spin, or an attempt to re-frame the entire issue with sleight-of-hand rhetoric.


                
How can this be called news? Its an hour of a comedian talking about stuff that is not news but happened days, weeks, or sometimes even months ago and puts a left wing spin on it. This is not news, everyone I know that watches this show is misinformed and has no idea whats actually going on. Yes, hes funny but he makes his viewers ignorant. News is CNN, MSNBC, Washington post, wall street journal. They actually go out and do their own investigating. John Oliver watches news and takes what he heard, twists it into left wing garbage and talks about it for an hour. This show is the reason why millenials think Trump says things like all Mexicans are rapists. John Oliver watches the news, sees trump say there was a stat that said a lot of the illegal immigrants from Mexico are rapists, and puts in his show that trump says all Mexicans are rapists. Or he calls a woman ugly, which he has done to several men, and Oliver says Trumps a sexist bigot who hates women. Its just ridiculous. I hear people say they watch this because he is funny and gives his opinion. What, are you not smart enough to form your own opinions when given facts? Me being a millennial, I am worried when I grow up I'm not going to have news, just these left wing talk shows. Please watch actual news, then watch John Oliver. You will realize how he has been brainwashing you into thinking what he believes.


                
Just because the host laughs at his own jokes doesn't make a show funny. This show is wildly corny and it's hard to make it through an entire episode.


                
J. Oliver turns my stomach with his moslems whitewash ... a spineless coward .


                
Liberal agenda pushed on the show everyday. Typical democratic talking points.


                
Listening to snowflakes melt is beyond boring. Listening to the screech and moan is funny, though.


                
Just not good anymore - all about how trump and his policies are bad - obviously we need a foreigner to tell us about american politics bc we're too dumb to figure it out on our own, and obviously john knows better than we do (/sarcasm)how would we know we're supposed to believe the russians hacked the DNC and turmp works for putin if this imbecile didn't remind us of the CIA propaganda every two minutes


                
BOLSONARO 2018! Now you will experience the anger of Brazilians. Don't dare supporting PT, don't you dare threatening our democracy.


                
