No great offense meant to U.S TV, but most of its shows with hosts trying to make some fun of the recent affairs, politicians and all that jazz are usually crappy and saved by the "bring a funny and/or weird celebrity" bell. Of course, "The Colbert Report" and a few bits of the "Daily Show" are exceptions, but overall one must admit that even these don't really dwell too long in deep waters (meaning grave issues of major concern) like "Last Week Tonight" does. A couple of examples of serious satire from the first episodes are the death penalty, the hypocritical stance of politicians towards people like the Sultan of Brunei or even the fun'n'serious interview of the ex-chief of the NSA. The fact alone that such significant and highly debatable subjects are discussed is a huge win for the show. The end result airing on HBO, comes as no surprise to me. Their only commitment I have seen so far show-wise, is quality and creativity, two traits this show seems to possess.I am taken in by the first three episodes and honestly believe that this show has the potential to stimulate the brain and instigate belly-aching laughs at the same time. Hopefully, the creators will not take steps back, when possible pressure to "lighten" their material may arise - if and when a lot of people start watching the show. {Quick note to those who may feel offended by the approach John Oliver has on the ignorance of some people from the States, when it comes to the rest of the world: If you know your way around a world map and have an idea of what is happening elsewhere in this vast place called Earth, lay back and enjoy the sarcasm. If you can't do that, take the bitter pill.}


                
Loved John Oliver on Community and love him on this show. He's intelligent and sarcastic, and somehow manages to make topics that are completely horrific (e.g., the U.S. government's actions) not thoroughly depressing. I love how he will make fun of ANY political party; so many shows just spend their time panning Republicans, losing half the country as a result. Oliver must be a libertarian, because he very fairly simply makes fun of anyone who is doing something stupid, regardless of political affiliation. This is something that cannot be said of the unbearable John Stewart, or SNL, for example, but can be said of the awesome Lewis Black as well.I also like his way of poking fun at the U.S. - it's not condescending or rude, it's just good humored teasing. The segment in which he shows the globe with countries marked as Not the U.S. is priceless.Oliver's topics are well chosen, and his take on them is unique. I greatly hope HBO will continue this show as it's the best comedy late night hosted whatever genre you call this currently on TV.


                
The insane level of awesome energy John Oliver feeds the viewer can almost be felt! John cuts through the bullshit and touches on real news.There's something about this show that I really genuinely like (and I'm an Australian). Perhaps it's the way most of us would like to already live in a world that does good and makes fun of the stupid and absurd, a bit like Japan perhaps!? Well John Oliver has us covered. Each week a much needed hit of vitality and rejuvenation gets subtly unveiled, then straight up sucker punched to us.The views on issues are sublime, as though John has been on our planet in a future time of peace, then come back to help lube us all through the hole we're already headed for, the peace hole. The energy and views on the show are just like a pick me up to make us go a tiny bit faster.I've just watched episode 3 and that episode alone sums up the type of people, media and just the general positive peaceful way I'd like to see humanity head.10/10 for the sole fact we need to take a look at ourselves in a mirror and thankfully John Oliver's right there, holding up the mirror for us! If you enjoyed Chasers War On Everything, Newsroom, Real Time with Bill Maher or a slew of other 'younger trend news~ish' shows, I'd say this is well worth a look!


                
John Oliver is involved in one of the most tasteful shows I have come across which is currently in production. John pulls through with a very unique flavor which leaves the viewer thinking about the show long after it is over. His insightful outlook and commentary on a wide variety of issues is well worth the half hour (plus internet content). In my opinion, John doesn't, or at least attempts not to alienate any viewership the show may achieve but the show is perhaps designed to engage those with an open mind. The humorously named "Last Week Tonight" is a lot more than cheap laughs, and then some. In the few episodes that have aired so far, John has proved, at least to me personally, that him and his staff are capable of having very sophisticated opinions on some very deep issues. Honestly, I hope I can hear a lot more from John Oliver and the writers/staff involved!


                
After the season finale of Game of Thrones, Veep, and Silicon Valley (whichever comes last), I was going to cancel my subscription to HBO. Now comes Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, and I'm in a quandary. The history of television and big belly laughs for me is a rare combination. The best sitcoms every have mostly merely amused me. Laughing out loud so hard I can't stop and I have to get online and tell my friends to add this to their watch list is more rare than a lamb chop in Hell's Kitchen. John Oliver made The Daily Show funnier. It's great to see talent like that finally get its due share of hate mail.So now, what to do... cancel HBO and pay $1.99 per episode to watch it on Roku? Yeah, that's how frugal I can be. But can I wait 24 hours for that kind of laughter? Therein lies the quandary.I must take a moment to thank John Oliver and his creative team. Laughter is the best medicine. You're saving the planet--perhaps the multiverse. Boredom is hell. Torture is preferable to boredom. At least torture is something. So thank Fox for 24 hours of torture. But boredom will kill you to death. I didn't know what I was going to do after Dexter ended. Being Human relieves me for a few months, then it's agony. Hannibal comes along and I'm mesmerized for a few months, then I have to wait like a pregnant woman for the next amazing moment. OK, I admit, Wednesday nights in the summer are delicious because of the people who think they can dance. But you, sir, you are the kind of jester who comes along once in the history of an empire, and where would we be without you? Perish the thought.


                
Well first of all, I have always liked John Oliver. He is yet another talented comedian in a line of many others bred at the talent breeding grounds known as the Daily Show. For people who don't know, Oliver lured away the talented Tim Carvell, former head writer for the daily show, away from Jon Stewart. This was clearly a brilliant move and Stewart was nice enough to part with Carvell. Now that both Oliver and Carvell have a show on HBO with pretty much unlimited creative freedom, they are tackling the most important issues with a fearless tenacity that most comedians/hosts/shows can't afford to have. The reporting is concise and brilliantly edited, the delivery is sharp and witty, and the fact that the show is only 30 minutes long is long enough to hold most people's attention. Good job HBO on creating this gem!


                
I've been watching the show since the beginning, and it continued to do a good job at finding stories that are woefully under-reported (if covered at all) and yet still socially relevant. Whether or not you agree with the story of the week or the show's take on it, it is important to get information out there and bring these issues into the spotlight. If you have trouble taking the assessment provided by the show you can always follow it up with some more research (hopefully from reliable sources). The only issue that I have with the show (particularly this season) is when John Oliver goes off on one of his feigned outrage bits. It is not that I dislike this type of bit particularly, but most of them are simply not funny and the audience reaction seems to confirm this. Yet, he doubles down and sometimes triples down on the same punchline that bombed the first time.
I do find him to have a good wit and be funny in unscripted settings, but I think that his insistence that what he says is hilarious and we just don't get the joke discouraging. I hope that the show continues and improves, as humor in politics is sorely needed.


                
Pepperidge Farms remembers. The first three seasons were very good. A wide variety of topics were covered, and my knowledge of the world expanded. After season 3, this show went down hill for me. Majority of season 4 (2017) was focused on Donald Trump and his Presidency. And on the first episode of season 5 (2018), the main topic yet again is Trump and his Presidency. Nothing interesting is being presented. The show has stagnated.


                
Everyone probably should care about brutal dictators,net neutrality and,climate change and the scientific method. But we're apathetic(maybe even rightly so) to anything that doesn't entertain us. This show leaves you with no excuse to ignore anything anymore. Even topics as intractable as the death penalty legislation are skillfully delivered to the masses in an appealing way. It takes a stance where overwhelming evidence lies and doesn't pussy out like other news. Last night's castigation of UAE's policy(Qatar) and elaborate 'Fuck you' to Bashar Al-Assad sent me here to mindlessly jab the mouse pointed at the 10 star rating!
As someone utterly disillusioned by Jon Stewart's dogmatic chauvinism, I am so utterly relieved a talent as intelligent and insightful as John Oliver has been given the opportunity to have what is essentially a more educated, dialectical version of the Daily Show. Stoners reminiscing about Half Baked can keep TDS as their main source of news but at least now those of us willing to hear a different perspective on US issues and considerably more (and better) commentary on international affairs can at least have a weekly bit of entertainment. Only advice: Jon Oliver's audience is de facto more educated than TDS and we do not always need to laugh out loud to appreciate a segment, John Oliver does not need to mimic Jon Stewart's fear of silence and desperately reach out for trite laughs and non sequitur dick jokes whenever something isn't met with gut bursting laughter; America has youtube and getting high while watching Aqua Teen Hunger Force for that; sometimes being informative isn't (and does not need to be) outrageously funny.


                
I used to love this show and John Oliver remains one of the most genuinely funny people on television. But every week now it is the same jokes about Trump, Bannon, Manafort, Ivaka, Comny, Conway, Sanders. It's not that I like them or do not but I watch this show to get away from the usual drivel of politics and instead pay attention to issues that are otherwise out of scope. Predictable and not entertaining these days. John Oliver needs to get back to what he was doing best in seasons 1 and 2.


                
His first few shows were funny, but then his topics took a far left turn. I stopped watching him. If he wants to expand his audience beyond liberal children, he should take a more balanced view otherwise he is just a small niche player. i am sure he has a loyal following because he panders to a certain demographic, but if a viewer is looking for someone who is truly funny that possesses an open mind then John Oliver is not a good fit. He is very similar to John Stewart in that regard as they are both extremely politically biased and, as a result, cater to a young audience. I am sure Oliver (just like Stewart) would derby his bias but it is clear to anyone with an analytical mind. I don't have anything further to write but the minimum is 10 lines so I added this last sentence.


                
I was initially impressed with the show. I particularly enjoyed the way the show highlighted the use of "A new study shows" by the media. He did a great job of criticizing Trump and I wholeheartedly agreed with much of it. The investigation of Hillary's alleged crimes was completely disingenuous. I stopped watching. It's a shame, the show had potential. The few clips I've seen since have only reinforced my opinion. They are completely uncorked like the rest of the media over Trump becoming president. He does plenty wrong but you lose your credibility when you try to claim that everything he does is wrong.


                
I learned pretty much everything covered on this show in magazine articles ~20 years ago so the weekly feigned "omg am I blowing your mind?" is pretty obnoxious. It's also far too partisan and dishonest about who caused which problems (many were actually caused by so-called progressives as well).


                
I used to really like John Oliver, ever since he was on Colbert. However the blatant over the top political bias is now more prevalent at the sacrifice of the comedic value. It has followed the same lines of Colbert which is to propagate dangerous globalist elitism at the expense of common sense or truth. These guys have shown themselves as sold out to the cocktail sipping elite and flushed the working class down the tube as they produce a divided world and spread race baiting lies to poison the minds of the young or vulnerable. Unfortunately he has become nothing more than a deep state establishment media sycophant.


                
Gaslighting progressive viewpoints with half-truths that an uneducated viewer will accept as fact? Check. Continuing to spread the hopeless propaganda of the neo-liberal establishment and their corporate owners? Check. John Oliver does absolutely NOTHING to help rectify the problem with Washington today, and that is this: His corporate handlers are the same handlers as those that have bought and own our government. They have a vested interest in making sure that our populace are incapable of critical thinking, lest we become aware of the fact that neither party has the people's interests at heart and are only interested in keeping their donors happy so the gravy train continues to steam forward into complete subordination from the masses.


                
Parading as a likable "funny" news commentator, John Oliver is a force for the destruction of truth. His pattern is simple: first, he presents an idea which is in opposition to the ideas Time Warner wants his viewers to hold. Then, he makes a derisive quip mocking it— and anyone who holds it. Lastly his audience erupts into laughter, affirming to the viewer that it truly is stupid for anyone to hold that idea.Meanwhile... the idea hasn't actually been logically or rationally disproven at all. Absolutely disgusting.Here's an example:John Oliver did a segment on scientists who "believe" in climate change and those who don't. The catch? The one who didn't was actually just an actor... not a real scientist. And then Oliver brought out a bunch of other actor scientists who did "believe" in climate change. Making it seem so "obvious" that anyone who holds any skepticism about the topic at all is an idiot or doubting what is clearly such an overflow of credibility.Say and believe what you want about climate change. My point has nothing to do with the subject— and everything to do with how Oliver presents his own "facts". In my world, proving an idea wrong takes rational and intelligent dialect from both sides. Oliver simply presents one argument then makes it seem like anyone who holds the opposing idea is clearly an idiot— without presenting a single argument backed up by fact. Hope to see him, and all of his ilk, scrubbed from television, as he does nothing but stoke ignorance and hate in a world that is already filled to the brim with it.


                
John Oliver is the unfunny current year guy who does 20 second rants. Then repeats his act for 20 minutes, he attempts to display a form cultural Marxist political view that is common place on the left today. There are the oppressors and victims, if you are a woman or not white you somehow being oppressed by a system that is full of institutional racism. It gets boring quickly, it might be entertaining for SJWs who have been lobotomised.John Oliver has decided that it is his mission to attack the next President of the United States Donald Trump. Sad really, John Oliver has become a meme on the internet, Current Year Guy. A lot of conservatives tuned in after the presidential election to receive their free intake of salt.They found a sad discredited man, continuing with a discredited progressive movement. Comedy Central have moved pretty far left, they may have cancelled shows such as Larry Wilmore's show which was trash. I bet this is the next one.


                
This show suffers from the same syndrome that affects our increasingly narcissistic society overall, and that is the tendency to believe that your very blatant, extreme political bias is not bias at all, but based in "objective scientific fact". As if it's been proved by science that we should all be liberals. Liberals always do this - they believe that all of their super biased political opinions aren't actually political opinions - but fact-based conclusions informed by science. As a result of this, they constantly stick science where it doesn't belong, and start claiming that science can answer questions like "how should I live my life" "should I respect my elders?" "should I tell the truth"? etc. More and more, young people are starting to think that spiritual questions like this are the domain of science, and as a result of this, they come to believe that their personal take on such questions isn't a personal value judgment, but a scientific conclusions that only religious conservatives and science-deniers could possibly disagree with. The fake news and spin in this show are so blatant that it's honestly worse than Soviet-Style propaganda - it's Soviet-style propaganda with an arrogant, narcissistic smirk. You know, that smirk that says "everything I say is based in objective fact, and the only people who could possibly disagree with it are the type who believe dinosaurs used to wear saddles". Almost every single thing Oliver says is either a lie, or spin, or an attempt to re-frame the entire issue with sleight-of-hand rhetoric.


                
While his writers can be very witty, he in general is everything wrong with American television. He pushes his narrative so hard its pathetic, and panders to publications like NYT, Washington Post, and CNN, saying they are the only honorable journalists left, while at the same time blaming the media for Trump losing, DESPITE him being part of that same media.Media comedic journalists should have the decency to report facts, and be unbiased. Oliver does neither. He makes an outrageous claim that cannot be backed up, then makes a witty joke to make people laugh, so they think he made a legitimate claim.I had respect for him when he exposed issues such as the pharmaceutical sales rep industry, but him being so shamelessly against Trump, to me, is unacceptable.


                
There have been a lot of comparisons to the Daily Show so I decided to point out some important distinctions. Aside from what one can only consider Jon Stewart's showbiz fatigue, there are two glaring differences between the Daily Show and Last Week Tonight.First, Last Week Tonight is not only fresher, younger, and therefore has more to prove (and has been successful so far), but perhaps most importantly its on HBO. At first the difference didn't really strike me, then they did a long segment on Comcast and Time Warner Cable that was not only eye-opening in an investigative manner, but is a subject you would NEVER see on the Daily Show, probably because it is ultimately a subsidiary of a subsidiary of one of those two companies.Secondly, and perhaps less importantly, Last Week Tonight is not, like its title suggests, a weekly show. Just look at its episode air dates. I'm not sure why so much time goes on between two episodes, but as long as they keep up what they've done so far I'm looking forward to it.Primarily I'm excited to see a comedy news anchor go after the things that have been off-limits for comedy central personas due to their network status.


                
How can this be called news? Its an hour of a comedian talking about stuff that is not news but happened days, weeks, or sometimes even months ago and puts a left wing spin on it. This is not news, everyone I know that watches this show is misinformed and has no idea whats actually going on. Yes, hes funny but he makes his viewers ignorant. News is CNN, MSNBC, Washington post, wall street journal. They actually go out and do their own investigating. John Oliver watches news and takes what he heard, twists it into left wing garbage and talks about it for an hour. This show is the reason why millenials think Trump says things like all Mexicans are rapists. John Oliver watches the news, sees trump say there was a stat that said a lot of the illegal immigrants from Mexico are rapists, and puts in his show that trump says all Mexicans are rapists. Or he calls a woman ugly, which he has done to several men, and Oliver says Trumps a sexist bigot who hates women. Its just ridiculous. I hear people say they watch this because he is funny and gives his opinion. What, are you not smart enough to form your own opinions when given facts? Me being a millennial, I am worried when I grow up I'm not going to have news, just these left wing talk shows. Please watch actual news, then watch John Oliver. You will realize how he has been brainwashing you into thinking what he believes.


                
I think the most important way to describe the emergence of Last Week Tonight (LWT) is to characterize how it alters the progressive comedy news ecosystem.Here's my take, in a nutshell: The Daily Show (TDS) and The Colbert Report (TCR) do what they do and do it fairly well... and yet, LWT shows that a niche remains, and it can be summed up in these two points: 1) LWT shows that it's possible to dispense with the pop culture marketing accretion disk that has come to sort of weigh down TDS. I'm referring to the fact that, a) tho he still can "bite", Jon has become noticeably saddled with too much "lite" content--occasional bits involving current events that really don't have much relevance to the concerns of progressive political folk, and b) the occasional kowtow to absolute dawg flicks of Hollywood "hot properties". Oliver shows that you can resolutely dispense with this and still be total laff riot! He has put the lie to the assumptions of the suits that inflict their marketing-think on TDS.And, 2) Oliver has put a fresh and long-overdue "world news" spin on the structure of his show. In fact (am I hallucinating?), it appears that TDS has, of late, responded to Oliver's spin, and has been injecting a little more global perspective into his content... too little, too late?Note that I haven't mentioned TCR; and that's because, relatively speaking, it inhabits a separate space from both TDS and LWT.Anyway, the crux, from my perspective, is that it appears Oliver found that "grail"; a portal to another media political content space which is exciting, while amazingly failing to be redundant! A tall order, but he fills it!Add to this the arguable assessment that, while his first few episodes seemed to be struggling to get airborne, it's safe to say he is now properly aloft. Congrats! As long as Oliver keeps running as fast as he can to stay in one place (a la Carroll; and apologies for the mixed metaphor), he should continue to deliver a quality product.


                
I was a big fan of John Oliver on The Daily Show and, at least for season one of Last Week Tonight, I remained a big fan. I expected that with the relaxed language filter on HBO the dialog might be a bit more, shall we say, salty, and in season one the f-bomb was dropped more or less appropriately. But it seems that in season two, and even more in season three, the "colourful metaphors" are being used more and more frequently. And it seems they are being used with the attitude that "well, we have an unlimited supply of f-bombs so let's use as many as we can."Season 3 episode 4 was the worst yet. Was it really necessary to say that dinosaurs didn't reproduce on Noah's Ark because "nobody f**ks on a cruise"? Or to have an extended segment with newscasters (and I use the term loosely) using euphemisms, with big block-letter overlays stating "HE/SHE MEANS F**KING"?It's one thing when Samantha Bee responds to Hillary Clinton's comment about how she "wouldn't have believed two years ago that she'd be running for president" with a deservedly sarcastic "oh f**k off". It's another entirely when John Oliver interrupts the flow of an otherwise brilliant op-ed with crude comments aimed at the more juvenile audience members. Here's a clip of the Republican Debate and now here's a video of two turtles f**king. If the content were a little less salty (I allow that some profanity is warranted) I would still rate his show a 9. But with the increase in crude metaphors and pointless peppering of the f- bomb I can't rate him (currently) as more than a 4.


                
Oliver will make some good points from time to time, and when the show first started he spoke about injustice and the like and I found him entertaining. After 4 shows I was done!! I'm tired of the typical cliche' "trash the president" rhetoric. I find it extra insulting to have to listen to a Brit or anyone not from this country thrashing our president and our government. I just want him to GO HOME at that point. And it seemed he opened EVERY show like that, or made it his main theme. I say, go back to Great Britain and trash your own country.


                
