I've been watching the show since the beginning, and it continued to do a good job at finding stories that are woefully under-reported (if covered at all) and yet still socially relevant. Whether or not you agree with the story of the week or the show's take on it, it is important to get information out there and bring these issues into the spotlight. If you have trouble taking the assessment provided by the show you can always follow it up with some more research (hopefully from reliable sources). The only issue that I have with the show (particularly this season) is when John Oliver goes off on one of his feigned outrage bits. It is not that I dislike this type of bit particularly, but most of them are simply not funny and the audience reaction seems to confirm this. Yet, he doubles down and sometimes triples down on the same punchline that bombed the first time.
I do find him to have a good wit and be funny in unscripted settings, but I think that his insistence that what he says is hilarious and we just don't get the joke discouraging. I hope that the show continues and improves, as humor in politics is sorely needed.


                
This guy, John Oliver, is seriously brilliant! He is the best thing to happen to the American TV after Jon Stewart. I've never been a die-hard fan of TV series or talk-shows, rather only occasionally watching some of them here and there. But after I watched one or two episodes of John Oliver's Last Week Tonight last year, I was addicted to watch it every single week until now, and I sure will never stop following the show. It is unbelievably entertaining, funny, as well as being highly enlightening and sharp about the world's recent political, social, and economical issues and news. The only thing that I would want to be changed about this show is its running time which, as of today, is only 30 min every week (this is very annoying!). What I love about this show is that it is actually making changes in the society to some extent. The show tackles issues that are essential to our everyday lives, perhaps not the most obvious problems, but surely really fundamental ones. For a civilian researching aiming to find the source of the problem in certain fields may be a pain in the neck, but every week John does the research and with a funny tone presents it to us. Issues that we should help to raise awareness about or fix in our society in order to live a better life or make life better for those who are unfairly suffering. Additionally, I am very much impressed by John's courage in tackling sort of taboo topics too. For instance, as a dedicated Football fan I have always been irritated and angered about FIFA's corrupt heads who are really overturning 'the beautiful game' into a business of theirs for personal benefits and a source of worldwide power. No one in the world of football really dares to reveal anything about their corruption and the people who are not directly and closely related to football don't really care or are not heard about this issue at all. Yet John Oliver devotes a couple of episodes to this issue and brilliantly gives FIFA a slap in the face, at least, makes a united voice to let the mafia head know that the people who love Football are not stupid and know what he's doing with their favorite sport. This was just an example about Last Week Tonight's versatility of topics and fields that are effectively and impressively undertaken every week.Most TV shows are truly a waste of time, but this show is not. It is a fantastic show to spend some time on and cheerfully want to follow it weekly. I personally always share his videos with my friends and they have started loving it too. Trust me; it's an awesome way to end a week.
