No great offense meant to U.S TV, but most of its shows with hosts trying to make some fun of the recent affairs, politicians and all that jazz are usually crappy and saved by the "bring a funny and/or weird celebrity" bell. Of course, "The Colbert Report" and a few bits of the "Daily Show" are exceptions, but overall one must admit that even these don't really dwell too long in deep waters (meaning grave issues of major concern) like "Last Week Tonight" does. A couple of examples of serious satire from the first episodes are the death penalty, the hypocritical stance of politicians towards people like the Sultan of Brunei or even the fun'n'serious interview of the ex-chief of the NSA. The fact alone that such significant and highly debatable subjects are discussed is a huge win for the show. The end result airing on HBO, comes as no surprise to me. Their only commitment I have seen so far show-wise, is quality and creativity, two traits this show seems to possess.I am taken in by the first three episodes and honestly believe that this show has the potential to stimulate the brain and instigate belly-aching laughs at the same time. Hopefully, the creators will not take steps back, when possible pressure to "lighten" their material may arise - if and when a lot of people start watching the show. {Quick note to those who may feel offended by the approach John Oliver has on the ignorance of some people from the States, when it comes to the rest of the world: If you know your way around a world map and have an idea of what is happening elsewhere in this vast place called Earth, lay back and enjoy the sarcasm. If you can't do that, take the bitter pill.}


                
Everyone probably should care about brutal dictators,net neutrality and,climate change and the scientific method. But we're apathetic(maybe even rightly so) to anything that doesn't entertain us. This show leaves you with no excuse to ignore anything anymore. Even topics as intractable as the death penalty legislation are skillfully delivered to the masses in an appealing way. It takes a stance where overwhelming evidence lies and doesn't pussy out like other news. Last night's castigation of UAE's policy(Qatar) and elaborate 'Fuck you' to Bashar Al-Assad sent me here to mindlessly jab the mouse pointed at the 10 star rating!
First of all, I LOVE JOHN OLIVER. My heart has been so many times taken by different UK comedians that I have lost count. But yes, John Oliver, very nice! And that's why I picked up this show to watch and I can say that I wasn't disappointed, the opposite of that.It's an easy formula: First pick a news topic, usually involving stupid people like US politicians, then make fun of him, and than<U+0085> well that's it. Basic formula which works so damn well, at least for me.But I have to say that sometimes I just don't like the jokes or the way Oliver tells them or acts them. He sometimes gets so charged about some things that I'm almost yelling him through the TV to calm the f**k down. And there sure is some childish jokes and sketches which irritate me, that a bit lowers my rating. But hey, that's Oliver we are talking about so what can I truly expect.Short story even shorter: The show is AMAZING, even more amazing than Spiderman (which by the way I don't like for some reason, maybe because he's wearing a childish costume with a spider drawn on it?, Hell, I got sidetracked again). Sure the irritating and/or childish jokes and sketches make it a bit worse but still: Bloody (Almost) Perfect. Verdict3^2/5+5, very highly recommend this show, one of the best Comedy News/Talk-Shows out there, second just after The Colbert Report. STEEEEVEN! STEEVEN! STEEVEN! Don't get it? That's okay, just go and watch The Colbert Report because it's truly the greatest.


                
John Oliver's show is one in which he intersperses current events with comedy. And to keep your audience laughing while looking at such events today is quite a feat. I've only been familiar with Oliver and his show since March of 2016, so I didn't know about the kerfuffle raised when he was not picked to host The Daily Show after Jon Stewart left. However, I think things turned out for the best because John in a weekly show where he gets to go deeper on issues is probably more useful and funnier than John only getting a monologue and a few one liners in on a nightly show.John rarely has guests of any kind, so he has to be imaginative in his main segment or he risks getting preachy, which usually just consists of John talking to the audience with clips to illustrate the point he is making. Oliver always maintains a sense of humor even when he is discussing some of the more heinous institutions of American life such as the concept of medical debt and medical debt collections. He doesn't sport a condescending smile but rather a "isn't it ridiculous that we do things this way" smile. He is quite unpretentious, describing himself as a "rat faced Brit" and his show as "a petting zoo with a desk".Since I only started watching the show since 2016, John has been blessed with having Donald J. Trump as an unfortunate wealth of comic material. So far in the 15-18 months I have been watching the show, John has highlighted some really oddball third party presidential candidates in 2016, and in the most recent season he transformed his desk into a French Bistro to explain to the French people in their own tongue - while smoking! - why they should not vote for far right wing candidate Marine Le Pen, given a new train set to a local news show in Scranton - John is somewhat obsessed with local US news programs, and traveled to Pennsylvania to buy five wax figures of presidents from a presidential wax museum that was closing, one of them being Warren G. Harding. He then proceeded to show a trailer of a movie entitled "Harding" that could be made if one had access to a wax figure of the president, which his show did. It was actually the only trailer I've seen in the past two years that made me want to buy a movie ticket - and the film doesn't even exist! Highly recommended if you want to see some horrifying things about American political and economic trends that you will definitely not see on the 24 hour news cycle, and get some creative laughs to somewhat counteract that horror. Highly recommended.


                
Get on this folks. This is the "shiznit." It is honest. It is considered. It is informative. It is not Fox "News." Yes, the word "News" was used in that last sentence, also with the word "Fox," but we all know that Fox "News" doesn't actually have any news. Nothing new there.Moving on, if you like Stephen Colbert (either of them), Jon Stewart, or perhaps even Bill O'Reilly (? - I'm not his biggest fan), then you'll love this fellow. He brings with him to the news desk the news. A tautology you say? No. Of course not. Just ask Fox "News" if they've ever reported on the news. Silence is all you'll hear from them.Anyway, it's worth the watch. Hell, even the binge watch.


                
HBO's had quite the renaissance since the 2000s: with shows the likes of The Sopranos, Band of Brothers, True Blood, Boardwalk Empire, Game of Thrones, True Detective, The Wire, WestWorld and Last Week Tonight With John Oliver. All these shows are masterpieces in television-culture and have become staples in American entertainment. John Oliver is a nice and more uniquely contemporary addition to those shows in that it's a talk-show that tackles things which the modern world finds confronting: and shows us the funny side of it all, and easing our collective pain.Since 2017, specifically since Donald 'Grab 'em by the Pussy' Trump became President, John Oliver has been doing beautiful and 110% true fact-attacks on Trump and his supporters, ranging from Steve Bannon, David Duke, Alex Jones and many others. And even though these segments cover modern events, they're done in a way that can be told as a story which can still be seen as interesting and entertaining down the track. We ALL have a voice and should NEVER do the hateful things of the people John Oliver is rightfully chastising.This show is a classic and as long as there's an imbalance in modern politics, John Oliver will be there to adjust the scales making sure everyone has the same amount of social power regardless of who they are or where they come from.


                
I was never really into John Stewart of Stephen Colbert (nothing against those guys, I just never got around to watching the Daily Show or the Colbert Report) but my best friend recommended this show to me. Getting a different take on the news is pretty interesting and despite my initial reservations, I found myself binge watching episode after episode. The only place I was really familiar with John Oliver was his relatively short stint on Community. But I think he does a great job pulling double duty in Last Week Tonight. He gives insightful exposition on serious topics yet has to keep the audience engaged by trying to make them laugh. Sure, he borders on mugging at the camera during certain skits but this is a job that requires he walk a very fine line and I think he pulls it off. He's really the only cast member but a wide variety of celebrities cameo in his skits to keep things fresh (e.g. Nick Offerman, Keegan Michael-Key, Jeff Goldblum and Seth Rogen).This is a property where it would be hard to sway someone's opinion on it by just typing up a review. This show has definitive bias and if you don't fall within the target demographic, you'll quickly switch this off. But that shouldn't diminish the fact that this show does a great job helping people grasp important subjects that they probably should be paying more attention to. I laugh at almost every episode I watch and they pick from a wide range of topics to cover. They do the obvious subjects (President Elect Donald Trump is skewered on a regular basis) but they open people's eyes to problems that you don't encounter everyday (two of my favourite episodes covered food waste and mandatory minimum laws for drug offenders).At minimum this show is consistently entertaining and during certain episodes it can actually be pretty affecting. It means something that I still really like this show when Oliver is actually pretty critical of Canada on a constant basis. If you lean the way politically that Oliver and his crew do, this could end up being you're new favourite show. If you don't fit in that category, its best to skip this and go whine about it on your preferred social media website.


                
It seems that when disillusioned by mainstream News, a Broadcast Journalist picks up the microphone and lashes out at the system without losing his wits, gives us something pristine and real.Issues pertaining to human suffering are ubiquitous and exist in somewhat similar fashion throughout the globe. That is another reason to like and appreciate Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. The primary reason is the sheer wit, sensibility, in-depth reportage of issues without making it drab for the ordinary viewers. John Oliver is an honest fellow with a remarkable eye for issues swept under the rug. Makes you wish that real news was this thorough in their investigation or unbiased.No wonder such a show was only possible in HBO, which is synonymous with quality content and freedom of expression.Yes, for many across the globe John Oliver may appear as another one of those biased liberals who take on capitalism and talk idealism, but have no idea of the ground reality. I would just like to say digest and move on, it is a comedy show after all.


                
