Since this was so highly rated and acclaimed on IMDb, I thought I would give it a try. I really can not figure out what this show has got going for it. I stuck with it for a while on the assumption that it had hidden depths, but i could not find them.Maybe I am just shallow, and I can not see past the lazy animation, the grating vocalisation and juvenile plot lines. I have watched most of the Top 30 rated TV shows on IMDb, and totally get why they deserve their 9.x ratings.Not this one.


                
It was good to watch Rick & Morty for passing some time. it's a good comedy show but OMG! 9.4 for this?! Are people crazy?! This show has one of the most awful character development ever! Rick is a SELF ACCLAIMED "Most genius man in the whole Universe" who has no feelings for anything. he's ready to kill anyone because he thinks life is pointless and tries to shove his opinions down into everybody's throat. I didn't like the characters too, they are somewhat interesting in a funny way but no, they are not at all likable.It's unfair when a new show like Rick & Morty steals Avatar's #7 spot. Rick and Morty is funny but it clearly isn't the best cartoon ever made. Its animation is awful, character development sucks, Science used is Zero, it's all about sex jokes, burping, drinking and telling everybody that killing is okay because Life is pointless. Marvelous! It's like Humanity is headed in the right direction. Just f*cking kill each other because "Rick", the self claimed "Most genius man in the universe" says so. It's funny how redditors think that Rick & Morty jokes are "deep" and "philosophical"Can't blame them because Rick and Morty needs a HIGH IQ of 12 points to be watched and understood properly.


                
I don't understand how this has a high rating and how everyone/pre teen morons think they are smart by watching this. My iq is so high..... wait.. my iq is so high. Animation good but the subtext or language in all is fairly revolting morality


                
Here are the reasons Rick and Morty is one of the worst shows on TV right now.First off, the "comedy". If you market your show as a "comedy", you should at least have funny jokes. Is an old man belching and abusing his grandson and a teenager stammering really that funny? Maybe it's the juvenile dick and fart jokes that are made every five seconds. Is it because there are pop culture references? Pop culture references don't make something good. Even if you get the references being made, that's still no excuse to give something a pass because it's too lazy to come up with its own jokes so it references something that's already been made and hopes the audience gets the reference. The show's target audience isn't even old enough to get the references, so why do they even bother anyway?This brings me to another point. From what I've heard, a large portion of the show is improvised, to the point where the show's writers work the episodes' scripts around it. Improvisation is not only something that is better in small doses but also really, REALLY hard to get people laughing while doing it. If you're someone like Robin Williams (R.I.P.), then you can do that with no problems (i.e. Aladdin). The problem is that Justin Roiland, who voices both of the titular characters, is not good enough. The fact that the script is worked around his... let's just say lackluster improv only serves to bring down what should be a really funny episode. There are two episodes that are almost entirely improv, and they are among the least funny episodes of the show I've watched.Second, the show has horrendous character design. Each and every (human) character has inhumanly skinny torsos and large heads, I assume because none of them properly neotenized. The alien characters have varying designs, but there is so much variety that it seems like the show's creators wanted to put "weird" creatures into the show just for the weirdness value.Third, the show tries to be "edgy" by being an existentialist drama, but it just comes off as being preachy and stupid. Now, I'm not saying that existentialist dramas can't be good; in fact, when they're done right, they can really make you think. Rick and Morty doesn't do that. Whenever it's done, I'm always reminded of the end of every modern Family Guy episode where one of the characters gives a big, heartfelt speech acknowledging their mistakes before being welcomed back into the family so that they can repeat the process next week.I usually try not to judge the quality of a series based on its fanbase, but, by GOD, the Rick and Morty fanbase is giving the Steven Universe fanbase a run for its money. The Rick and Morty fanbase only exists to spout out the trite and unfunny quotes that come from the show en masse and on repeat like a broken record. A good portion of them also treat Rick and Morty like it's some god-tier show and act all high and mighty towards anyone that doesn't watch it, and wonder if there's something wrong with you if you don't like it.It's hard not to notice the similarities between this show and Futurama, which also had a sci-fi theme and plenty of nerdy stuff while still managing to be both hilarious and heartwarming. I mean, who DIDN'T cry at the episode about Fry's dog?As I'm writing this, I came up with a theory for why this show is so popular. It's because it's an adult swim show. Now, anyone who's familiar with adult swim knows that many of its shows are stinkers. It's not like Rick and Morty is up against stiff competition when compared to other adult swim programs like Mr. Pickles, Robot Chicken, Squidbillies, and Your Pretty Face is Going to Hell.Now, there are some good things about the show. The animation is clean and consistent (but that doesn't mean that I like the character design, because, as I mentioned earlier, I don't). Chris Parnell does a good job of playing his character from Archer. There was one joke in the episode where dogs take over the world that made me laugh, but, looking back on it, it's not really that funny of a joke. But believe me when I say that the negatives far outweigh the positives.I've watched about ten episodes of this show. Those ten episodes were all I needed in order to stay away from it. Please, do yourself a favor and never watch it, ever.


                
I don't get the humor at all in this show. I have heard some many people reference "pickle rock" and it's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. This show seems to be meant for the brain dead and extremely uneducated.


                
I was hooked much like everybody else during the first season, and was amazed at the fact that, for once, there's a show that's not pushing a PC agenda or narrative, there's a family thats more-or-less a good family. In any other show it's apparently a trend to antagonize people in the family (especially the wife and husband, while pandering to women and turning the husband into an unreasonable asshole while having a whole cringy "you go girl" undertone towards the wife).Well, that sure changed in season two, where near the end the father of the family turned into a punching bag and a heartless idiot to for no entertaining or humorous purpose. Jobless and completely unlike a real person despite obvious attempts at trying to give all characters, including him, a touch of humanity in previous episodes. And much like any other show that panders to SJW's and PC culture, when it comes to violence and insults, it's mostly happening to men, while female characters can be complete assholes but are always magically forgiven and get no repercussions for their actions.Despite the utterly disappointing shift in direction during the second season, I enjoyed the show's nonchalant style of voice acting and colourful visuals, as well as creative plots. I'd hate to see another promising show go down the path of every other similar "adult cartoon show" ever, such as Family Guy and South Park which were also edgy, different and neutral but eventually became a bunch of liberal / PC crap that only dares to portray male characters baldy, predictably, just to avoid offending anyone else. Because as we know - in Hollywood only men can be portrayed badly and can be hurt and killed.


                
Don't get me wrong when I say I really enjoy Rick and Morty. The humor has always been dark without being downright horrifying. The characters are interesting and the plot of each episode is entertaining to say the least. Unfortunately I cannot rate it highly because of the 3rd season. I think I can confidently say the show needs to end as soon as possible. Not only are the episodes themselves boring (when they're not being traumatizing) but every single character has now become a total asshole. I've mainly just been watching pirated episodes on YouTube because I can't be bothered checking Netflix to see if Season 3 is being added but from the episodes I have watched they have been not entertaining and overly sadistic *without* being funny at all. Even in its darkest moments the first 2 seasons never failed to at least incite a chuckle. Maybe the edgy and controversial humor has simply lost its punch after 2 seasons or the writers have just decided to try to be as controversial as possible simply for the sake of it. Either way it makes for a bland episodes of boring plots and nauseating, senseless violence. Personally I don't find Rick blowing everyone's brains out and Morty becoming the biggest asshole I think it possible entertainment. (Seriously, I hate Morty at this point. His character has become a whiny, selfish and frustrating f***wad) The writers seem to have lost their touch. They cannot maintain their skill of being disgusting or overly violent while still being funny.


                
This show is the worst thing that I have ever seen and I have no idea how this show, not only has a high rating, but KEEPS GETTING RENEWED!!!!!!!!!!! And, fun fact, it is this show that make me wish I could give zero or negtive star ratings. So honestly if you want to be entertained, do NOT watch this show.


                
I'm not gonna make a TLDR text, in fact, there is only one thing to say about the sow: "It's really bad".Jokes are not funny, plots are ridiculous, characters are far from being "lovable", etc. etc. You name it. To watch this show it's a huge waste of time.I'm quite sure someone said "hey, let's make a copy of "Adventure Time" for adults, with sex, offense words and mature plots", and to be honest, the idea can be good, but it seems like the show only got half the effort to make a good show, and in some point the creators though "ok, we are tired of this show, let's send what we've got to the studio and focus on to another project".There are a lot of adult cartoon shows way more better than Rick and Morty. In fact, there are few cartoon shows worst than Rick and Morty.


                
*After reading some of the other reviews* I've found a disturbing trend of the exact same sentences, paragraphs, and even entire reviews being repotsed under users with only 1 review. These are all stating "brilliant" and "best show ever", and are all 10/10 rated. It's obvious now why this show has such a high rating, it's fake!This show is on par with South Park in terms of sheer stupidity. But, while South Park was able to ocassionally make poignant social commentary, any semblance of intelligence or skill is completely disolved. A temporary cultural phenomenon that, once jaded, is thrown to the floor and trampled as one of the worst, most inane shows ever made. I cannot wait for this day, when Rick and Morty is considered with the same lack of respect that South Park now receives.Unfortunately, the majority of people apparently are complete idiots, and find this show wildly entertaining. This is the same culture that elected Trump president, and the same culture that is often made fun of by the rest of the world as the dumbest people alive. This show proves the point -- Americans think fart and burp jokes are the epitome of comedy.Repeatedly incredibly sexist, including a world of "women only" that, you guessed it, portrays every tired stereotype from the 1950's that you've seen, and recoiled at dozens of times before.The creator actually had to publicly address why his moronic, sexist, homophobic show has such an issue with its moronic, sexist, homophobic fan-base. I wonder why?!You have to be partially brain-dead to enjoy programming like this.


                
I don't know who is writing this stuff(past few episodes), but it certainly is not the same quality of the first couple of seasons. You know we have enough bad things in life to give attention to, but deciding to have Beth & Jerry divorce and show how it affects the kids was totally unnecessary, we watch to escape reality, yet you just smack us in the face with it. You would have been much better off just letting Beth have an affair.. You already primed the audience for it with several subtle hints over the past few seasons, but instead you took a right turn to shove our face in real life of divorce. Great job, making kids who watch your show feel bad about themselves and their situation. Cartoons are supposed to be escapism....not smakinyourfacism ! My wife and I have watched your show from day one, and certainly feel this season is just not up to snuff...and you have way too much emphasis on empowering women with no rhyme or reason and on top of it you have a high school underage female acting like a slut with aliens..great job...not ! We may or may not watch any further, it no longer is "Must See TV" on a Sunday nite....you guys have just ruined the franchise..time to go back to what made you good from the first episode. And really, Pickle Rick ???


                
Originally Rick and Morty was just a stupid short with some stupid potty humor and even pedophilia as Rick makes Morty suck his dick and it's not censored but some people found it funny for whatever reason. It had some poor animation quality and was utterly pointless, but then adult swim decided to make the pointless short into a pointless show but this time Morty isn't sucking Rick's dick probably because most people don't find pedophilia funny. Making a short that was designed to be stupid and pointless into a show with an actual plot is just insulting as we're now meant to take some of the emotional parts of the series seriously instead of laughable. The show tries to parody popular movies and video games such as The Purge and fails miserably as if they actually like the garbage they're parodying and not actually making fun of a stupid movie or anything else but relishing in the stupidity. There's also an episode where rick and the older sister (whatsherface) become sjw bros and beat someone up for not liking gays "You better respect minorities or we'll beat you up bro" to paraphrase a line. And wanting to beat someone up because they don't agree with you makes you the bigot moron. Don't know the definition of bigot well here it is:big·ot '/big<U+0259>t/ noun a person who is intolerant toward those holding different opinions.So yeah if can't tolerate someone for not agreeing with you that makes you the bigot you hypocrite. So anyway enough about the sjw aspect of the show lets discuss something else like the godawful TV show parody episodes where they make stupid parodies of TV shows not even the fans like as evidence by those episodes having the lowest ratings of the series. You want to watch a good adult swim show that has a homosexual character but isn't bigoted toward people who don't like gays as in they won't murder them for it, then go watch the venture brothers it's a lot funnier than Rick and Morty and has a better plot and characters too, and the dad never makes either his sons suck his dick so there's that too, so A+ for no pedophilia. Rick and Morty get an F- for crappy episodes like interdimensional cable which is just bad improv jokes and mediocre. Then there's look who's purging which basically references one the worst horror movies ever made, the purge obviously, its just stupid and annoying and seems to praise the concept but they said titanic sucked at the end of season 1 like they only dislike some bad movie hypocrites. Then there's get swchifty or however you spell it which is all the horrible pop music in world crammed into 23 minutes. I've said enough Rick and Morty gets 1/10, F-, Rotten etc.


                
so stupid old man cant speak right and his stupid grandson who only say "oh cheese" almost every sentence its not fair that its 9,4 and the great game of thrones has 9,5 its so stupid it should be 7,6 or 8 at max its just SO stupid, I mean for love sake this show its not so great and other animation shows deserve better rates than that Rick and Marty blah blah blah show no hates please XD


                
Just because Beavis and Butthead sold well, just because South Park is so popular does not mean that animation has to be ugly to make money. Actually the ugliness was a serious drawback for which the authors compensated more than enough. But you have to have something. And this animation does not have anything. Boring in an unpleasant way.


                
This show is not deep or funny and I don't know why people enjoy it so much.


                
Not subtle. Not smart. Makes poor use of every cliche in the book. There were a few good jokes but overall is a big disappointment. Rick is a big Mary Sue and the rest of the family is just kind of...there.


                
