If you ask a person who likes this show how it is, usually they will act like it is the almighty golden gem of animation, yet what I see in this show is a cross between Family Guy and the worst episodes of Futurama. If you are expecting a smart animated show which will constantly find new ways to make it's audience laugh, forget about it, it is gross out humour and mostly dumb jokes.The show is about an elderly alcoholic mad scientist named Rick and one of the most generic characters ever which is his grandson Morty, the show is about their adventures through space and time and different dimensions. This could have been a good set-up, but it gets wasted on so much gross out humour or bland and downright unlikable characters. The side plots are usually about the rest of the family, who like Morty are just generic and boring and usually unlikable, their plots just revolve around them interact with one of Rick's creations. The rest of the family consist of Jerry and Beth the parents of Morty who are not even the slightest bit memorable and then you have the daughter Summer who could easily be replaced with a teenage girl off any comedy film that does not try.If you like Community or Family Guy this is a high chance you will like this, otherwise we are getting to the point where there are so many good animated shows out there, even some kids shows use a higher quality of humour then this and balance a good story with good humour.If you want a good smart animated show give Gravity Falls a try, but if you do like this show it's great that it brings joy to others and remember this has been my opinion. Have a good one :)


                
This type of obnoxious and irritating humor doesn't deserve the rating it has. I do not understand how anyone can put them through watching more than five minutes of this waste of time, seriously. This show is a piece of filth and appeals to pieces of filth. The dadaist looking animation in this show gives me a migraine headache and it saddens me to know that it is popular for no justifiable reason. What a stinking pile of garbage, it is better than a lot of other Adult Swim shows, but still contains an overload of random dumb hostility and reasonless offensiveness that makes no sense and has no context but to appeal to the immature and unintelligent.
The show is so fun( 3rd season and half 2nd season only), the show is funny and the animation is good and everything but the"the least thing you can do summer is to put the burka and be ashamed of your gender" and " if anything am so supportive to israel" is telling me everything about this show and my relegion and it's too bad because i liked the show a lot, but my relegion is so important to me


                
