Sums it all up right there.It's good, not life changing.It's not The Simpsons, not South Park, not Futurama, not American Dad, not Archer, etc etc etc. But it's fairly good overall (for an Adult Swim show) Shame about its embarrassing "hardcore" fanbase and all the beyond pathetic stuff they're constantly doing which is documented all over the internet.7/10


                
For years I would catch this show every once in awhile and never understood what was going on. Are they related? Why is the kid named Morty? So I started watching them in order from the beginning and the only thing I have learned is that Rick is Morty's grandfather. There's literally no back story. But that doesn't seem to hurt the show because it's still really good. Give it a chance.


                
Having seen the two first seasons of Rick and Morty, I have to say I am left disappointed. This isn't to say that the show is outright bad, or even mediocre, but it could be so much better. When Rick and Morty get it right, they get it very right. Some episodes are brilliant, some scenes are very memorable. Yet, plenty of other scenes fall painfully flat. The best attribute of the show is its colorful imagination and ability to do comedic escalation brilliantly. Some of the stories in Rick and Morty are awesome: weird as hell, funny, creepy, humane and unpredictable. The show is at its best when its characters go on an adventure, with an insane plot device escalating said adventure to comedic effect. The characters are mostly endearing too. After a while you see the familiarity in all the stereotypes they are modeled after, and the show generally does a good job of developing a bit of depth in parallel to the show's main comedic focus. The big problem of the show is that a big part of its jokes are aiming for the lowest common denominator: poop jokes, burp jokes, "oh-my-god-an-old-man-is-cussing" jokes, testicle jokes, pointless gratuitous gore. I mean, the most recurrent joke of the whole show is that one of the titular characters, Rick, burps a lot while he's talking. Yep, I'm serious, and yep it does stop being funny after the first couple times. He also drools a lot and is always drunk. These were kind of amusing the first couple times, but it happens numerous times in every single episode. Besides that, the show writers sometimes are too lazy to think of a wacky story, so they just have entire episodes that are mostly the titular characters zapping through channels of "oh-so-wacky" alien TV. The random humor in those mostly fails - not entirely, of course, hand me a thousand darts and I'll eventually hit a target 50 meters away, doesn't mean I'm good at throwing darts, much less that I have extraordinarily good aim. The humor and its random factor are much better when they come in the middle of an actual story. If I just wanted to watch long sequences of 20-second skits, I wouldn't be watching a television series, I'd be on Youtube. Fundamentally, the problem with this series is that the writers probably aren't sure what makes the series funny. They probably get high a couple days a week, and collect and develop a few wacky ideas, regardless of whether or not they fit within an episode - if they can't fit they'll just do another TV zapping episode, it's alien TV after all, anything can be in there. In conclusion, it is an entertaining show, but stops short from being a great show. Maybe in future seasons it finally focuses its game, and goes for what works, but I doubt it.7/10 - Not great, but it's worth its run-time, especially if you're into this kind of series.


                
I think that it is so overrated, it's just some cartoon that's a bit better than the rest. Yes it is good but you don't need to dress up as a pickle and obsess over it.
It generally puts me off watching this because of how weird most of the fans are, it's just a cartoon calm down. But definitely worth a watch


                
I love the show, I find that it's something like back to the future but with a more twisted Futurama twist. The thing that most irritates me (keep in mind that I am only on season 1 on Netflix) is that Rick is constantly burping. It gets old fast and that it becomes irritating after binge watching the entire season. He also drools?? I love the characters but can we get Rick to burp and drool less. I find that the character is super interesting but that those features actually kill his character and do not add to his eccentric characteristics. Cut back on the amount and I am certain that it will add more to him then take away. Overall, great show, fun and very entertaining. Not even sure if it's even being made anymore to be honest.


                
It's a good show, it's funny. But I have to admit that I didn't like the newest season as much as the others. Season 1 and 2 were funny and simple, but it gets too complex in season 3


                
Well as a big fan of Animation sitcoms from early Simpsons, this show started very great at first season then it became much better and mature in season two. after writers have found that they've established the characters, they started season 3 with confidence depended on characters instead of the story, for example, rick from being a hero and superhero in first two seasons, became a God in season three, which I have find it kinda not amazing. I loved the Rick which could be funny and makes mistakes once in a while instead of being PERFECT in adventures. In episode which Rick became a Pickle - although I know/love the animation's fantasies (which we watch them for this!)- there is no deep story, Rick became an assassin from a pickle without showing any reasonable or stupid ways or ideas, He Just BECOME. I think the writers are losing their way in episode three... If you want to enjoy a show with craziness, fantasy and GOOD DEEP STORY, I recommend you watch "Gravity Falls"... no doubt one of the best of all time.


                
7/10 It could have got higher but hey, nothing's perfect.
I'm a long time reader of SF and related genres and for this to be worth rating, it's gotta be seriously good.
Bad stuff - sometimes you see the plot being forced, Good stuff - it's a lotta fun. The best bit is there's the big underlying theme. That alone is worth one additional mark. The following is cribbed from my tparchie word press blog with images and the odd cuss word redacted.What's it about? If you've watched you don't need to know but for those that haven't (take a deep breath)..................... a comic, adult themed, sometimes gross Science Fiction romp through space, time alternate realities and dimensions, peppered with the suburban frailties of Morty's family. Morty is Rick's grandson and the rest of the family are parents: Beth (a horse surgeon) & Jerry (unemployed), and Summer, Morty's sister. Beth is Rick's daughter. Rick moved in with them two years ago and has since taken Morty on many adventures, turning his life upside down. Okay Rick's a (profanity redacted) of the highest (inter-dimensional) order... but he does know what's going, on the other hand Morty is an unsure, self-conscious pubescent 14 year old. Mental note: just how does Rick know a crisis is brewing before he hooks Morty out of class?
Friends bugged me about Rick and Morty for years; I said I'd check it out when the time was ripe. That time eventually came and at the beginning of November 2018. I binge watched Netflix over a Sunday / Monday / Tuesday evening, letting it soak in.So let's begin at the end: The last episode sees a new, more assertive Morty, a kind of seen it all, know what's coming Morty who's gonna make decisions that'll last to the end of the series. And as the current series is series 3 and as this episode is the last in series 3, this new self-confident Morty is actually the wrap up tidyism just in case there's no series 4.Will this new, maturer Morty make the transition to the adventures being brewed up by Vanity Card?¹ Could do. No reason why nor. On the other hand an age 14, unsure teenage sidekick means more tension / chance for goofy, sidekick misunderstandings / panic attacks / fear of not doing the right thing / embarrassed viewer amusement at younger self.In short episode 10, season 3 is no series wrap-up, it's a send-off to be unpicked later at leisure.Mental notes:Inter-dimensional synchronicity might mean all Mortys leave Rick and for all Ricks to accept this, and Morty may be relying on it. It's a pipe dream - there's no happy ever after, just a fight to survive and be top-dog in a vengeance driven multiverse. Has to mean the final cabin scene in s3 e10 is a staging post.Rick rarely let's on how he's so clued up on the next mission - sure he's got a Garage-Lab / Secure Facility / Wiped Memories of Morty Room (just how much does Summer know?) / Other sub-basement areas that probably dwarf Beth & Jerry's house, this is a gigantic Rick control centre but the follow through still has to be: who gets a crisis message to Rick and how does it arrive?Then there's the question of just how long Rick and Morty have been bunking off on adventures. That's a pretty full room of wiped memories. I could snap piccies of the room and do the math but hey! let's leave something for others to do. Okay I estimate at least 640 -now compare that to the length of time Rick has been in Beth (and Jerry's) house.My guess is there'll be a variety of methods of clueing up on the next adventure / mission: pan-dimensional post / dramatic notes / a catastrophic event-tremor chart...Morty never grows. Continuity isn't King in the show despite the story-arcs, and although a continuation of adolescence would logically lead to Big Morty (which would deliver laughs) these would be different. Big Morty might want to be a hero (all those self-assertive body changes kicking in) and end up a clumsy lummox. That'd work and it'd take down the small, recently (that's the final s3 episode) self-confident Morty - do clumsy things = set pride for a fall - but there's tons of small Morty stuff to do - Has Rick really been back two years in Beth & Jerry's house because there's surely a whole load of wiped Morty memory vials. Maybe Rick made grandfatherly visits before he moved back in.So Continuity isn't King because comedy doesn't need it, it's a drag, yet we see it creeping in. Something to do with huge Sci-Fi (always hated that halfway acronym) concepts. Once you get a universe to play in, you're not just God, you also get to do some exploring, then you things in their proper place and you start to organise. The stories begin to fit because there's an ultimate plot thread - a prize. Is it something Rick wants, but he's too anarchic so it's more like something he wants to prevent - or something he can't predict, from left field.Loose plot threads - there's tons of them. What do I like? Hmm-mmm.PoopyButtHole - prime suspect - butt maybbenott as behind the fake memory implant is a device to extrude a new but been there all the time show character. So maybe, just maybe Mr Poopybutthole is the voice of the writers given form and the episode is his introduction to the big time. Interestingly Poopybutthole makes his debut just as Rick zaps the false cousin... random thought time: maybe Rick also gets pleasure from zapping things Jerry likes. Fake pleasant memory implant! Parasite! Naw...Digging into the plot, Beth obsesses on whether she is human and even if she is, whether Rick is even her dad Rick. Rick hails from Earth C-137 and though we never learn which Earth the post Cronenberg episodes occur, it's not outside the framework of the show for his origin to be tallied against the Earth she's actually on. So for the sake of argument: the show Rick is Earth C 137, Cronenberg Earth C 140 (it could be C 137 but as it's never stated, let's be creative) and Beth's Earth could be C135. Confusing? No not really it's just waiting to be spelled out (at ease guys this isn't a demand). All Beth needs to do to get the truth is get Rick to prove it to her - not that this is something he's gonna do.Let's home in on Ultimate Plot Thread. This kicks off when evil Morty conceals himself in the mass Morty rescue in S1 E10 Close Encounters of the Rick Kind. A heck of a lot of Mortys are recued so a good deal of Ricks must have been terminated. Evil Morty has had plenty of time to plan and hasn't put all the eggs in one basket. We see a couple of wires dangling from his eye socket - if this doesn't creep out your conspiracy receptors, where've you been living? This is great - we don't have to expect more because the show isComedy (use a tired, world-weary voice - also see earlier)but it's great... and made greater when Evil Morty makes his pitch in S3 E7 The Ricklantis Mixup.So let's switch back to Close Encounters. Normally a trailing plot thread diminishes to the point of de minimus (always wanted to use that) in comedy. Why? Because it's a joke - duh. In The Ricklantis Mixup it gets a huge refurbish... a face-lift... a bit of polish... whatever - and with a twist of chutzpah, the whole Rick metaverse folds into a new and nastier shape.So: there are lots of Rickless Earths - maybe these Rickless Earths have fake Ricks, or maybe they just get along. C-137 Rick might have been on the run from evil Morty's minions - what if evil Morty is Rick C-137's true Morty? That means Earth C-137 has almost certainly never featured on the show.Scenario: Rick is on the run - evil Morty will track him down instantly if he pops up on C-137. The Council of Ricks probably blame him for training an evil Morty as well as random other misdemeanours threatening all Ricks. They banded together to protect each other from assassination or they could be just jealous. The Council of Ricks was used to take out the Galactic Federation in our (his) dimension. There'll be Galactic Federations in other dimensions but not too many Councils of Rick. In the chaos, evil Morty furthers his plan.Nice.Why does Rick and Morty work? Blame Rick. He's got attitude. He offers an always smart and snappy response plus instant take-downs that, not unsurprisingly, find relevance in this always live, challenging world we've created for our offspring. In this execrable day and age of zero hours minimum wage where the salary sector has been stripped out and pimped abroad, where a crap present is guaranteed to morph into dire future - guaranteed - Rick metaphors to a slap in the face of the few who benefit at the expense of the very many in our real, non-cartoon Earth. It's a switch-off from the crap that we're forced to eat. It works. At a deep, philosophical level, this is coping - it's not managing, it's just coping.So Rick's cynical but is he totally disengaged? Rick's life might revolve around Morty but in Rick Potion #9 - he leaves family behind on heavily mutated Earth - Cronenberg Earth. He needs Morty as camouflage from the Council of Ricks (and maybe evil Morty).I get the feeling we'll be remembering innocent, carefree murder and mayhem of the first three series with a certain childish nostalgia.Keep it coming guysRick and Morty - Netflix in the UK, Adult Swim in the US (for US viewers Netflix is mostly drivel)
¹ Vanity Card - shorthand... (oops ran out of character count)
As of today, Rick and Morty has become one of my favorite shows ever, and while it's not perfect or even the best of this generation, it still holds up to a great level of quallity.Season 1 - 8 out of 10
The first season blasts off the characters, premise, humor and overall style of the show in the first 5 minutes, and it does it amazing; although it is in no way anything we haven't seen before, and while it has the worst episode in the entire show, so baffling infact I want that episode to get removed from the canon, it's still a great start.Best episode: Rick Potion N°9
Worst episode: Interdimensional CableSeason 2 - 8 out of 10
More of it all, and interesting carácter development, but that goes nowhere and it's a shame. Overall another great season.Best episode: The Ricks Must Be Crazy
Worst episode: Interdimensional Cable IISeason 3 - 7 out of 10
The first flop of the series. Season premiere was magnificent, but the next five episodes were pretty mediocre, and some were even bad, and that's a shame, losing the subtlety that characterized the show went lost the first half (mainly because of the introductions of new writers without proper training).The second half was great, with an awful resolution to the main plot in what is an overall good season.Best episode: The Ricklantis Mixup
Worst episode: The Vindicators 3: Return of WorldenderThat's a wrap.
I decided to watch Rick and Morty as it was often bought up by my favourite YouTube gamer Dan Hardcastle, also known as NerdCubed. The show takes generic, predictable Sci-Fi plots and twists them into hilarious, often cringe-worthy stories told through a strangely paced conversation. Some episodes are a bit bland, but the lowest I rated any episode was a five, however quite a few episodes I was almost tempted to rate a ten, but went with a nine. On average, my ratings were a 6.9. The last episode of season two was a real tearjerker. So many feels. All of the characters, be they the main characters of Rick and his grandson Morty, to their family Jerry, Beth and Summer or one liner aliens seen in single episodes, every character has charm and often laugh at loud comments to make. This is a show for people who enjoy witty jokes, sci-fi, animation or are just curious - I can't picture any human or alien who would not laugh at and enjoy Rick and Morty. I can't wait for season three.


                
Don't get me wrong. I do think this show has some amazing plots and episodes, and deals with rather interesting topics at times. The sci-fi factor helps it a lot to be solid and to caught up yout attention, and for me is one of the best things this show has, appart from its constant nihilism.However, I find myself having trouble at emphatising with most of the characters, being Rick the only one of the main 5 that I actually like and the only one I care about. Morty is unverable at best, and extremely whiny, Summer is a cliché and at first i didnt care about her, however may be my second favorite of all the family, Jerry is an ass and Beth well, she gets a little bit more development in season 3, but still tells me nothing. Also some of the episodes are quite bad and extremely irreverent and not in a good way (the worst being the season 3 finale).Despite being an interesting adults show, I think some of its contemporaries offer more deep and interesting stuff (BoJack Horseman is ten times better IMO, and does not get the attention this series has). I honestly rather watch another cartoon before this one. In fact, I ended up watching it because of how popular it was. And i think this show lacks some things other shows have (like as i said before, nice characters).Probably the most overrated adult cartoon of our time. Worth watching? Yeah of course. But still, there are several animated shows that are much better than this one and that do not get half the attention this one has.
