Heads Up: This review is based on the first few episodes of Season 1 only. I was really looking forward to Rick and Morty based on the hilarious teaser and the fact that this is a hand drawn show like older, more classic cartoons. My concern was that it would end up with a weak, poorly written script. That is not the case whatsoever. This show is incredibly original with its writing, characters, style and imagination. Every episode AND joke is completely different from the last, which keeps this show fresh and exciting to watch. While I think Rick (the grandpa) is the funniest, No character is bad. Morty, his dog Snuffles, and even Morty's math teacher all pack in great jokes. The directing is great and the art style and the way it is drawn is really really good. The only problem I have with the show, is that I don't really think they know how to end each episode (so far at least). But, this is truly a breath of fresh air when it comes to comedy, and I think adultswim has a really good show on their hands... 9/10


                
I just finished watching the first three episodes and feel instantly hooked. I have the same feeling I had when I watched Family Guy for the first time, in which I felt like every single character was interesting and was contributing for the series in their own ways. In this show, things that will make you laugh are dark and awkward at times which succeed every time. I haven't found a single bad moment so far in the first three episodes and can't wait to watch the whole thing The first episode was awesome and got me straight to the next. The dog world domination episode is going to be a classic, go watch it. People will remember that episode.


                
The show feels fidgety in the beginning. At first it makes you take a second to get used and into it. But it's as intelligent and hilarious a show as I haven't seen one since a long time! That's what I and hopeful many other viewers are going to realize after a couple of minutes. It'S one of those shows that wouldn't happen to be without Adult Swim. Not exactly a family show. Anyways - this show is brilliant. The humor is not as cheap as in most of the successful cartoons and the show is not as comfortable to watch, but that's one thing that makes it so hilarious. It's really dark sometimes, and the viewer with a good sense of humor will appreciate that. The only thing that might make the show a bit better is that the creators could make the characters a bit better known and thus more likable to the viewer. Like this a plot as in episode 6 (SE1) would work even better. Well, the characters maybe a bit flat still, but the plots and happenings are making all this acceptable. Amazingly funny and thoughtful story line for a 20min cartoon show. The sad part is, that it might not really be for the rank and file and as a result might not last for too long or even be recognized by too many people. I really hope this goes on for a while, though! I love this show - it's great. Keep up the good workPS.: I hope they take one or two scientists on board to help them with Grandpa Rick to keep him on track regarding scientific accuracy. But that'S just a personnel tic of mine...


                
The fascinating thing about "Rick and Morty" is that it manages to be funny, thought-provoking, uplifting, and disturbing at the same time. Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon have appeared to have poured their souls into this show. All of the characters have their share of endearing quirks that is typical of animated comedies like this, but they've gone beyond that convention. Far beyond it. This is one of the only animated comedies I've come across in which the character's personal flaws actually feel genuinely painful. Don't get me wrong, I love comedies like American Dad and Futurama, but there's a certain "sitcom" quality to those shows' conflicts that gives off the impression that everything is just going to be okay after the episode is over. Rick and Morty on the other hand, just feels so much more human. Time and time again the world seems to find itself at threat and the characters appear to deal with it by making things up as they go--just as actual people do. The end result is a show that that feels really easy to empathize with. I also love the fact that the show manages to bring up existential issues on occasion. Sometimes they're subtle and sometimes they're not so subtle, but they're always awesome. I really think its great that a show like this is confronting such issues. The bottom line is that Rick and Morty is a unique piece of animation that deserves all of the attention its getting.
What the... I just can't even comment on this... this was awesome! This is pretty much the bizarre, twisted, psychological equivalent of Back to the Future, pretty much involving science and alternate dimensions, as well as aliens. The one thing it doesn't have is a time machine on wheels. The cartoon came out recently, and all I can say is... s**k it, Family Guy! This is where it's at. Rick is a brilliant yet flawed scientist. Sleazy, ignorant and usually selfish, he tends to take advantage of his insecure and naive, yet mature grandson, Morty. The adventures they embark on are strange enough to provide the show's signature art style. And the animation is pretty great by Adult Swim standards, but reminiscent of The Simpsons and Futurama, only bloodier and often more disturbing. If you like bizarre imagery, you're going to love this. Most episodes are a parody or a pun, but the episodes are no less messed up and absurd. The voices are good, too. Each actor matches the character well. Justin Roiland is no Christopher Lloyd, but with the comedic character of Rick, it's probably better that way. Rick and Morty have a sort of speaking problem, which is either hereditary or just a side effect of Rick's alcoholism. The humor is often clever and original, but the show does have some dramatic and emotional moments. Which brings me to the character development. Rick may be a jerk, but he's not entirely evil. As the series goes on, you can see that deep down, Rick has a soft spot for his grandson, showing him compassion and concern, despite the chaos he puts him through. And the seemingly defenseless Morty can give it his all when it really matters. They could win an Emmy for the tear jerking moments the show has. The most disturbing episode is probably Rick Potion #9. It's the episode when Morty asks Rick to help him get laid with Jessica, but unfortunately, it's flu season, and the potion that Morty uses on her is able to be spread with the flu. Eventually, everyone is obsessed with Morty, except his own family. Worse, Rick, in his attempts to suppress the potion, ends up turning the humans into mutated freaks. Rick and Morty end up traveling to an alternate dimension where the mutants don't exist. And the Rick and Morty of that dimension are horrifically killed, much to the real Morty's shock. Oddly enough, Rick and Morty is one of those recent adult cartoons that manages to be more interesting and fun than others. This show evolved from the TV show "The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti," with the same premise; science-filled adventures featuring a mad scientist and a teenage kid. You know, like Back to the Future? But I totally recommend this, because not only is it one of the coolest adult shows in existence, it's probably the most awesome Adult Swim program you can find, and that's saying a lot. My final rating: a portal gun out of ten; providing one he...double-hockey-stick, of a trip.
Among shows like Family Guy that have some funny jokes irrelevant to the generally overused contexts of each episode and shows like Mr. Pickles that believe it takes nothing but trying too hard to be shocking -- and failing - - to be good, Rick and Morty is easily summed up as the Sci-Fi cousin to South Park -- in that though it has plenty of gallows humor, it is generally funny and has a point (South Park's being to spoof particular aspects of our world in outlandish, perhaps surreal manners and Rick and Morty's being to spoof Sci-Fi tropes and show the contrast of everyday life and Science- Fiction adventures.)Though sometimes you may hear a dialogue and think it sounds off, its almost weird in a systematic sense in that, though lines such as "He died doing what he loves -- being a dumb f***ing rat" in the preview released for Season 3 would feel off, it almost feels intentional. Part of Rick and Morty's charm is the almost improvisational tone behind every line -- where dialogue feels like it was made, partially or wholly, up on the spot based on some episode premise, which makes the dialogue feel more like they're coming from a real person -- of the top of their head, sudden, improvised but not totally sloppy. The voice actors do this because of how they're given a faint idea of what the characters say and they, so to speak, "fill in the blanks."Rick and Morty is overall a good show to go to for interesting Sci-Fi context amalgamated with relevant, funny gallows humor. The juxtaposition between the heavy sci-fi elements and the "everyday" elements are done very well, the story's pacing is also done well. The jokes are all relevant to the plot that's occurring in each episode, and all of the characters -- even the bumbling dad like Jerry -- are done better than you'd expect of a cartoon comedy. The characters are incredibly consistent, especially for the type of show it is -- though Summer does get better after the first few episodes. Development exists despite this consistency, of course. I would definitely recommend this show to anyone with dark humor who appreciates good writing with characters whose realism in how they present dialogue(from improvisation) giving the show a personal tone and interesting contexts. I would also recommend this to fans of shows like Futurama, South Park or Simpsons.


                
Rick and Morty is simply entertaining!Fans of Back to the future or science geeks will love this show!It has smart comedy and is surprisingly emotional at times! The characters are enjoyable and the ideas are for the show are just great!The Animation is great and feels a lot like adventure time!This show is much better than Family guy and American dad. Glad to see an animation show so good that I'll wait every night for the next episode to be released.I recommend this show for everyone! Best show on Adult swim!


                
Even certain episodes from golden era Simpsons and some Family Guy are so good you would be pleased to watch those again, maybe once. But Rick and Morty is on another level, not only above, but also sideways. It is a more complicated show with a much more layered story line and less easy jokes and twists that makes for a second view a must and a third a still funny and interesting experience. What I find stunning is the overall constant level of quality: every single episode is well written and every line is relevant, there are no 'filler' characters and surplus dialogue. The result is a polished, mature show that will not let you down, not once. Being such a defined and peculiar art piece Rick and Morty maybe not for everyone. Would you like high quality comedy based on Lovecraftian cosmic horror, existentialism and rationalism with a hint of surreal realism? You might not until you see this.


                
You read that top line right.Penetrate the surface of it's toilet humour and 'out of this world' characters and creatures and what you are left with is something I feel is the human condition.After watching both seasons, what I see is representations of people as a whole. For example, Rick- the scientist who is barely sane. Beneath his surface you can argue that since he has answered some of life's greatest questions, one being the alien question, he begins to unravel. Although scientists are among the smartest and most respected members of society today, even Rick's genius cannot protect him from his mundane existence.Think of the Morty character now, that is the world- fragile, emotional, a dreamer, predictable. His reactions to the adventures with his grandfather cause more inner conflict as he also begins to unravel, although his grandfathers ease and experience with the world beyond is anchoring- in the same way experience and knowledge is passed down generations, grow in resilience. The Summer character is representative of the NOW generation, born to late to walk on the moon and to early to benefit from the hybridized paths that benefit the new generation. Unwanted, stubborn, angry and popular are all common traits of this generation who always feel as though they are shadowed by the up incoming- hence this characters frustration with the adventures undergone by her brother Morty.Jerry, the classic present day MAN who once had dreams but through decisions in his life led him to his present situation, his disconnection with his own reality making him come across as an idiot when he is really just separated from his family entirely.The Beth character just screams sacrifice that is merged with alcoholism, probably one of the only traits she shares with her father, Rick. Beth is representative of the dreamer, someone who dreamed of a different life but was dealt this hand and accepted it only to become further flawed and not empowered by the return of her father, Rick.With so many traditional stories and human moments being challenged in this animation, it is crazy to assume that it is a 'stupid show'. It's themes are condition challenging, its characters predictable yet whole-heartedly human, its world bizarre.And in its core, it captures the 'How will we react to being alone in our galaxy' perfectly, not with the calm we would think, but outright panic...just like Morty.


                
This show is like the weirdest thing ever. Not as weird as Uncle Grandpa thankfully. It feels kinda like Futurama+South Park but still feels fresh as ever. If you are into adult cartoons there's no reason to miss this. This show is full of heart. Also the characters are just so amazing and different. Plus the guy who created this is the same guy who created Community, Dan Harmon. Its sad that the first season just has 11 episodes. If they keep going on with this kind of concept and create more awesomeness , I believe they can create the Simpsons for a new era. Look forward to Dan Harmon create more bizarre and high concept shows like this. Cant wait for season 2.


                
This is a FANTASTIC show, a real love letter to all things otherworldly. Deranged, morally fluctuating, foulmouthed, alcoholic genius rick Sanchez, and his sweet, naive, ambiguously autistic grandson Morty traverse the multiverse and universe in search of valuable objects to make money, or just to explore new worlds. This series satirises various movies, from horror films to sci-fi, the latter being the most common. It also employs a large quantity of oddball humor. Rick might seem to be a clichéd ass hole, but more episodes actually give him depth and evoke sympathy. Morty is very sympathetic, if a little annoying at times. There's even a few sad moments in this show, but I won't spoil them. All in all, this bright, dazzling show promises to reshape adult animation, and while not as good, its a worthy predecessor to futurama.


                
I love Back To The Future and when I saw the first few minutes of the pilot episode of the show, I knew that this would be definitely be worth sticking around for.Rick and Morty takes you on some great adventures and there is always a unique story tell in each episode. Characters are crazy, believable and interesting and are always given enough development throughout the first season, especially Jerry and Beth, Morty's parents. On a related note, finding out that this was an "adult" show had me worried that it would be too silly and immature (on par with Family Guy?) but I was surprised by how "adult" some of the issues covered in the show really were, reflecting very real problems faced in life.Rick and Morty is a show that cannot be missed and I'm sure season 2 will be just as good, or even better, than season 1 and I can't wait until it airs.


                
I feel I should rare Rick and Morty 10/10 because the show really is my number one animated. Cleveland humor and endless possibilities in cosmic adventures gives this show a seriously strong foundation. However how good this show ever may be - it could always improve although there is really not much room for improvement ( since nearly perfect) . Rick Sanchez for the people! WUBBA LUBBA DUBDUB


                
I simply love it. I love rick and i love Morty . I love the comedy. i love their adventure. it's a adult animated sci-fiction show where rick(a genius but alcoholic and careless) and his grandson Morty (total dumb) go to adventure to explore the universe. and this show is sci-fiction + fantasy mixed.


                
Rick and Morty is a very funny show. The humor is crazy and is hurled at the audience with breathless speed. Every joke doesn't hit, but there are so many of them that it hardly matters, and when they do hit, they hit hard.That makes it a good show, but what makes it a truly great series is the intelligence of the crazy sci-fi ideas that fuel the stories. Yes, a miniverse inside a miniverse inside a miniverse is ridiculous, but it's also wonderfully ingenious, especially as you see both the variety and consistency of these worlds. A being that insinuates itself into everyone's memories was beautifully done. An episode in which your mind can create your concept of your partner was smart from the beginning, but then kept expanding on the idea.Every idea is nonsensical, but every idea is ingenious and fully explored. This is not just good comedy, it's good sci-fi.I wish this show had lasted as long as the Simpsons (i.e. forever) but what there is is fantastic.


                
The only reason why I gave this 9/10 is because I can't help but be annoyed with Rick's frequent burping, and whatever he's always drooling from his mouth. I found out about this show from the intro they did with a Simpsons episode... I was just like "OMG what show is that? I need to find whatever it is!" And not much long later I came across the name somehow. This show is like a combination of Futurama and some other show like South Park or Family Guy. Since Futurama came to it's unfortunate demise (being canceled for the final time) I need something similar to it to take it's place. HEY! Remember how the last Futurama show said "Avenge us!" at the end? Maybe this show will avenge them somehow? Or at least give the audience a replacement to Futurama, yeah nothing can really replace it, but this is a good substitute. I binged through the 2 seasons pretty fast, and I'm eagerly awaiting the 3rd season! I hope they don't take too long. I need more!P.S. This "thing" keeps telling me to not 'shout' in the review... so I had to keep revising it.


                
I preface this review by saying the 9 out of 10 is simply to temper the expectations set by it's rabid fanbase. It's great, much like the show Dan Harmon show Community, but Community never had the hype behind it. The show is very much like Community in many ways, and hearkens back to and expands much of what Community touched upon. In many ways Community had more heart, but because Rick and Morty is a cartoon they can push the envelope more. I think both have their place in television, but some of the nihilism takes me out of it whereas with Community I could relate more to some of the characters. Most people simply are not as depraved as Rick or even Morty gets sometime. There are many similarities to Community. In Community the character Abed seems aware he's in a show, whereas the other characters do not and assume Abed's quirks are due to a social anxiety disorder. In Rick and Morty only Rick seems aware of the fourth wall and breaks it, whereas the other characters chalk his quirks up to his alcoholism. Many fans have fan theories about the multiverse nature of the show, much the same as Community fans did (see: Darkest Timeline). Although I think the fan theorists will be disappointed. Dan Harmon is great with playing against expectations. He never addressed the show-within-a-show nature in Community, nor did he conclude the multiverse episodes with some grand subplot. He also never rewarded the Winger-Annie shippers, instead ending the show by informing the viewer they were never right for each other to begin with. With Rick and Morty's wackiness he has a blank check to go anywhere he wants, and never conclude anything. He'll constantly pull a bait and switches and string the viewer along perpetually until it ends. Rick and Morty is the nihilistic end-game to the cartoons that came before: the Simpsons, Family Guy and South Park. While I think it's not quite as good as either the Simpsons and South Park (and maybe Family Guy for it's prime), it's certainly nearly as good. It does a much better job than those shows of progressing the characters. We've already seen Morty mature. He was able to do this well in Community as well, so it's little surprise we've seen good characterization yet again.He also deals with substance abuse, which he did in Community, but can do more frankly here without censorship. The alcoholism of Rick is front and center, and we see how destructive it is. I often think people who get wrapped up in the Sci-Fi tropes often miss the shows metaphorical nature. This is well featured in Morty's "son" who after expressing a need to dominate and destroy the world is advised to become a creative so he has a outlet for his murderous rage. Keep in mind this show is produced by a big time Hollywood television producer who probably deals with creatives first hand on a daily basis. Community in a similar fashion featured a classroom setting strangely reminiscent of a writers table, and opened each episode with the cast pitching ideas for things to do to entertain us the audience. In a similar fashion Rick and Morty begins with Rick, the shows lead providing entertainment. He also allows Morty to pick every tenth, as if he's the egotistical lead giving his underlings a bone every now and again.The show is weird, often thought provoking. It's set in a great, fantastical backdrop of Sci-Fi fantasy. I strongly recommend it.
Rick and Morty has a lot in common with most other modern animated series, in that it keeps throwing a random reference in wacky adventure, every 2 minutes or so, most of which gratuitously. But while doing that it still manages to be original and unique with its open-minded and free-spirited writing about multiverses and possibilities that arise from that premise. Nothing is limited by stupid religious ideas or any other fixed perspective. Anything is possible at least in one universe in Rick and Morty. And that's the show's strength. I don't think writers are much concerned with scientific accuracy or consistency within the show itself. But these are all at the service of the shows free spirit. Oftentimes, you find yourself overwhelmed by an idea that is casually dropped on you out of nowhere and you end up in such deep thoughts about your existence and the universe.I have only one serious complaint about this show, which is its visual and artistic style or lack thereof to be more precise. I know this show is more about its clever writing, but visual style is something I really care in a visual art form. Rick and Morty looks like something that is made on Microsoft Paint. Furthermore there is no ''soul'' in its visual style. I mean even If you create an image that is very simple, it can still have some style to it. It looks plain and soulless, there is no character in its style. So I feel like watching something that is written very brightly but made on Paint automatically by the computer itself. I know fanboys are not tolerant about criticism and might get angry with this review, but that's how I really feel about it.I am writing this review in the middle of its 3rd season. So I don't know if all I said about it will be still relevant as the show progresses. But this is how I feel about it so far.
These series are amazing! It's so original that it is not possible for me to compare it to any other series. While watching, you do have to pay attention to really understand everything that's happening. That's also why I watch every episode at least twice! The series contain quite a lot of mysteries that are worth checking out. People are going crazy with theories about them!
"Rick & Morty" is one of the best adult animated shows I've seen in a long time. This and a handful of other shows brought adult animation back to life. I remember seeing ads for this show on Comedy Central when it first premiered thinking this would be another Family Guy/Brickleberry/Ren & Stimpy: APC, where they try to shoehorn in as much sex and gore in an attempt to shock the viewer instead of telling a funny/engaging story. But, this show went far beyond my expectations. The main difference between this and say modern Family Guy is that this show is actually really, really funny. The humor is witty and fast pasted instead of slow. The characters are hilarious. Rick is an alcoholic scientist who abuses his grandson, Morty. You'd think he'd be the worst character on the show but he's easily the best (even though he is a massive jerk to Morty you can tell he cares about him, making their relationship entertaining and funny). This show is definitely one of Adult Swim's finest with clever jokes, Sci Fi elements, awesome characters, and being overall very entertaining.


                
This probably doesn't need to be said, but let's start off by saying this show is NOT for kids. It's crude, vulgar, and offensive. It's also brilliantly written, hilarious, and a fantastic show to binge watch! The animation isn't as smooth or polished as a lot of people are used to seeing, but it's hand drawn, so instead of looking like a poor effort, it feels more nostalgic in that sense.The writing is funny as hell, and I had a very hard time not turning on the next episode after finishing one. So make sure you have some free time, because you won't watch just one. There were a few reviews that just trashed the show. Honestly, you have to appreciate this kind of humour...of you don't, than you won't like it either. Don't whine about it, just don't watch it. Everybody else will love it.


                
I was hesitant initially because of how outlandish the plots are but it's so addictive - back to the future meets Star Trek meets South Park. must watch!


                
This show is so good it's stupid I wish there was more of it


                
It should rather be called a philosophy lesson, challenging the status quo and all that we've been conditioned to believe since childhood. 
It's a zany, weirdly beautiful TV show I've come across.


                
Better hurry this along before you miss the wave of popularity.


                
