The Scifi Channel probably will not pick this up as series, SURPRISED, me neither.What is the point of a `re-imagined' fiasco, it isn't anything like the original?That's the oh so prevalent reservation heard over the internet ever since The Sci-Fi Channel rejected the Richard Hatch, Brian Singer and Tom DeSanto versions in its objective to make Battlestar Galactica into a 2003 mini-series. It has been said that in order to fairly critique this project, one must consider it as a separate entity to the 1978 series. However, what is the point to this, if it isn't anything like the original?To be fair, the general outline of the 1978 series and 2003 mini-series are identical. Mortal enemies called Cylons destroy 12 human colonies in a surprise attack. Of all the mighty ships that protected these colonies, only the Battlestar Galactica survives. The leader of this vessel, Commander Adama, takes command of a rag-tag fleet to find the long-forgotten, legendary "13th colony" of Earth. This is the way it was in the original series. That's where this remake is the same.Sadly, that singular paragraph is the only thing similar to the original series at all. The original series' concept was that "brothers of man" who inspired ancient civilizations like the Egyptians and Mayans were fighting to survive, in a solar system far, far away. In this retooled remake there are indeed colonies of man, but they aren't anything like "ancient Egypt" at all; they're just humdrum cities filled with humdrum humans with humdrum costumes flying in their humdrum spaceships. Remember how the original series' pilots all wore helmets with Egyptian style markings on them? Well, now they are all wearing space helmets. Boring, been-there-done-that space helmets.Oh, yes, there's also the "new" Starbuck, as talked about on many a message board by now. In the original, Starbuck was sort of "TV Han Solo," as played by Dirk Benedict ("The A-Team"). Here, Starbuck is a tomboy-like skinny blonde (Katee Sackhoff), who even if you accept the gender change, has a lot to be desired. Starbuck may have been a typically sexist 1970's character but at least he was always fun; he never took anything too seriously. If you're going to make Starbuck a woman, at least make sure it's a women who, much like Dirk Benedict, always holds back a mischievous grin and a glint in her eye. All the new Starbuck has is a walking smart-mouthed, hard drinking, cigar chomping, hard drinking, fist swinging, Top Gun clone with a big personality disorder, the anal sort.*Spoiler* WELL NOT MUCH OF ONE SINCE IT HAS ALREADY AIRED, `THERE ARE ONLY 12 MODELS OF CYLONS' IS A CRIPTIC MESSAGE SENT TO COMMANDER ADAMA FROM BALTAR'S HOLOGRAM #6 (IN THE END SEE SEVERAL MORE VERY ATTRACTIVE MAXIM/PAGE 3/VICTORIA'S SECRET MODELS AND BOOMER, TOO) Amazon already has the mini logo in DVD, go figure?Not even Cylons are no longer Cylons! In the original series, Cylons were mechanical to the highest degree; a race of purely artificial beings who abhorred anything "human" at all. Now, they are supposedly a race of robots longing to be human, yet wanting to kill humans anyway.  Huh? Don't bother figuring this plot paradox out: you only need to know that Cylons in this remake are led by a supermodel-type cyborg named #6; a "Cylon" who seems to go around having sex to get spy information. I'd say sex sells, but for some reason Six doesn't "sell it" for me. Maybe it's how her spine glows red during sex? That's a tad bit too silly for my tastes.Then there's Baltar: the man who was once the series' arch-villain. Now, he's an ill fated sex addict! He's a guy who was at first fooled by #6 to give key defense codes in the throes of passion (Uh...didn't he suspect something when his lover asked for top secret information in the middle of sex...?). Now, Baltar is a cowardly "genius" (or so they tell us), just trying to survive. So what...? He's been downgraded into a mere foolishly fooled fool so what's the harm? Of all the script changes, this is the most dire; Baltar was the arch nemesis of all Galactica lore. Making him into a bumbling genius is folly, to no good end.Here's what I don't get. If you've been given the permission to rip-off a 1978 TV series, why would you decide to rip-off every single other sci-fi story source, instead? Gone are original Galactica costumes that resembled ancient Egyptian wear, replaced with headgear and uniforms that look ripped off from --of all places-- Starship Troopers. Gone are the chrome-armored Cylons, replaced with a sexy female cyborg: a rip-off of Terminator 3 at best, and Species at worst. Gone is the ominous attack by thousands of Cylon fighter ships at once, replaced with large explosions seen from the air, over key metropolitan cities; a very obvious Independence Day rip-off. Regardless of all the ripping off going on, at no time did I see a single homage to Galactica; the very source this mini-series was supposed to be ripping off! That's just weird.Even by itself --that is, if you forget the original series, and the reason for this remake, entirely-- the script is still flawed. It is implied that with the defense codes Baltar provided, the Cylons can attack without hindrance. The thought is that Cylons can use their own computer brains to hack into all computer defense systems and disable them.
This is an amusing premise though it doesn't sell the story the way it could have. What about the 20-year-old ships dragged out of storage, to defend the Galactica? They wouldn't have the same ease for hacking. Consider: even a classic Macintosh Plus is invulnerable to a virus that could wipe out the whole hard drive of a modern Pentium 4. This is one of many story elements that stared this mini-series' writers square in the eye, and could have really improved the story...yet were sadly ignored.
When I first heard about this series, about two years ago, I had high hopes for it.  The teasers that began to air also left me with high hopes.  Just a single scanning red light. an icon of the cylons that any fan of the original series knows at a glance.  Knowing the people involved in the visual effects on this thing also raised my expectations, especially after seeing some tests of a new cylon centurian when this series was being shopped around, showing the new cylons could kick some serious ass.
Then the new trailers came out a few weeks ago.  Cylons look like us? Starbuck's a woman?  We made the cylons?  Give me a break!  Ok, expectations dropped considerably there.  This thing could have been spectacular, but now it looked like every other lame piece of SciFi that's been crusting up on TV over the past few years.Don't get me wrong.  I AM a science fiction fan.  I've been a fan for as long as I can remember.  So I was hoping that this thing just had a bad trailer.The first half aired and all hope was virtually lost for this thing. I'll get the old vs. new comparisons out of the way now.  First of all, why the gender changes?  These weren't necessary and didn't add to the story, except maybe so Boomer could get a little action?  That came across as a complete afterthought. something to fill a minute and add some 'depth?' to the character?  The original Boomer we were able to get to know very quickly, and had such a strong character that you could tell just what he'd say or do in any situation because he was so well developed.  The new Boomer was much cuter, but not as developed.  Unfortunately she was about the only likable character in the entire show.Tigh's a drunk? He used to be a likable guy in the original, taking his job seriously, but always earning the crew's respect.  This new Tigh shouldn't even be on the ship.The new Starbuck was horrible.  She just came across as a total A**hole that I was hoping to see killed off.  At least they didn't write a sex scene between her & Apollo, but if this show turns into a series, it's something I fear the writers will resort to.  The original Starbuck was a fun loving practical joker, who just happened to be an ace pilot and got along with just about everyone.The new Apollo was more of a sniveling whiner than anything else.  Of course, he had the new Adama as a father who shows almost as much emotion as the original Cylon centurians.The new Battlestar looks like it was another afterthought and someone had to build a model overnight to make a deadline.  It was sad that many of the other ships in the fleet were remarkably similar to the original series, including the Gemeni Movers freighter and the triple-saucer ship, but the star of the show, the Galactica, was so lacking in detail and a sense of scale.The new centurians did look great, and I was saddened again that they only appeared for a few seconds at the beginning and the end of the show.  All that design work wasted for the sake of a few seconds and those few seconds they did nothing more than walk into position and stand there.  Hell, the original Cylon model in the museum brought much more excitement to the show, and it just stood there.Ok, now on to the non-comparatives:  After one & a half hours of what felt like a Best Of Jerry Springer bitch-fest, we finally got close to the actual story.  Close to, because most of the assault on the planet was little more than some flashing lights on the surface, seen from far away.  No Cylon fighters doing strafing runs, no visible Cylon armadas, nothing much to look at.  Other than that, not much else happened in the first two hours of what I call Babblestar 90210.  In that time, we were subjected to nearly every soap opera cliché, except for the return of the character that died and the evil twin.  We got those in the second half.Even the destruction of the other battlestars and colonial defenses was just mentioned in passing.  I was half expecting someone to say that the fleet was up against a force so large that it would be far too expensive to ever film, to paraphrase a character from Thumbtanic.What we did get was a bunch of pointless sex scenes that I can only assume were there to try to keep the interest of a few sexually inactive viewers who weren't able to download some porn those nights, and a bunch of pointless bickering that I can only assume was to add some character development so we'd actually care about these people.  Instead, I was hoping they would be killed off and the story would start.The sets are where this thing shines.  Beautifully designed sets abound here.  I especially liked the Viper bays and those Vipers were things of beauty.  Both models.  It's too bad that this was about all that was left to watch the show for.  These things looked amazing just sitting there.  I couldn't wait to see them in action, but of course, I had to wait through long periods of inane crap that kept me itching to start channel surfing.Then they finally went into action.  Too bad I couldn't see much of that either.  What the hell is it with these directors and that damn jitter-cam crap?  It's bad enough when they do it with live action.  When people are just talking, learn to FRAME THEM!  People!  Tripods were invented for a reason.  Use them!  Fortunately, the live action camerawork wasn't as bad as other shows, but was still enough to p*** me off.   But that's not enough. They went completely stupid with it in the effects shots.It's one thing for the camera to bounce around in a high action scene, when it's in the MIDDLE of the action.  But when it's in space, MILES away from the action like it was in most of this, there's no excuse for it.  There were a few good shots where the camera actually behaved itself and followed the action - a couple viper formation flybys - but most of the shots, which would have been spectacular, were completely spoiled by the amateurish camerawork.  They were filled with lots of unnecessary zooms, frequently on stuff that wasn't even the center of interest.  In one shot, two missiles apparently hit the Galactica.  I say apparently because just before they hit, the camera panned away from the first one before it hit, and then panned away from the second before it hit, missing both impacts.  Why? Couldn't be shockwaves since the camera was miles away.  It felt more like the camera operators picked those moments to start fiddling with the controls and were no longer paying attention to what they're supposed to be shooting.  If those were live special effects shots (an exploding bridge for example), every camera would be checked & double-checked to be sure it had the effect framed.  Missing the shot would be a really bad thing, yet in most of these shots, the camera's wandering around and always seems to miss the action and be pointing at something unimportant.  It doesn't look cool, or add excitement (other than my frequent swearing at the horrible camerawork), or anything else.  It just plain looks shoddy and unprofessional.  They'd probably get better work if they just grabbed a bunch of untalented homeless people off the street and told them to do the camerawork.The lack of lasers or blasters or other energy weapons was a rare approach, and I kind of liked it.  Though, you wouldn't want to be in a space battle with all those bullets flying around.  You especially wouldn't be able to stay in the same combat area for more than a few seconds due to the large amount of ammunition and debris that would accumulate, whizzing in all directions.  In a few minutes, the enemy ships would be the least of your worries as you just try to avoid running into all that junk.  In space, that stuff keeps moving at the same speed until it hits something.  It doesn't fall to the ground after a few seconds.The missile trails were another technical blunder.  Sure the drunken missile effects look cool, but they should be left to anime.  They took pains to give the ships a sense of technical accuracy with the various reaction control thrusters to steer them, and then blew it with the puffy missile trails that would only occur in an atmosphere.  In space, the exhaust from a rocket or missile would dissipate quickly as all the particles would continue in the direction they were emitted.  This was done correctly for the Viper & Cylon Fighters.  The 'Sci' in Sci Fi stands for Science, after all.I'm sorry to say this, but I never had such a challenge trying to force myself to watch a show in my life.  I waited for nearly two years to see thing, with high hopes that it would be good.  Even changing the name and removing any references to Battlestar Galactica would not make this better. It was all I could do to keep myself from changing channels, in the hopes that something MIGHT turn out half decent.  I said earlier, I'm a fan of Sci Fi.  I like it, and will even watch some not-so-good stuff because there's usually something entertaining in it, even if it just shows something cool that's not on the other channels.I thought Battlefield Earth was horrible, and I completely hated Armageddon, but I found those far more entertaining than this.  At least they could point the camera in the right direction, even if it was tilted all the time. And the bad guys actually had some character to them.  And let's not forget that something actually happened in them.The saddest part is they way this piece of crap will be viewed by the suits that helped excrete it.  They knew that they could lure people in by using the name of a much-loved sci-fi classic.  People would tune in to watch it, purely out of curiosity. And that's what happened.  This thing just got some of the highest ratings for a cable miniseries.  Why?  People were suckered into tuning in to see a supposedly updated, cooler/better Battlestar Galactica, merely because of the name.  What they got was a 20-minute 90210/Jerry Springer episode in space filmed by epileptic/blind camera operators on really cool sets that were near a big battle that was mentioned once in a while, spread over 4 hours.  But since the ratings were high, they'll think it was good and excrete more of the same.As for me, I'll go watch a bad Phil Roth or Troma film (which will now feel like a critically acclaimed blockbuster) to wash this bad taste out of my mouth.  At least those have some entertainment value. even if it is in how bad they are.  'Battlefield Galactica' was little more than an endurance test.  If there's anything entertaining to be found, it's probably a drinking game where you take a shot every time Adama takes his glasses off, and two shots for every cliché.He Who Really Wanted To Like This Thing.


                
This miniseries is just about as awful as awful can be imagined. The story is incredibly weak, few of the characters are even remotely likeable, and the special FX are worse than the original. The cylons look laughable, and their ships are almost as bad.POSSIBLE SPOILERSI could not wait for Starbuck to die, but unfortunately, she doesn't. not only did they make the character a chick, they made her a butch, obnoxious chick. My mother and sister were equally disgusted by this. When Colonel Tigh offers her the olive branch at the end, and she proceeds to mouth off to him, I wanted him to jettison her out the airlock.I could go on for days about all the other characters I hated (Baltar, Number Six, Boomer, The President, etc.) and the laughable plot points (particularly the ridiculous Starbuck/Apollo viper stunt - if you saw the movie, you know the one I mean). However, I can't justify to myself spending any more time dwelling upon this travesty.1 out of 10 stars (and I'm being generous!)
Boringstar...sorry Battlestar Galactica. The original series ( I would have been about 10 when it was on), started off great with Starbuck, Apollo etc. I remember they did some "later years" as well when they came to earth but that spoilt it for me.And so I had high hopes for the new series.. And they have withered and died faster than they did when "the 4400" started (4400 is how many milli-seconds you can watch that program before your eyes permanently weld themselves shut to prevent further damage).This series is SLOW with minimal Sci-Fi action. Its fine to have "political intrigue", but it doesn't lead anywhere. The power struggle between Adama and the President always seems to be solved by a "its a military decision" comment, and then thats it.Where are the Cylons? There are only 50,000 people left in the universe, it wouldn't take long to finish them off. At least the original series had them in , albeit the same attack sequence rerun several times.And now Colonel Tigh is an ex-drunk with a wayward wife. Sorry but Adama wouldn't have had him on his ship. The original Tigh was a better character as he was a classic military type figure.I could go on but why bother ? Now if only the makers of the program had the same idea we could all spend the time doing something more constructive...What colour paint shall we watch dry today ?
The Music Was Real Bad, Stu Philips' score was so much better in the original series.  The acting was even worse.  The Character of Starbuck was the most annoying character to hit the screen, EVER.  I was praying for Jar Jar Binks to come along!!!  As for the writing, I think that this was the worst piece of garbage that Ron Moore has ever written.  I pray that this does not become a series


                
My husband, a friend, and I all watched this turkey tonite.  ICK!  This whole movie seemed like a waste of good actors; the director seems to have ordered them to be wooden and emotionless.  I have no problem with Starbuck being a woman (hey, I'm a woman!), actually I like it; however, the original Starbuck didn't provoke fist fights with officers.  He did much better verbally!  I noticed that one of the speeches given by the captain sounded very much like something I heard in Babylon 5; wording may have been different, but the speech was about the same.  I guess what I really miss is the ground-breaking approach taken by the original Battlestar Galactica....


                
After seeing all of the publicity on the Sci-Fi channel for several months, I caught the "re-imaging" of the classic series earlier this year.
It has NOTHING on the original series, neither in tone, characterization, or even in special effects.While it is true that the original Galactica series was merely a rip off of Star Wars, it had a fun quality that had to be admired. The characters were interesting, and the special effects, for it's time, was state of the art.The 2003 "re-imaging" of the series is as bad as the 2001 "re-imagining" of the Planet of the Apes. Both suffer from bad characterization, and scripts. Instead of offering interesting characters for the audience to root for, the 2003 film has too many dysfunctional characters often bickering with each other to the point that the audience no longer cares about them. I did NOT care about Adama, Apollo, nor the "female" versions of Starbuck, (who would be discharged for striking a superior officer) nor Boomer. Not to mention that Colonel Tigh, who was an african american character that I respected, is this time portrayed as a thoughtless drunk often in conflict with Starbuck, and by the second episode, I didn't care whether the Galactica was destroyed or not.The sound and special effects are also sub par, and they make the Babylon 5 series of the 1990's look state of the art. (The viper's lasers also sounded like machine gun fire, a BAD mistake!)If you truly want to experience Galactica again, I suggest checking out the 2003 video game, with the voices of Richard Hatch and Dirk Benedict, currently available for PS2 and Xbox, that captures the true essence of the classic t.v. show.I truly hope that this "re-imagining" was a brief miniseries, and hopefully a TRUE remake of this t.v. classic, (away from these miserable characters) that stays true to the spirit of the original characters and show can be made by the SCI-FI channel sometime in the near future.


                
It was tedious and dragged like a rusty tailpipe, only without the pretty sparks to look at! Edward James Olmos was hideously miscast as Adama. Instead of having the stately yet reserved air of Lorne Green, all we got was a cold fish. Did they really have to give Mary McDonnell (President Laura Roslin) breast cancer? I mean, that's a frakkin' primetime soap plotline, not sci-fi! Oh, and let's pull out yet another soap opera cliche by making Michael Hogan (Colonel Tigh) a drunk!Having the Cylons originally created by humans was also pretty idiotic and one of the most played-out sci-fi cliches in the book. And what was with all those off-the-rack suits for the civilians? They had advanced technology but 21st century Earth fashions? The only thing this show got right were the spaceship designs, the Galactic interior designs, and the updating of the Cylon warriors. Oh, and those Cylon ships not having pilots--can anyone say Trade Federation Droid Fighters from STAR WARS, EPISODE I: THE PHANTOM MENACE (1999)?I'm so glad that this was chopped down from 6 hours to just 4. Frankly, they could edit it into two hours and then they might have a film that doesn't put you to sleep. With any luck, the ratings were abysmal and this thing will prove that the critically acclaimed TAKEN was a fluke.


                
HAHAHAHAHA!!! What a laugh this has turned out to be!I just KNOW original BG fans will vehemently hate this 2003 "reinvention" of BG!They're not wrong!I couldn't stand it either, and I don't even *like* the original BG!Just because the special effects have been brought up to 2003 standards does not mean this TV show is suddenly above and beyond all other sci-fi TV shows, including (most definitely!) the one that spawned it. Star Gate SG1 has better effects, better stories and better characters, for example.Can't writers come up with good ideas for sci-fi TV shows anymore? Was the writer off his face on dope when he wrote this thing? Well, according to him, the vital 2003 requirements for "reinvented" sci-fi TV shows must be:1) Re hash a so-so 70's or early 80's TV show (hopefully one that nobody will remember therefore making it an easy target to rip off - or in this case - rip to shreds) 2) Completely change the story so the "reinvention" becomes nothing like the original 3) Bring it up to today's "sub-standards", i.e remove any cheesy, kid-friendly attributes and replace them with offensive language, excessive or extreme violence, and enough sex scenes to shame any blue movie
4) Should an actor from the original try to have any major input into the "reinvention" of his sci-fi TV show, omit him completely and then laugh in his face when you present him with this insipid schlockWhen it becomes impossible to suspend disbelief then you know it's going to be bad. When you get bored waiting for action scenes after watching useless and unnecessary sex scenes (really the only action you've seen in the last hour) you know it's going to be worse than bad. When you finally give up halfway through the thing and switch off the TV then you may as well compare it to Battlefield Earth.The characters are pathetic. I was not interested in anything they did, or how they felt, least of all whom they decided to hop in the sack with (be it robot, human or whatever). Nor did I care one iota when their home world was destroyed by their robot servants. WHO CARES! The robots-wiping-out-their-human-masters cliche has been done a million times in a million other movies/TV shows/books/comics/video games. CONCLUSION? This show has borrowed ideas from so many other sci-fi TV shows and movies I've lost count. (although the original WAS based on Star Wars) WHO CARES!!0/10


                
ok at some points it was good, boomer and starbuck was just horrible and the father and son conflick was as wrong. I like the girl playing starbuck could have made her casiopia because the writing even leads one to believe that starbucks a guys role. overall  I was dissapointed simply because what they could have done, as compared to what they did


                
This show borrows the premise of the original Battlestar Galactica, the near complete destruction of the human race, and then...really doesn't know what the heck to do with it.  There's no plot outside of that premise - no plan is developed for what to do, no attempt is made to implement anything, and therefore no tension builds up and we never get any sort of climax.  The characters basically roll with the punches of whatever the Cylons throw at them, which results in a little action here and there, and a lot of melodrama which often borders on the utterly sappy in between. 
The characters themselves are not very impressive.  Like the premise, they seem borrowed from other TV shows, for these "new stereotypes" of late '90s prime-time TV populate every drama on every network on every night of the week.  They're so poorly realized that they're unable to even react to the "end of the world";  I guess they never had to deal with any such thing in the shows they came from, and the writers therefore didn't have anything to copy it from. Though it is rather amusing when one realizes that writer Ronald D. Moore has worked on numerous episodes of the various Star Trek spinoffs, and the character of the President is an identical copy of Captain Janeway from Voyager, right down to her speech inflections and other mannerisms.All in all, This movie leaves one feeling as if they've spent four hours flipping back and forth between an episode of Party of Five and Star Trek Deep Space Nine.  If this is all the writers can do, they're in way over their heads trying to take on a subject like the end of the human race. This had all the "gripping drama" of a pro football game.


                
We all knew even before it aired, the Ron Moore mini-series is no Battlestar Galactica. That's fine. It just means it must stand on its own. It can't lean on Battlestar Galactica. If it's any good, it's good on it's own merits, and Ron Moore has something to be proud of. If reports are true, this is what Moore wanted. However, if his mini-series rots, he has shamed all the excellent actors that performed on-screen, not to mention the myriad off-screen personnel. And this is what he's done.Yes, this mini-series is no remake. I wouldn't even call it a re-imagining. It's a new production, inspired by Battlestar Galactica. It does not take place in the Galactica universe, with the same places and jargon and technology. It doesn't tell of the Galactica's search for the thirteenth tribe. Nor does it rely on the legends and mysteries that underpinned Galactica. Ron Moore's mini-series is a space-opera, action flick with a ceremonial nod to Battlestar Galactica.Maybe I should say, "just another" space-opera, action flick. Because as plots go, his has little that's original, or even interesting. I could relay the whole thing to you without a spoiler warning. But I won't inflict that on you. I'll just hit the most important point. Ready now? Here it is: Just watch the trailer. It will tell you everything there is in the story.Yes, creations of man turn on man and seek to destroy man. (I guess they forgot Azimov's rules, again.) They look like humans, so there's the whole aliens-among-us thing. At least there's no time-travel. Oh, and lots of fighting scenes and random acts of sex and violence. The end result was that when Moore did draw from Galactica, that ceremonial nod, it came off more corny than respectful. I mean, couldn't he even think up anything of his own?From the first few minutes, I wanted to watch something else. I didn't care about any of Moore's characters, since I couldn't identify with any of them. This fact hit me in the face when the Cylons began their attack. Armageddon on a planetary scale, and I didn't give a damn. How depressing.Moore's heroes when faced with an insurmountable obstacle, instead of overcoming it, rather tucked tail and saved their own butts. After all, it was the only way to save humanity, yadda yadda yadda. They took the safe way out, rather than risking their own lives to defend others. At least disgust is not apathy.But in the end, the Ron Moore mini-series was just activity without purpose, a movie on a treadmill, forever running yet going nowhere. And I just wanted it to be over. And by the time it was over, my life-force had been sucked from me. Against my own will, I was turning into a mindless, soulless zombie, probably of the type to which this mini-series would appeal. I needed to replenish myself. I needed to-and I swear this is true-I needed to watch an episode of Babylon 5. Two episodes, in fact, and I felt much better. And happier.
I chanced across SFC where Battlestar Galactica was playing. What did I see? Well-orchestrated excuses, designed to belittle fans and push a damaged product.Further proving that they just DO - NOT - GET IT, Ronny's merry little band got Richard Hatch (who's intro blurb highlighted his failed attempts to bring back BSG and not the fact that he is responsible for the entire revival), and other members of the sci-fi classic, to talk about giving Ronny and his boy's a chance.Executive producers talked about how many remakes of Romeo and Juliet have been made, and how their version of Battlestar Galactica was no different. They talked about fans being boorish, sexist adolescents because long-time fans of the classic series didn't like the idea of their childhood heroes - Starbuck and Boomer - being transformed into raunchy fems.
What about ATHENA, SERINA, and SHEBA - the strong and determined female fighter pilots from the original Battlestar Galactica series, who are COMPLETELY and TOTALLY absent?The whole excuse put forward by Ronnie Moore and the dips over on the BSG-Mini, is that woman should have a role in a space, in combat, and that woman can be fighter pilots.  This - once again - hints to the fact that none of these guys ever watched the original series.All true Galactica fans know that Battlestar Galactica was the FIRST television series EVER to portray woman as fighter pilots. It was the FIRST series in which main cast members like Athena, Serina, and fan favorite Sheba, often slipped into the cockpit of a Viper to deal death against the Cylons.Athena, Serina, and Sheba were all fighter pilot and officers who broke new ground and Sheba was depicted as being a better pilot than her male counterparts.The positive female quotient aboard Battlestar Galactica was always there and Battlestar Galactica broke new ground in it's portrayal of strong, independent and determined female leads in a Science Fiction program, and did so without sacrificing femininity or cheapening the portrayal of the male characters.What is real galling is the fact that, in the BSG Lowdown being used to advertise the new Galactica series, the executives making the BSG-Mini are sitting there, accusing fans like us of being boorish and sexist because we fans have been very, VERY vocal about our abject dislike for their decision to transform Starbuck and Boomer from men, into woman, and IGNORE the original female pilots from Galactica all together.Athena, Serina and Sheba do not exist in the mini universe!I think the fact that fans enjoyed the original series because it did break new ground and did portray woman in a far superior light, capable of doing a Man's job without sacrificing their womanhood is further evidence that Ronald D. Moore and company do - not - get it.They choose to ignore the existence of Athena, Serina, and Sheba and call us the sexists?  They completely discounted some of the greatest female role models ever to grace a science fiction television show!And how did they compensate for their complete and total ignorance of the original Galactica series and the groundbreaking portrayal of woman portrayed in Galactica?Gimmicks and the completely unjustified sex changes for Starbuck and Boomer, effectively castrating the heroes of the young boys who grew-up watching Galactica, and snubbing the heroes of the young girls who also grew up watching Galactica by saying that Athena, Serina, and Sheba don't even exist.And what about Boomer?  Boomer was the first instance in which an African American man was depicted as a strong, intelligent, fighter pilot. Not only was the character of Boomer one of the first depictions of an African American hero in space, but he was also one of the very first depictions of an African American fighter pilot in any form.Now, Boomer is a Chinese girl.For many African American boys, not only was the character of Boomer artistically castrated, but the producers didn't even have the decency to get an African American woman to take over the part. Talk about a double slap in the face.How hard would it have been to simply write and create interesting, heroic and original female characters, or simply use the original heroic female characters that were in the original series? What was the real point behind giving so many of our Galactican heroes sex changes and why - all of a sudden - is a Black man not good enough to be a fighter jock in Ronnie's `re-imagined' universe?The mini producers highlighted the fact that their special effects will be better, how wonderful every one of THEM thinks the story is, and talked-up all the sex that will be going on between #6 (a clone of Star Trek's Seven of Nine) and Baltar.It all wrapped up with some departing comments from the producers, trash talking about how horrible fans are and their outrage that some people would decide NOT to watch this pant-load, given all the changes they've made and their p***-poor treatment of the fans who worked for so long and pulled together so hard to convince SFC to actually try this. and glossed over how betrayed and outraged those same fans were when they discovered that all their hopes for a true Galactica revival had been twisted and distorted by the corporate suits to satisfy the needs of fan-hating snobs turned producer and writers.This is the attitude that prompted SFC to cancel `Farscape', shun Richard Hatch, creator Glenn Larson, and drive off Tom (X-Men) DeSanto.So... are you all as thrilled to watch the new Battlestar Galactica series as I am?Are all of you, just enthralled with the idea of giving our business to a group of people who hold us, the fans, in complete and total contempt?Yeah... that's what I kinda' thought.No good will come of this.


                
My one-line summary says it all.Here is the problem:No dramatic and fantastic adventure. - No music score to add to that. - No humor - No Cylons for the most of the first episode except for the Terminator chick - Telephones. Suit and Tie guys. 1950's jail cell. Clothing bought from Target. Where's the futuristic feel? I guess the computer graphics make up for it huh? - Boring characters except for Olmos - Everyone has a "thing" for someone - Lets make space combat beleivable. Very little sound. Floating. Missiles. Little fire and explosions. I don't care about realism give me eye candy please.I don't know, it kept me interested somewhat because I like the original series but I cannot follow along these so called "modern" versions of movies and the tweaking of major characters (Starbuck) and villains (Cylons).2 Stars


                
You can call it whatever you want - except for Battlestar Galactica.There is nothing in this new mini-series that even remotely resembles the show that was on in 1978.  NOTHING.  I wonder how many Star Trek Fans would appreciate Mr. Spock becoming a woman?  I wonder how many would like it if 'The United Federation of Planets' was all on one planet?
Let's forget those two points.  That Starbuck is a woman.  That the colonies are all on one planet.  Let's address the more important parts.  The Cylons - robots who overthrew their makers.  Their history.  The fact that, for a time, they ignored the humans - until they tried to destroy another race and we stepped in to stop them.  Thus began the 1000-year-war.  The war that led to the peace treaty in the first episode of the REAL BG and to the events afterward.  And mystery?  Iblis connection to the Cylons.  How the Cylons actually came into being.Do I think the original was perfect?  No.  There were things that could be improved upon.  But to destroy every part of the show that made it special is asinine.For those of you who think the original was about big hair - you obviously never actually watched the show.I want the real, original, BG back.  Updated.  A continuation.This show that calls itself BG?  It can be put back in the can!Winter


                
The most horrible retelling of a great series. It should not have been named Battlestar Galactica, because it's only the same in name alone. Too many changes to just have changes. You have characters turned from male to female, black to asian to cylon all in a way to "attract female audiences," when there was already strong female characters that could have just been made stronger. Gone are the egyptian feeling. Gone are the quest for earth. The lack of cylons to go to terminator rejects takes away from the film, especially when one is made a fembot. Granted the original show had a lot of cheese to it, but it had a large following. They tried to hold onto this following but give the fans nothing to work with and basically spit in their face as they make it "their own story." Changes are good, when they make something better, not to just make them.


                
I fail to see the appeal of this series (which is supposed to be sci-fi). It's really just "let's see what soap operatically happens this week" and oh, the Cylons are involved through flashbacks.The Cylon "babe" that keeps nailing the other guy is pretty lame, it's pretty obvious that T&A was added to the show. Every time she pops up I'm bewildered as to WTF is supposed to be going on. And don't even try to bullsh*t me about "story arcs".It's a soap opera with some CGI thrown-in. This is not science fiction aside from the original premise.This series is not everything it's worked-up to be. If you like trendy, edgy, dodgy, jumpy, vague editor-on-crack camera work, this show might be for you. Since nerds seem to be raving about this show, it's a clear indication that vocal nerds' opinions have been changed from Picard's TNG.
I'm no fan of the original BATTLESTAR GALACTICA, but damn does this new version suck! The production design is terrible, the performances are wooden, the is CG very obvious, and even the music sucks! Typical to all the junk I've seen on the sci-fi channel, we don't get more than two minutes into it before sex is referenced. The duplicate robot-people are supposed to be creepy, but aren't. The space battles and space-flight CG is awful because they intentionally make it appear that it has been photographed by some tourist who can't quite get the zoom right or keep the spaceships in frame. Edward James Olmos is a great actor and deserves better. I mean how lame is it that he has to keep repeating "so say we all"? All the photography is typical of contemporary television in that it doesn't even attempt to hold it's shots steady. All the characters are typical television stock and nobody gives a performance worth remembering. The character sub-plots are all standard fare. The futuristic setting is so incredibly lame and contemporary PC that I almost threw up. They say "frag" instead of f*ck! This is really of the "I couldn't care less" variety. Ronald D. Moore should really be shot for writing this (well, and for STAR TREK GENERATIONS). If I had any expectations I'd be disappointed.Not special. Not original. Not good. Just crap.Burn it, don't buy it.
It seems to me that the Original (airing in 1978) series did just fine with characterization. Therefore, my question is: since it wasn't broken, why did these new, so-called writers feel the need to change/fix what managed to survive for almost 30 years?The name Starbuck suggests a male character (a buck -- which, as any dictionary will describe, is a MALE deer). The original character was a womanizer. This tends to make me wonder if this new character will be a womanizer as well. This would make her a lesbian, would it not.The new Colonel Tigh is a drunken blow-hard. This seems to be rather insulting to the first Colonel Tigh. His character might have been a bit weak, but he was an upstanding person.The fact that the new "writers" felt it necessary to fix what wasn't broken tends to make me wonder what they've been smoking and/or ingesting.This MIGHT have been done with some intelligence, and logical continuation of a series that has proved itself with its longevity and durability. The writers at SciFi Channel have once again proved that they have reached the bottom of the creativity barrel. "Original" is merely a catchword to them.


                
I'm finding it hard to know where to start with this travesty of a remake.*** SPOILER ALERT *** They tried to make the characters more realistic by giving them individual flaws. However they went overboard with this. A good example is Starbuck. Not only would her actions in striking a superior officer be dealt with a lot more seriously, but her portrayal now just doesn't work.A cigar chewing female pilot ... sorry Ms Sackhoff, your abilities don't quite stretch to the character and as a result ... you're unlikable. I can take Starbuck and Boomer being female but their new characters simply don't work.This mini series suffers from a major amount of fluff and padding: something I like to refer to as "Jean-Luc Picard" syndrome. Given that Ronald D. Moore was a major writer and contributor to Star Trek, this ain't that surprising.What I mean by all that is ... they TALK EACH OTHER TO DEATH. Let's agonise over something for a couple minutes of screen time (I checked), do it and then agonise over it for up to five minutes afterwards.I'm not sure if they were aiming for length here and padded out to fill or they truly believe that people do this. Makes the story unbelievable for me.Now for the nasty bit.We have a major case here of "Deep Impact". I refer to the disaster film about asteroids hitting the Earth here. This means that whenever the director thought the emotional tension was getting a bit low ... let's drag in a child! (Seriously, watch the film and see what I mean). There is a moment when they introduce an orphaned child for PRECISELY and ONLY that reason.Direction ... bad. Emotional arcs aren't directed properly and the actors don't seem to know how they should behave a lot of the time. Thus a lot of the characters seem flat. Someone here also decided to use "Cinema Verite" too ...... which brings us nicely to the D.o.P. Pick a stylistic choice and have done with it! The start is shot conventionally with the usual master shot - close ups we've come to expect. About half way through this changes to a "NYPD Blue" style half-drama / half-documentary feel better known as "Cinema Verite". This wobbly camera work makes it hard to concentrate at times.Aside from being wobbly ... they don't know how to use the aperture on their cameras either. It all is either bang on or about 1 stop over-exposed. This is something you can get away with when shooting film, but not on video (which they've used) where you have exactly zero latitude for this kind of thing.Makes the pictures look like crud is what i'm saying.Cylons becoming more human ... it strikes me as a cash saving exercise. Makes you look cheap guys.Lastly, because my battery is running now, can we stop with the Cylons apparently being conflicted between religious nuts and nymphomaniacs.To sum up. Characters that don't work. Direction that's obvious and flawed. Camera work that looks like crap and gives motion sickness. Story padding to the point where i'm screaming out in pain or boredom. (Took a lot of caffeine to get through this) I could personally cut out about 1/2hr out of this mini series and no one would miss it. If anyone would like to take me up on this ...
A discrace to the old series. bad effects. bad directing. bad casting. a sigar smoking lesbian and a gay who are in love ? get real... The movie is too long, to slow, too boring, even much worse than nemesis. its also to serious, bad sound effects, The old series were good, but thism one... dont buy it its a waste of money.I loved the old series, it had everything, humor, action, good visability... a good plot. And thats all that this one is missing.And whats worse, they say now that the cylons are made by man.... yeah right..  in the old series they were made by a different culture and the war started when they assist their neighbours in the war against them.So in conclusion... the worst remake of galactica and it is a discrace to its name and it shows how they can destroy a good series.


                
Although I usually avoid anything the Sci-Fi Channel produces because it far exceeds Sturgeon's Law, I kept hearing that BSG was "one of the best shows on TV," so I decided to give it a try. I rented the 2003 mini-series, to begin at the beginning<U+0085> The sound of explosions in a vacuum should have warned me off, but I persevered. I only laughed a little when the Cylon virus shut down the Viper systems and they spontaneously CHANGED COURSE (Isaac Newton? Who's he?). I even stood my ground against the Assault of the Cardboard Characters and the Attack of the Hackneyed Plot Elements.But even I was eventually overwhelmed by the sheer silliness of this fiasco. Presumably, this occurs in some far future century, but executives still seem to be wearing 20th century ties. Why not togas or doublets & hose? The scanning eye (or whatever it is) of the Cylons looks like a rip-off of Klaatu from "The Day the Earth Stood Still." And the names of the colonies-Caprica? Sagitarion? Geminon? I know this is an early attempt to deal with the concept of The Singularity, but why would a cybernetic intelligence bother to cross interstellar space to attack humans? What I really want to know is, does this thing eventually get better when it becomes a series? Did they replace the writers with people who stayed awake in science class? Or maybe one or two who view writing as something more than a cliché assembly kit? I may have to buy the first DVD of the series in order to watch it (my Blockbuster doesn't bother to stock it), so, can somebody please tell me whether I'll be wasting my money (or "cubits" as they say in BSG)!!!


                
First of all just let me sum up start of miniseries: First 30minutes - *uckable cyborg I-Am-Kewl-But-My-Spine's-HOT-Chick(or the toaster would be better?) that starts killin' around and *ucking. Now that's just great start for a Sci Fi(!?!?) show. Don't think so.And 'cos of that *ucking, a guy simply gives Cylons codes of Ministry of Defense. OMG, how LOW can it really GO, I started wondering...I mean that's just insulting intelligence of common people who began to watch the show. After hour or so I just switched channel.Acting for another part is simply awful. It seems like every single one of actors were MAD at something beyond my comprehension. No other emotions at all. Just being mad. From first second of the show. Char development just being HORRID that way and waaaay badly performed.NHF 2 anyone who might actually find this show appealing, but sole CGI effects are NOT enough for me to comment it positively.And yeah, once again, CGI is great - specially planetary bombardment closeup. Story perhaps HAD potential. It got ruined when someone began filming this with Hot Toster and saying that all actors need to be emotionless. Ahm, pardon, MAD.Cheers.
When I first heard about them making a new Battlestar Galactica I thought about all the other remakes-- The new Outer Limits, the new Twilight Zone, the new Dark Shadows, the new live-action Tick, the new Land of the Lost, and the list goes on-- I was pretty sure I was going to be disappointed. And when I saw the movie, I was really disappointed. While some of the original BG episodes were hokey due to Dirk Benedict hamming it up, there was nothing really wrong with the concept. There were many elements that could have been updated for the 90s and beyond, but what was done was to change virtually everything just for the sake of change. There is no charm to this movie nor to the series, no warmth, and no humor. While it may be just perfect for the people who are growing up in such a crappy age where good writing is at a premium and "quality" is a function of what kind of special effects a show can come up with, but for the fans of the original series and even such classics as Star Trek and Lost In Space, newer shows like Babylon 5, this is a waste of time because there is really no substance to this movie.And of course, it's a big disappointment to see that those distinctive Cylon ships, and even the Cylons themselves have been changed. It's about as bad as suddenly learning the Doctor (of Doctor Who) is half-human! Some people will watch a car accident or a train wreck and find it entertaining, but if your standards are much higher than that, avoid this movie and rent the original movie. You'll be much happier!


                
Call me a purist if you want. But I fell absolutely in love with battlestar galactica when I first saw it during it's re-runs of the early 80's. Now this mini-series comes out and betrays the name!Look, if it's a good story. Fine. Give the story it's own name! Don't call it battlestar galactica UNLESS it follows the original Battlestar Galactica story line.


                
