I have no problem making a new version of Battlestar Galactica.  However, did they have to make the new version boring?  I could put up with making this version not as smart as the underrated television of the 70s.  That is what this is.  Making the Cylons look human is a rip of the Terminator movies and a lot of other sci fi shows.  But this mini series is boring. When the fate of the human race is at stake and you're not interested, something is wrong.  The series is also full of uncharimasmatic actors, especially that guy playing Baltar.  Only Edward James Olmos as Adama and that girl playing Starbuck escape mediocrity.  Mary McDonnell is the worst offender as the shrill President.  My advice: buy the original on DVD and read Richard Hatch's books instead.


                
Well, i voted 4 points, because i was very disappointed.I haven't expected a "remake", but a new series with new characters and the old known background Humanity vs Cylons.But the series was awful boring. :( There was a lot (i mean a LOT!) talking about people which could have been done in a normal series (with ~20 episodes), there was no need to get ALL of the characterizations in the pilot.Summarized, i don't like what they did with the great potential. And i really don't like the new Cmd. Adama, he's too short-tempered, militant and the actor played even that not very convincingly. The new Starbuck was a shame too. And i don't even start with the new Ex.O.They had a BIG chance to make something new and something GREAT, but they FAILED. :(By the way, some people around should really stop flaming only because they disagree with other people opinions!ps: i'm 26, male (no, i'm no single :D ) and i LOVED the old series, i was open minded about this one, and i gave it a fair chance. Sorry, but it was a waste of time. :(


                
The special effects were good, but there is no surprise there.  25 years of technological advancement in the art of graphics really showed.My problem with the mini-series was all the stupid blunders, boring parts, and shots that were meant to elicit an emotional response from soap opera viewers.  It seems like most of SCI-FI channel's new material is straying from keeping science fiction fans happy.Of course I'd hate to make statements like the above without examples to back them up, so:Killing the little baby was to get at emotional viewers.  Why the hell would a Cylon bother to kill a single infant just before they are ready to annihilate the whole planet?Access to the defense mainframe does not mean free access to all the data in the defense mainframe.  I'm assuming our brothers know about cryptography, key management, and paranoid security.  A single password just doesn't cut it.When Cylons die, they just wake up in a new body.  Since this statement was made even when there was an imminent nuclear attack, that implies that there is a constant connection between Cylons, a-la Star Trek's Borg.  Voila- instant Cylon detector.The totally unnecessary sex scenes that had very little to do with the story seemed to placed there just to copy the 7-of-9 effect to get the 14 year old boys to watch.If the cloud storm around the planet visibly affected the Cylon at the dump, why not the Cylons on the Galactica?  The fleet was held up in the storm for hours, enough for visible evidence to separate the Cylon's from the humans.If Gaius had a "chip" implanted in his brain, why would it remain undetectable.  No scar, itching, body rejection, fever?  I'd believe something outside of our technology from an advanced alien, but not from a race of machines.Even the substitution of almost human Cylon's reminded me of the cheesy way they tried to reduce production costs in Galactica 1980.  The feeling of legions of robot fighters was a powerful force in the old Galactica.  The human actors saying "pretend I'm not really human" still seems like a cheap cop out.


                
The original BSG was pretty OK. The new version isn't. It's passable, no more.I saw the new BSG with no foreknowledge. I didn't even know it existed until the day before I saw it. I watched it because I like sci-fi, and I remembered the original. My hope was to see an improved version, but the new movie is less than the old.The script was poor; just plain unexciting. The storyline has been made darker than the original, in the usual belief that darker is more real. It isn't. Usually, it's just duller - like this version of BSG.The film-makers sought to portray a drama. They failed - all they did was remove the adventure, the fun and the humour from the original production.The camerawork and presentation is amateurish. Sure, this was done deliberately, to (supposedly) add realism. They wanted the appearance of a documentary. What they got was the appearance of low quality.The characters swear. Well, the female characters do. They say `Frack'. Great. That really makes the show real, doesn't it? Any form of swearing in films is just useless filler - a means for a poor writer to try and convey thoughts and feelings his talent hasn't the capacity to portray by other means. This approach always fails; adding swearing doesn't elevate a script, it detracts from it.  Substituting `Frack' for **** doesn't change that.Some acting in the movie is OK, some isn't. Edward James Olmos merits special attention. He plays Adama the same way he played the Lieutenant in Miami Vice; one-dimensional and pretty weird. Long ago, at the dawn of time, I remember laughing at his acting in Miami Vice. My brother was a fan, and I still remember my comment to him - 'If you met him in real life, you'd tell him `You're a strange little man, aren't you?'. My opinion hasn't changed. Remarkable that an actor can have progressed so little in so long.The special effects were disappointing. Battle scenes were confusing, and what has happened to the Cylons? The director (or maybe the producer) has said that back in the late 70's you could get away with portraying the Cylons by putting a man in a suit, but now you can't. So what is his solution? Take the man out of the suit and portray the Cylons as just normal people. Really big advance, that. Aliens were portrayed in human form in the 50's because they hadn't the ability to do more. Now, they're portrayed in human form because the producers are too cheap to pay for the effects.There were some real Cylons in the show, and they looked pretty good. But they never talked, were onscreen for perhaps 60 seconds total - and were animated for only 10 seconds of that time. Not impressive. Men wearing Cylon suits from the original movie would have been better.The show has also been thoroughly PC'd-up: multiple multi-racial relationships, sex scenes, and our species is always referred to as `Humankind' or `Humanity', never `Mankind' or `Man'. Male characters are replaced by females in the same roles. The women act like men, the President is a woman -naturally. (Repeat after me - `Men and women (no, I mean women and men) are exactly the same except for some minor, irrelevant details of internal plumbing'. After all, that reflects your own experience in real life, doesn't it?)Some people think it intelligent to take the mores, values and taboos that are promoted as the one true path in America in this time period, and portray them in futuristic movies. This isn't intelligent, it's foolish. The idea that a civilisation separated from us by endless centuries of isolated development would have values identical to those of current-day America is ridiculous. You don't have to cross the galaxy to understand this. Try taking one step across the Mexican border and you encounter an entirely different ethos. Come to that, step outside the minds of PC politicians and the chattering classes into real-life America and you encounter a different reality.So much difference in one world - or one country. How could an entirely different set of worlds be so similar? The real attraction of sci-fi is that it stretches the mind beyond our everyday experience. Scriptwriters, show some imagination please; portray different times and places as actually being different.
I could go on with my criticisms, but won't. You get the idea. The original BSG film was a lesser Star Wars - but that's OK. It was never intended to be a realistic depiction of our long-lost relatives in Space. It was fun, humorous, entertaining. Not a major event in life, but a pretty decent movie for its time. Even now, it remains entertaining. I would give it 6.5/10. (I exclude the series from this rating - it was worse than the original film.)The new movie could have been so much better than it is. It could easily have been better than the original film. Instead, it is worse. An opportunity lost.I am very disappointed. However, as I said at the beginning, this movie is still passable. By all means take a look if you are interested - just don't expect anything fantastic.My rating - 5/10


                
The original series had an element of fun that made it so watchable.  This adaptation has less humor than Schindler's List (with none of that movie's many redeeming qualities).  This was a painful presentation to watch, not due to overly bad acting or cheesy special effects (both were adequate), but because the pacing was dreadfully slow, the characters poorly developed (especially the Cylons), and most of all, there was positively no joy.When you can't feel an emotion watching the human race getting wiped out, something is seriously wrong with the direction.


                
I loved the trailers and the excitement, but the expectation of a remake was far from the mark...It could have been titled anything else and been the same story, losing the legacy of the original series.  With that said, some of the effects were cool.  Olmos as Adama is great.  However, the use of sex and language for a show I was hoping to let my children watch really detracted from the movie.  I sure hope they go back to the drawing board and re-imagine it back to how it was.And the cylon as a "sexy chick"...has to go.  I was excited at the first with the new look of the cylons...for about the 30 seconds they were on the screen. I didn't even mind Starbuck as a woman except for the fact that she is too good to work with commanding officer who is trying in some small way to humble himself after this traumatic experience.It turned out to be a bad reason to stay up late.


                
I threw away the love I had of the original series before I watched this new rendition.Taken solely by itself, this new BSG aint half bad.  It's easy to identify with the new characters, and I had no problem getting past some of the casting decisions (males that are now females).  The acting was serviceable to good for the most part, no one really phoned it in.There are two reasons why i personally score this minie-series low.  A lot of loose threads and boring action scenes.The loose threads can be forgiveable if this series gets picked up as a regular weekly show or a sequal ends up being made.  But by itself, it all just feels so incomplete.  The ending was downright sad, i dont mean emotionally either, i mean completely lacking in depth.  Even the "twist" felt like a cheap cop out.  As if the creators ran out money and time and just slapped an ending on it and went home.The battle scenes, while filled with some really great special effects, we're boring and lackluster.  There didnt appear to be any good choreography.  No life to the battles.  The music was downplayed, the camera angles were way to tight for a vicious space battle.  The tempo was slow and tedious.  It seemed like there was a ton of building up to a great scene, but no actual great scene.This new BSG had a ton of promise, and if you can just leave your memories of the original series at the door, you will actually find some enjoyment out of this new rendition.  But don't raise the bar too high.
5 out 10.


                
I agree with other comments posted on this series, this show has been created to cash-in on the old series, plain and simple.The show is badly flawed, The acting on the whole is very poor, and the story lines suck.I am sick of Hollyweird, and the U.S TV networks, attempting remakes of old T.V shows and Movies simply to make money. The majority of the time they turn out to be garbage such as this or others such as Lost In Space, Planet of the Apes etc.I had some hope for this show, but I am very disappointed. It was good to see Edward James Olmos on TV again, but that was the only redeeming feature of this show for me.


                
I would recommend this version of Battlestar Galactica to the 8 and older crowd, in addition to any and all SciFi lovers. The sets were detailed and truly exceptional in some places (probably computer graphics). There are plenty to tech toys and eye candy in this movie. The characters help draw you into the film. Yet, although Battlestar Galacttica does move along quite nicely, it gives you plenty of time to catch your breath without getting bored. In this version of Battlestar Galactica, Starbuck is a woman. I guess that was some of the political correctness the director/writer wanted to show. I found it good entertainment but not a classic. I give it four thumbs up.


                
