Before this re-imagining was even announced I had never before heard about "Battlestar Galactica" except when an overweight comic book geek mentioned it on TV. But when I heard such a show was airing I found myself....well, gitty. Never watching the old series I spent the night that it first aired glued to my TV waiting for it to come on. And after I watched the whole miniseries, I was blown away. A sci-fi show with no lasers? No elaborate, all too clean, spacecrafts? No weird talking animals? A sci-fi show that is actually relevant to today? Can such a show exist? Yes, my friend.Never before has such a show like this been created, "Naturalistic Science Fiction," is what the producers call it. It was created to shake things up in the sci-fi genre the only problem is that it came too late. Sci-fi is now associated to too extremes, Star Trek and Star Wars, both are great, I prefer Star Wars, but, whatever. And there have been smaller shows in between the two, Farscape, Stargate, the old BSG. But never before has this entered.The new Battlestar Galactica is simply saying "screw those guys, I am the evolved one." And it shows, it shows. The story of the miniseries starts where the original series starts, the original series started with a movie by the way.One of the most noticeable differences is the camera, what i mean is that you are aware that there is in fact a camera recording the action, from shaking to zooming in and out this is to give the impression that this is all really happening and that you are viewing war footage. Another thing is that everything feels authentic, from the towns to the corridors of the ships, everything is alive and is used in the scene, you actually feel that theses ships are real. Speaking of ships the new look of the Cylon ships is eerie to say the least.The characters are also unique, for the first time you can have a tough WOMEN soldier without her being regarded as a lesbian. All the characters change, meaning they don't simply stay, the tough one, the scared one, the dumb one, they all switch to different roles.The technology of the show is similar to that of our own and of Blade Runner. They also make do with what they have, there isn't a piece of technology that is presented to the characters at the beginning that will vanquish the enemy that will be introduced in ten minutes.All in all if you are looking for something different to watch than the new Battlestar Galactica is one to see. In fact everyone should at least give it a try. Do not listen to those who say that it is bad they are the ones who would rather see the women as background characters, and who want the kid to be smarter than everyone else.Give the miniseries a try.I give it 9 "Screw you were more evolved" statements out of 10


                
I skimmed the bad comments and all I could find is a bunch of oldies bashing the new Battlestar Galactica with comments like "Starbuck was better as a man" and "Human-looking Cylons are a sci-fi cop out." I have a few issues with this garbage train of thought.I'm a Sci-fi fan, perhaps I should say I was after seeing BSG. I've watched and enjoyed all kinds, old to new. After being absorbed into this series, going back to Star Trek seems childish. I cannot watch shows like Andromeda or any other new science fiction because they don't feel like they are going anywhere. There's no depth; these other shows give off the air of a pipe dream.The old BSG was canceled. Why would you want to remake a show (in its entirety) that was canceled after the first season? Most of these people watched the original when they were in their childhood. If I watch an episode of thunder cats now, it's painful; however, when I watched it as a kid, it was the best thing since sliced bread.The complex plot line *hinges* on the fact that Cylons _can_ look like humans. I originally thought it was a cop-out, too, but a metal machine has no acting depth to carry the burden of a good series. Besides, how many sci-fi shows are out there with gaudy special effects and cheesy robots spouting lines equivalent to "does not compute" or "take me to your leader"? The feeling that the fiction in this science fiction is more like fact is refreshing. No longer is there the "pew pew" kind of laser noises permeating through space, akin to a 6 year old "shooting" lasers from his finger. The battle scenes are more realistic and "dirty" than anything from a Star Trek episode. This show isn't about marauding around the galaxy with a flagship, flaunting superior firepower and technology. No, this is about the last effort of mankind, running from the Cylons.The end result of this re-imagining of the series is a story that is engaging and totally captivating. The buildups and battle scenes are awe-inspiring. The Characters are heavily intertwined with each other. Relationships have depth. There is more complexity to this series than your simple sci-fi -- A departure from the "everything is OK and we're back to where we started" at the end of every episode. Nevermind sci-fi; the series is a fresh departure from everything else on TV. Battlestar Galactica is science fiction meets reality and it is terribly successful.
Having enjoyed the original series of 'Battlestar Galactica' as a child in the seventies I wasn't too keen to see this believing it to be a remake where favourite characters had changed gender for no obvious reason... how wrong I was! The basic story about a single battlestar and a ragtag fleet of survivors from twelve colonies that have been decimated by a Cylon attack remains but whereas the old series was an exciting romp suitable for all the family this is something much darker. I even came to think it was an inspired move to make Starbuck and Boomer female as it makes it easier to forget the old character while watching this.As the story opens, forty years after the first Cylon War the Battlestar Galactica is about to be decommissioned and turned into a museum. While preparations for the decommissioning ceremony are underway the Cylons return without warning and attack the colonies with nuclear weapons. These Cylons aren't like the old ones; there are still some centurions but there are also ones which look human and one of the latter has infiltrated the colonies defence computers so that when they attack they can shut down all newer colonial systems. Luckily Commander Adama refused to let new computers be installed on Galactica so it is unaffected. After the attack Galactica heads to remote arms depot to stock its empty magazines while the ship carrying the newly appointed president sets about finding as many survivors as possible.Like all great shows its strength comes from a combination of a great story acted out a great cast. For a show with such a large cast it is surprising just how good they are. Edward James Olmos is fantastic as Commander Adama showing him to be a forceful leader willing to make tough decisions but also willing listen to others such as the new president, played by Mary McDonnell, who was merely the Education Secretary before the Cylon attack killed the rest of the cabinet. Katee Sackhoff was great as Kara Thrace, call sign 'Starbuck, her performance soon made me forget about Dirk Benedict's portrayal of Starbuck I enjoyed as a child. The show was packed with spectacular action including some of the best space battle scenes I've seen with not a laser beam in sight. If you want a dark space based series I'd certainly recommend this as well as the four seasons that follow.
NO SPOILERSI've just finished watching this mini-series on DVD and simply can't wait for the series!! Not since Babylon 5 has a TV show captivated me so much. I've seen a few episodes the original "Battlestar Galactica" (including the pilot) and it didn't do anything for me. The new series is simply the best sci-fi series in ages, with great characters, engaging story and production values that are mind blowing. Most characters are set up very well in the pilot. There are times when I thought the characterisation was inconsistent, but then realized that these characters can't be taken at face value. As much as real people can't be taken at face value, these characters can say one thing and do another. They can be incredibly brave and showy in the presence of others and have to hold back tears in private. They can be arrogant and selfish and then show that they know how they've behaved and seem remorseful without actually apologising. "Battlestar Galactica" manages to do serious drama very well, without becoming an overblown melodrama. This is no "Melrose Space". I tip my proverbial hat to the writers for going the extra mile and making something that pushes sci-fi drama to a new level, rather than simply trying to push the audience's buttons. Generally the actors manage to bring these characters to life very well. There's nothing likely to win an emmy here, but there's no hammy acting and the more subtle and realistic characterisation lends itself to the more subdued performances given here."Battlestar Galactica" is also unafraid to do something different with the visual and auditory aspects of it's production. Gone are the production clichés "Star Wars" set up nearly 30 years ago. Very little whooshing is heard as ships fly past the camera, replaced mostly with silence. And that fantastic music. Normally I'm very fond of overblown orchestral and choral scores in sci-fi. However it is becoming a bit of a cliché, and "Battlestar Galactica" replaces it with fantastic percussion that builds tension admirably. Another trick employed is portraying the space battles as if shot on a hand-held camera, which works very effectively to put you in the thick of the action. Michael Rymer does a great job of the directing, giving the whole production an animated feel. The ensemble nature of the cast is emphasised by employing shots that circle a group as they have long and involved conversations. Now for my warnings to potential viewers. Firstly if you are wanting to relive the original show, buy the DVD box set of the old series. Don't watch this. It is very different and works on a totally different level. This is not a remake, but a reimagining and a reinvention. It's called "Battlestar Galactica" and keeps the same basic plot and characters but has little else in common with the old series. The reaction of old time fans to this could be an indication the new "Doctor Who" next year will get. Penned by one of the most talented writers in Britain and with a multi-million pound budget the indications are that it will be a similar quantum leap in quality over "the old show" that the new Battlestar Galactica is. (shameless plug, I know) Secondly if want a fast paced show with lots of action the new "Battlestar Galactica" probably isn't for you. While the action is very good, it isn't happening every other scene and the mini-series can be fairly slow in places as it focuses more on building characterisation and plot than simply providing cheap thrills. I look forward eagerly to the new series, as there has been a lot set up in the mini series that has me hanging to see how things will pan out and by the end I was just starting to get involved enough with the characters to really care about their fates.I give "Battlestar Galactica" 9/10. Well done.


                
This show must have been the product of some fast food franchise in the future; the actors were bland, unmoving and not all that attractive. My God, even the sex scene was ho hum. I was a mild fan of the original series as a child and as I watched the original series premiere I saw all the plot holes, cheesy lines and bad effects that youth blinded me to. The actors carried the story in the original series and you actually cared about them. How you turn a womanizing man with a dynamic personality into an irritating woman with no personality and call it a fresh new spin is beyond me. It seems that this mini-series was created to push a social agenda not entertain.It would be different if the show pushed some kind of social agenda secondary to the story, (i.e. Will and Grace) but to make it the primary focus while sacrificing the story turns it into propaganda. I am sorry, but I am not going to waste 2 hours of my life on a social infomercial. I sincerely hope the mini-series picks up, but I have scant hope.--time passes--I stand by my comments on the mini-series. However, I must eat a lot of humble pie when it comes to the regular series. It has surpassed all of my expectations time and time again.More napkins please, I am getting crumbs on the floor. ;-(


                
This is the best thing that could have happened to a tired, clichéd, worn-out and made-for-kiddies TV show from the 70's. I think that's why I hated the original so much. I have always loved good sci-fi. I was in high school at the time, so I was certainly old enough to appreciate what the writers were trying to do. But a 'rag tag' group of survivors on space ships fighting daily against a superior robot race avoiding extinction is supposed to be 'funny'? Too many lame and repetitive action sequences, too many cheesy jokes and light-hearted moments in the original.And now this! I loved this miniseries. And I've seen the first season and I loved it even more. There is far more seriousness and drama because their SHOULD be. The plot is too serious to be treated with standard made-for-prime-time silliness. And the characters are real-to-life this time, flaws and all. Subtle details I found intriguing: greatly reduced or eliminated sound in space (someone gets it right!), the mixing of futuristic and 'today's' technology (no computer networking, 'wireless', 'faster-than-light' drive), soundtrack, theme, the mixing of very serious religion and hardball politics, tough choices made by a schoolteacher-turned-president. Watch this! Then start watching the series. This would never fly in the Desperate Housewives culture, even with the steamy 'sex with robots'. But as far as I can tell it works well for the SciFi channel audience. This is good stuff for adults.


                
Blah blah blah, the original this, the original that.  For once in my life, I had the benefit of watching this "remake" with a completely unbiased eye; I'd watched a few episodes of the original when I was 12... I didn't get what the big deal was.  I watched this one, fresh and uneducated.Except for, y'know, knowing that Michael Rymer directed "Queen of the Damned" which was damn unwatchable, and co-written by Ronald D. Moore, who helped ruin Star Trek.  So expectations were pretty low.Man, in the opening SCENE the filmmakers created such a sense of paranoia, such a sense of FEAR, I couldn't turn away.  The only reason I did was because of commercials, but I had to keep coming back, waiting for the moment in the story when it turns to garbage, and I have to walk off.  In Hollywood movies, this is usually the last 20 minutes.  Stuff blows up, bad guy gets shot, the end.Not so here.  Do I care that Starbuck was a woman?  Not even a little bit. The actress can act well enough, but Dirk Benedict was no Al Pacino.  Her character is INSANE, boyo, clinically NUTS.  The human cylons are 50-times scarier than the robotic ones, but the robotic ones only had 60 seconds of screen time, at least the bipedal ones.  Whatever.  You can't just turn your nose up at a body count of 50,000,000,000.Characters you get attached to: die.  Children: die.  I was just having a conversation with someone about Philip K. Dick and how his stories create a level of paranoia in only a few pages.  "BSG2003" hits it on the nose. The action is incredible, the characters are memorable... but be wary, the dialogue is about as good as your basic porn film.  And thanks for that, Ronald D. Moore.I'll get over it.  A-minus.  Major points deducted for ripping off Joss Whedon's "Firefly" in several FX-shots, but while that show is miles above this one, this one is still pretty good, despite the huge flaws.  The whole is greater than the sum of its parts.


                
Regardless of what the stuck-in-their-ways fuddie-duddies are saying, watching this was three hours well spent. It is a much superior take on the scenerio of being alone in space than what we saw in 'Star Trek: Voyager'.I wasn't even born when the original was out so there's no love lost for me but I don't understand why it's so popular. It's so obviously a childish version of 'Star Wars' where the people were far too happy considering they have just recovered from a terrible war and they have no real means of supporting themselves (something which was never addressed).In the originals, the character were rather cardboard. In this remake, they seem so real. While before Adama just ghosted around with no real contribution to the storyline, here Adama is a man trying to do his best to lead his people yet knowing he has made mistakes. He is a realistic leader. Roslin is a woman struggling with her own mortality while trying to care for the needs of those looking to her. Baltar the traitor was even a sympathetic character at times (he did save them at one point but was it really because he cared or because he was saving his own hide?) and we can't predict just how far he will go to protect his secrets.Starbuck looked ridiculous with the cigar (they should lose that) but the sex change worked. Dirk Benedict's Starbuck was an all-American womaniser. That might have worked in the seventies but this is meant to be a futurisitic setting and these people are coping with the genocide of their race so this darker, angerier Starbuck works so much better. I loved the background to Boomer and it will be interesting to see what they do what that possibility. Appollo is someone we need to see more of to get a true impression (he seems the character kept most faithful to the original) but the tension between him and his father was needed from the sugary relationship we saw in the original.On the actual plot, whoever decided to have the colonies decimated by nuclear weapons deserves an award. It never made the destruction more chilling and real compared to using lasers or something equally unfamiliar in real-life. The dogfights were brilliant while the conflict between Adama and Roslin, the military general and the liberal official, was a great touch. I do hope to see more of the cylons in the series since it does seem a bit cheap to focus entirely on the human cylons. Also, it will be interesting to see how the people cope with food shortages and other such problems. Definitely a show that deserves some investment and I can't wait to see where they go from the pilot.


                
I couldn't have put it any better than Adam from Fresno. This IS a DIFFERENT show, and if people could take a step back from wanting a continuation of the original they might enjoy it more. The cast are superb, especially with giants like Edward J Olmos and Mary MacDonnell, but it the dark atmosphere, the twisted nature of number 6 & Baltar, and the documentary-like filming style that make it for me. As for comments I've seen about the lack of action, well there's plenty of action coming up in the TV series, and that's original action, not the same old bank of shots we got repeated in every show in the 70s original. This show has the potential to go far, Richard Hatch has seen that, maybe you could too...


                
I cannot overemphasize the delight I felt while watching this movie - that of watching something I expected to be execrable, and finding it to be of the finest quality. Fine acting from the top of the bill to the bottom; intelligent writing that involves thought on back story, character, societal underpinnings of the imagined universe; production values that complement the story and give it a feeling of reality (insofar as that is possible with visual science fiction - and I cheered when I realized that *this* movie's spacecraft didn't make noise as they flew through the vacuum)...even so apparently small a thing as the quiet yet compelling musical score; all of these things added to the whole. One of the underlying themes of the movie - the exploration of spirituality, and the future of humanity's soul, both individually and en masse - was expressed with finesse and subtlety, the kind of sophistication that is often so inescapably missing in the visual science fiction genre. The original television series was risible, fully deserving of the contemptuous nickname "Cattlecar galaxative." This, on the other hand, is superb.


                
And before I get the usual "stupid kid" flames, I'm old enough to remember how my heart stirred with the opening strains of the original Battlestar Galactica theme, and how I really, REALLY wanted to be just like Starbuck.Galactica in 1978 was NOT a Star Wars wannabe.  Sure, it used ILM effects and at $1.0M per episode was the most expensive show ever on television, and may yet still be if one accounts for inflation.  But BG then was more Star Trek than Star Wars.  Finally, here at last, was the vision of a "Wagon Train to the Stars" though hostile territory, surrounded by enemies in all directions.  Cue Cylon attack and--horray!--Apollo and Starbuck save the day but only after disobeying a DIRECT order.I loved it of course.Today's BG is the same story, only more.  And less, of course.  No it doesn't use the original cast--SciFi didn't have Kyle Maclachlan portray Paul Atriedies, why have an age'd Dirk Benedict play Starbuck?  No it's a new century and time for a new story, one less driven by "Gee whiz" ILM pyrotechnics and more by the human story behind any tale of conflict. Comparisons here are better with "The Winds of War," than anything else.2003's telling of the BG story is more about the people and character development--not just dusting off an old model and swooping a Dykstraflex(R) camera around it.  The pilot is slow and careful--not plodding--and I think it will view better with that in mind.Come on folks, give it a chance!


                
There's something you have to keep in mind before, during, and after viewing this (mini)series: this is opera, not "hard" sci-fi. This is almost entirely true. Eventually they'll expand on the consequences of playing god. If you keep this in mind you'll realize its quality writing and character development. The spoiler stuff: yes, Starbuck and Boomer are women, Adama is Latino, Tigh is white and so on. Just overlook it for now and you'll forget it soon enough. Another important thing is that the idea of genocide is a hot topic, just like it should be. And there is a lot more character conflict than in the original series. These people have serious flaws yet you feel a better attachment for them then the original cast.
Since I do live in the Netherlands (we are always behind times) all series in America are shown much later in Holland. Thank God for the internet. I've seen the miniseries and I was stunned to say the least. It was as if Sci-Fi had taken a whole new meaning. I was about 14 years when i first saw the original series. I think the producers of this new show have done a tremendous job of making this re-image of the old series. The plot line for this series is excellent. The Cylons were made by man which wasn't told in the original series as I remember.(correct me if I'm wrong). All the characters of this new show have been wonderfully created. The Special Effects are fantastic. You can see now the small lateral and all the other small thrusters working to steer the viper.( the f/x from the end 70's were not as fancy as the are today).Remaking Starbuck as a female is a brilliant move. She has all the humor and wits that Dirk Benedict has. Olmes plays a very strong Adama, he played a very good role in Miami Vice, Apollo is a much more complex figure then in the original series.All in all it is a brilliant new show and I can't wait for it to air in Holland. I hope it will be late this year. (although you can never be sure of anything in Holland)


                
The new Battlestar Galactica has everything that the old one lacked: plot, storytelling, character building, soundtrack, originality. It isn't just a cool special effects remake of the original series, it's a total makeover of concept and cinematics.Are you expecting a battle between smart emotional humans and "walking toasters"? Scratch that. The Cylons have their own reasons to fight, live and die. They think, they feel, they believe. What? Another Matrix? Far from it. The series is filmed as a live documentary, with carefully directed camera tilts and zooms. This gives the film a great "real" feel. Will we see Starbuck making stupid jokes and bringing comical relief in a hopeless situation for humankind? No. This is true drama and tragedy. Are humans a tight bunch of think-a-likes, loyal to each other and acting as one? God, no! That would truly be unrealistic, wouldn't it?Of course, there are things that don't add up, what scifi series doesn't have them? The interesting thing about Galactica is that it doesn't pretend to have all the answers. The technology is there for the use of the characters as they develop and fight for survival. You will not see smart technicians using hitech jargon to explain the unexplainable or cool warp or impulse drives, tractor beams, transporters or anything like that. What little technology you will see seems antiquated, like coming from the 21st century (space travel added). But it seems to me that the focus was intentionally moved from technology and science and put strongly on human nature, personal stories and very subtle philosophical issues.Watch this series, as I have, and you will not be disappointed. Another good thing is that almost all of the premises of the series are layed down in the opening movie, so if you don't like it, you will know it immediately.Update: after watching the entire series and thinking about it for a few years, I can maintain the original review for the first two seasons only. The last two, a confused mix of pseudoreligious babble and lack of logic, were rather disappointing. Also, the ending infuriated me, even if I think we are lucky some scifi series even get to have an ending these days.
When I heard about this "remake" I was very skeptical - what was the point in remaking what was actually a pretty lousy original. I had visions of endless garish spandex, repetitive stock footage, lame acting, lame scripts and the inevitable dreadful "jokes". It was never a series I was even tempted to make time for and in the UK was simply defined as a kids show. I cannot even begin to fathom why some have called the original series "classic". It was pants! Everyone knew it then and then certainly know it now!So not optimistic when we borrowed the DVD of the mini-series from my brother-in-law... End result - hugely impressed! Who cares that Starbuck has changed sex for heaven's sake! This show is very well put together, made by people who understand movies and movie making instead of formulaeic TV fodder. The cinematography was impressive - obvious links to several American Cop shows with busy hand held camera work, thoughtful lighting and a gritty texture. I hope they take this even further in the full series - it made the ship feel like an aircraft carrier from the Vietnam war days. Hopefully they will continue to dirty up the set and bring out more grime as the BG moves from mothball status to reluctant ark-guardian.Acting was very good. Edward James Olmos has a real sense of gravitas that helped give it depth and believability. Mary Mcdonnell was equally strong in her depiction of the drafted in president. James Callis was extremely entertaining as Balthar.CGI is excellent for the budget (though here sometimes the shift in camera angle or zooming mid shot didn't work with the CGI miniatures losing their believability.)Script was good - though there were some plot holes and some tenuous moments but the treatment of the subject matter was strong. I hope they maintain this realistic approach. Please please please don't feature the rescued kids though. If they start to include the cute kiddies in the story lines it will wreck it (cf Wesley in Star Trek TNG)Anyway - suffice to say I've seen it four times and enjoyed it each time. It's a brave re-invention of a duff original. I don't have sky so will have to wait for a DVD release before I get to see the new series (boo hoo)It's OK to be serious!


                
I really enjoyed this.I didn't hold out too much hope when I heard they were going to remake BSG. But the proof is in the pudding. I really enjoyed this.It has a much darker tone (perhaps reflecting the world we live in). This is a movie about Genocide. Mankind is being systematically wiped-out. The SFX are tight and crisp. The trashing of the planet is NICE. Big nukes going off, mushroom clouds, and other such effects. I really enjoyed the camera work on the space battles. Normally I don't hold with shaky-cam, but I feel they really make the space battles <REALISTIC>. Yes, I know that's a contradiction, but there is something really effective about the camera having to zoom in to see a dog fight, or the camera trying to keep up with fighters engaging the Cylons. It really feels like your watching the action in real-time. It really shows a feeling of the immensity of space. I love the nukes streaming through space, chasing the fleet.The acting is top-notch. Again worried when I heard that it was all girls and Englishmen, but it works fine. James Edward Olmas and Mary Mcdonald add a gravitas and serious that really adds to the feeling of Genocide in action, of Mans last stand.And I did say it was dark. Leaving people behind, just in case. Blowing their own ships up, just in case there is a spy on board. When there are less than 50,000 humans altogether, you really feel the darkness and desperation when they have to blow one of their own ships up with 1300 people on board, just in case...I really rate this show. It is a credit to the producers that they stuck to such a dark vision. I for one will continue watching.Oh, and they have one of the sexiest baddies ever. Can't be bad.


                
I loved the original Battlestar Galactica back in the late 70's, and was excited when I was told there was a new iteration currently on TV.I caught a couple of episodes of this on the SCI-FI channel but didn't really completely understand what was going on. Then my brother sent me a copy of his Season One DVD this week, and I just got done watching it. WOW, what a show. I thoroughly recommend to anyone interested in this show that you buy or borrow the DVD of season one before getting too into it. I only wish now that I'd seen the original Mini-Series that the show is a continuation of. But, now I have the back-story to understand what is going on. You see, the show jumps around quite a bit telling multiple plot lines that are all working to explain the motives of the Humans and the Cylons. The way the Cylons are written is particularly gripping. Especially the Cylons that believe they are human. The use of religious subtext to make points is also very well done. (In the show, the humans believe in Mulitple Gods while the Cylons {robots created by man} believe in one God) As far as the basics, the writing is creative and snappy, the art direction and special effects are as outstanding as any TV show I've ever seen. The acting is top-notch with Edward James Olmos on board with Mary McDonnell (The First Lady from Independence Day). The supporting cast are all relatively unknown (at least to me) but equally talented.This is SCI-FI at its best, not hokey, simplistic or saccharin, but gritty, engrossing and emotionally investing. This is the best thing I've ever seen on the SCI-FI channel by far. The only thing about that is the fact that more people won't get to see it due to the network it is on.CHECK IT OUT...HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!
There are reasons why this is good scifi, most of them unrelated to the original. Firstly, three hours is long, but don't forget that this is still a miniseries and therefore fully entitled to be slightly 'boring', if you even perceive this series as such. That bombshell deprives core bashers for BSG2003 of their largest argument.Secondly, going into BSG2003's strengths and weaknesses, that I read fifty reviews for it; 12 positive, 38 negative, barely consistent with an overall voting average of 7.2. I believe that a group of 50 sufficiently objective reviewers should be sure to provide an average rating to reflect the public results. I think I can conclude that many reviewers allowed themselves to bash BSG2003 regardless. Casting Starbuck and Boomer as women can be taken both ways. Somewhere it's great, because despite the masculinity of both characters, as women they can induce a more successful breeding ground for relations between them and the central male cast. On the other side, the mildly 'homosexual tension' from the original series between Starbuck and Apollo was also interesting. Naturally, I'm sure that part of the decision to make these two characters female had been derived from the simple fact that Americans rather see Violence on the screen than Man on Man sexual tension. To further embroider the subject, I could say that making 'Starbuck' and 'Boomer' nicknames in BSG2003 was not a good thing, but at the same time, it adds to the Realism. I can vote both ways on these gender issues, but know that Katee Sackhoff and Grace Park did good jobs.Ignoring the 25 year differential, I still feel that BSG2003's cast was excellent and outshone the original's despite the extreme expenses that were taken to make the old one.The main cast can be taken apart, though, as some acted good, some acted better and some acted best. Though Mary McDonnell (Roslin) grows to become the authority within the series to come, she lacked strength to let you gravitate towards her. She was not the anchor she should have been, although she did a good job. The same could be said for Jamie Barber's Adama Junior, whose sometimes juvenile emotions strip his character from gravity as well. I can vouch for him by saying that his type of character is hard to play and I know that he will surely improve. The mainstream actors, the middle-verse in this cast was mostly taken in by Sackhoff's Starbuck who emphasizes on her high profanity lines, Michael Hogan's Colonel Tigh, who despite his well displayed gruffness loses himself with surprisingly monotonous dialog. Grace Park's Boomer too, who both plays the tough Raptor Pilot and the sexy Cylon model with the necessary grace and brawn.Top was the duo of Tricia Helfer's Number Six and James Callis's (surprisingly young) Gaius Baltar, showing frequent and sexually charged scenes with subtle variations depending on how far mentally Immersed Gaius is. Indeed, their relationship is likely going to play a major part in the series that follows this Pilot, however praise goes to Callis's portrayal of the emotionally rich, socially distant or methodically scheming Gaius Baltar.Prophetic it is that on the Galactica, Adama Senior, puts down - in my selective opinion - the strongest performance in this Pilot, he will even be better than in the series. He is like a 'Galactic' Black Hole, a galaxy of 'stars' circling. Edward James Olmos plays the hardened, emotionally restrained military veteran like no one else. When Olmos is quiet, you are quiet so you can hear what he says next. His presence demands every ounce of attention you can put into it.This Battlestar Galactica remake is not for children; a fact that had become clear in the implementation of things. At first time, it sheds itself for the quintessential 'childish' feel of Mainstream Sci-Fi like Star Wars and Star Trek by displaying the unrestrained sexual tension between multiple couples as well as depicting some rather horrid acts against humanity such as (but not limited to) snapping the neck of a sleeping infant and blowing a host of men out of the airlock. However, the strongest opposition to broadening the concept of 'free speech' to graphic content consist of censorists.What can I say about the visual effects other than already has been said? Lighting effects and camera angles are often awe-striking, the solo-scene opening that gives us a first glance of the Galactica's inside ends up giving us a tour in which we interject path of a jogging Starbuck, Adama Senior preparing a speech and an officer directing a public tour. This scene showed the general quality of the pilot and I believe also, that the directors and the cast had it in themselves to keep up this unusually high standard.Personally, I didn't overly focus on the science of it all. Unlike in Star Trek, in which almost every episode of almost every sub series seems to feature a deus ex machina in the shape of some kind of technology, we get phase conversions, remodulating transponder frequencies and warp assemblies most people don't want or need to know anything about. Battlestar Galactica 2003 shows us Science Fiction the likes of which we see far too rarely, an intensely realistic hierarchy with political changes, need for resources as well as a great merging of ordinary and extraordinary technology in a visually beautiful coating. The Galactica for me is simply a space worthy aircraft carrier and at least in this show, the characters are not too rigid to adapt to their enemies... In other Sci-Fi (Space: Above and Beyond in special), threats are almost always superior to the abilities of those protagonists who have to solve it, after which they miraculously enough always succeed nonetheless.To conclude my review: BSG2003 is a very human story with multidimensional characters and diligently used special effects, creating a world the 1978 BSG should be proud of.
I really wonder why so many people do come up comments like "this is nothing compared to the original series".First of all, there are many people, like me, who did not watch the original series at all. Second, you cannot compare nowadays sci-fi with which was to see on the screens 20, 30 years ago.I thought that this one was pretty awesome. To be honest, I did not like the mini series, but the episodes are getting better and better.I do not agree with most people saying Starbuck was a bad character. I think that Sackhoff is playing the character very well. The powerful yet arrogant woman who should have been born a man, who is trying not to show her emotions. All other actors are good as well. At first, I thought that Mary McDonnell would not be a good president, but she's growing on me with every new episode. Also, I thought that Doc Baltor was quite a complete idiot at first, but even he is starting to make sense after a couple of episodes.Stop comparing this with the original, people, and start to realize that this is some fine piece of modern sci-fi. 9/10.


                
I found the Battlestar Galactica (2003) remake a lot better than the original series from 1978/1980. Actually, I watched the original series, showing how old I am ***grin***.The 2003 series is bleaker, grimmer and more eerie than the original. Acting is good, the plot more subtle and logical. *** Possible Spoilers ahead ***Especially, I like the non-Hollywood feel of the series. Technology is not the only answer to anything. Firepower becomes useless through clever enemy infiltration. There are losses. People are sacrificed, civilians and wounded left behind. Just as in real life.  Adama has to make hart decisions and is wondering if it is worth it. Edward James Olmos gives the Adama character a surprising depth.Therefore <U+0096> keeping in mind that we are talking about a TV-mini series and not a mega-budget film endeavour <U+0096> I think 9/10 are justified.
Let's hope that the Battlestar Galactica (2003) will be continued, and not loosing is consistency and bleak realism.Guess we all remember what happened to the Matrix franchise <U+0085> ***shudder***.
I hate space. I've never longed to be an astronaut, I have absolutely no passion for solar systems and the sight of technologically advanced super spacecrafts does not give me a redwood in my khakis. So when a friend told me that I should really start watching BATTLESTAR GALACTICA, I was less than thrilled to do so. Sure, it's being lauded by critics and viewers worldwide - but so is Star Wars, and I never even made it through The Phantom Menace.Yet I have to come clean. While watching the miniseries I was thrilled, exhilarated, baffled and immensely satisfied. BATTLESTAR GALACTICA proved to be perhaps the most rewarding and instantly striking three hour television event I've seen in a while. Or... well... 'a while...' I can't remember the last time I have been sitting in complete concentration for three straight hours, with my heart skipping a few beats every five minutes. The show is pulsing with rich scenery, imaginative story twists and beautiful camera-work.The writing and acting are both superb. Within its three hour canvas, the show paints a striking setting with little gems of perfect craftsmanship. My favorite of these gems was the character of Laura Roslin, who is sworn into presidency when the real president is killed. There's so much you can read in her eyes, and feel in her dialogue. Throughout the show she struggles to find the perfect balance between selflessness, authority and courage of conviction. A lot of this should be credited to actress Mary McDonnell, who plays the character sublimely.And there is another gem I would like to single out, since it shows - in my opinion - that this show is more subtle and intelligent than the surrounding ethos would lend you to believe. When Captain Apollo visits his father (who he is having a difficult relationship with) to let him know he's still alive, there is a hug between the two which is so well acted and written that I was actually baffled by it's subtlety. The commander never even looks his son in the eye after the hug and their eyes tell the tales of a lifetime of heartache in a single moment.So why not a perfect ten? Well, 0,5 points are lost because sometimes BATTLESTAR GALACTICA seems to think it should dip into the space battle clichés to make its running time worth while. The other 0,5 points are lost because of the character of Gaius Baltar, who (although played beautifully by James Callis) manifested himself as the only character I wouldn't mind seeing killed off.BATTLESTAR GALACTICA Mini-Series (2003) Running Time: 175 minutesRating: 4,5 / 5
Once again, as with the reviews for the new BSG series, I can't understand the large number of bad sentiment for an absolutely wonderful reinvention of a much loved classic.It seems that many of the comments revolve around the whole, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it", or "why remake it if it's not going to be like the original?". To be honest, what would be the point in remaking the show if you're going to make it exactly the same as the original?? If you want something exactly the same as the original, go watch the original! I've just finished watching it again (plus seasons 1 and 2), whilst waiting for my copy of season 3 and Razor to arrive on DVD (unfortunately Australian TV haven't televised any of season 3, and did a great disservice to season 2), and I find it very re-watchable. Great entertainment.In summary, this mini-series sets up the following TV series in an excellent manner, and really creates the BSG world. Do yourself a favour and check this out!


                
Let me start by saying that I loved the original as a child and have the entire thing on DVD. Let me also emphasise the word CHILD in that last sentence.The original Battlestar Galactica is, when viewed through an adult's eyes, one of the lamest, corniest, most embarrassing pieces of garbage anyone ever bothered to burn onto a disc. It retains its appeal ONLY because people saw it when they were young and so remain fond of it.To those people that have posted on here complaining that the new series isn't sufficiently like the original I say - THANK GOD IT ISN'T! The original series - had exactly THREE ways an enemy fighter could be blown up (the same footage played over and over and sometimes reversed for variety) - contained a mechanical dog that was at least as corny as the Ewoks - was sickeningly sweet and had that eighties "Different Strokes-esquire" feel-good, laugh at anything, sitcom cheeriness about it - never ever made any sense whatsoever (Athena left half way through and no-one ever said why or what happened to her; farcical planets were constantly unearthed whose inhabitants resembled extras from old Bonanza reruns; the Cylons were big, fat, clumsy, incompetent buffoons who were more amusing than terrifying); - and the list rolls on!If the new series had have been even REMOTELY like this, it would have been laughed off the screen within a month and only a handful of geeky fanboys would have sung its praises. Thank GOD for this new series. When I read people complaining that the characters are "too serious" or "don't laugh enough" or "don't retain the Egyptian head-markings on their space helmets" I just want to scream. To all such people I say this - go out and rent ALF!!! You clearly have the intellectual capacity of a 10 year old and are entertained by smiling, unrealistic, unfunny, sweet-as-pie, childish fluff. Stop embarrassing yourselves by posting your drivel on this site.I love the fact that the characters in this series are real and not cardboard cut-outs. OF COURSE they don't all get along! Are people so stupid as to honestly imagine that a group of soldiers thrown together on a military ship after the rest of humanity has been slaughtered are likely to stand around cracking gags and telling each other just how much they CARE?!? I retch at the thought of such a series. If you want the original Battelstar, go and watch it. I have and it's just plain awful. If you want a gritty, well-made, compelling sci-fi series with three-dimensional characters, start watching the new one.Congratulations to the writers and producers for not pandering to imbeciles.


                
luckily i hadn't heard anyones opinion about battlestar galactica 2003 before watching it and i'd only heard a few sketchy details i grew up around the time of the original galactica, and while i thought it was reasonably entertaining at the time i do remember that it wasn't that brilliant, quite cheesy actually, and that the stories got steadily worse. i also remember they continually played the same pieces of fx footage and sound for the space fight scenes which was really annoying!!!! i love the galactica 2003 mini series. the new starbuck character is excellent. i've since heard lots of grumbling nerd boys asking why they had to make starbuck a woman? could it be because 50% of the human race is female? and maybe the makers have updated things for the new millennium? granted i was a little worried initially that they were going to turn it into one of those girl power scenarios but luckily that never materialised and there is a nice balance between male/female authority. i like the update and think it opens the series up to more female viewers so i can finally watch a sci-fi with my wife! its kind of similar to 'starship troopers' in that regard actually, which was previously the only other piece of sci-fi that i like that also appealed to the missus the low-fi tech approach is also reminiscent of 'starship troopers'. i loved troopers so therefore i love the new galactica approach as well.i was very impressed with the sound also, very creative and professional for a TV sci-fi. loved the radio comms but it seems they filtered that out a lot in the actual series which is a pity, but overall some great fx (eg in space movement of vessels, the smart application of the traditional cylon sound used for the 'radar' devices etc) overall i really liked this. its not perfect.. i think the lasers on the vipers are really quite rubbish actually. i'm also not sold on the new cylons, i thought the humanoid approach was more unsettling, but overall this is a top effort and comes highly recommended by me. i'm quite a big sci-fi enthusiast but i still like quality drama and this series ticks both boxes. its even got the police lt. from Miami vice in it so top marks from me not so sure about the pacing of the actual series so we'll see.. but in this mini series they really cram it in as it was essentially a pilot for the show and all of the heavy destruction/action takes place here


                
For a sci-fi films with an action-based premise (as opposed to spiritual/cerebral works such as 2001 or Solaris) I can think of few who rival the new Battlestar Galactica mini- series. This really surpasses the original (1978) television series pilot (which I still love) in every way. Top-notch writing and acting combines with wonderfully conceived sets, admirable special-effects, and a realism and depth I wish more sci-fi strove towards. I am usually pretty cynical about action films and dramas, but this mini-series pulled me in from the word go and gave me the feeling that I was really watching something different and most importantly something 'with heart'. I got choked up more than once in the course of events. Also the change of Starbuck to a woman was simply fantastic to see. Sex-pot action heroes like Lara Croft are tiresome. Having a tough woman who can be a bit butch without falling into lesbian stereotypes is really a step forward for the genre. As a little girl I was madly in love with Dirk Benedict, so don't start with me about being attached to the original characters. If you really have a problem with Starbuck being a woman, all I can say is look inside yourself as to why it bothers you so much. Can't wait for the TV series to be on DVD (I have no cable).


                
