This is one of the worst, most preposterous films I've ever seen.The reactions of the teacher and the villagers are totally unrealistic.Lucas hardly blinks when told a child has accused him of abuse. He doesn't seem shocked, but just shrugs (conveniently making him look all the more guilty in the eyes of the head teacher). She and the villagers all base their conclusions on the premise that "children don't lie" (oh, come on!), and the formerly very popular Lucas is immediately guilty in their eyes.Even when the child tells her mother that Lucas did nothing and she was just saying "something foolish", the mother puts words into the little girl's mouth, saying she "probably just doesn't remember what happened". All Lucas' friends immediately turn against him, fully believing the little child.There are lots of "meaningful" looks instead of realistic dialogue (it is an art film, after all).The ending of the film is a major cop-out and absolute rubbish. Suddenly it's one year later and everything's hunky-dory. So the film- makers were too lazy or too unable to explain how Lucas came to forgive the so-called friends who had condemned him, beaten him, killed his beloved dog and ruined his life and reputation. That would be just a little too difficult to justify, I suppose.No, the story is utterly unbelievable, preposterous and annoying. In fact it could be considered dangerous, as it might put ideas into some kid's head about how to get revenge on a disliked teacher.There's even a scene obviously copied from "The Deerhunter" at the very end.I'll give it one star for the scenery. Otherwise awful.
The Hunt reads like abuse apologia, because the story does not have people reacting in a realistic way to sexual abuse. What is far more likely to happen and indeed what happens constantly in our culture, is people excusing child abuse because they are close to and like the abuser, and saying a child is confused/lying because it is easier and because obtaining "proof" is nearly impossible. All the kids suddenly turning on their teacher because "children lie" even though we see that there are manipulations in place for Klara to arrive at the conclusions she does...that makes no sense for the other kids. This is chalked up to "hysteria" but it is not explained and doesn't follow the movie's own logic for how a child may be manipulated or how parents might ignore what a child is actually saying. There are heavy-handed hunting metaphors throughout unfortunately.If the writer had wanted to go the falsely accused route, a more realistic angle would have been to have Klara's brother be an abuser (he is showing pornographic material to a young child...that is a form of abuse and often a precursor to more sexual activities in these cases) but to have everyone deny it because talking about family sexual abuse is too taboo, and so to conveniently scapegoat the teacher. Perhaps if you do not know much about how sexual abuse and power dynamics function in our society, this film would be more compelling. Art can and should be critiqued within a greater social context, and to make a martyr figure of an accused child sexual abuser is toxic and far from controversial or radical.


                
Lucas's crimeThe Hunt (Jagten) is based on true story, I know. Thomas Vinterberg is director with Lars Von Trier and their movies should be the most discussed. Because they know well receiving many people's interest, using people's expand who wanna discuss free some strange issues. In the Hunt, we have a basic problem. Lucas, a teacher, kissed by little girl student, is he a real man, sure? Lucas's reflection of little girl is stupid. If he is a really teacher he would know this kiss isn't a problem. He mustn't offer she to kiss boys who in her age. He mustn't do anything. Every little child kiss adults, that is related with their oral growing. A teacher doesn't know, doesn't know?Story, if it is real or not, is beginning badly and it is going on awfully. I don't believe Scandinavia society is so undeveloped. Child character is like a bad-evil role in a horror movie, the doubt which is circled in society can't be stopped, Mads Mikkelsen is a good actor etc. These aren't important. This movie is a bad movie. But if teacher's reflection has been discussed during movie it was OK. When a child kissed you don't get angry with him or her.


                
It is definitely waste of time. I could not understand why people gave too much rating. I wish I could watch another movie. It is not only a slow movie, but also irritating movie. Hard to believe how Lucas stay so calm. It is totally disaster. I would not recommend this film to anyone. If you are insisting to see,you can watch only 1 hour by forwarding the movie in every 10 minutes :) I have no idea how often a child's claim of this type of abuse turns out to be false, but the film makes an interesting case for how this seemingly impossible thing could happen. Ultimately, "The Hunt" is totally frustrating and depressing especially when considering the whole picture quality, acting, scenario.
I try to watch foreign movies with an open mind. But it seems Europe, and Asia, are so twisted, even Steven King and Michael Moore would have difficulty out writing their scripts.This film, while based on reality, is pure fiction. As such, it is political from the start, to ensure that many adults believe that children imagine all sorts of lurid and sick acts, without any education on such. Adults, who are educated, are made to look cruel and ignorant.The United States of America is well known for interfering in foreign affairs. The so called documentaries in the U.S.A. state that it is well known that the sex trade, including children, is alive and well in the world. Many, come from poorer nations of the Eastern world. It is sad, but true. Western countries, have illicit trade too. Pornography, pedophilia, drugs, killings; yet we seem to easily accept a fictional movie's political goal as 'the TRUTH'.Men and women have been put to death in the U.S.A. after being wrongly convicted by our ill justice system. Some of my friends, sit and state how wrong that is. Then, they say that the young boys and girls lie to get adults in trouble.The truth is, it all happens. Every day, every hour. There is no end in sight. Like our war on drugs, as long as there is a demand, there will be a supply. The poor are more easily caught up in the trade than the rich. Education, too, plays a large part. Given Germany's part, Italy's part, and Japan's part, in World War II, why should we ever think that the movies from those countries, especially so warped, are realistic? This movie is a disgusting political statement made by disgusting and uneducated writers, directors, actors, actresses, and producers. It is pure trash. Nothing worth while in viewing it. It lost 3.2 million dollars. 80% of the viewers are not from the U.S.A.If you watch the film, I suggest watching a porn movie next. Which is more disturbing? A film about children lying, or a film about people selling their souls for money.Sadly, today, the families portrayed on TV and in Film are dysfunctional at the least. Why? Because naive people pay to see it. Except, in the case of The Hunt, far fewer people payed, as it was not worth the cellulose it was filmed on.The acting is horrid. The dialogue is slow and full of useless language. There are no facts. There is innuendo. Thus, the director is said to be awesome in his bravery? Swell, let's congratulate all those film directors, actors, actresses who lie to present their political beliefs, and falsely accuse all children of lies. That's a wonderful lesson for this world.SKIP THIS FILM AND SAVE YOUR TIME! DO ANYTHING POSITIVE! Have a blessed year!


                
