This could have been an interesting and important antidote to films such as the (excellent) 'The Woodsman', but was let down by a plot line that is too sensationalist rendering it unbelievable. The film starts well, with a slow but thoughtful introduction to Lucas played by Mads Mikkelson. We get to see his close relationship with his friends colleagues and kids he works with. The plot unravels when a child makes up a lie for the flimsiest of reasons, and then is interviewed with a string of leading questions, which are then not only believed, but expanded upon by professional trained adults. This simply wouldn't happen, and knowing this, I didn't connect with the rest of the film, despite some great performances. If you enjoy (and believe) what you read in the Daily Mail and Express, you might find this film to your taste.
I cannot believe that Danish, Scandinavians at least, don't have the acknowledgment to handle matters at least on education and child psychology.All people involved in the plot, make tragic, childish mistakes. No-one acts like an adult. Like a calm, educated adult, watching and listening at both sides before making a decision. A shallow approach on the subject. I would expect a deeper analysis on dialogs and characters. I couldn't make a connection from one decision of a scene to another. What happens here seems way far from reality.Acting was just fair. Nothing special here.
If one liked Dancer in the Dark, Lilya 4-ever, Dogville or a similar movie one will definitely also like Jagten. If so, do not read further and "enjoy" an evening of tears. Else, don't be tempted by the interesting theme and the high scores and read some more.Apparently Scandanavian cinema has developed a certain fondness of melodramatic tearjerkers in which perfectly innocent people are completely isolated by an all evil society. Problem with Jagten, and the other mentioned movies as well for that matter, is that every scene is artificially implemented to make as many people cry. Every object, every character has just one goal: make the story sad. Most of them to such an extent that it gets annoying. Even more annoying at that stage was the sobbing of people around me who seemed to be truly moved by what I simply found a shocking lack of psychological depth. The unfolding of events is so predictable and over the top that an interesting theme is denominated to plain entertearment as I would like to call it.In my opinion a good script has the power to show sadness, happiness, love or some other deep emotion in those things that at first sight show no signs of sadness, happiness or love. The story that Jagten brings to the screen is so blunt and obvious that it does not need fancy acting, brilliant photography or any other cinematic effect to make it sad and is therefore a waste of such effects.


                
I'm totally baffled by how high the reviews are for this movie!!! I just don't get it. An INNOCENT man is accused of sexually abusing kids, yet he IS NEVER FULLY VINDICATED! In fact, the movie ends with someone trying to kill the innocent man.Understand this next point very clearly, please:*There is a huge difference between creating a story to make a totally legitimate point; and, creating a story that is entertaining and enjoyable to watch! That sums up this film...Yes, the story shows how devastating false accusations can be; and, how, even when the person is totally innocent, people will ALWAYS think they are guilty. This movie absolutely does a great job making that point. No, the story is NOT fun to watch, and the ending is TOTALLY DEPRESSING! After all that the protagonist has been through, in this story, he is NEVER fully given the "due" he so desperately deserves. In fact, so much so, that it ends with someone trying to blow his head off! To summarize exactly what I'm saying, let me just say this. I watch movies for the entertainment value. To me, a good movie is one that, at the end of it, you are satisfied with the outcome. NOT THIS MOVIE!!! It's like watching a movie about a gang of evil pillagers that proceed to pillage throughout the movie; yet, THERE IS NEVER A HERO TO STOP THEM!!!! Gee....thanks....BUT NO THANKS!!!! I don't need to see more injustice, when I'm looking to be entertained.
