I'm in a serious minority here, but I hated this show. I don't understand how it became such a cult phenomenon and here's why: First of all, it is a character-driven show, which is totally fine. The problem being: I hated the characters. I found all of them to be bland "copy-and-paste" archetypes that felt were rushedly ripped off from better pieces of sci-fi. You've got your bold captain, your ditsy tomboy, your mercenary type, well, you get the gist. Other issues I had with this show include a really lame (albeit painfully catchy) theme song; I know it's just nitpicking but it has a tendency to get into and stay in my head. I also didn't care for the vague threats the characters faced: there's the overarching corporate what-have-you that is just kinda there, and then there are the fearsome reavers which should be the coolest thing about this show, but of course nope, just kinda there. I could go on ad nauseum about the side characters (all bland) and the unengaging obstacles the characters face but I'll just summarize with this: Firefly is an uninspired, poorly-written show fraught with awful characters. It basically rips off the things that made Star Wars and Cowboy Bebop so great and does nothing new or interesting with those elements. If you're a sci-fi fan, there are infinitely better shows. The only thing I mourned when the final episode finished, was the time I spent watching. But hey, at least I gave it an honest try.


                
I am one of them who thinks this show is ridiculously overrated. I really don't understand, how this show can get such a high rating here on IMDb.As I wrote in one of my other reviews, there is a difference between sci-fi setting, and sci-fi story. In Firefly, the sci-fi is purely a setting, and I agree with the critics, who says that the sci-fi elements are poor.The first 5 minutes promised well, and seems to establish a plot. But after 5 minutes, the shows reveal, that this is just a 14 episode long random-space-travel show. And that is just too boring and trivial for me.This show is closer to a western, than a sci-fi TV-series.


                
The "spaghetti western in space" motif would work if the characters were compelling and the production sharp. Firefly doesn't work because the characters are unlikeable and the plots, directing, and editing are a mess. Every person on the show is two-dimensional cliché from either 50's TV or 70s Italian westerns. Captain Mal is a cheap imitation of Charles Bronson's stock western persona and is surrounded by all of the usual suspects: the trusty sidekick, the hooker with a heart of gold, the young chipper girl, the hot head, the preacher, and the fashionable handsome pacifist doctor. Joss Whedon desperately wants to be Sergio Leone in this series but has neither the budget or time to pull it off. The level of production is reminiscent of bad 70s television series with multiple continuity errors, jarring transitions, and little sense of pacing or atmosphere. Maybe he doesn't know what to do with anyone but teenagers and vampires. If one compared Firefly to other science fiction series it is not horrible, maybe even average, but then Firefly really isn't science fiction. There isn't a single plot element in any episode that isn't straight out of an earth-bound spaghetti western. Spaceships and planets are mentioned, but are superfluous because Whedon is more interested in playing with his cowboys with their horses and guns. I won't be totally mean and give it one star, but it certainly doesn't deserve more than two. Yes, Fox unfairly screwed with the series by showing episodes out of order, but they probably knew this stinker would tank no matter what they did.


                
Cheesy Space opera + spaghetti westerns meet the outlaw Josy Wales. In the words of Jerry Seinfeld " It has a certain understated stupidity to it". You might as well watch The Outlaw Josey Wales or any of a half a dozen other historically revisionist movies on the subject, starting with "birth of a nation". Joss Whedon's cracker - made - good fantasy is an embarrassing window into the fantasy life of a man who spent too much time watching crap westerns & for some reason adopts the slave owning south. Joss conflates it with testosterone infused fantasies of self reliance, fierce egalitarianism, folksy charm, gentlemanly mannerisms of antebellum Virginia and of course gun play on board of space going vesselsOne dimensional characters, Faux- multicultural pretensions, an eternally brooding male lead opposite to a pout y vixen, half angel, half whore; a convenient, race & gender role reversal in supporting cast; an ever-present threat of the evil centralized federal bureaucracy - Whedon must have honed his skills at the knees D.C. Fontana. That's not a complement, BTW.invocations to the numinous notwithstanding, I find firefly to be a n embarrassing load of tripe. That's right, I'm embarrassed for Whedon and anyone else connected with this cow-pat. They're not embarrassed enough, that's why I have to be. If I wanted to watch a bunch of Hanna-Barbara stereotypes of Dixie, I can always turn to BraveStarr , cheesy as it is.<U+FEFF>


                
Got this series because of the extremely high rating on this site.I couldn't stand watching it for more than 8 minutes.It is horrible.The non-Action scenes look amateuristic.The acting is horrible.The dialogues are even worse.Even the lighting is bad. UghPeople, please stop giving high rating series to crap like this, or IMDb will become useless altogether.Maybe there should be some kind of a filter to filter votes from people who are known to give high rating to awful stuff like this.


                
Do you fancy Nathan Fillion? Do you enjoy listening to a crappy folk theme tune at the start of every episode? Are you a stereotypical racist who hates gay people?.... Do you also fancy the most over-rated director ever, Joss Whedon? Well then you'll love this show! :)I watched the first few episodes of this TV show...... the story made no sense whatsoever. It was almost as if they aired the show in the wrong order.... stupid director. The stereotypes in this TV show go too far, this TV show is a disgrace to humanity.Was this show made in the early 2000's? because it sure feels dated. Jesus is Joss Whedon still living in 1347?


                
First, let me explain why I rated this show with only one star. I actually think "Firefly" is the greatest TV masterpiece of our time and I wanted to give it more then 10 stars, so I gave 11. On the other hand, watching this series made me very, very upset. And the reason for me being so angry with "Firefly" is that I won't see more than 15 episodes of it. "Serenity" the movie is not the same. And I really angry on Joss Whedon for not fighting for this show, not struggling enough to continue this phenomena, whatever it takes. So for this lack of the effort he deserves only one star.The first time I've encountered Joss Whedon was with 'Toy Story' back in 90's. I think I've made some sort of a record when I watched this movie 10 times in only two days. I was not aware that he was the screenwriter but I found soon enough when "Buffy" opened my eyes. Watching "Buffy" was an "out of the body" experience, I really doubted that Whedon will mange to create something so good again. "Angel" didn't interest me too much, and I've only heard about "Firefly" just before the "Serenity" hit the big screen. So my expectations were low and first episodes didn't prove me the opposite. Imagine my surprise when somewhere on the 7th episode I realized that I am participating in historic event, that I am observing the first and the only TV show that succeeded not only to create the most realistic sci-fi ever, but also to recreate in live action the wonderful experience of Japanese Anime series. The show is not exposing everything at one time, but slowly revealing pieces of the puzzle along the way, adding even more aspects and layers. So the impression from the show can be only constructed through time. The effect is gathered, not delivered. I saw all episodes, and then I saw them again just to see if this holds second viewing. I got to say, each following episode is better then previous one, each following viewing helps understand more. And I wonder how much higher "Firefly" would have gone, what kind of effect I could've get from it after seeing, say<U+0085> 100 episodes?Whedon brings to it all his knowledge and ability of storytelling and writing, and I know more people were involved in this creation, but something tells me that he was the man with the last word and the biggest influence.I don't want to start and list all the brilliance of this show; anybody with eyes can see them. I'll just say that the production design is awesome, dialogs are sharp and witty, visual effects are stunning, characters are colorful and imaginative, the Diegestic world is rich and complex - the reality of the series has many social, cultural and philosophical layers, the terms "bad" and "good" are flexible, and of course the women in the show are still favorite subject for Whedon. Personally I think the depiction of female characters here is revolutionary for any TV show or Cinematic film, straight from Laura Mulvey's theory. And this is so excellent. And the story <U+0085> well, fantasy and imagination were never a problem for Whedon, so the levels of entertainment are incredibly high.Too bad some network executive jerk woke up some morning and asked himself: "what can I do to make large group of people mad, frustrated and miserable? Oh yes, lets cancel the most brilliant show in the last decade!" And where does it leave us, the fans? I can only comfort myself with endless reviewing of each episode, thanking Joss Whedon for this joy, and crying silently at night while cursing everyone responsible for this shameful situation. Well <U+0085> here I am.


                
I guess the majority of those opposed to this show never bothered to write about their feelings towards it since it was cancelled.  Now seeing it was put onto DVD and will be having a movie next year, I can't see a reason not to express myself.  I hated it.  It had its good points but for the most part I felt it didn't know where to go.  That and I thought that a space hooker that was revered and respected by all was one of the most ludicrous things I'd ever heard of.  Women would never accept that ever.  Ridiculous. It also makes me wonder about Joss that he wrote her character like that. Are they the only women he can relate to?  I hope not because they're just paid to care what you think.  I thought the cast was fantastic, but the show left me wanting.  I'm happy for those of you that love it that can have it on DVD though.  There are so many shows that should be that never will get a chance.


                
What utter crap. Bland & boring and a total waste of time. Most think Joss Whedon is a genius, but I think he is pretty much hit or miss. Buffy was great the first few years but went down the toilet since its move to UPN. Angel, on the other hand, is sheer brilliance. Excellent characters, excitement, fantastic action, a linked plot, deep revelations...probably the BEST show on TV now. Firefly was just a bore. Dirty westerns trying to be sci-fi don't do it for me. And the cast was just plain annoying.


                
Ok, take a flying junked out garage, add some hillbillies, and a bunch of hick music and you start to get the concept of "Firefly." O...Yes, and have the dirty garage filled with morons, a hooker, and a "preacher." And then have it fly around from one dirty planet to another. And don't forget to make the hooker the most respectable character in the show..........add in some random geisha themes.......AND THAT IS THIS PILE OF NON-SCIENCE FICTION HACK TRASH. Soooooooo Bad.......How is it scoring so high on IMDB???? Ok, themes.......anti-war, check; multicultural, check; anti-establishment, check; (cliches.....looking for a film incarnation?? YEA.....Not Deep, just cheap). For real sci-fi, fantasy fun see any of a number of decent shows: Startrek (which is philosophical and an elite product); Star Gate (SG-1) lots of fun; SGA......even Dark Matter.........But Firefly is meant to die in a heap of trash.......End of review.


                
All of the hype and insanity over this show. For years I have heard of how amazing this series is...over and over again. For one reason or another I never got around to watching it. I finally decided to make some time for it and, 4 episodes into it, I can't take anymore. It was so bad that I wanted to quit after the first episode but thought I wasn't giving it a chance. With all of the great reviews it must be me...right? Well, whether it's me or not, this show is horrible. Even after suspending every belief I had in watching fiction I was still insulted. I will never trust ratings on a show with a predominately "cult" following again. Strange and questionable folks out there...


                
Beside the fact that this is an affront to Star Wars, this series seems to have been made by very stupid people. Reynolds is the most unlikeable character ever (in the first episode he shoots a horse - yes, horses are still exploited for fun in the future). The technology looks like its been stolen from Idiocracy. While watching this, I felt like I was wasting my time in a really bad way.


                
