This show blew me away. The beauty of the production, the detail in the sets, the well written characters, the intelligent stories and concepts, the fun, the drama, and the excitement all amazed me. I don't usually spend time watching TV, but I honestly hated having to wait until the next show! :)The special effects are seamlessly integrated and beautifully detailed. The manner in which the show was presented - the hand-held cameras, the use of zooms, and the occasional off-focus effect - was very intriguing, giving it a look of a show that was real and gritty, something that really caught your attention but didn't distract you from what was being presented. It made you feel like you were really there, like it was believable.While there was a Western attitude and flavor to some of the episodes, I always felt that it was more about the lack of authority, the fact that people were just dropped out on these planets without the kinds of support that you would expect. It's presented very well and makes sense to me, although I've heard others take a different approach to it.If you have the opportunity to get the DVDs, I would highly suggest it. It is well worth the money!


                
As with BtVS, the world is divided into people who get Firefly and people who don't. In this series Joss Whedon created one of the most realistic post-war visions of the future ever committed to tape, that at the same time spoke about yesterday and today. Maybe a little too much today for its own good.The series is anti-corporate, anti-government and, while it takes the stand that some things are worth fighting for, it is largely anti-war. No wonder FOX did everything in its power to kill it off, including airing episodes out of order, skipping weeks after airing only three eps and, inevitably canceling the show without even airing episodes 12, 13 and 14 (out of 15). This was particularly damaging, as Firefly had a greater sense of ongoing plot than any other Whedon series in its first year. Viewers were left wondering, on more than one occasion, when a character would reference something we hadn't seen yet.The backstage dramatics aside, Firefly is intelligent and, like Buffy, mythic - except this time Whedon is dealing with the myth of America: the Frontier, the Civil War, the rise of the Corporation, etc . . . Firefly is a demanding show. It asks its audience to appreciate the shades of grey in its characters' moral scale. The villains are not comfortingly dressed as an alien race. In 500 years mankind will still be its own worst enemy. Technology will be in the hands of a privileged few, and others will in "The Black" - Whedon's frontier third world - where it is possible to exist without the interference (or benefit) of civilization and government. Things will be dirty, and used. Firefly creates a universe that almost totally opposes that of (that bastion of television sci-fi) Star Trek: its Federation-like central power (the Alliance) is interpreted as being oppressive and dystopic. We are on the side of those who resisted (like the Maqui) and lost.The acting is strong, the writing as excellent, funny and moving as on any Whedon show, and the effects and sets create a consistent, believable world. It is a shame the series didn't have a more hospitable environment in which to grow and become all it could have been.


                
Firefly was easily the best sci fi show Fox developed aside from the X-Files. It had science fiction staples spaceships, laser pistols, and tech, but also a nice retro quality of frontier western speech, horses, and guns. The humor alone made this one of the best shows on television. The Joss Whedon ability to spin a familiar plot convention/line in a surprising direction and the top notch cast of talented and charismatic actors help make this cancelled science fiction Fox casualty a cult favorite and upcoming movie. While the discussion about why it was cancelled and who was to blame is up for debate, no one can argue 200,000 in DVD secondary market sales to date. Clearly, Firefly was a show that deserved a chance to shine and with it's incarnation next year as a film, will allow this phoenix to rise again.


                
After 14 episodes, I'm going to cry. I wish it hadn't been so short.


                
First off I should say that I only watched this as I read it had replaced Dark Angel (which I kind of liked, first series anyway) and wanted to see if it was any good.  Anyway, I've just finished watching the last episode of Firefly here in the UK, and I am thoroughly appalled that this series has been cancelled.  The ONLY bad things I can say about it is that *occasionally* the western parts seemed a bit contrived, and that I never really got to identify with some characters much (Wash and Preacher mainly).
For the first point, it's not nearly as bad a mix of sci-fi and western as some people comment on.  I suspect they haven't really watched it as it usually works very well.  For the second point, I'm sure that I would have gotten to know the other characters better in the future as the story developed.  The characters (and actors) in this series were fantastic as individuals and as a team.  They are a real credit to Firefly and helped make it seem real, generate emotion, humour and occasionally despair. Nathan Fillion above all surprised me as I'd never seen him as an actor before (I've never watched Buffy much), and he's simply fantastic. Believable from the first episode and acts out Mal's great strengths and flaws of character perfectly.  The rest of the cast support (and occasionally take the lead) very well.As for the rest, the stories were very good and usually inventive despite staying in the supposedly cliched sci-fi and/or western domain, every episode has laughs, some have a few tears.  The effects are generally not too bad (some bits really nice, others a bit ropey - nothing an improved budget wouldn't have fixed).  Even the title music (by Whedon!) is fantastic.  I watch most things recorded and normally fast forward past the titles (Babylon 5 excepted).Bottom line is that above all it's a shame it was canned.  It was a great series, had *real potential* to be a blockbuster (I doubt that many TV execs thought that a vampire hunting female would be so popular), and was easily the best debut series I've seen in the sci-fi/drama genre (even the mighty Babylon 5 took a while to get started).  For it to have failed ratings means that people inside Fox need sacked for not doing their job properly, due to bad planning, bad promotion, and for being so stupid that they can't see a good show or even potential even if it is the best in the 'Verse.The fact that Whedon thinks strongly enough of Firefly to do a film version (and can get the backing to do so) should be a wakeup call to the top level bosses that those under them aren't interested in quality or investing in potentially hit series, they are only reacting to immediate ratings despite the fact they influence them badly by getting their programming all wrong.While I'm only too happy to see a film version, the production values of the series were so high that it's really just going to be a higher budget longer episode (albeit more polished), when all I (and many others) want to see is a new series.  I really hope that the film springboards the series back, but I'm not holding my breath...


                
Sure, Buffy was great, there's no disputing that. Firefly though, that show is what showed us that Whedon really knows his stuff. How to build a setting, how to build a great ensemble cast, how to tell a story that people really care about.It's hard to say what would have happened if this show had lasted longer than 14 episodes and a movie. Alas, we'll never know for sure. I think it's fair to say that we had the beginnings of something great, and at least Whedon got to progress his story with a relatively big budget movie after his show was far too prematurely cancelled.On the plus side, it is only 14 episodes. And yes, everything you've heard is true, it really is that good. So seeing as it's so short you might as well watch it. If for some bizarre reason you don't love Firefly by the end of it at least you haven't sunk too much time into it.Oh, and watch the movie too. Just make sure you watch the series first.


                
I became a fan of BtVS January 1, 2002. I realise that at this time I was slightly behind, as well as on Angel, but I managed to recap all the episodes I missed (from FX and computer downloads and the such) and I was amazed at how wonderfully crafted these two shows were. Everytime a new DVD comes out for Buffy or Angel, I HAVE to pick it up within the first week of its release date.Then I heard of Firefly. I never watched it when it was airing on TV, which I guess was good, considering they screwed over 3 unaired episodes and aired them not in order, and literally screwed over this wonderful television show.Then the DVD came out, and although I was interested, had never seen the show before in my life. So one day in my local Circuit City I decided to throw away 40 bucks and check out this new Joss creation. I bought it purely on trust and luck. It was worth it...It is truly a sat feat that Firefly ended so quickly. For a cast of mostly unknowns, the acting was superb, and they all portrayed their characters to the tee. Each character had their own complex story, personality, and no one was a carbon copy of another character. The ship was beautiful, the special effects were beautiful, the plots were skillfully crafted, the twists fresh and exciting, it was really an exciting adventure to watch every episode.I am very excited there is talk (and possibly already in the works) of a movie, because hopefully Fox will get it through their heads that this is a quality show, and maybe Universal will give rights back to Fox to make it a show again. That would be a true delight for the die-hards that love and adore the show.It will not be forgotten.


                
I've just watched the series for the third time in two years. This show is great. What an eclectic group of characters and an eclectic show. Space travel and cowboys. Wow. It is so fun.Casting for this series was amazingly on target. The story lines and dialog were great. Cinematography was wonderful.I don't know how some shows, truly bad ones, continue on for several seasons while great shows like this are cancelled.The whole premise of the rebels vs the alliance creates a constant tension and fodder for some great episodes. This seems to be a mix of Star Trek, Star Wars, and Mad Max.


                
An amazing series with such a compelling storyline. Great casting, effects, plots and above all compelling viewing and escapism. LikeDeadwood, another show killed because of budget when a growing fan based and ratings would have justified the spend. Longing for more firefly, same cast 20 years on maybe.....


                
Watching this 16 years after release I still get laughs and delightful amazement at the cinematography in certain scenes. They DO NOT make material like this anymore and FIREFLY will always remain a definitive classic.Acting and casting is first rate, truly believable characters make this in many ways better than any Star Wars re-hash.LONG awaiting the resurrection of the Brown Coats against the FOX-CORP galactic alliance.


                
I admit, that's quite a strong thing to say, but I have an example for you to illustrate what I mean. You see, I'm very fond of science fiction. I'm one of those folk who think that SF tells us a lot about who we are and why we are. On a deeper level SF productions (films, novels, series) tell us something about the time and civilisation we live in, e.g. what can "Aliens" in retrospect tell us about the eighties. Of course, a lot of rubbish has been produced over the last few years, Firefly not being one of those. Who<U+0085>what<U+0085>Firefly? Of course, you've probably never heard of Firefly. Well, that's just my point. You see, Firefly is that great series created by Josh Whedon, the man behind Buffy and Angel, the man who perfected the idea of telling stories about vampires whilst actually telling us about family, friendship, well, life actually. By telling stories about the dead, he upheld the living a mirror. Well, this man made a SF series about a crew on board the Firefly-class spaceship Serenity.Captain Malcom Reynolds is a former galactic war veteran who is the captain of the Firefly class transport ship "Serenity". The other people on the crew list are: ensign Zoe Warren, Zoe's husband pilot Hoban Washburne, muscular former combat soldier Jayne Cobb (Buffy viewers may recognize him for being one of Whedon's favourite vampires), young engineer Kaylee Frye, former Alliance medical officer Simon Tamm, his teenage sister River, priest Shepard Book and companion Inara Serra. They all have their reasons for being on board Serenity, as the spaceship crew travels across the outskirts of outer space looking for food, money and anything to make a living on.Main concern for the Serenity crew is to keep out of reach of the Alliance, an interplanetary organisation controlling the human inhabited part of space. The Alliance didn't get control until a bloody war was waged on the resistance, the latter consisting mainly of the so called brown coats, captain Malcolm Reynolds being one of them. It was at Serenity that a last stand of the rebels was crushed by the Alliance, leaving the rebels either dead or on the run.Whedons universe is a melting pot of cultures, non of them being alien. It is a relief to watch a SF series without prosthetics. Indeed, Firefly is best subscribed as a western in space. It is the language that lets us know that we're not in the now; only a few factions have survived the struggles for power, China and America being the most dominant. As a result everybody speaks with a strong southern American accent mixed with Chinese. This Chinese can be pretty handy since it is a great way to avoid sensor ship. Now, "Gao yang jong duh goo yang" (Motherless goats of all motherless goats) is a curse no network will find offensive. Nor is "Ai ya, wo mun wan luh" (We're in big trouble!). However, the often used "gorram" is a good example; it can be used either as "goddamn" or "shit", like in the sentence "This here gorram ship ain't worth a dime", or "You keep talking that gorram in ma face will turn your skin blue!".What makes Firefly really good though is the cast and characters. They're all very good actors, and the characters are developed very well. To establish this Whedon took his time in setting up the story line. It is because of this that the network got reserved. They wanted an easy action packed funny series where viewers could hook on to right from the first episode. Firefly is just that, but at the same time it brings a quality and originality that is unparalleled, and that may take some time to get used to. And that is what the network got really nervous about. So what did they do? Pull the plug. Just like that. Therefore Firefly didn't even make it one season. It's only 14 episodes, leaving the viewer with tantalizing questions like, why is that little girl River so dangerous, who is this priest, what's with the "hands of blue", how solid is the marriage between Zoe and Hoban? Of course, you don't have a clue as to what I'm talking about here. So please: watch the series and tell people about it. Let them know that networks can be very, very stupid.PS: please don't copy the Firefly DVD's. Every DVD sold will prove Josh Whedon right!


                
This is probably going to be my one and only 10/10 review.
Living in Switzerland, I stumbled upon a serenity-dvd which turned out to be some pretty funny and entertaining sci-fi-western mixup.
I never heard of Firefly or even Joss Whedon before (having watched the famous Buffy or Angel episode-wise on tv after all). Firefly never aired in Europe.
After googling it, I figured out there was a series that precedented the movie. Downloading and watching the episodes made me really happy. I still keep rewatching Firefly after all these years at least annually. It ticked all my boxes when it comes to humor, sci-fi and western back in the days and still does now. Much like Cowboy Bebop did when i discovered that. It's my genre kindof and I really cannot get enough of it. The cast works awesomely together and there is no boring episode at all througought. Masterpiece imho, but of course comes down to what you like to watch after all. If you do like your share of sci-fi-western comedy with witty dialoge and no stupid behaviour for a change, that's the thing you are looking for. It didn't age well over the years CGI-wise but I cannot recommend it enough.


                
There is no doubt that this was one of the very best series, of any genre, ever. And now it's gone.  A life as short as the insect it was named for and just as brilliant.Intriguing stories, interesting and complex charaters, unique photographic techniques, great writing. I could go on for hours. I was angry when UPN cancelled Special Unit 2. When Fox cancelled Firefly I actually mourned. I can watch the DVDs and that's okay, but it's like watching movies of a loved one after their untimely death. Just not the same.TANJ!


                
Firefly had an odd gestation.  In 2002 Fox came to Buffy and Angel creator Joss Whedon with the chance to make a brand new show, yet when he delivered a smart, off-the-wall western set in space, they didn't know what to make of it.  The two hour pilot episode, which set the scene by introducing the nine main characters, was dropped at the last minute and replaced by a hastily re-written third episode.  Other episodes where shown out of sequence and despite the pilot finally being broadcast (last), a further three episodes never even made it on air.  This sort of trouble suggested the show wasn't going to work, so audiences were left baffled when A) they discovered it was the best thing Joss Whedon had ever made and B) the network dropped it two thirds of the way through the first season.Each of the characters are wonderfully written by Joss Whedon and brought to life by the largely unknown cast (Nathan Fillion and Gina Torres have had guest spots on Buffy and Angel respectively), pulling you into the story more than the special effects, which are also surprisingly good.  The chase sequence in the the pilot episode is a stand-out, and it's no wonder it won an Emmy for Outstanding Visual Effects in a Series last year.  Another interesting decision was to make the exterior space shots silent.  So instead of the usual Star Trek whoosh! as the engines fire, here we have the realism of absolute silence (you need air to hear soundwaves, and space is a vacuum).  Another TV first.Firefly may go down in history in the same category as Fawlty Towers or The Prisoner - legendary shows that only lasted for a single series.  The DVD boxset contains all fourteen episodes (in their proper order) but seeing as a full season usually runs to twenty-two episodes, the story is left unfinished.  So take heart that Whedon is taking the show to the big screen, with the film hopefully due out in 2005.  Maybe after that we may even see the series resurrected on TV.  You'll have to wait a while for your answers then, but they are on the way.


                
To my tastes, this in one of the best TV Series ever made. It's Joss Whedon. The casting is perfect. The writing is imaginative, witty, and it explores the nobility and fallibility of humanity. It gave us beloved characters with depth and relationships for which we rooted. The production values were ahead of it's time. The music was perfect. And, that perfect cast gave perfect performances. Pretty high praise for a 14 episode, one season series, released incomplete and out of order by the network (for more on the tortured and redemptive journey of the series read it's Wikipedia page). This is probably my third time through the series and I bought the DVDs so, needless to say, this show is on My Top 20 TV Series list, and I give it a 10 (perfect) out of 10. {Space Western}


                
If you haven't seen Firefly yet, do so. My first viewing experience was just a mere month ago... And since then I've watched the show through, 3 times, chronologically. Please, if possible, watch and buy the DVD for this show, buy Serenity and promote a sequel. It's far too late to get it renewed as a TV show and the cast are all too old to reprise their roles as they did and continue the same story-line pertaining to what Joss Whedon originally planned, although a franchise of movies could be made of this. Serenity, 40 million dollars of brilliance, can be brought to life again... But the audience, however big it is, has to help that.Firefly, one of the best shows ever made, was cancelled before its time and rightfully so... It was too intelligent for Fox viewers, both in context and subtext. 'Nuff said, it had to go. As with every other Joss Whedon show since Buffy, cancelled before it had time to fully develop itself.


                
Our impression in the Antipodes is that anything both intelligent and entertaining gets the axe in America. We love Firefly, it gets axed. We love a heap of other shows like Deadwood, they get axed. We hate Two and a half men, and it plays forever because the only 3000 households that are rated out of our millions happen to be those in imminent danger of brain death. It seems that anything requiring more than one half of a brain cell to engage with gets the chop in the USA. All Joss' stuff is good, even the stuff I don't personally like, I can see why others like it. But you know Fox, let's drag everyone down to the lowest common denominator, instead of up to the highest.
Amazing.But seriously, it really was an amazing show. Words cannot really express the pure genius of Firefly and it's originality. Firefly combines a futuristic look with a truly mid-western cowboy feel. Both the real life sets and CGI were combined so well that you could not always tell which backdrops where really there and the ones that were not. Even the filming style itself was cunningly conceived to fit in the firefly world. With seemingly shaky camera work and off centre framing - you feel you are right there in the ship with the crew of Serenity. The shaky camera work was even in the purely CGI shots - if you did not know it was just CGI during the chase scene in "THE MESSAGE" you could believe - and in fact you still do- that they had mounted a camera on the top one of the ships to film the scene, which just adds to the fast-paced manner of the show. In fact, there is only one thing that could have in any way ruined this show, and that is the order the episodes where screened on television. The following list has the order the episodes should be viewed, with the numbers representing the order they where screened;11) Serenity 01) The Train job 02) Bushwhacked 06) Shindig 07) Safe 03) Our Mrs Reynolds 04) Jaynestown 05) Out of Gas 08) Ariel 09) War Stories 13) Trash 14) The Message 12) Heart of Gold 10) Objects in spaceAs you can see for yourself - the episode order screws up the story, and character arcs to a very high degree. With episode which should have been viewed at the end of the series appearing near the beginning and the original pilot episode (serenity) being shown right near the end despite the fact it sets up the new world, and the character interconnections. Hardly the recipe for a large number of viewers.But despite the scheduling, Firefly managed to do the impossible, create such a strong fan base, that a film was made from the cancelled show. That film truly deserves its place in cinema history whether it gets it or not - just for the shear fact it got made. Something that the original fans, Joss Wheedon, his crew and great ensemble cast should be exceedingly proud of.The film also did something else - it brought new fans back to the series of Firefly. I myself was just a fan of Joss Wheedon's work (via Buffy and Angel) when I saw the TV series, which living in England had to buy to see it - money definitely worth spending. But when I heard about the film I dragged a couple of friends along with me to see. One of which thought the film was so amazing that he bought the series ASAP even thought I offered to lend it to him. This if the power of Firefly and the signal which cannot be stopped
First of all, I dislike Sci-fi and Western genre and I generally try to avoid them. However, a few weeks ago I was searching for a good series and find Firefly as one of the highest rated TV series on IMDb. Also, many people has been raving about it so I wanted to know what the fuss was all about. Plus it only lasted one season so I thought, what the hell, lets see it. So I bought the DVD.I truly regret doing so because I have been crying for the past weeks trying to understand how such a great show got canceled. I really took it personal. It was devastating reading what could have been the greatest TV series ever was taken away. Human mistakes once again rob us of our joy.What makes Firefly works, in my opinion, is the genuine love that the actors have for each other. Sure it had a good storyline, plots, dialogs, etc, but what made it works was their joy in working with each other and it translates towards the screen. It is hard to explain but very easy to understand once you watch the show. Every actors, even the villains, were outstanding.I am probably asking the same questions as any other Browncoats, why hasn't this series been continued? Everybody involved (creator, casts, fans) absolutely loved it. Everybody knew this is big. Well, money was a problem but if you believe that something is big, and every single person involved knew that this was something huge, it shouldn't be a barrier. So there must be another explanation why Firefly and the movie Serenity failed to reach the masses when everybody involved knew it was an exceptional show.From what I gathered, the actors were genuinely happy to work on Firefly. Now that's no small matter. In this fast paced world, it's not easy to be truly happy in what you're doing and with who you're doing it with. Nathan Fillion have said that Firefly was the best job he ever have. The same notion was heard from the other cast members. Ron Glass said he couldn't reminisce of his Firefly days without getting emotional. Summer Glau expressed that there were such love in Firefly working environment. I have absolutely never heard such a resounding love from a single series before and believe me when I say they're not acting when they express their love for Firefly.Firefly meant a huge deal for almost everyone involved in it. I am praying that one day, hopefully soon, this series can be continued with its original cast members.


                
For me, the true mark of greatness in any work of fiction - the cream to go with the strawberries, if you will - is how intensely it manages to take my breath away. That comes after initial considerations of humour, nerve, technical accomplishment etc., but is what lifts a book, film or TV show from good to great, from great to extraordinary. To give you a little context, The Lord of the Rings (book not film) took my breath away on the last page, as I was left to contemplate the sheer immensity of the adventure together with the sense of its end. I may have outgrown that, I don't know. Then came His Dark Materials by Philip Pullman, soon to be a major motion picture not half as good as the novels, the greatest fantasy adventure slash teenage love story ever. Although there was an immense feeling of regret in reading about the unfulfilment of our young heroes' fates, and although the adventure was perhaps even larger than Tolkien's, what made it more impressive still was that the ending was tied to the beginning, to the start of another story beyond the books' continuity. Then there's The English Patient, which doesn't quite compare to the other two, concentrating on adult characters, but there is still the sense of a great story being lived by even the least of supporting players, and in the end you, the audience, feel like you have visited a place, loved it but now you have to leave it behind, knowing full well that even if you stayed it wouldn't be the same. It's that feeling of helplessness in the face of the temporality of things which I look for in art, which for me sums up why we tell stories, why we listen to them, why we travel and so forth. This is what I felt after watching Firefly, the greatest adventure that never was.FOX cancelled it after half a season. What is up with that? People have been murdered and cannibalised for much less. I can stand being sad at a fictional character's demise, or divorce, or disembowelment, but a TV show is an actual thing, not just something you hear about in a story. They have taken our beautiful Firefly away from us. They have promised us a ride and given us a tricycle. This show was far from done, and as good a conclusion as Serenity is, this could have been something far bigger. I - The show. It's perfect. The funniest forty minute drama I have seen. The best Sci-Fi Western. Perfectly cast, written, directed. I. Ah. You can tell I'm in love. If you require an idea of what the show is about, let me try: nine people on board a spaceship. Renegades, fugitives, a preacher, a girl who speaks to machines. All basically trying to find a home in a universe which is being divided, by the fascist 'Alliance', into sharply delineated areas of mind-numbing conformity and utter chaos. But being as this is outer space and any place you can go is practically as good as another, the journey is the goal. Sure, it's not realistic and it's not anything other than entertainment, but not everything pretends to be. And you can't spell artifice without art. Am I getting too soppy? I also like dark and heavy stuff, like The Wire. But as far as light and bright stuff goes, few things equal Firefly.Thank you. You're very kind.


                
Nathan Fillion as Capt. Reynolds is probably one of the coolest characters to grace your TV screen ... although he wasn't there long enough for you to enjoy him. And it's a shame that the show got axed so early.The problem the executives might have had with this TV show, is that they couldn't market it. They didn't know how to advertise the series, so it got under the radar. Not completely, because still fans watched it, but the decision not to air the pilot first was a fatal one. Even if the first episode (after the pilot movie) was a recapturing of the characters that you should've known already, it's not the same.I bought the DVD box set, because of all the buzz it was getting from the internet. The acting is great, the dialogues are a joy to listen to, the stories that are told with the character development (yes the characters do develop, even if at times only a few inches) are superb. If you like your comedy to be well written, the dialogue witty and funny and don't mind the mixture of Sci-Fi and Western, than this show is definitely something you should watch!


                
I've never bought a TV series on DVD ever,come to think of it I've only bought 1 film(Batman Begins) on DVD,I watch a TV series on TV and watch films in the cinema or rent them.I've just bought my first TV series on DVD and you can probably guess what it is.I watched Serenity in the cinema on holiday in America(good thing its a PG-13 because in the UK my brother couldn't see it because its a 15 rated movie in the UK) dragging along my family and after seeing it I was Serenity crazy first I bought the soundtrack then the holy Firefly The Complet Series DVD and soon I'll buy the Firefly soundtrack.What Firefly is is a sci-fi series with a twang of western thrown in which makes it different from any other sci-fi series.What makes it brilliant is that it makes you feel for the characters,they all have their secrets and its a character driven series not some series which is all about "hey there's a bad guy over there,lets go kill the bad guy".It's very funny for a sci-fi series when most series only have a slight touch of comedy.The actors & actresses are the best I've seen in any series let alone sci-fi,they can all be serious one minute funny the next,Nathan Fillion & Summer Glau stand out the most.The graphics for 2002 are astonishing and even now they stand up very well to other series.Joss Wheldon is easily one of the best directors ever and writer.The scripts are witty,funny,well thought out,and highly engaging.How good is Firefly,to put simply(no swearing)is the best,greatest,coolest,funniest,sexiest,and most satisfying sci-fi series ever made...Star Trek my a**.Everybody should buy Firefly and Serenity.


                
I never caught this outstanding series on its first go-round on the Sci-Fi Channel. In fact, my first exposure at all was watching the enormously engaging movie, "Serenity," on DVD. Since then, I've watched almost all the episodes on a borrowed copy of the new DVD box set, and believe me, this is one of the best reasons to own a DVD player I can think of! The entire premise of an old-timey western series combined with space opera is quirky and interesting enough to catch an episode or two. But its the wonderfully witty dialogue and the intricate interpersonal relationships among the crew that make this series soar past ANYTHING ever achieved by "Star Trek," "Battlestar Gallactica," et al. Those series, by comparison, feel absolutely quaint and antiquated.Rent, borrow or steal this series from a friend, but by all means - watch it!


                
All I knew about 'Firefly' when I started watching my friend's DVDs was that it was a Space Western, and the brainchild of Joss Whedon. The former had me worried, as I have never been a fan of westerns. The latter gave me hope, as I have a great deal of respect for Joss.It did take me a little while to accept the very literal extreme to which the 'Space Western' theme is taken, particularly when they were riding around on horses with old-fashioned 6-shooters. But in later episodes where we visit some Alliance worlds, I finally understood how the show is mainly set on the frontier of space where there is minimal infrastructure and not a lot of high-tech gadgetry to throw around.But the setting is incidental to the characters, and the characters of Firefly are, IMO, Joss's greatest creations. Mal is an enjoyable cross between Mad Max and Han Solo, with a wicked sense of humour, and his relationship with Inara is priceless. Every character has a vital and unique role to play in the show, creating one of the strongest 'ensemble' casts I have ever seen.Then there are the visuals. The digital effects are masterfully executed, and it is often impossible to tell where reality ends and fantasy begins. The sets are gorgeous with a stunning attention to detail. The costumes are simply jaw-dropping.It pains me to ponder where this series might have gone if Fox had at least let it run to the end of its first season. It is a tragedy to see such a masterpiece cut down in its prime.


                
It's a shame that this show was cancelled for shows like Joe Millionaire, because this show had some to the best acting, story/character development, and cast cohesion that I've seen come along in a long time.  Sometimes, it wasn't in what the actors said, but what they didn't say.  And always they were believable.If you have a chance to watch a tape of this show, do it.  You won't be sorry.  And you'll wonder why they cancelled this in favor of mindless reality TV.I give it five stars (more if I could)


                
