make no mistake, this is not a sci-fi series. if you forget the ship and funny noises, some guns make (but they look like normal rifles and shootguns), it is only classical western. there are no space fights, no advanced technology, no aliens, most peoples are living in tents or huts (so how can they maintain the ships?). Half of the episodes can be summarized as: bad guy emerge, crew meet the bad guy, bad guy is winning, (arbitrary: some genius plan is designed to defeat the bad guy), bad guy is defeated. there are usually no sub plots and the characters are pretty narrow and predictable. there is no main plot (except the stories of the characters, but non of these stories are solved).some episodes are interesting and sometimes, even humor is used. there are some indications of romances, but they are not advancing through the episodes. music is from classical western and all, except the intro music, are forgettable. i'm not surprised that the rating of this series is so high in US. westerns are the part of history and cinematography there, but for the rest of the world, i would not recommend.


                
...At how brainless the average IMDb user is. Between the high ratings for this and 'Scrimshaw Presumption' I can only assume the average user has an IQ of 42 (or am I being too generous). As one other user put it, this is simply a 'spaghetti western in outer space'. The writing is poor, the 'acting' is abysmal, the stories dull and totally uninteresting. This is one big cliché. And my dislike of this show, goes back to my dislike of TV westerns in general going back to my youth, when I was forced to watch crap like Bonanza and Gunsmoke because my father only liked westerns. But, in retrospect, even they were better than this junk. But then you probably won't care what I say, and go on thinking this show is some kind of 'classic', so what's the point. Just had to vent my frustration.


                
This show is boring and overrated. I know there is some rule about badmouthing Joss Wheadon, and he has done a lot of great things, but this show isn't one of them.The characters are annoying, unlikable and the story is half-arsed. It's convoluted and obvious, and that is worse than anything. This show isn't even half as original as it is trying to be. I feel that I'm watching Cowboy Bebop and Doctor Who at the same time. I really don't understand why this (half) show has any fans. Even if there was something to the plot and characters, there is not any time to get to know them since all of the episodes are fillers.


                
