There are a lot of things about this show I find absolutely insufferable: the theme song, the soundtrack drenched in Western twang, the captain's suspenders, the cutesy half-clever dialogue. Mostly what gets on my nerves is the constant smirk the show seems to wear. Joss Whedon's smug sense of self-satisfaction is almost like a member of the cast, and arguably more important to the show than any of the other actors."Firefly" features a crew of interstellar rebels -- of the "South Will Rise Again" variety -- cruising the High Sierras of backwater planets in search of semi-legal employment. There's Captain Mal, the wisecrack dispenser; Zoe, his robotic first mate; Wash, the juvenile pilot; Kaylee, the oh-so-adorable grease monkey who keeps the Whatever Drive working; and Jayne, on the run from the loony bin with his massive gun collection. They pick up some hitchhikers: a priest, a prostitute, a doctor, and his autistic sister.The series is proudly anti-authoritarian. The villains are the Alliance -- or the Federation, or something -- who lumber around the space lanes in massive starships, keeping the peace for Kaiser Wilhelm. Unlike real historical rebels, our heroes are never in any sort of danger from the Alliance -- at least not the sort of danger that a snarky remark and well-aimed bullet won't handle. Whedon's "stick it to the man" attitude is the kind of thing I might have found very appealing when I was sixteen and had blue hair, but from the vantage point of my late twenties it just looks childish. The Alliance never present a credible threat -- for example, no families are ever lined up against a wall and shot -- so overcoming them offers no satisfaction.Dramatically, the series is a jumble. Nine main characters banter and bicker while shambling from job to low-rent job, and the Galactic Empire peeks over their shoulders from time to time. There's no cohesion, and even the setting is a mess: cattle rustlers and space ships, John Ford extras and "Starship Troopers" space marines. The dialogue delivers line after smirking line of futuristic cowboy slang, with the occasional inexplicable Mandarin curse word. There's no story, and no sense that any of this might mean anything. The end result is psychologically two-dimensional characters negotiating a landscape of tired clichés. This could be any hackneyed Western ever made.The show's total failure may surprise anyone who's seen "Buffy: The Vampire Slayer". That was a genuinely intelligent show, but perhaps Joss Whedon got so accustomed to writing for teenagers that he never learned how to write for grown-ups.


                
"A group of people travelling on a stagecoach find their journey complicated by the threat of Geronimo and learn something about each other in the process. " That is the summary of the 1939 classic western Stagecoach, and using that as a starting point, you can see pretty much where Joss Whedon stole - oops, sorry, "imagined" - his "vision" of the future from. Firefly really is lazy work - a series of reject stories from "Alias Smith And Jones", populated with stock characters (the brawling captain, the dumb muscle bound sidekick, the prostitute, the doctor with a secret, the sentimental waggon driver/pilot) - with a tacked on sci-fi backdrop. There is absolutely nothing original here at all.It's not all bad - some of the dialogue is sharp, and some of the acting - especially from Morena Baccarin and Jewel Staite - is excellent. But that isn't enough to save the series from a complete lack of originality in storyline or characterisation. The majority of viewers will have just see regurgitated Western plot lines and clichéd characters in outer space, and either tuned out, or watched a Western.It's a shame really - I liked Whedon's work on Buffy, and I thought his take on Much Ado About Nothing was excellent - but Firefly sucks.Move along people, there is nothing worthwhile to see here. Literally.


                
The show has really bad writing. The snarky banter of the characters are cliché, extremely predictable, and the acting feels like a soap.Look, i can sort of see how someone might enjoy this, I enjoyed watching shows such as stargate Atlantis, but let's get real...they are 'fun', they are not excellent television. We live in an era of high TV production. Perhaps this show would have been good in the 90's when we were all watching Hercules and xena on the space channel.An amazing show that got canceled? HBO's Rome. Firefly?It got cancelled for a reason and a bunch of fanboys are boosting its ratings. 3/10 stars


                
A while ago, I saw a great series in which an eccentric traveller would go from place to place, carrying companions and working through varying problems of both a cosmic and a human nature. This is not it. What Firefly attempts to add to Doctor Who, it borrows from video games like Privateer, and it uses those elements poorly. Okay, so maybe I have a case of sour grapes because of the attitude exhibited by its creator, but what I see in Firefly is another reason why television is considered the great intellectual wasteland. Creator Joss Whedon has done nothing but whine about its treatment by the network, and maybe there is some merit to this. Constantly changing the timeslot does a show no favours, although there is a saying in writing. Put simply, one has to hook their audience as quickly and thoroughly as they possibly can. Details like the characters' backgrounds have to be filled in as time goes on. You can see a good example of this in the original radio series of The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy, where the opening becomes so absurd that one cannot look away after ten minutes.Therein lies the essential problem with Firefly. Introducing and developing a singular character, the most compelling one, would have kept the audience tuned in, but instead we are given a literally skin-deep exploration of more than half a dozen characters, each less interesting than the last. An even bigger problem during the series is that each has so little variation in personality from moment to moment that it becomes possible to predict exactly what they are about to say before they say it. One can guess that Inara will argue with Captain Mal, Doctor Simon will protest, River will speak in cryptic rhymes, Jayne will be offensive, and one will fail to give a damn about the others. In the case of at least ten episodes, this generalisation will tell you everything you need to know about the plot. The frustrating thing is that the most compelling characters in the story, River and Simon, are given less than half as much exploration compared to what they deserve.There is also a saying in storytelling that goes something like a protagonist is only as effective as his antagonist. During Firefly, we are treated to visions of life under some kind of totalitarian government that lords it all over the citizenry. Meanwhile, our heroes wander around the fringes with what appears to be no society at all. In an era where mainstream society is utterly ignoring me and my alikes, we are not sitting around whinging to ourselves and looking for aid from a government that could apparently not care less about us. We are organising among ourselves to get our voices heard. Sure, opening lines of communication between planets would be quite a logistical problem, as would be organising resources between one another, but anyone vaguely familiar with the history of Western society will tell you that neglect of the worker is what gave birth to the union movement. People do not just sit there and take it when their needs are not being met for an extended time, yet this is the exact impression Firefly constantly gives.Writing aside, the series relies a lot upon the performances of its actors, and this is really its saving grace. Although the descriptions of what the tyrants do to her character carry no internal consistency, Summer Glau portrays the externally visible effects with aplomb. Speaking as someone who was held by a government-sponsored place and clandestinely abused for years just to see how much I could take, I truly bought Glau in the role of a woman in the same boat. Hence my frustration with the manner in which her character seems to just freeze in stasis whenever the rest of the cast gets their turn. Also grating is the repetition of the routine, with Summer being asked to repeat the same behaviours over and over throughout the handful of recorded episodes. Okay, we get it, River is suffering major trauma, let us explore the real meat of the matter in how she deals with it. Stagnation is hell enough in real life, Joss, I do not have any wish to pay to see it presented on the screen.You can whine at me to your heart's content that Firefly was screwed by its network and that fans fought tooth and nail to keep it on the air. Joss' belief that a conspiracy exists against him came crashing down when Serenity, a film that seemed to require viewing of the series as a prerequisite to understanding, failed to make back its budget. Big deal, I hear you say, films costing hundreds of millions of dollars fail to make back their budget all the time. Well, Serenity was filmed on a mere fraction of what was considered the expected norm in 2005. Two years earlier, George Lucas presented a film that cost him a hundred and thirteen million dollars to make. At the end of the run, it had made more than three times this amount, and that's just domestic. Don't tell me about how the gross is split, though, because Serenity cost a little more than a third of this amount, yet still has yet to make a profit. Fan petitions and conspiracy theories might make echoes in Hollywood, but a loss of at least ten million dollars will always drown it out.For these reasons, I gave Firefly, the TV series, a three out of ten. I sincerely hope Summer Glau gets to act in something better. If Doctor Who ever goes back to the multi-part, involved story arc approach that made it Doctor Who, she would fit right in. Firefly, by comparison, is pure wannabe.


                
I do not know how the rating works.I saw the firefly twice first time I saw first couple of episodes and I thought it is complete waste of time.Second time I saw all episodes and still I found this show disappointing. Calling this show a science fiction is nothing but a joke.How could you justify a technology of space travel with millennium old household objects,boiler like command and control room with rusted and iron walls and stair. The stories of different episodes was also millennium old. There was absolutely no amazing element in exploring different planets and moon. Technically speaking there is no science fiction in firefly. 9.1 rating for Firefly is confusing for me.
If this show had of been made by anyone else it would have faded into obscurity quite fast. It's not great Sci-Fi by any stretch, and it's not compelling viewing by any stretch. If you want that sort of thing from this era, start with Star Trek Voyager, Stargate-SG1, Babylon 5, and even Farscape. Amazingly all of these very solid Sci-Fi shows have lower ratings on IMDb than this. Very typical material for Joss Whedon, who has made some very entertaining shows, but all with an element of cheese. This is no exception. Good if you want some disposable entertainment and to look and some attractive people for a while, but not particularly worthwhile beyond that.


                
