First off, this is mainly a review targeted at people who have seen the show. If you haven't I suggest looking the other way.I first discovered this through the movie, Serenity. I loved it. It was an original premise, executed perfectly. I found out that this existed and thanks to the raving reviews I decided to take a look.Unfortunately I can name dud episodes out of this show. Bushwhacked for one, Reavers should've been a mystery. They should not have been given a set-up(or a psychological set-up, which is what this episode was), to make them a mystery until the events that happened in Serenity took place would've been a fantastic idea. The episode I hate with a passion is The Message, the writers introduced Knox from Angel as a soldier that served with them. Back-up. Didn't they die? If - like Angel - we were shown some of him in past eps(like they did with Holtz) that would've shut me up and also it would've made his discovery more shocking to the viewers. Heart Of Gold is also pretty bad, Another Kurasowa rip-off? Haven't there been like 20 Seven Samurai plot adaptations so far? I can also name characters I don't like. Summer Glau is given nothing to do on this show besides act scared at nothing(a waste of a talented actress) and Inarra serves the show no purpose. Thats actually it.I also hated how this show was short-lived. Knowing how good Serenity was Joss must've had something really special planned for the rest.Aside from that I liked everything else about it. My favourite episode is "War Stories" but I don't have a favourite character. They were never given time to develop.Overall is this "the best sci-fi TV show of all time?" No. Is it a good show? Yes. Would I recommend it to other people? Yes.


                
I really love sci-fi and fantasy, all other genres of media don't compare to them for me, so it was only a matter of time before I picked up firefly. I'll start with what I really love about this series, for as long as it did last..It had characters that could make you laugh and bring you into action that was enjoyable to watch. - It had a space western theme that althougth didn't make perfect sense, you could always think "Well, the poor planets didn't have the money for technology" which helps explains a lot, and if you leave it at that then I think you'll find the theme very entertaining espescailly since it's done in a very serious manner. -It's plots weren't anything epic. I know typically that sounds like a negative comment, but I really enjoyed the episodic feel to this show. You were following the journey of a crew, not witnessing an alien invasion on humanity, political issues that could destroy the universe, or cause a galatic war. It was just a simple group of people trying to make cash. Though the plot gets a little deeper and larger with River's character, it's not the specific highlight of the show which brings me to my next point. -There seems to be no specific character isolation. No one protagonist you root for. Though Mal is in control of a lot of things, he's the Capitan so he should be. Aside from that you really feel like your watching the whole crew and their journeys and not any specific person. That made it a lot more fun to watch, especially since I liked all the characters more or less equally. -The action is good. Not much else to say there. The drama varies however, but it works when there is drama even if it's nothing spectacular it's fun to watch anyway.There's a lot more minor things but they fall into personal preference more then a broad opinion, so for those who aren't sure if it's worth a pick up i'll give you the negative as well to help see if it's something you can enjoy. The show is very good just as many of the other reviews state, however it's not as huge as something like Babylon 5.-The plots had a lot of clichés which made them really predictable at times. Every episode is indeed watchable, some things more predictable then others, but nothing highly original in any episode. -The characters have depth, but could use a lot more. You laugh with them, you enjoy what they say, you root for them in the action and you hope they come out of a job successful. However, not once did I really find myself feeling for the characters. -Episodic. Though I said earlier I enjoyed the show this way, some people get the wrong impression when they hear how great a show is an expect a huge arcing story. If you do, firefly is not for you. Some things are referenced from the previous episodes at times, and like most other shows, previous villains make re-occurrences for revenge and minor details of their previous missions that would add a depth to the plot seem to be lost. The overall story continues through the episodes, though the character relations don't develop through each episode as much as you would think. They seem to "reset" a little between episodes. Not always, but for the most part. -Some things don't make sense. If your a big fan of highly realistic sci-fi you may have trouble getting over some of the way things work in a bunch of the episodes, especially since this is supposed to be 500 years into the future. Personally I overlooked it and use the "the poor don't have money due to the war" excuse to counter most of that, but it's up to you to do the same.The only real gripe I have with this show is there could have been so much more. The show was canceled and althougth there was a film, Serenity, I still find myself wanting more. Not really something that I'd say should keep you away, but it's very disappointing that there were so few episodes.If your a sci-fi/fantasy fan, check it out. Give a few episodes a chance at least see if it fits your taste. If you're not, then consider the positives and negatives and decide if it's for you: it may be if you like action and a fun story. Espesically since you can pick up a couple episodes and just watch them not having to worry about missing out on a huge story if you put it to rest. OVERALL: I highly recommend this show as a sci-fi fan, and it's not for everyone, but if you're looking for some entertainment without a huge plot or deep characters that you feel for, then you should pick it up.7/10. Could have been so much more - lacked a few things, but the biggest bomb was the shows cancellation.


                
Firefly - it is pretty good, it's just that it's also quite annoying too. It's good because it has a decent premise, it doesn't get preoccupied with gobbledegook, it doesn't have 'hard science' pretentions, it has a space craft interior that looks like it could actually fit in the exterior, it has a cast of good actors and some of the scripting ain't too bad. It's annoying - well because it just falls short of so much of its potential, mostly because it takes the well trodden option whenever the plot hangs on a dichotomy. There's also a bit of problem with the cast, they're great as individuals it's just that, they're just all so bloody pretty I mean take the chicks Gina Torres, Jewel Staite, Summer Glau they're all top notch babes. Then we get to Morena Baccarin... are you kidding me, no one that gorgeous should appear on a television show without a public health warning. What about the guys then, a crown of ruff tuff desperados surely. Er no, what we get is a bunch of male model types, not a broken nose or cauliflower ear in sight.My comment about the plots taking the easy option is also true of the character profiles. Take Inara for instance, she's a courtesan, that is a person who, er... entertains people, mostly men, for financial compensation. Ooh that's a bit risky you may think and while that is true, it's just that her story is steeped in stereotype. There's no attempt at insight into the life of such a character, instead she's envisioned as a high class hooker, see what I mean about unfulfilled potential? Jayne's another character who gets the stereotype treatment, he's the hard man of the outfit, so of course he's an uncouth idiot. Then there's the vicar struggling with his conviction, a troubled war survivor, the wacky oddball who flies the plane (seriously have you actually met any real pilots, they're dullest farts ever).These gripes and a few others aside, I do still quite like firefly so it' a shame that it cancelled, the film Serenity - well it's kind of okay, it's just that the continuity with the series seems tenuous on occasion.


                
Disclaimers: I've barely watched TV since the mid-90s. I don't know Joss Wheden at all. I've been a hard SF fan since the early 1960s.Firefly is fun. I watched the entire series on DVD over the course of a few nights. It has plenty of technical and scientific flaws and suffers from the conventions of a TV series, but those things are to be expected. It is a TV series, after all.The idea of colonized planets as the wild frontier is a very, very old concept in SF. What I enjoyed in 'Firefly' is that Wheden went all out. Horses, six guns and Winchester lever action rifles mixed with hovercraft and laser pistols. It was a hoot!I didn't really see the 'depth' that Wheden fans claim, but it was obvious that River, Inara, and Shepherd Book would play major parts in the plot if the series had continued. The acting wasn't great, but it was serviceable and there were some very funny lines. My favorite was Shepherd Book's, "If you take sexual advantage of her, you're going to burn in a very special level of hell. A level they reserve for child molesters and people who talk at the theater." As much as I enjoyed it, I can see why it was canceled. It just wasn't going to appeal to a wide audience. The target demo was too small - guys like me who might understand why the frontier of space was being portrayed as the Wild West and Mal as a Civil War veteran, and Wheden fans. Lightweight TV SF fans wouldn't get this. It doesn't mean they're stupid. It's just not what they expect so they turn it off.All in all, it's worth getting the DVDs from Netflix and watching if you like SF and have an open mind.
I am a great fan of Joss Whedon, creator of Buffy The Vampire Slayer. When I saw Firefly I did not hesitate. I wanted to watch it.I started to watch this show and I got engrossed into the series immediately. The Writing was awesome. The Script was brilliant and original. It was realistic. The special effects were awesome. The episodes were funny. As the series progressed the character development was projected well. I got addicted to this one immediately. My hunger for wanting to see more of this show is increasing day by day.Well, now I wish I hadn't seen this now, because why start such an awesome sci-fi show only to get discontinued ? What the hell is the matter with these FOX people. This show had so much potential. It could have been one of the greatest sci-fi series. Thousands curses on you FOX for stopping production right in the middle of the show after getting us very intrigued.The best that can be said is that it's FOX greatest mistake and they just threw away an amazing opportunity to show to bring this amazing show.To Joss Whedon, in case you are reading this I just want to let you know that YOU created this show, NOT the FOX, so YOU own the rights to this show, NOT the FOX people. If I were you I would take the script to some other channel and bring this amazing show into life. Most of us your fans, are hoping that you would give us this show, hoping you would bring this to life.I want to this show a solid 10. But I am giving for the cancellation.


                
I think this is the most overrated 'good, but NOT great' show in the world, solely because it has an insane fan base that make out like it is their favorite show, and the 'best show', and that just IS NOT TRUE!I love Whedon-verse, I love 'Buffy' and 'Angel', and 'Avengers', but to be completely honest, 'Firefly' had more problems than solutions (and while we're being honest- 'Dollhouse' was riddled and 'Agents of Shield' is not all there either).Firefly was canceled on TV before I watched it on DVD, when I heard the theme song, I knew that was a big reason that it wasn't broadly successful, and while die-hard-fans and myself quite liked it, the song didn't have the punch and zing that 'Buffy's'/'Angels' had.The cast is full of gems, and fan favorites, Morena Baccarin (who I have met, and LOVE) is amazing as always, but her role/character doesn't work being a space courtesan, especially in such a short run without the payoff with Fillion's hero.Nathan Fillion, is a great hero/anti hero, and Tudyk, Torres, Baldwin, Glau and Staite are all amazing but the character- 'River' was too retarded and 'Book' and 'Simon', I found totally unlikable.The 'Reavers' characters and story was not told in the canceled series, (though concluded in the 'Serenity' movie) and this was a major flaw. If it had been told in the pilot instead of being a mystery that never got explored, it might have saved the show.I loved the ship, I loved the cast, the stories were fun, but they didn't quite work out perfectly together.The wide empty space with few humans and no aliens... is (let's be honest for once) no 'Star-Gate/Trek/Wars/Galactica' universe. Space without aliens is sad and empty, it's Earth really, and the story may as well have been told here, just in the future.Basically I wrote this review because I earlier did a poll that had more votes for 'Firefly' than 'Buffy' and how can one canceled 3/4 season possible compare to one of histories greatest 7 season shows, especially beat it? The answer- a zealous and uncompromising cultish fan base.Long live the 'Brown Coats'...
Upon seeing the 9.4 rating that this show received, I felt that it was almost necessary that I watch it. My overall impression was that this show is well cast, and the acting is pretty good. Although the script was intended to be full of hillbilly grammar, Nathan Fillion is too well spoken for it to not sound forced. Firefly's greatest strength is the witty and well written plot. Also notable is the theme and overall tone which is an interesting conglomerate of futuristic space and wild west. The biggest irritation to me was the music. It is intended to reinforce the western theme but it sounds completely ridiculous and out of place. It was really hard to take seriously when twangy country music plays in the background of a panning scene of a space ship. The music was much improved in the movie. On a concluding note, I think that the rating of 9.4 is way inflated. This show is entertaining not life changing.


                
Space western show about a bunch of smugglers, fugitives, outcasts and whores trying to make a living in a age of space colonisation - the new frontier. Comparisons can easily be made with the conquest of the American West after the defeat of the Confederacy, with a strong veneer of oriental culture, like there would be in the 1850's San Francisco: The character of Inara, for exemple, is closer to a traditional geisha rather than a common brothel worker. Curse words are wisely uttered in chinese (I don't know which form). But it doesn't take part in the XIXth century, rather in the XXIVth. The show's change of setting can be surprising when they enter a core planet and a more typical sci-fi environment, but it's done with a certain grace and no contrasts are too violent. The premise is about as acceptable as that of Star Wars, where backwater colony worlds rub shoulders with ecumenopolis, if narrower in scope in Firefly.The vilain are not the Alliance itself, represented as a slow, bureaucratic and rules-heavy version of passive facism and neo-liberalism, but rather free entrepreneurs, ruthless ranchers, greedy governors, rival bands of smugglers, shifty underworld bosses and rogue military/scientific outfits. Sometimes it's the main characters themselves. The show carries a "shades of grey" outlook, but the values it favours are quite traditional and the good sides usually wins.Among the most pleasant aspects are the chemistery between well-directed actors, sharp dialogues and the fact that it doesn't take itself too seriously (qualities inherent to every JW production), which makes it agreable to see. There's also some action of the heist-kind, but it isn't just an explosions and CGI spectacle. It's pretty clean - no blood nor sex, althought there are references a plenty and some gore as part of scenery rather than as a result of on-screen violence.The less pleasant aspects include the inability to do things "out of the box" and offer something really new - but that's the prviledge of just a handful of great shows, historic ones. We can't ask for a masterpiece in every production. The other one is more subjective - it's Nathan Fillion as the captain. I just can't put the finger on what hicks me in his performence (the word "square" comes to mind), but if a huge enough part of the people think like me, that might have stole some thunder from the show. He isn't bad - in fact he is even good. But I just don't think I would have chosen him to be the star of my show - furthermore besides Morena Baccarin. The sets are somewhat bland.The lesser sides are quite minor, as you can see. From there, it's a matter of tastes, but western aficionados will be better served than hardcore sci-fi ones. The fact that this serie was cancelled way before it matured makes that many of the subplots that were growing their course here and there will never be explored, but still, everybody will have a great time watching this promising effort, so bring out the wife and the kids.
If you were to pitch me a movie or a T.V. show about space travel and western shootouts that takes place 500 years in the future, and has a 9.2 rating on IMDb, I would say I'm all in. Sadly this show never lived up to my expectations. I was also very late to watching this show, so my complaints about the special effects are irrelevant, but it's still worth mentioning that nothing in space in the show seems real. The Pilot (Wash) never does a good job at making us feel like they are navigating through space. But on to the good stuff, the dialogue in this show is consistently fun and hilarious. Whedon always does a great job at defining each character differently and making sure we are invested with each individual relationship. But the main problem with this show is there is no ongoing story arc. Great T.V. shows always keep you wanting more. I never felt this way, because every episode felt the same. They have a job, something goes wrong, and then someone is there to save the day. I just feel like this shows premise could have been turned into something much more exciting. Which it very well may have, if it hadn't been cancelled. I am still going to watch the movie and give it a shot, but I'm just overall disappointed with what I have seen from the crew of Serenity. 7.4/10


                
Finally I took time and watched whole Firefly at once. I am not disappointed, I enjoyed every episode, but still, I think it is very overrated. It is space western that gathers team of good actors in original and entertaining story. Still, I fail to see what quality makes it stand out from bunch of other Sci-Fi shows, except by fact it is space western... It is good, but cult status and rating over 9 are mystery to me. Show was canceled after only 14 episodes and it seems they did it on purpose. Official reason was lack of audience, but low ratings were obviously caused intentionally cause show was aired on Friday nights when they always had lowest ratings, episodes were aired in wrong order and marketing for show was terrible.Shame, it could grow into something really great. My recommendation for those who did not see it is to forget about its reputation and watch it without any expectations and you will surely enjoy it. My favorite episodes are 6th and 7th. While I rate the rest 7/10, those two deserve 9/10. Intelligent, original, well played and with nicely balanced amount of good humor.7,5/10


                
Firefly was surprisingly better than I anticipated. I am generally indifferent to Sci-fi (and I do mean real sci-fi with some science involved. I love Buffy but it is not Science Fiction and defining it as such just infuriates me)I've never been able to sit through a whole episode of Star Trek. My childhood memories of Star Wars are quite blurry. Yet, I enjoyed Firefly immensely and managed to watch the entire series and Serenity in a day.BUT I completely agree that the IMDb rating seems ridiculously high! I don't see how it is better than Buffy, Supernatural, Veronica Mars and Boardwalk Empire. I would give it a very reasonable 7/7.5. We can only base these scores off what the show was not what it could have been. I imagine that over several seasons it would have developed into something brilliant and unfortunately there just isn't enough character development or back-story. Having said that, there are some phenomenal characters in Firefly such as Mal and Kaylee. Although, if you're looking for impossibly attractive people this series is lacking. It really is noteworthy how much of an impact this short-lived series has had. Overall, I'm left with an overwhelming impression of promise, infancy and incompleteness. Worth watching.


                
Its introduction sets the tone. No elaborate, science fiction explanation is necessary to describe how "the earth got used up. " We either take it on faith and go along for the ride or scratch our heads and complain that it isn't like "Blake's 7" at all, or any other s-f series. Tragically, too many were in the later camp. "Firely" was never given a chance to find its audience. I wasn't certain what to expect from this Whedon concoction. From the reception it appears I wasn't alone. Expectations aside, only the reaction was important. Anyone who appreciated the irreverent humor in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer's would also get this. Much of the dialog could easily fit in a Buffy episode, only Sunnydale is freight- class spaceship and the vampires are an assortment of colorful villains, some of whom aren't all bad.The short-lived series didn't take itself too seriously and neither should anyone else. I savored every moment of the the characters and their interactions. Anything as uniquely brilliant as this doesn't often last, "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" being a notable exception. I'm now even more incredulously grateful Sunnydale was permitted to exist for seven seasons.


                
I'm not sure about my feelings towards Firefly. It's an enjoyable show but frankly if it hadn't been a Joss Whedon show I don't think I'd ever have bothered to watch it. It's inventive and puts a new spin on what could have been a tired genre, the anti-Star Trek. I enjoyed watching it but I genuinely don't understand the obsessive devotion towards it by the 'Browncoats'. It's very interesting to watch when you've also seen 'Blake's 7' and 'Space; Above and Beyond' (especially the strawberry scene). The idea of a fusion between Chinese and American is very cool, the idea of a group of fugitives who may or may not be the rebels against an overwhelming government which may or may not be oppressive is hugely interesting (we never really know if the Alliance is right or wrong?) The characters are extremely intriguing, especially Inara, the high class 'Lady of the night' who may or may not be dying and the mystery of Shepherd Book. Had it continued for longer I might have become a real fan, I didn't really dig 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' until 'Bewitched, Bewildered and Bothered' which was episode 30 or thereabouts, I didn't really dig 'Angel' until '5 by 5', had Firefly got to that point I might have changed my mind. It falls into the category of sci-fi shows that could have great but were cancelled because the cost of the special effects simply couldn't justify the ratings (by contrast Dollhouse could just be filmed on an ordinary street, space based sci-fi is always prohibtively expensive). I love spotting all the Whedon aliumni who guest star. It's refreshing to see a space based show that doesn't have the traditional glitches of 'Warp speed' and sound in a vacuum. My favourite episodes would be 'Heart of Gold' and 'Objects in Space'. If there is one standout from the cast I'd have to say it is Summer Glau who turns in a tremmendous performance as River closely followed by Jewel Stait who is great as Kaylee as the 'Willow' character. We can only wonder what might have been, this is a show which may have been destined for greatness
