After watching the series, I was deeply depressed that they had canceled it. The cast played their parts, the plots contained new twists, and the storyline was outstanding! I went and watched the movie and felt the same. The pilot showed the best sci-fi action you could never expect from a series and if I could put it in words its a "Sci-Fi masterpiece!" The main thing which you will love about the series are how each episode puts a interesting twist on the bad circumstances and threats they have to go through. If you haven't watched it yet but are looking forward to, I simply tell you it's "A must watch series" I give it 9 out of 10. I would give it a 10 if they hadn't canceled it.


                
So I'm definitely a much newer browncoat, but what I can't understand is how does a show like this not get picked back up by a different network? I mean, as sad as it is for a show to get cancelled, it does happen. However, there have been other series that were cancelled by one network, and then picked up by another. What can't we have this too!?One would think that with the success of the DVD Set & movie, and the now "cult" following Firefly has, that some bright young network executive, in an office somewhere... would see the potential for $$ to be made on their end, and answer so many of our wishes & prayers to renew the series! However, because there are 50,000 series programs on television, it's no surprise that as usual... the people with any money or power to do anything, are too clueless to realize they should.Firefly is one of a kind... it's the type of show that almost anyone can find something to relate to. It's more science than fiction, and the "leap of faith" for belief isn't so big. If we terra-formed planets, they would most likely be similar to the "old west". I know it's just the show, but if you give it some serious, rational thought... it's not that unlikely. The writing & character development is superb, the set design & visual effects exceed a decent amount of feature films, and you'd be hard pressed to find ANY other series with as much strength in it's entire multi-year run, than Firefly has in it's small, but respectable 11 episodes (only 11 were aired, but 14 filmed).At least we have the DVD set, and so far one film, to keep us enthralled with the lives & adventures of Mal, Wash, Zoe, Keely, Jayne, Inara, Shepard, The Tam siblings & Serenity herself. Although unlikely, a resurrection of this program is something almost anyone who watches one episode will think about.


                
Even though FOX messed with the order in which the episodes were broadcast I still was hooked from the first episodes.The episodes even improved over time.I simply cannot understand what in the world has gotten into FOX to cancel this series.Everything seemed just right. Good storytelling, interesting photography and great acting.The last two episodes, which made it to DVD but were not even broadcast, are top SciFi. Why not at least broadcast them, too?What more can one ask for in a SciFi series? I know: more seasons! :) I'm really looking forward to the feature film.


                
Great show, it's a crime it only got one season.The episode list is wrong!
1 - Serenity
2 - The Train Job
3 - Bushwacked
4 - Shindig
5 - Safe
6 - Our Mrs Reynolds
7 - Jaynestown
8 - Out of Gas
9 - Ariel
10 - War Stories
11 - Trash
12 - The Message
13 - Heart of Gold
14 - Objects in Space


                
Considering its short run, Firefly manages to create a rich and textured universe for its nomadic cast with consummate ease and makes its cancellation all the more baffling. If you turned on half way through an episode you could be forgiven for thinking you were watching a western, until the cowboys riding horseback are passed by a hovering train. Or coral shootouts with bolt action rifles pitted against lasers which only the rich can afford.As fabulous as Firefly's backdrop remains, it's not the secret of its success, nor is it the content of the episodes either, but the remarkable characters within them. The crew and passengers aboard Serenity arrived there for many different reasons; loyalty, escape, money or freedom to name a few. But they fit together like nine pieces of a jig-saw where the whole is infinitely better than you imagined when viewing the individual pieces. And as the series continues, you appreciate just how well it all fits together.There are many things to love about Firefly though. Great sets - Serenity in particular is exactly as you'd imagine an ageing transport ship would look, functional yet at the same time beautiful - balletic space scenes, laugh out loud humour, the whole cast shines and their natural chemistry is obvious for all to see. Lets not forget the aesthetic pleasure of simply watching the women, because you won't find a more beautiful bunch in any TV show i can recollect... Ever.Firefly isn't without it's shortcoming though. Sometimes the low budget shows, sometimes the episodes seem formulaic and predictable and sometimes it's a bit too cheesy for it's own good, but you simply won't care. You'll just keep watching until the end. Then you'll go and buy the film Serenity, then you'll wonder why they didn't make more of this fantastic show. And you'll yearn for more.


                
I watched this series on HULU, during my lunch at work, before they began removing it and other series from the site. I couldn't believe Syfy, who went by a slightly different name at the time, let this series fall on its face. I'm not into westerns, but this show really had it going. It stood on its own, with its mystique (The Alliance and their operatives), its universe (Core/Outer planets), and how different religions and institutions from "earth of old" were used very differently in this new universe.Its a shame that this series wasn't given a chance. I was very happy that they were able to come back and make the movie "Serenity". When I see actor/actresses who play Jane, Zoe, Mel, and River on other series. I often wonder what this series could have been had it been given a chance. This was great and different science fiction.


                
I'll probably be repeating a lot of reviews of this show. It's clear that I wasn't going to read all 567 of them myself to check them out. And it's even probable that no one would read this one either. Yet I think that the more people give an opinion about this, the more obvious will it be that Firefly was a show that should have stayed.At a time when most screenplays lack intelligence, Firefly marked a difference. There may be a lot of reality errors in the show, but those pale compared to the sheer atmosphere generated by characters who use and apply moral judgment to their own lives even they know it's going to cost them. They rise against paradigms and stay true to themselves. That's what was not only entertaining but also wise and honest.I used to think that Fox made a huge mistake by thrashing them. But it's become clear that they did it on purpose because it went straight against their own policies. Pulling the show off the air shows corporate true colors: dishonesty and pure audience fleecing greed.I wish that Firefly manages to become independent and launch a sequel. Their are enough fans out there to indicate that it's possible. It's become an icon after all.


                
I can not for the life of me work out why this show was not plugged more or why it was axed. It has very good character interactions with a wide range of personalities. It has some excellent one liners which are not over or under done. The visuals are great and you even forget about all the scientific errors such as them still using horses to get around 500 years into the future on other planets or cattle rustling as a way to make money for people that own a spaceship ha ha. This was acted very well and never came out tacky as a lot of sci fi movies/series do. Definitely watch this if you haven't seen it. Could have been bigger than x-files.


                
Firefly is a hybrid of science fiction and western genres. It's not the easiest show for people looking for something simple. There are nine characters that all get a good bit of back story and screen time despite only having fourteen episodes. Firefly uses words that have more of a western feel with sudden bursts of Chinese swear words. Then, there is the fact that the show is heavy on the western and lite on the sci-fi. Even though the show is excellent, the general public is just too lazy to go through the courtship. It has the charm of Joss Whedon's other work, a geeky down to earth feel that is easy to like. Nathan Fillion is, technically, the star of the show and despite his claims that he is nothing like his character, he is perfect as Malcolm Reynolds, the former soldier that just wants his life of freedom to do what he wishes. The goofy Alan Tudyk supplies the laughs while the cagey Adam Baldwin is the wild card that everyone watches closely. Ron Glass is the conscience of the crew, but he clearly knows a little more about the dirty business than he lets on. Sean Maher and Summer Glau are the siblings running from the evil government, he is a doctor and she is a scientifically enhanced genius. The other three girls represent different kinds of femininity: Jewel Staite is the earthy, nurturing kind, Morena Baccarin is the exotic, sultry kind, and Gina Torres is the tough, ballsy kind. Finding Firefly is like finding money in the couch. It's, you know...
After stifling the urge to stop watching Firefly a few minutes into episode 1, where a battle between the rebellion and the alliance is shown, I quickly became hooked. I actually don't understand why those first minutes made the cut at all as it's nothing but a peek at a part of history of the Firefly world and in my opinion superfluous, but past that it's top notch. Firefly is actually the best TV series I've ever watched.While current suggestions for other movies/series list Star Trek and Star Wars, I'd rather compare Firefly to Grey's Anatomy (GA). So, how does a spaceship and smugglers relate to a hospital and its doctors? It doesn't as such, but that's just the point.The hospital in GA, as well as the spaceship/future in Firefly, just provide a background setting for the show, and past that, is of minor significance. This is about character development and interaction between them, and Firefly does a great job at it. The interaction and dialogue feels natural, and its characters doesn't spin out of control as the people in GA can sometimes do. Also, romantic relations play a much greater role in GA than in Firefly.Firefly also comes with a great deal of humour, in an everyday sense. It's simple funny remarks or point of views not unlike what makes you laugh in everyday life, spiced up with the peculiarities of the various characters. As such, it's not "forced humour" as in Seinfeld (which I don't like) or Friends.However, the Firefly characters don't just hang out in the ship, chatting. Things do happen. Interesting things, most of the time, I might add.A final note on the difference between Firefly and Star Trek (voyager/tng). While Firefly uses the spaceship/future as a background setting, a stage for its characters to act upon, Star Trek pretty much uses its characters as a foundation for The Ship. Firefly focuses on characters and their interaction, while Star Trek focuses on its Ship and Sci-Fi. A major result of these differences, apart from Firefly being much more interesting, is that it's of high importance to watch the Firefly episodes in their intended order (not the screwed up Fox ordering), while that is of little consequence while watching Voyager or TNG. For Enterprise, order is important, but that is due only to its tightly coupled plot (I've only seen season 1).


                
This series never got the publicity it deserved! When you add SF to it people judge it differently in comparison to other so called realistic TV drama's! I never got the chance to follow the series because they pulled it from the air! Then "Serenity" came along! I watched it and was hooked! For me this was the reason to see "Firefly"! And I must say I was surprised,it is a good show! Even when it is scifi,most of it are visions of things what really could happen in the future! For instance the crew and people in firefly talking (or rather cursing in) Chinese was nice to see. If you think about it: China has the biggest population on the world and still it is growing in numbers and economically! So for people speaking Chinese isn't a stretch! Also the series being more of a western than say "Star Wars" is a nice take because it was like that back in the days when people started colonies on earth,so why shouldn't it be like that when they start colonies on other planets! The space sequences are superb and i liked it that you don't hear sound in space! Because there is no sound in space (that is what astronauts and scientist are saying all the time)! "Firefly" contains good actors,good special effects,good action,lot of humor,great drama and a good story! Every episode is well balanced and can stand on his own! I loved the series and i am surprised they didn't make more seasons for us to enjoy! This series rocked!


                
On my boyfriend's recommendation, I got myself a Firefly DVD box set, sat down and watched the entire series. Before I knew it, I fell absolutely in love with it. Imagine my dismay when I found out that the series's life was cut short. Why? This series has one of the best cast ensemble I've seen in recent years. Led by the gruff and cynical but likable Capt. Malcolm Reynolds (brilliantly played by Nathan Fillion), Fate had thrown this bunch of nine odd misfits together in a Firefly-class space ship aptly named "Serenity". Two ex-soldiers, a boorish yet likable mercenary, a priest with a mysterious past, a bubbly mechanic, a pilot with boyish tendencies, a beautiful courtesan, a fugitive doctor and his sister... what an odd combination! If you are a big fan of adventure, old Western movies or Sci-Fi, this is the show for you. Beautiful, witty, humorous and touching, it's very family-oriented. This series is probably Josh Whedon's baby. I love the way these characters are integrated together - they all have a great chemistry going for them. One of the most remarkable touch in the series has to be the brother-sister relationship between the good doctor and his broken sister. It's a beautiful thing to behold. Another interesting twist is how the future is portrayed with a colorful melting-pot of Eastern and Western cultures fused together. That and with a totalitarian government looming in the dark shadows of the space, what you get is a great TV show.The mythology of the series is very vast and exciting. It's a shame that what could have been one of the most wonderful saga ever aired on TV is short-lived. As long as the crew and Serenity will keep on flying in our hearts, like the ballad goes, "You can't take the sky from me..." - it won't completely die out.


                
I came to this series in kind of a convoluted manner. I saw the trailers for the movie and thought there were a few funny lines and some fun action sequences, and that it could be a good popcorn flick. I finally saw the movie a few months ago, and loved it. It was well acted and well written, funny and at times poignant, and even though it is sci-fi, it comes off as very real. I think the interaction between the characters and the dialogue is what makes it that way. While watching, I kept thinking that it would make a great TV series - it was so engrossing I kept forgetting it started as one. And each time I remembered I was intensely disappointed that it had been cancelled - even though I'd never seen it - and that I wouldn't get to watch more! I immediately ordered the first (and only) season on DVD.The series did not disappoint. It was more of everything I loved in the movie. I know some others have commented on the lack of character development, but I have to disagree - I think the characters were wonderfully developed and multi-dimensional. Each actor fits their role perfectly. The cast has a natural rapport that - this is going to sound impossibly corny - makes the show comfortable, like a well-broken-in pair of jeans.The only negative is the lack of extras on the DVD. There's a bit of commentary, but I wish there was more! It really is a great, fun show, and I think more people would find something they love about it.


                
I have been putting off watching the DVD for awhile, but finally got to it and now know what I was missing. I actually saw the movie, which was EXCELLENT and wanted to see what the buzz was about. This series is so good it's almost indescribable. It's a Sci-fi Western, and pulls it off convincingly. It's better than Star Trek and Battle Star Galactica COMBINED, but only for those with the intelligence and humanity to understand it. This is one of the few shows where EVERY character is infinitely interesting, even the most basic character has endless depth of character and emotion. This is a gray universe, where everything is not what it seems. Good sometimes is bad and visa-versa. ALL the actors are excellent. I don't know who writes the dialog, but the interactions border on genius for capturing REAL human emotions and interactions. This series is COMFORTABLE, like an old leather shoe. The sets are amazing and detailed, as are the costumes. You get the feeling that extensive work was put into the little details of this show. Everything is so realistic, maybe the most accurate prediction of the future. You won't be beaming to other galaxies or using energy weapons, they still use ballistic stuff here. And the special effects? Probably the most realistic I have ever seen. This show is that good. You really feel like your in a ship running the galaxy, complete with broken parts and such. Some people either get this show or they don't. This show captures real human emotion so well that I have laughed out loud at every show, it's like a comedy-western-sci-fi show. The cast all look extremely handsome and gritty at the same time, and the "companion" MORENA BACCARIN is absolutely stunning, making counselor Troy from Star Trek look positively mediocre. Speaking of ST, there are bound to be comparisons but this show is much better and more realistic, each show actually shows character development, no small feat. I have seen more character development in 2 Firefly shows than 2 YEARS of Star-Trek. I don't know what else to say except the the network that canceled this show did not know what they had, the best series on television.
Normally I'd not bother to comment on a series which already has so many entries, but 'Firefly' deserves as much support as possible. I'd never heard of the show until a friend shoved the DVD set in my hand and said "Watch it; you may not be totally convinced by the first episode, but I guarantee you'll be totally hooked by the third or fourth." Guess what; he was right! I in turn introduced a friend to the show and she in turn became hooked. This meant I was re-watching each episode a week after the first viewing and yes, it was even more fun the second time around. Now I've come to the end - groan! - and will just have to get my hands on the movie, although so far I've found no one or internet page to explain how the series ties in with the movie. Is it simply a wrap of the series, or a kind of a look back and rewrite of the saga? There's only one way to find out; buy 'Serinity'! Finally, IMHO this is a similar series to the BBC's 'Blake's 7'. Both concern a sinister right wing galactic government versus a group of ragtag adventurers thrown into opposition, often against their will. The real reason for the failure of 'Firefly' to go into a further series seems more of a mystery now I've looked around the many sites devoted to the show.
I must say from the first episode i thought that 'firfly' was going to be fairly basic but after watching a few more episodes i really got into whether it be the characters, theme or storyline i really enjoyed watching it. In the special features the producer mentions that 'FOX' wanted to jump straight into it and i think it didn't work well. to tell you the truth i think that fox ruined the whole show. i 'hear' that the reason they canceled the show was because it did not have enough flesh and sex scenes and not enough violence.... Yes this may have increased viewers, all the young teen boys waiting for some 'action' but they show would not have been the same. I think it is in the top 5 series i have seen because it kept me hooked. i could not get away from the screen, i only hope that one day it will be shown in Australia so those who do not have the chance to stumble across such a series can see it.


                
When Firefly first aired on Belgian television, they showed half of the original pilot, and I have to admit that I wasn't convinced.Many years and even more great IMDb reviews later, I decided to give this show another try. This time, I was treated to the full version of the original pilot, which made a whole lot more sense and which got me hooked. So now, yes, I am joining the ranks of all the people who reviewed Firefly, loved it and regret its very early cancellation. Like them, I would have loved to see the stories, the characters and their relationships evolve. But the powers that were decided this would not be the case.Perhaps the only consolation that we may get is that we never had to see Inara getting killed off, as seems to have been a planned story arc.So, what makes Firefly so great? The absence of techno-babble that somewhat ruined a few episodes of another great sci-fi series (yes, I am talking about Star Trek: The Next Generation now), was an important factor for me. The future that was projected is raw and human. So are the characters. Exactly what one would expect of a group of people trying to make a living in all but ideal circumstances.There are some clichés as well. The warrior woman. The fact that Mal and his group are on the run. The unspoken romances between a few characters. But these don't diminish the show.All in all, well worth watching.


                
The fact that a Hollywood movie was commissioned due to the sale of DVDs of this series should be all you need to know before you go out and buy it - that many people can't be wrong! As said above, the characterisation is excellent, with people who are flawed and believable and who you come quickly to care about. The stories are varied and interesting and there's a familiarity that the Firefly crew have with each other that seems obvious right from the first episode. On top of the great writing, the effects are top notch and emphasise the whole 'feel' of the series. Put all this together with a sense of humour that pervades every episode and you have a simply wonderful series.I could just say: "Yet another great sci-fi series culled before it's time" but the truth is, this is a truly superior sci-fi series that merits it's move to the big screen - and, in my (and many others') eyes, deserves another longer go on the small screen.


                
I came to this show late on, literally only the last 3 weeks. Why god why? Why did some ass hat cancel this show. This has to be one of the best SciFi's I have seen. The comedy in it is fantastic and I enjoyed being in the company of all the characters.I heard it said that he cast were born to play the roles and I see why. Every single character was different and they were motivated by different things. It reminds me of a happy yet dysfunctional family.Another great series cut down.


                
Obviously Firefly has a core audience that loves it and seemingly cannot get enough of it.But that is just the thing. We are left with only 15 episodes of the series plus a low budget movie. Probably enough to begin exploring the themes and characters without being redundant. We are also left with a bunch of un-answered questions that are part of the lure. Had Whedon had time to explore the world he created it might have turned into a melodrama.What is there is spectacular (my favorite is "Out of Gas") but television is notorious for killing its creators. Some of the best classic television (Star Trek and the Prisoner) became classics because they were cut short and left us wanting more.


                
If, like me, you are a passionate sci-fi fan who dislikes - I repeat: dislikes - the vast majority of wonder boy Joss Whedon's output (such as Buffy and Angel), then you might be interested in my view of Firefly.It is a relatively watchable show; I might even call some of the writing and production values above average, but I'm also very, very ambivalent about it, overall tending towards the negative. Keep in mind that I'm European, and this show is basically as American as it's possible to get. Add to that the abundance of trademark Whedon one-liners, which he and his fans undoubtedly find uproariously hilarious, but which to me all too often are tediously unfunny.The show as a whole is controversial, containing many points to have an opinion about, and I see both pros and cons for many of these points, esp. the smaller ones. The larger points - such as the basic setting and the way this is presented - I'm quite clear on: they are utterly unbelievable and most often highly annoying. Even so, the Fireflyverse is certainly a vast improvement on the macabre, horrific and unpalatable Buffyverse. At least Whedon must be congratulated for producing something as different from Buffy as Firefly is.But let me begin at the beginning (I'll be quite critical at first, but eventually get to some of the things I actually like - and sorry if I'm digressing a lot along the way).We have here a highly symbolic TV series. Five hundred years in the future, Amerimankind has conquered space. There were two chapters of Americivilization; The Alliance (the North) and The Independents (the South). There was a war between these. The Alliance won, and now lords it over the galaxy like the evil totalitarian communist zombies many Americans happily believe liberals to be. This in itself is, of course, both insufferable and ludicrous.Anyway - despite the Alliance having won, most of the (outer?) planetary colonies (or possibly just the ones the Firefly crew visit) are apparently run by the remains of The Independents, making up perfect, unindustrialized Old West communities, complete with colts, horses, saloons, clothing style, - and get this - telegraph poles (???), and other preposterous anachronisms. Mixed right in with holographic force-fields instead of windows, and hovertrains instead of old-style trains. It is simply the Old West transposed to a planetary colony setting. "Space - the new frontier." Mankind, in this future, hasn't gone the least bit forward; they've gone backward. (This setting sort of comprises a new genre, I suppose, which we might call, I dunno, Westpunk or somesuch.) Apparently, these planetary colonies are not terraformed except in minor ways like importing seeds and such; apparently, they are perfectly Earth-like planets filled with desert, steppe, mountains and matching indigenous vegetation (which I assume it is because the colonization is so minimalist and sparsely technological that no other answer is possible), yet there are no higher alien life forms on any of these planets (nor are any alien animals or microorganisms ever mentioned). Given the Earth-like planets, this is unlikely, but bearable. Overall, I don't mind the lack of aliens; actually it's rather refreshing (compared to other SF TV shows filled with silly puppets or people with funny ears and noses).Anyway - we follow the motley-yet-not-so-motley crew of a Firefly class spaceship called Serenity. They are mainly former Independents (i.e. Southeners) who now run various smuggling scams, and try to stay the hell out of the evil Alliance's way. The tone is set by the captain, Mal Reynolds (Nathan Fillion), whom in the beginning I thought I would like, but quickly found that I couldn't. He is shallow, pretentious, condescending, arrogant and petty, and riddled with double standards. He's annoying, and a time-waster who keeps making the same mistakes. He fancies himself a moral and honorable person, keeping a vigil for the values of The Independents, and hating The Alliance for (among other things) forcing him to become a criminal in order to do so. Riiight.  :eyesroll:I have to admit, though, that, perhaps except for the captain, the characters are better fleshed-out than is normally seen in this type of show. Perhaps the actors are better. Or maybe it's just another case of a guy - namely me - being attracted to the great-looking female characters. There are four quite strong female roles, who in and of themselves make the show watchable, and (at least in the pilot episode) refreshing. I'll cover them in order of interest:1) River (Summer Glau) - a prodigy who's apparently been trained as some kind of super-spy by The Alliance, but was rescued from the indoctrination programme by her brother before it was completed. Consequently she is half-mad, having all sorts of abilities at her beck and call, but being unable to control them. She can instantly learn anything she sees or hears, and has a memory loaded with "too much" knowledge. If this were a longer-running series, she would be sure to develop into *the* coolest and most useful crew member. The problem, however, is that her story develops ridiculously slowly, and we only learn the tiniest bit of new stuff about her in each episode. She is unforgivably underused. Which is, of course, just typical.2) Kaylee (Jewel Staite) - the ship's mechanic. A 20-year-old, stunning-looking girl with a cheerful, enthusiastic personality. Extremely cute. In fact, too cute. Though she is a joy and a pleasure to look at, and clearly a very competent actress, she is utterly unbelievable in her written role as a grease-monkey who doesn't get any, perpetually "one man short". Her personality is most agreeable, and she nearly throws herself at every passer-by, smiles beaming all over the place, yet she is apparently romantically challenged for no discernable reason and can't get anyone to requite her attentions. That's laughable, and not in the funny way, either. It isn't Ms. Staite's fault, though, that she's written that way. Blame the Joss. But she's very, very cute, and I'm sure an actress of her qualities will pop up on the big screen in no time at all.3) Inara (Morena Baccarin) - another absolutely stunningly beautiful lady; probably the best-looking. She is a prostitute (and for that reason wearing way too much make-up - that, and very thin, sexy dresses), but an extremely classy and rich one, who chooses her own clients. She lives (for rent) in one of the Firefly's shuttles, which makes up a small apartment, and she seeks out clients on whatever planet the ship is visiting. She doesn't cater to the crew, but - wouldn't you know it - has a crush on the captain, who continually (and incredibly annoyingly) berates her for her "immoral" profession which is legalized in The Alliance, but reprehensible to the captain's personal morals. OK, so part of his critique of her is simple jealousy; of course he fancies her, too, and if someone other than himself insults her, he stands up for her. Inara has a strange kind of attachment and loyalty to the ship, and it doesn't make much sense for her to be there at all (okay, so she has a crush on the captain - but that doesn't explain why she got there in the first place). But she most certainly is a creature of striking beauty.4) Zoe (Gina Torres) - the captain's second-in-command (despite the chain of command not being particularly firm), and married to the pilot. A tough, capable warrior woman with an assertive personality. She alternates as the captain's bodyguard and back-up plan, and she wields a mean gun.All the women, except River (who's apparently only 16 or so), are sexually active (or in Kaylee's case trying to be), which is also, in itself, very refreshing. There are endless shows with endless numbers of endlessly virginal women, and that has just never been... satisfying, in my opinion. This way is much better.As for the rest of the men; there is the pilot, Wash (Alan Tudyk), whom I was very annoyed by in the beginning, mostly because he looks *a lot* like the mechanic from the Andromeda TV series; the one with the skin rash. Wash, however, gets more likeable as the series progresses, but he's really little more than comic relief, and Zoe's foil.Then there's Jayne (Adam Baldwin), who started out being obnoxious, but ends up being one of the best characters on the show. Jayne is a big, swearing thug of a thief, reminding a lot of a mercenary/soldier of fortune. He's an opportunist, but a complex one. His morals and allegiances are always in doubt, and new levels of his character keep being revealed. Adam Baldwin does a really good job of bringing this multifacetted figure to life.Then we have Shepherd Book (Ron Glass), who's some kind of priest. It isn't clear whether "Shepherd" is his title or his first name; I hope it is his title, because as a name I think it is symbolical overkill to call a priest "Shepherd Book" - a shepherd of the Lord, preaching the gospel of the Good Book. Puh-leeze! Can it get more obvious? But anyway, it may not be his real name, as he's apparently some Alliance big-shot (an ex-admiral, perhaps?) in his true identity. He is a nicely rounded (and also religious and prudish) character, well acted, with lots of potential for development.Lastly, there's Simon, River's doctor brother and oblivious object of Kaylee's affections. He's quite boring, and his too-nice manners basically keep him that way. His character needs to evolve; loosen up.Then there are all sorts of other things. The Chinese swearing is actually a very nice touch. Apparently, sometime in the last five hundred years, Chinese civilization impacted enough on the Westernized culture to have a number of Chinese phrases integrated into the English language, for some reason mostly having to do with cussing, but also a few other things (like, apparently, "let's see" and such - we don't actually get the translations). It is a suitably exotic factor to make this future scenario slightly more believable - something it sorely needs. It also needs more Asians. Chinese swearing is all over the place, but the entire show has maybe two Asian extras in non-speaking roles! That's pretty preposterous.By and large, and considering the rather lavish praise Firefly has received from some fandom quarters, I found the show disappointing. Ultimately, it amounts to nothing but an anecdote in the annals of television sci-fi, offering very little that is substantially new, not to mention interesting. It brings up controversial questions, but most of them end up being a waste of time, with no new wisdom or insights having been gained. I'd rate the show a 4 out of 10, but give it an extra mark for the attractive female content.5 of 10.


                
Note well: With Firefly, unlike most other American TV shows, the episode order MATTERS A LOT - greater the pity the fools at Fox screwed up the order. Even worse perhaps is that many places, like IMDb list them in the wrong order as well.While Joss Whedon, the writer/producer/creator, was unable to get Fox to broadcast the series in the right order, he did get it on the DVD set, and the correct episode order is:Serenity (either as 1 pilot or 2 episodes) The Train Job Bushwhacked Shindig Safe Our Mrs. Reynolds Jaynestown Out of Gas Ariel War Stories Trash The Message Heart of Gold Objects in Space If you buy the DVD's of course you'll get it in the right order, unfortunately Fox apparently still don't care and just send the episodes in the wrong order to TV stations who by the series....And the series? Brilliant - one of the few times US TV actually created art.


                
I just finished watching all 14 episodes and I must say this is the best short-lived sci-fi series I have seen. It's too bad it got canceled. One of the aspects I like about Firefly is that it is realistic science-fiction. There are no unbelievable things like parallel universes, transporters, wormholes, etc. that you see in Star Trek and Stargate shows. Instead, all the technology seems realistic. They fly around on a ship that has no special features and looks like a piece of junk. The only thing that doesn't seem realistic about this show is how quickly the characters heal. It seems like in almost every episode, someone either gets shot, stabbed, or injured in some way. And in the next episode they look like they have recovered 100%. Anyways, the only drawback of watching this series is that it doesn't provide a conclusion due to the cancellation.
This show is an great show, Great story, great charters, great visuals, almost everything about this show is great. There definitely could be lots of more seasons, then they canceled it. The promos for the show were terrible, Fox gave a horrible attempt at describing the show.What Fox Thought: A gang on a ship only cares about money and they do jobs for money.And that's all they said the show was about. Well, here is what the show is REALLY about: Our planet, Earth, got destroyed because it was over-populated and there were lots of wars. Then, we found a new solar system with lots of new planets. The Human Race then populated those planets. Then a government formed called "The Alliance" which made the planets under there rule. Some other planets refused, which started a war. Which is where we meet our two main charters. Sargent Malcolm Reynolds and Corporal Zoey (forgot her last name) fought in a war. The first scene of the show is a flashback, which shows them pinned down by the Alliance, so they call for Air Support, we see them fight while they hold for the Air Support, which is one the best scenes in the show. Then, Zoey calls the Air Support, but they say that's it too hot, so there pulling back. We then see a whole bunch of Alliance ships come in and this scars Malcolm for life. Six years later, we see that Malcolm now captains a ship called Serenity, and he and his crew do jobs for profit to help them eat and stay in the air. They then take in new recruits, and Simon, the medic has a mysterious package. We then find out there is an Alliance spy on board. The Captain thinks it's Simon, but it's really Lawrence. They then knock out Lawrence and hold him captive. Malcolm opens Simon's package, and reveal that it is his crazy sister, River, who was kidnapped from The Alliance, who was playing with her brain. And I'm leaving you to watch the rest.This show is a great show, but got canceled quickly. But due to the massive fanbase, they made a movie continuing and concluding the series, called Serenity http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0379786/If you have not seen the show, watch it now, and when you done, watch the movie.
I was drawn to this series after having rented Serenity, the film that followed up the series. Firefly is a peculiar mix of Western and Scifi genres. I believe that is the reason why it never was successful commercially, as it is a bit quirky. As I had enjoyed the movie, which really plays more to the Scifi crowd, I was more inclined to watch the series. However, it took me getting through the first three or four episodes where I actually enjoyed it. I was having extreme difficulties getting past the Western style of speech, gunslingers, horses, etc. It is just weird to depart a space ship, then get on a horse. (I suppose it works in Star Wars because they are riding alien creatures.)However, its strengths far outweigh its weakness. There is a great 'world' created by the writers, and the characters are quite compelling. The character depth is both a strength and a weakness, as it does take several episodes to establish everyone's back-story, and their relationships. The ensemble cast is great, and they really do draw you into their relationships. The cinematography and special FX are really excellent, and the music score is also quite good.After having watched the entire series (14 episodes) I went back and re-watched the movie Serenity. Knowing the background of the series did make the movie a bit better. Interestingly however, had I not seen the movie first, I may not have stuck with the series, as I really did have difficulties with the Western themes. So if you were to ask me which to watch first, I would answer: the movie if you love Scifi, but don't care too much for Westerns; the series if you love Westerns and not so much Scifi; and if you enjoy both styles equally, start with the series and stick with it. Once you get through disc 1, you'll be entrenched and want more.The one element that makes the movie a bit more palatable than the series, is the opening sequence. Here we get an explanation of how the human race has come to occupy this new solar system, why the crew of Serenity are on the run, and why they are constantly sought after by the government. In an ultimate edition of the movie and series, they should put this introduction sequence from the film first, then move through the series, then finish it off with the rest of the film, as it does tie up the series quite nicely.I highly recommend this for Scifi fans. Know it will probably take a few episodes to get into it, but it is worth renting.


                
