This movie is so real..at least to this person, who lived these things that happened in the movie. I will tell a short version of my personal life to let you know how it affected me from my own experience of growing up in the ThirtiesI think their must have been more then one car because ours was full of stuff in the back seat, clear up almost to the roof. Frankie, Bill and me (my brothers) all was on top of the stuff in the back seat, had to stay lying down was not enough room to set up. What I remember most about the trip was it was awful hot when we went through Arizona and we had not much water, the water we had was in a canvas bag, hooked to the front bumper to help keep it cool. We did not get much because dad was saving it for the car when the car got to hot. Mom told us to suck on pebbles, and we did. It was a bad time every where. No jobs or anyway to make any money. We were going to California because their was suppose to be some picking work their, after we got to California we saw miles of potatoes all loose piled up high my guess would be about six feet high, they had put lime or something that looked like lime it was a white powder to keep people from taking them to eat.We found a place to pick plums that they used to make prunes and we lived in a Quonset hut made of corrugated metal setting on a concrete slab. The public toilets were near were we stayed, Joe and his wife (Family friends)had their own Hut<U+0085>this was the time that dad & Joe would sell tickets for people to watch them box each other in a ring at the recreation hall on the property. Also they joined a baseball team and played baseball, dad played left field. We got to watch them play for free.Seems like Frankie and I played together a lot don't think Bill did because he was still a baby his self, Doris and Dorothy (my sisters) was still crawling so Bill could not have been very old at that time. Frank & I would go pick up plums off the ground and we would bring them home, Doris and Dorothy would set in the box and eat them. You can guess what they would look like when mom and dad got home, their was no air condition back then so they would take a hose and squirt water on the tin Quonset hut to try and cool it off some, I know when we went west we looked like those grapes of wrath folks in the movie.That area was the first time I ever saw a frog walk, it was to hot for them to hop, when they tried to hop their bellies would touch the ground ( gravel) and would burn them, any way that's what we thought at that time. I saw the movie of Grapes of wrath a long time ago, and I remember it so well, I cried most of the time it was on because it reminded me of the hard time we all had back then, I was born in Oklahoma and it was just a terrible time in the late thirties I would love to see the movie again, its to me a history of my family, I am 71 1/2 years old now and still remember it very clearly.Gene McDaniel


                
The Grapes of Wrath is the story of the Joad family, who are run off of their land in Oklahoma because of drought and poverty. I think that one of the most striking elements of this movie is the black and white cinematography. Obviously, there wasn't a lot of variation on this particular subject in 1940, but especially today, the lack of color enhances the feelings of poverty and desperation and emptiness due to the family's loss of their home. In this way, because it would not be nearly as noticeable in 1940 as it is today, this time-enhanced effect of the black and white film stock has allowed for the film's impact to actually grow with time. Henry Fonda plays the part of Tom Joad, a young member of the family who is released from prison at the beginning of the film, only to find that his family has been driven from their home and is staying at his uncle's house until they can figure out what to do about their sudden homelessness. It is by pure coincidence that Tom was released early on good behavior, otherwise he may very well never have seen his family again. He finds them in a state of near desperation, as they begin more and more to realize the predicament that they are in. Their trek across half of the country, on their way to California to assume jobs that they've heard about, provides for a substantial portion of the plot and is extremely well-structured.
The family encounters every hardship imaginable on this journey, from family members dying to their struggle to feed themselves to their rickety old truck constantly breaking down. They run into disillusioned people who claim that they've been to California and there are really no jobs there, at least not nearly as many as there are people going to look for them. They are periodically and derogatorily referred to as `Okies,' a term which places them in a broad category of poor folks driven from there homes in middle America who are traveling to the coast to get jobs that aren't there. There is so much doubt and hardship presented that it is never really certain whether they really will find jobs. The audience is never able to assume a happy ending, because there is so much contrary foreshadowing throughout the film. The struggles do not abate once the family reaches California and takes up shaky residence in residential areas that would be more accurately referred to as shanty towns, and the rest of the film is dominated by the family's efforts to survive in a new and unfamiliar place, while working for wages that are barely sufficient to prevent starvation. Ma Joad spends the majority of the film stressing the importance of keeping the family together, seeing it as the only thing that they really had left, but this is eventually set aside in favor of each member of the family not only surviving but also flourishing, which provides for one of the many powerful messages that the film delivers. The Grapes of Wrath is not exactly an edge of your seat film, but it is a shockingly realistic portrayal of the suffering that so many people and families experienced during the Great Depression. The performances are flawless, and the experience is not only powerful and moving but also educational. It's no secret that most people do not watch movies to learn, but there comes a point, at least once in a great while, when a person should watch a film that requires a little mental thought processing, and in such cases, The Grapes of Wrath is an excellent choice.


                
John Ford's film of John Steinbeck's novel has deservedly a classic film mirroring the views of both men and the times the book was written and filmed. Ford won his second Oscar for Best Director and Jane Darwell was the Best Supporting Actress of 1940.For most of America the Depression started with the stock market crash of 1929. But for the farmers it really began at the end of World War I. Those were good years for agriculture, the war in Europe was a boom for agriculture. But when farm prices dropped after the Armistice, a whole lot of family farms went belly up. Lots of people left the farms for the big city and industry jobs. The Depression years unhappily coincided with some of the worst drought ever seen in America.This is what many families like the Joads were facing in 1939 when the book was written. The banks had foreclosed on land that had withered to dust in any event. Folks like the Joads picked up and moved elsewhere, like California on a rumor of prosperity and jobs. America was still changing from an agricultural to an industrial society back then. That causes a lot of trouble for people unskilled in any industrial job training. As a country we're going through something similar today in many areas. We're moving from an industrial to an information based economy. Industry jobs are being lost to other nations and older and poorer workers are suffering for it. It's progress I guess, but it takes its toll.Some factory worker who has lost his job for any number of reasons can identify to some degree with the Joads, especially if they've lost a home they owned. For the Joads it was worse because they made their living off the land for many generations, identifying with it in a way that industrial workers could not.Henry Fonda got his first Oscar nomination for Tom Joad. To get the part which he knew he was so right for, he signed a studio contract with 20th Century Fox. That caused him many problems later on, but those are stories for another film review. Tom Joad is a midwest country kid, a whole lot like Fonda himself. Part of the story of The Grapes of Wrath is Tom himself trying to figure out why these economic forces are crushing him and his family and the way of life he's known. In the end when he leaves the Joad family and hits the open road, he's not got all the answers, but he's asking the questions. Tom hasn't figured it out, but a lot of people with many letters after their names haven't either. He only knows that he's got to get in the fight for economic justice.Jane Darwell was in films from the earliest silent films to Mary Poppins in 1965. This became her career part and the mother role of all time. She's what holds the Joad family together in good times and bad. That's what moms do and get little recognition for it. Except in this case by the Motion Picture Academy.John Carradine has his career part in this also. Another John Ford favorite, Carradine plays Casy the defrocked preacher who as he tells it disgraced himself with a female parishioner. After that preaching the gospel didn't seem quite right. When Fonda meets Carradine after Fonda's been released from prison, Carradine is asking a lot of questions about what is man's place in the metaphysical scheme of things. He's developing what we would now call situational ethics. Carradine's questions are on a higher plane, but he certainly inspires Fonda to ask for some answers himself.The Grapes of Wrath illustrates that at least government can give first aid in a crisis. After being in privately run agricultural camps where they're treated like less than dirt, the Joads happen upon a camp run by the Department of Agriculture where at least they're treated like humans. As it turns out, the Secretary of Agriculture was one Henry A. Wallace who was running for Vice President that year with Franklin D. Roosevelt. I'll bet any number of people saw The Grapes of Wrath and saw a message of support for FDR and the New Deal.Given some of the problems of the American economy today, The Grapes of Wrath though it appears dated isn't really all that much a relic of our past. It's both a timeless book and a timeless classic film.


                
Henry Fonda's portrayal of Tom Joad captures perfectly the humanity and compassion of the Steinbeck character, an ex-con who breaks his parole conditions by joining his family in their epic journey across the southern US to a "better life" in California.This is not the usual Hollywood fare. Tragedy and betrayal beset the Joad family from the outset. But it is nonetheless an uplifting movie. Spirit, compassion and tenderness mark them out. Fonda's role is particularly understated, and we see, as in Steinbeck's masterly epic, the maternally robust figure of Ma holding the family together.The performances all round are wonderful, and Ford's direction and sense of space under the big sky of the Midwest is breathtaking.This film is now largely a testament to the time in which it was set, but like the war movies that were soon to follow, a story that needed telling lest we forget.


                
During most of the decade of the 30s, the United States lived under the shroud of the Great Depression, a decade of unemployment and high poverty that would changed the face of the country forever. While the entire country suffered the effects of the Depression, the inhabitants of the prairie lands had to face an extra difficulty: the Dust Bowl. The Dust Bowl was a terrible ecological disaster that destroyed many farms in the area of the Great Plains, and forced people to migrate looking for better working conditions. The difficulties and social problems that those migrants had to endure in this sad chapter of history became the inspiration for John Steinbeck's novel, "The Grapes of Wrath", a book that quickly became a classic due to its powerful depiction of the era. Soon after it's release, plans for a film adaptation began to be made, and the man who would bring the novel to the screen would be none other than John Ford.In "The Grapes of Wrath", Henry Fonda plays Tom Joad, a young man recently paroled from prison who is traveling to his family home in Oklahoma. When he arrives, he discovers that the farm is deserted and the only person he can find is Jim Casy (John Carradine), the former preacher of his community. Together they decide to go to the house of Tom's uncle John (Frank Darien) looking for the Joads, and it's there where they find them packing their belongings as they get ready to move. The Joads explain Tom that the bank has foreclosed their farm, and that they are moving to California looking for work and a better life. While he is not supposed to leave the state by the conditions of his parole, Tom decides to join his family and convinces Jim to go with them in the long and arduous trip to California. However, things won't be as easy as they thought they would.Adapted to the screen by Nunnally Johnson, "The Grapes of Wrath" takes on the spirit of John Steinbeck's novel and delivers a harsh, crude and very realistic portrayal of poverty during the Dust Bowl. Despite not being an exactly faithful adaptation of the novel (changes were done due to censorship), the movie remains true to that powerful and very human essence that the novel had, and it could be said that Johnson distilled the themes of the novel and made an unabashed story free of any political compromises. While this kind of stories often suffer literary embellishments, "The Grapes of Wrath" avoids stereotypes and shows humanity as it is, with all their vices and virtues. It is the excellent development of the main characters what gives that very human touch to the story, as it really shows a real understanding not only of Steinbeck's novel, but also of the real social situations that inspired the book.In 1939, John Ford was in one of the best periods of his career, having directed "Stagecoach", "Young Mr. Lincoln" and "Drums Along the Mohawk" in less than 12 months. "The Grapes of Wrath" would also be shot the same year, being the culminating work of that extraordinary series of masterpieces. While Ford was better known for his legendary westerns and larger-than-life heroes, "The Grapes of Wrath" was in many levels a very personal movie for him, so he basically took Steinbeck's novel and completely made the story his own. Framed by Gregg Toland's wonderful cinematography, Ford brings to life the Joads' story in a way that mixes his own style with a focus so realistic that almost feels like a documentary. Without excessive sentimentalism, Ford tells in this movie a very human tale of survival, so universal that could easily be related to any group of people migrating due to poverty.While Ford and Toland deserve a lot of the credit, the movie wouldn't be the same without the extraordinary performances of the cast. Leading the cast is Henry Fonda as Tom Joad, delivering one of his best works of acting in his portrayal of the young man. Considering his performance in Ford's "Young Mr. Lincoln", one could say that Fonda's career reached legendary status under Ford's direction. While Fonda's work is worthy of praise, two actors actually manage to overshadow him in this movie: Jane Darwell and John Carradine. As the idealist preacher Jim Casy, Carradine makes a terrific job in what's probably the story's most interesting character, completely embodying Casy's persona in an atypical role for him. Like Carradine, Jane Darwell makes a wonderful job (probably her finest) as Ma Joad, and without a doubt she truly deserved that Academy award she received for her performance.As written above, the movie has several considerable differences with the novel (specially the second half), so fans expecting a complete translation of the book will be a bit disappointed. However, Johnson and Ford did a wonderful job in the adaptation than while considerably different beasts, both the movie and the novel carry the same spirit and the message that Steinbeck tried to give in his book. Interestingly, producer Darryl F. Zanuck also saw the film as a personal project and certainly his involvement helped the movie to get away from censorship as most as possible. While the film has indeed some flaws (most famously the sudden and unexplained disappearance of a minor character), it's hard to diminish its value due to them, as the beauty of its craft is so big that they can be easily dismissed.With a haunting atmosphere, a beautiful visual composition, and superb performances by his actors, Ford created one of the first masterpieces of the 40s and one of the finest American movies ever made. While already a celebrated director by the time of its release, this movie consolidated Ford as a master of his craft. Despite their differences, John Ford's "The Grapes of Wrath" truly carries the spirit of Steinbeck's novel, as well as the ghost of Tom Joad. 10/10


                
They say that you should wait 20 or 30 years before attempting to capture an historical event on film.  That is why it was remarkable that Oliver Stone was able to capture the "feel" of Viet Nam (in "Platoon") so soon (13 years) after America's withdrawal.  Usually, an honest perspective takes more time to develop.But, when you consider that John Steinbeck and John Ford needed less than ten years to bring the 1932 "dust bowl" to life, you really have to admire their magnificent achievement.    Of course, in 1940, Ford could not film much of the graphic squalor described in the novel.  For example, the film cannot show a starving hobo suckling at the breast of a young Rose of Sharon, who has milk to spare following the death of her baby.  But, far from degradation, Rose of Sharon's gesture is a reflection of the goodness that resides within her, and that quality is well illustrated in the character development seen on the screen.  Tom Joad may be an ex-con, but he is a good man.
One of the commentaries (below) uses this film to rant about the exploitation in today's society.  That completely misses the point.  Ford, who was as conservative as anyone in Hollywood, even more conservative than John Wayne, used this movie to show that Man can triumph, despite the natural and human barriers that are put in his way.   
This is ultimately a movie about hope and the human spirit.


                
One of the best movies Hollywood ever produced and yes it's true that "The Grapes of Wrath" is one of those movies which don't loose their lust in many years. Released in 1940 and till now this movie is as fresh as it can be. John Ford directorial version of John Steinbeck's finest work really worth a watch.As from the release of the book "Grapes of Wrath" has been seiged with controversies as the book was banned in many states but the book is great proponent of hardship. This movie mesmerizes you from the start as the characters are indulged with true humanitarian instincts, you won't feel any thing irrelevant.Henry Fonda is very much compelling in the role of young Todd and Jane Darwell won best supporting actress in magnificent portrayal of Mama Todd. All the other cast was fine and convincing in their roles .John Ford won another best director award from this and its no doubt the best deserving from his other achievements .In the end it's a treat and you wont be able to forget its impact for a long time.


                
Anytime you are tempted to feel down and out, watch this movie. I personally have seen it many times and are currently reading the book which I highly recommend. I cannot emphasize this enough. This is as down as you can get and still survive. We are taught to be grateful when watching this and to also consider the other guy, whoever he is and at the least, do not add to his burden. Actors are on their game as is the Director. Of course, none of this exists if it wasn't for John Steinbeck and his book. I thought about this movie during the recent Real Estate downturn and what the banks did in real life was indeed captured in this movie way back when. Indifferent, callous, and greedy while practicing their rights leaves one with a bad taste in the mouth and we bailed them out if that isn't the gall of galls. Have something to eat while watching to appreciate that you have food and the people in the movie do not, a tasty drink and a snack which is unheard of back during the depression days will help you connect more to the movie theme. There is humility, gratitude and lessons to be learned while being entertained. Its called a TEN thank you


                
Do I have your attention? Okay: Go out and watch this movie immediately because to not do so is, well, it's un-American. John Ford, with this nifty little film, made the greatest argument for populist/socialist politics in cinematic history. This movie understands the Depression and the Dust Bowl and the poor and the hungry and the starving and all those people that the sign at Ellis Island (or is it at the Statue of Liberty?) says that we'll take on and help. It understands those people better than anyone or anything else I know. Steinbeck's novel helps this movie get to where it needs to be, but, let's be honest, the Grapes of Wrath is all John Ford. The sweeping vistas, the excellent editing and pacing, and the acting are of the highest caliber, as befits a John Ford film. I'm amazed every time I see this movie just how moving it is without straying into trite sentimentality. Tom Joad's speech at the end always makes me cry--his chilly delivery of the word homicide at the beginning continues to give me a prickly spine. Fonda was a great actor, and he is certainly at the top of his game here. Without him, interestingly, the film would have probably floundered. No one else could have possibly played Tom Joad; no one would have that charm and charisma and, most importantly, that voice. The rest of the cast is amazing, don't misunderstand, but Henry Fonda is Henry Fonda--an actor unto himself. There is no one like him and never will there be; he is the single most watchable actor of all time. And this isn't even my favorite John Ford movie! Nevertheless, it's a great film with a great message. Call me a pinko (it's been done before), but what's superb about this movie is its humanism. Yeah, the ideology promotes a type of socialism (ahem, I mean, let's not forget that that is basically what the New Deal was and if you think that system was a bad idea, then fine), but, really, the movie is about caring for people who don't have the resources to care for themselves. Grapes of Wrath is not a scathing indictment of anyone; it's a simple portrait of a family's struggles to overcome the Depression. It's uplifting and shows a real feeling for the downtrodden, and that's more than you can say about most American films that intend to deal with the poor and hungry.
A masterpiece, based on John Steinbeck's classic Pulitzer Prize- winning novel. Captures the desperation, hopelessness and human suffering caused by the Great Depression better than any other movie. Surely one of the saddest, most depressing, movies ever made.Director John Ford pulls no punches. Other than the direct effects of the depression, the depiction of the lengths people go to to abuse the helplessness of other humans is shocking (and very probably true). Yet, among all the cynicism, there are acts of kindness and selflessness that leave you with hope for mankind.Henry Fonda is great as Tom Joad, and deserved his Best Actor Oscar nomination. Supporting cast are superb, with Jane Darwell (as Ma Joad), to the fore. Her Best Supporting Actress Oscar was well- deserved.A must-see, whether you've read the book or not. Realistic human drama at its best.


                
The movie itself is generally recognized as about as good (or great) as you can get, especially considering that it was shot in 33 days. But it often gets nailed for two scenes, one absent from the film, the other changed drastically. No Rosasharn is not seen in the film nursing the dying old man from her swollen breast. If the scene had been shot in 1939 (or even suggested), the movie would never have been released. The second problem often pointed out is that the ending is too upbeat, what with Ma Joad's carrying on about how men live their lives in jerks while women flow along like Anna Livia Plurabelle, and "we're the people that live." That last scene was written by Zanuck and was almost essential to a successful film in the late 1930s. Of course tragedies had been filmed for years, but ordinarily the tragic hero or heroine had earned his or her fate. Both audiences and authorities would have waxed wroth seeing an honest close-knit family crushed by an American economy that was totally inimical to their welfare. We need to look at art in the context of its time.From the Marxist perspective that Steinbeck used in writing the novel, Tom Joad (Henry Fonda) is the protagonist but the two most important characters are Ma Joad (Jane Darwell) and Casey the Preacher (John Carradine). Ma represents what Marx called "false consciousness," the tendency to attribute our misery to our own flaws, to bad luck, or God's will. Ma Joad's solution is retrograde -- to hold the "fambly" together. Casey, on the other hand, discovers "class consciousness." It's not our fault. The flaw is systemic, and the solution lies in correcting the inequities in the system. Our allegiance has to transcend groups like the family and embrace all the exploited workers. The film endorses not Marx's revolution but a milder form of socialism -- the government-run labor camp with its democratic "sanitary units", and the emerging union movement with its collective bargaining. Steinbeck's polemic is more acid. The novel has a reference to the extremely wealthy William Randolph Hearst (better known as Charles Foster Kane) who is described as have "a mean face and a mouth like a a**hole." There aren't many references to communism either in the novel or the film, just a few remarks about "Who is these Reds, anyways?" Still pretty bold stuff for the 1930s with the public in one of its periodic Bolshevik scares!No need for anxiety, though. By the late 1930s the Great Depression was easing up, and World War II was about to bring it to an end. Bakersfield now looks as if Tom Joad had made a successful escape and decided to open a chain of organic food stores. This is a marvelous film. To single out just one shot, note when the Joads drive through the first starving Hooverville. The camera is mounted on the front of the old truck and travels slowly, without any cuts or dialog, through groups of wary, singularly ratty looking people, men and women, young and old, some resembling photos of criminals from old Police Gazettes, who "don't look none too prosperous." If nothing else, the film is a valuable corrective to the current view that people are poor because they're lazy. How did one third of a nation become so terribly lazy in the years following the 1929 stock market crash?
Ma Joad was my mother. That is to say her and thousands like her out of the Dust Bowl of the '30s and '40's . I never got to ask ma about those days, she died before I knew that this movie and her life were the same. But my oldest sisters were born in transient camps just like the movie..people were alternately mean and kind just like the movie. When I watch the camp scenes they are as my sister's described them. The director (Ford) has nailed that episode of American history (or just a slice) deftly jumping from the hopeless to the hopeful that these folks lived through.    This is a social film true...but it is also a well told morality play with some of the finest words committed to celluloid.  Hard to beat Steinbeck . I have the newly restored Fox DVD...excellent quality. They did a faithful restoration. You should never pick up a head of lettuce or put on a cotton shirt without thinking of this film after viewing it.   Me....I just remember Ma.


                
The Grapes of Wrath is one of those great American classics that manages to get on most of the big lists. With that in mind, I was expecting a minor let-down because of all the great things I'd heard about it. Yesterday I had one of those rare experiences watching a film where all of my expectations were met and exceeded.I found myself mesmerized by the people in the story; I wanted them to succeed. The Grapes of Wrath is a depressing film, which I knew coming in, but I was surprised by the little instances within the film where kindness was shown. In a film peopled by crooked cops and harsh times, it was refreshing to see these acts of kindness and integrity.The lighting in the film was also superb. In the opening scene where Tom is in his old house at night it really looks like it's at night. And in another scene, where he has a candle at night, it looks real. I know The Grapes of Wrath is the text-book example of natural lighting, but there's a reason for that. :) And without spoiling anything, I love how the film ended.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."The Grapes of Wrath" (1940) is a one powerful and heartbreaking movie. It tells a very simple story but does this in a great way. Its been a long time since i felt true sorry for people shown in this movie or more specific life that they had to endure during the time. The craftsmanship of this movie is great - directing (amazing pacing for whole 2 h 8 min), involving and realistic writing as well as great acting. Best performance in this movie was hand down by Jane Darwell who played Ma. She glues the family together in its hardest time - literally i could seen my mom in her - this is a wonderful performance of a wonderful human. Overall, "The Grapes of Wrath" left me heartbroken many times during its time. The most saddest things for me when watching a movie isn't when somebody cries - but its when a life tries to knock good and hard working people down on its knee. "The Grapes of Wrath" is a great movie.


                
This is a beautiful looking film with lots of wonderful acting performances! It's one of the rare times that a classic book has been turned into a classic movie, in my opinion! John Ford really captures the essence of the novel, even if some big parts are left out. And when Henry Fonda delivers that "I'll be there" speech near the end, well that's just cinema gold! It's not better than the book, but it sure can stand proud!


                
In what has to be one of the greatest adaptations of a novel ever, we follow the Joad family, and more specifically their ex-con son with a heart of gold made infinitely likable due to an outstanding performance by Henry Fonda. This is the kind of film you just don't ever want to end. Nunnally Johnson does an incredible job making John Steinbeck's words ready for the screen and John Ford never fails to do justice to the narrative. When a character performs a longer dialog, you can tell you're seeing it with the same impact readers felt reading it. When Tom Joad walks across a lonesome road under the dim blue sky of an early morning you just have to imagine Steinbeck was proud of the people who worked so hard to bring his work to a new medium.The story of the Joad family is a rough one. It begins with Tom fresh out of prison for what is described as self defense. It seems hopeful, but this is the last good fortune he'll see for a long while. Upon finding his family displaced and staying with an uncle, he learns that they've been removed from the farm where the Joad family had been sharecropping for decades. Their seemly only hope is a sizable journey towards California, so they load up a 'jalopy' far past its breaking point to set out on a trail ripe with misery in hopes of rebuilding. You start out rooting for the Joads, how could you not? But the film subjects them to a myriad of misfortunes along the way. Your hope turns to pity quickly, but you can't help but appreciate how much you admire their courage. It's remarkable how much I came to feel for the Joads. Tom is an outstanding protagonist, and you're with him till the very end.A film with a story this great would do fine without being technically impressive and pleasant to look at, but those aspects are wonderfully done too. The film looks incredibly crisp. I didn't manage to forget it was black and white, but I couldn't take my mind off how great it looked. You can see every mark on a person's face, every detail in Tom's scar, and California's ugly brown hills and beautiful green pastures are both presented just as they are to this day.I genuinely loved this movie. It had such an emotional impact. It was hard seeing the Joad family suffer, and it was such a relief to see them finally catch a break. Tom Joad was such a great character that by the end of the film he actually felt like a brother. The film really makes you feel like a Joad yourself, looking back at the family's history. I've been lucky enough to see Cannery Row on a few occasions, and I've seen with my own eyes the fields that the migrant workers of the time would have gone to in search of work. It gave the film a great impact. I'm glad I took the time to watch something so well done that I enjoyed so much.
(part of 30 essays I'm writing on what I consider the 30 greatest films of all time. They are written in no particular order)The film begins quietly. The time: The Depression. The setting: The Dust Bowl. The screen is filled with empty space, lonely and windy, as the camera keeps its distance from all of the characters. A man convinces a truck driver to give him a ride, even though his boss doesn't permit it. Finally we see their faces up close. The hitchhiker is Tom Joad (Henry Fonda). Some way to their destination Joad tells him he just got out of jail. The truck driver gets nervous. Joad says "Bet your just dying to know what I was in for, well I'll tell you." It's his stop. As he gets off, he yells behind him "Homicide!" He got into a fight with a man when they were both drunk, and the other pulled a knife, and Joad killed him.This is how we are introduced to "The Grapes of Wrath," a dark, lyrical and beautiful film that seems light years ahead of its time. An outspokenly socialist film, one may be surprised to find out the director, John Ford, was a republican capitalist. He did leave more of the incendiary parts from the book out, and toned down much of the original books anger, but there is still much of the same work here. The film is sad and gripping in the way it handles scenes like the one where they bury the grandfather on the way to California. His wife wants to buried with him, but they have to continue. Hundreds of miles away in California, the grandmother dies and they bury her. The sadness in this scene is underplayed, without too much weeping or excessive Hollywood-like tragedy, and it works. Death has become something these people are used to. But the depression destroys them in the way it separates them. Separation is something they are not used to, because they have lived in the same place for generations and generations.The Grapes of Wrath follows the Joads, who are kicked off their land and whose homes are destroyed like everyone else's, to make way for a huge field that will profit a wealthy landowner. Some refuse to leave. One man hides out it the fields, his family gone to California, not accepting he has to leave the land that was fought for and built by his great great grandfathers. When Joad encounters him, he is a little insane.The Joads, like many other families, get fliers advertising work for farmers in California. So the 9 of them and Casy the ex preacher (played brilliantly by John Carradine) pile into one truck which they worry could break down any minute. On the way there, they are warned at a camp from a man who received the same flier, and says they gave out twice as many fliers as they needed men, the work was taken, and if you did get it they would put you under inhuman conditions. They head on anyway and arriving they find he is more or less right. Once in, they are not allowed out, and are guarded by armed guards who tell them they will shoot them if they leave the house when its not work time. Joad escapes and finds Casy trying to organize a union. For doing so, he is shot by cops as he stands surrounded, with his hands raised. Joad helps the whole family escape.The next time they are incredibly lucky and are taken in by an FDR lookalike who treats them benevolently and kindly, and offers good pay. Just when it seems everything is going to turn out, Tom Joad's past catches up with him and he has to run away, alone. He bids farewell to Ma Joad (Jane Darwell, who won an Oscar for best supporting actress):I'll be all around in the dark - I'll be everywhere. Wherever you can look - wherever there's a fight, so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever there's a cop beating' up a guy, I'll be there. I'll be in the way guys yell when they're mad. I'll be in the way kids laugh when they're hungry and they know supper's ready, and when the people are eating' the stuff they raise and living' in the houses they build - I'll be there, too. So will we, Tom. So will we.
When I first saw this in the 1970's I was an impressionable teenager and it affected my social thinking greatly. The performances stayed with me for years, and the power of the film too. I read the book and it showed how great a film they had made from a long, wordy, social tale. Recently re-watching the movie, it looked fresh and just as powerful as when I first saw it. Henry Fonda, John Carradine and especially Jane Darwell, give career heights performances and they add truthful weight to the characters. The story challenges the way we treat migrants and how we force them to be what we think they might be, in England we have a lot of this in recent times. All the character parts are effective, for example the caretaker of the government camp, who at last shows some understanding of the migrants problems and quietly helps them settle in. Unfortunately he is virtually the only kind soul the Joads meet on their journey. It is a solid drama, never adding any comedy or music to heighten the action, sticking truthfully to its source. I am sure Steinbeck was proud of this version.


                
I think it is most ironic that independent filmmakers claim to despise "the Hollywood" film in favor of making "personal cinema" when one looks at the films of perhaps the most Hollywood sytem ingrained and yet stunningly personal films of John Ford.His films hold up because they display his personal love of character, land, place (there is a difference), time, honor, tradition and ritual. The Grapes of Wrath is one of his finest pictures. His obsessions and political leanings come to life in Steinbeck's haunting and searing narrative.I agree with many of the other IMDB reviewers, there is much in this film that is pure leftist propaganda and that Reifenstahl and Eisenstien's influence can be seen.  This is certainly true in the masked stormtrooper bulldozer montage. But propaganda, like the very medium of film itself, operates on pure emotion. This film is loaded with one emotional image after another. The photography of Gregg Toland matches the best of Life magazine in its immediacy and realism, while at the same time dramatically recapturing the best of German Expressionism. There are so many frames that could stand as works of photographic art. The look of the film stands proudly next to the work of Benton, Hopper, O'Keefe, Capa, and Bourke-White as examples of American visual art.The cast is uniformly honest, sincere and utterly real in thier inhabitation of character. John Carradine, Russell Simpson, Jane Darwell, John Qualen and the great Charley Grapewin all give performances that are on the level with anything ever produced from a Actor's Studio graduate.Enough can not be possibly said about Henry Fonda's performance as Tom Joad. Simply put it is one of the finest characterizations ever captured on film. He was not just an American pop culture icon, he was a fine dramatic artist.The script captures much of the best of Steinbeck's novel with fantastically illuminating and human quotes. It preaches to be sure, but never at the expense of the narrative. This is a lesson so many "serious" film makers have yet to learn.The film has not dated in terms of its impact on the heart. Grapes of Wrath is about a specific time and place in American History yes, but it is also about what it means to be a human being. In that sense, it transcends nationalism and is fine work of World Literature. It is on equal with Citizen Kane as one of the finest films ever made. A 10 out of 10.


                
In rural Oklahoma, Tom Joad (Henry Fonda) is walking and hitchhiking home from prison, after a stay of four years. After taking a knife at a dance, Tom hit the attacker with a pan, killing him. Nevermind that it was self-defense, Tom still gets sent to prison. He hasn't heard from his parents, Ma (Jane Darwell) or Pa because they aren't the "writing types". A fierce dust storm makes Tom's final few steps treacherous. Arriving back at their small cabin, where his family are sharecroppers, Tom and his passing friend, Casy (John Carradine) are startled to find no one at home. A shell-shocked neighbor informs the other two that the family has been kicked off their land in foreclosure. They are nearby at Uncle John's house, where his family is about to suffer the same fate. Its the Depression and the Dust Bowl has ruined the land, taking off the top soil; no one can grow crops. When Tom catches up with his Ma and company, they are overjoyed to see him, for their plans are to pack a truck and move to California, where handbills show pickers are needed. Grandpa doesn't want to leave the only home he has ever known, so they drug him with medicine and haul him along. Now on the Mother Road, route 66, the journey is difficult; the truck breaks down frequently, no one wants them to stay long anywhere they rest, and Grandpa dies of a stroke. Will California really be the Golden, Promised Land? NOT ON YOUR LIFE! This heartbreaking adaptation of Steinbeck's classic is a must-see for the whole wide world. This family of hard-working folks has one calamity after another, just trying to earn an honest and living wage. Those who lived in the Dust Bowl part of the country were hit especially hard, as the soil had been overworked and winds took the topsoil off, creating damaging storms to crops, humans, and animals. No better were the "lies" of the handbills, advertisements that migrants were needed in California, where over 300,000 poor helpless folks showed up for very few jobs. The cast, with Fonda at the helm, is wonderful as is the scenery, costumes, and careful direction to show the truth of a desperate situation. Wanna get down on your knees and thank the Lord for what you have, Americans? You will when you view this amazing film!


                
The Grapes of Wrath (1940) is a Drama History film in black and white starring Henry Fonda as Tom Joad. The film follows a poor Midwestern family during the depression who are being forced off their land. After being released from jail, Tom returns home to find it abandoned. He learns that the land is no longer producing enough crops to provide for their family and the whole family heads to California to look for work. The best parts of the film are the acting, the plot, and the cinematography. The acting and casting are excellent. The entire cast is full of life and they deliver their lines with perfect execution. When Tom Joad returns home to see his family, they are all lit up and full of smiles. You are able to see the happiness and utter joy that they are feeling to be reunited with a family member and you can sense the fear and anxiety that they are feeling regarding their upcoming move.The plot is riveting. Rarely do you see a historical film that is as much of a work of art as The Grapes of Wrath is. The story will take you into the Great Depression years ago and give you a glimpse at what a poor family during that time might have gone through. The timing of the script is great and will have you hoping for the main characters to be able to keep their home some way or at least find a nicer one. The plot allows for many emotional performances.The cinematography is excellent and professional. It proves that not only the cast and actors were perfect for the jobs, but the crew must have been as well. There are no shaky shots and there are no scenes where something is out of view that should be able to be seen by the camera and there are no scenes that were too zoomed in that you couldn't see anything. The camera pans between characters based on who is talking.I would recommend this film to anybody who enjoys drama movies or anybody who is interested in history. Although this film is long (over 2 hours), there are no boring or dull parts in the film and it is definitely worth taking the time to watch it. Also, this film was made in the early 40s and it is in black and white. Even if you usually don't like or watch black and white films, I would recommend that you watch The Grapes of Wrath. This would also be an excellent film to show in history class when teaching about The Great Depression.The Grapes of Wrath is an excellent classic film that I would recommend to anyone regardless of whether or not they enjoy old films or black and white films. This film is worth the 2 hours that is takes to watch it because the acting, plot, and cinematography are phenomenal. The emotional scenes were executed to perfection and will leave you feeling sorry for the characters. The plot will have you interested in the beginning and the cinematography makes it easy to understand and see what is going on in the film. Overall this is an excellent film and deserves 10/10 stars.


                
Arguably Director John Ford's Greatest Film, although some might say "The Searchers" (1956) or "My Darling Clementine" (1946).But there is No Doubt that this Film Resonates and Captivates with its Story of the Depression's Devastating Effect on a "Salt of the Earth" Sharecropper Family with Multi-Generational Roots Planted in the Now Fallow "Dust Bowl".Along with the Personal Hardships the Movie makes much of the Social Separation and Income Inequality of the Time.There are the Compassion-Less Bankers and Their Minions of Law Enforcement and "Tin Badge" Thugs. Socialism/Communism was seen as an Alternative to the Punishing Poverty and Vanishing Opportunities by some and a Threat to Capitalism by the Capitalists.This is a Solid Background to the Story but Not the Backbone. The Skeletal Structure of the Movie, from John Steinbeck's Pulitzer Prize Winning Novel, is the Joad Family.Impeccably Acted by Henry Fonda (Tom Joad), Ma (Jane Darwell), and X-Preacher Casey (John Carradine), with Support from Charlie Grapewin (Grandpa), and John Qualen (Muley). The Remainder of the Strong Ensemble of Acting all do Excellent Work and the overall Verisimilitude of the Film is Striking.Gregg Toland's Haunting and Beautiful Cinematography Captures the Mood of Melancholy and the Film as a Whole is Widely Considered one of the Great Films.Some Film-Scholars even Rank it "The Greatest". This of course is Obviously Objective, but suffice to say it is always a Contender when the Category of "Best" or "Greatest" arises. This is a Futile Exercise, but Fun.Powerful, Unforgettable, and Ultimately a Cinematic Experience so Profound with its Realistic Dramatics that the Viewer is Likely to Feel attached to the Story and can Claim to have a "Little Piece" of a Big Picture.


                
The magnificent adaptation of the novel "The Grapes of Wrath", with John Ford on his best shape. The whole movie is a lesson on how to convey the feeling behind a time (the great depression in America) on the masterpiece images that resulted in the film. Cinematography, acting, edition, all are there with a purpose and combined they produce an outcome that only a great director is able to mind. Every detail is made important, like the clothes condition along the movie, the despair that increases in every face, the familiar ties that responds to every fact. Every detail tells the story in a way to make the spectator take place on the happenings. Special attentions to the constant use of shadows, which almost play as another group of characters. Henry Fonda, Jane Darwell and John Carradine are absolutely great but fit in the story in a way to lever the shinning of all the other actors/characters. Finally, it's a crazy idea, but it seems that the people in charge of "The Walking Dead" had in this movie a great playbook to guide them in a way to produce the story of a group of hopeless people trying to survive every new day in a society that has just been reduced to ashes.


                
The "Grapes of Wrath" film is a somewhat simplified version of Steinbeck's Pulitzer Prize winning book about an Oklahoma tenant farmer family in the Dust Bowl days. After being evicted from the land they'd farmed for generations, they join many other Okie families migrating to California seeking opportunities to work. In California the Okies were often taken advantage of by affluent land owners who promised fair wages but then paid half what they promised. Those migrants who resisted exploitation were sometimes viewed (and treated) as "reds"; local police (or private security agents) were too often used to intimidate or quell resistance. Steinbeck's criticism of such exploitation of workers led to banning the book in some places although it became quite popular through most of the US and led to reforms. Henry Fonda's role as Tom Joad earned his stardom; Jane Darwell (as Ma Joad) won a deserved Oscar for best supporting actress as did John Ford for directing.Steinbeck was very critical of an economic system that allowed such mistreatment of sharecroppers and tenant farmers by wealthy land owners, bankers, etc., (supported by local officials wherever the owners/bankers resided). But while the movie piles worst case on worst case, IMO it's a fair view of how bad things sometimes got in the Great Depression era (1929-40). I spent 2 summers (1949, 1950) in the Bootheel of Missouri working in communities of former sharecroppers who'd been evicted from their jobs and their shack homes in circumstances parallel to that of the Okie families. These evictions happened when the owners of the cotton plantations, after receiving federal agricultural subsidies for NOT growing cotton, decided to keep all the money for themselves by evicting their farm families (January, 1939), making thousands homeless.The tenant farmer/sharecropper system was based on the land owners providing substandard housing to farm families plus advancing them credit (in their company stores) for food, clothing, and seed. In return the farm families planted, tilled, and picked the cotton. But their share of return from the cotton harvest was never sufficient to get out of debt to the store. The system made the farm families, in essence, indentured servants. Until they were kicked out.While the motivations (land owners' greed, farm families' struggles to survive in extreme circumstances) and conflicts were very similar to what the Okies experienced, the resolution of this Bootheel crisis became far more uplifting and inspiring than the struggles without victors presented in the "Grapes of Wrath." But almost certainly, the popularity of this book and movie helped lead to such a different outcome in the Bootheel only a few years later.This video describes the Bootheel situation: http://www1.teachertube.com/viewVideo.php?video_id=148227By Googling "Sharecroppers Strike" and "Cotton Patch Moses" you'll find a number of links that describe this Bootheel crisis, its conflicts, significant people, and outcomes.


                
The Grapes Of Wrath is a genuinely great motion picture which makes one proud to have even a small share in the affairs of cinema. After the dust-bowl disaster of the thirties, Oklahoma farmers trek to California in the hope of a better life.It's a superb film which could scarcely be improved upon. Though the ending is softened from the book, there was too much here for filmgoers to chew on. Acting, photography, direction combine to make this an unforgettable experience, a poem of a film. In 1989, the film was one of the first 25 films to be selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."
