Tom Joad (Henry Fonda) has recently been released from prison and returns to his family home to discover that his family have been kicked off their land as it has been bought out by greedy developers. Joad and his family head to California to start a new life, but this journey proves to have more hazards and pitfalls than they could ever have anticipated.The Grapes Of Wrath is a film adaptation based on the John Steinbeck novel. I'll start by saying that I haven't read the book, but I can safely say that the 'cinematic' version of the book fell well below my expectations....For starters the film takes an immensely long time to get going (one could actually argue as to whether it ever gets going). The problem is that the first half is awfully slow and dull with very little happening to drive the narrative forward. To me, The Grapes Of The Wrath came across as a character-driven film but when the film is filled with uninteresting and poorly developed characters it became very hard for me to remain interested or give a damn about anything that happens to them on their journey to California.The second half of the film is slightly better (in the sense that it has a bit more urgency about it). Although the better pacing made the second half more tolerable than the first half I still felt that the whole film had a superficial feel to it - we get to see glimpses of the suffering and pain that has been bestowed upon the family, but it's never really examined in much depth and this resulted in a film that just never seemed to take advantage of all of its potential.The cast are all OK and whilst Fonda wasn't particularly brilliant here I appreciated that he tried to give the film some emotional weight (which again probably would have worked better if both the narrative and character dynamics had been stronger and more interesting).So yes I didn't like this film but will say that this was more down to the slow-paced first half, poor characterisation and the missed potential in fleshing the story out and making it more interesting.


                
The lighting and photography in The Grapes of Wrath was the most memorable part. The photography was very open and spacious and the lighting was very contrasty and low key. This was appropriate because the subject of the film was The Great Depression and its effects on rural farmers and its setting was the Dust Bowl of the southwest. The story seemed to drag on forever, with each character contributing little to the entertainment factor of the film. I know that the subject matter of the film is very serious and important to the history of the United States but the film could have used some more editing and a lot more comedic relief.
When I first saw that I was going to watch this film for my class I was pretty excited because I never saw it before and you always see it in the top ten films of all time. After watching it though I honestly thought this film was horrible and don't see what everybody sees in it. I hated the story, I don't want watch people just struggle through out the whole without any really closure.I need to be entertained and watching a family struggling from Oklahoma to California is not my idea of a great film. The only thing that i thought was great about the film was the cinematography some shots and scenes were simply amazing and couldn't believe that it was shot in 1940. Saying that though great backgrounds do not make a film great.
