It's difficult on a first viewing of "The Grapes of Wrath" not to be somewhat disappointed with it. So much of Steinbeck's beautiful novel is left out of the film, and it's hard to see his story and characters wedged into the "gee whizz" style of film-making so prevalent at the time. But once you get beyond a comparison of the movie to the book, you begin to realize that John Ford created a beautiful piece of work of his own, and the film inspires a great deal of admiration, and deserves credit for its gutsiness at tackling a story that wouldn't have gone down smoothly with film executives at the time.Of course the most controversial parts of the book are left out (like its final image, for example), but Ford still managed to work around the constraints forced upon him to fashion a hard-biting film. Henry Fonda is perfect casting for Tom Joad--never have his otherworldly eyes been used to greater effect. And Jane Darwell is pitch-perfect as Ma Joad--she captures the tough-as-nails dignity that the character has in the novel. The whole movie is lit by expert cinematographer Gregg Toland, who uses shadow and reflection to cast a ghostly pall over everything. Indeed, much of what Ford wasn't able to include in the film as words he communicates instead through images, and isn't that what a good book-to-film adaptation should do? One of those films that feels ahead of its time.Grade: A


                
Classic Hollywood films that tried to tackle important issues or answer big questions, typically were cheesy and hard to take seriously. They had gratuitous overacting, fake "Hollywood" dialogue, and just general over dramatization. Since these films are typically over-dramatized in this way, their attempts at having a deeper or meaning or some sort of a message are ruined. But not all classic Hollywood films fall into this abyss of clichés. And the ones that don't are still remembered and cherished to this very day, films like Mr. Smith Goes To Washington, or Modern Times, or 12 Angry Men, faced serious social issues at the time and succeeded. Films like these are unforgettable and in many ways life changing, and John Ford's Grapes of Wrath is one of these precious films.As I'm sure you all already know Grapes of Wrath is an adaptation of the John Steinbeck Pulitzer Prize winning novel of the same name, that was published only a year before the film was first released. The novel is one of the greatest of the 20th Century, and I highly recommend that you should check it out. The film and the novel are both about Tom Joad, (played by Henry Fonda, who collaborated with John Ford several times.) who returns to his family's home in Oklahoma after spending 4 years in prison, but unfortunately by the time Tom Joad makes it out of prison, the country has fallen into the Great Depression. And the Joad family were unfortunately sharecroppers, so of course the bank repossessed there home and land, and the Joad family are forced to head west to California to look for work. But as they get closer and closer to California things begin to seem hopeless as they learn the truth about what is going on out in the west. If I were to choose one word to describe The Grapes of Wrath it would be haunting, so many scenes and lines of dialogue send shivers down your spine and make tears grow in the back of your eyes. I won't spoil any of these fantastic moments, but dear god the combination of John Steinbeck's masterful writing and the actors's somber performances combine to make these scenes and lines of dialogues absolutely devastating, you will be thinking about them for weeks after you watch the film. The cinematography (done by the legendary Gregg Toland, who also was the cinematographer for Citizen Kane.) is also outstanding. Shots of the deserted houses in Oklahoma, the wide open road on highway 66, and the overcrowded filthy slums of California, all give The Grapes of Wrath a bleak depressing atmosphere. Every single actor in the film gives it his/her all, Jane Darwell won the Oscar for best supporting actress for her role as Ma Joad, and Henry Fonda was nominated for best leading actor. And while these two performances are just perfect, every single roll in the film no matter how small is also perfect. (well, except for some minor child-actor roles.) John Ford is an excellent actor director though, so this should come as no surprise. John Ford also won the Oscar for best director, this was his second Oscar (his first was for The Informer.) and it is well deserved, each scene is meticulously crafted to dig real deep into the audiences emotions and not in a way that feels cheap by exploiting the audience or something. No instead of going for cheap shallow emotions the way an Oscar-bait movie would, Grapes of Wrath instead has characters that don't even feel like characters that are going through actual struggles, there is no cheap manipulation in this film. It is 100% genuine.John Ford was a strange person for 20th century fox to pick to direct The Grapes of Wrath, because he was politically conservative and the book/film supported several liberal political ideas like strikes and unions. But John Ford was definitely the right choice. (see what I did there.) Grapes of Wrath was one of the few American films that was allowed to be released in the Soviet Union,it was only allowed because it supported pro-communist ideas. But it eventually had to be pulled from The Soviet Union when Soviet audiences saw that even dirt-poor begging Americans could still afford cars. In 1989 The Grapes of Wrath was one of the first 25 films to be added to the national film registry, alongside films like Citizen Kane, Vertigo, and Casablanca. And it deserves its spot there, Grapes of Wrath has become the definitive Great Depression film, and should be viewed by everyone.9.5/10


                
I'm will be there—to review John Steinbeck and his great American novel, The Grapes of Wrath, about the westward migration of people during the dust bowl in the Depression of the 1930's. It was a huge hit in 1940, and soon it was turn into a movie directed by John Ford. The film stars Henry Fonda as Tom Joads, the incredible Jane Darwell as his mother. The film stands today as one of the finest examples of sensitive American cinema. It is an incredible combination of gut-wrenching scenes threaded through feel-good scenes that make you laugh and then sob. The movie is about The Joads family. They were destitute by faceless, corporative banks that seized their lands just when Tom Joad (Henry Fonda) got out of prison. Forced out of their farm, the Joads are heading from the dust towns of Oklahoma to California for hope of a job. As aggressively coaxing is needed to acquire Grandpa Joad (Charley Grapewin) from leaving his abode, while the family meek existence is depended on the nurturing of Ma Joad (Jane Darwell) who's strong upbringing sturdily holds them together. When the family arrives upon destination, they harbor terrible living conditions and given low wages in the migrant-worker camps. Hot tempered Tom Joad eventually collides with the wrong side of the law, as he is cornered to leave his family behind. A documented-style production in which seasoned pioneer John Ford received an Academy Award for his appraised directing. The Joads suffers much, and struggle in times of adversity. The visuals of the film, was outstanding. The desolation of the land and the desperation of the people were depicted very well. It does have an uplifting message despite its gloom. A black and white cinematography that would inspire Ansel Adams. Tom Joad's speech is very powerful, and makes you appreciate every meal you have. The idea of the interpretation of the film is that despite being in hard times, the Joads gave to others. Letting others stay with them, helping out others, giving away their food. The faults of the film are these<U+0085> it's really heavy, slow tempo, long, and the Okie accent and dialect is hard to understand. Some harsh language in the book that wouldn't have been allowed in mainstream movies of that time is left out from the movie. The production codes did not allow for the shocking scene of a woman breast feeding a starving man that ends the book. In the book more detail is given about Tom Joad's older brother Noah. In the movie he's hardly featured at all, and in fact completely disappears from the latter part of the film with no explanation given as to where he went. The big difference between the movie and the novel is that the movie goes uphill while the novel goes entirely downhill. This makes all the difference. The uphill fashion of the film version fails to provide closure. For example, it lacks the powerful ending of the book, which I will not spoil. Anyways, this film and book should be read and view in EVERY school to show how lucky we are today and don't appreciated it with our many luxuries our money buys today. It doesn't belong 2 a particular era or country. It's the story of the struggles of humanity.
John Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath" undoubtedly ranks among the greatest works of American realist literature. It stands as a testament of the Great Depression era where tenant farmers of the dust bowls suffer under drought, then are brutally dispossessed and driven from their Oklahoma homes, forced to find their luck elsewhere. In the end all they have is themselves, as the trip to find the blessed land California demands a heavy toll, is accompanied by tragedies and setbacks and the outlook is bleak in the face of the greed that exploits honest workers to make a buck. John Ford tries the impossible - to go for an authentic rendition of the multilayered, detail packed, all around magnificently written Steinbeck material, and definitely succeeds in delivering an indispensable heart-wrenching film portraying the never ending struggle of the Joads. Any direct comparison between book and film however is moot, enjoy both for what they are. On board in this road movie of the existential kind are Henry Fonda as an ex-convict, John Carradine as a disillusioned preacher and the Oscar winning Jane Darwell as Ma Joad, all first-rate acting with strong support of an array of bit players who help the crude reality take shape. Highly recommendable! There are downsides, though. For one the two hours of screen time can barely correspond to the epic proportions of the novel. However, the entry is still much more complete than Kazan's adaption of Steinbeck's other epic drama "East of Eden", starring Jimmy Dean, which only shows a fraction of the story. The one real liability however is the diluted ending which was tucked on as a concession to the mass audience while Steinbeck's epic hits you with full force. Well, if you want the real thing, read the book. With the film you get a pretty good taste of it.


                
Those shacks with their scrawny kids and threadbare mothers are right out of a Dorothea Lange photo essay of the Great Depression. Now, I'm no particular fan of director Ford, but he does nail this social protest film, which remains an affecting classic even 70-years later. Production notes indicate Ford had to battle TCF to get as much realism into the movie as he did. Yet, without those revealing touches, the dramatic impact would be sorely undercut.What impresses me is the similarity of conditions between then and now, that is, between the great Depression of the 1930's and the Great Recession (housing bubble) of the 2000's. Instead of a stock market collapse and a rural Dust Bowl, our era has seen a collapse of housing prices and a loss of jobs that has wiped out trillions in home-owner wealth. The collapse has created a new class of dispossessed as banks move in to repossess overdue mortgages. At the same time, the unemployed hope to find a job before government compensation runs out.In the movie, uprooted families pack up and move west to new horizons, living in tumble- down shacks along the way. Nowadays, uprooted families are either homeless or live in cars, there being scant new horizons to move to. Meanwhile, nameless bankers and Wall Streeters hover in the moneyed background, profiting off the general misery from behind gated communities. The movie goes easy on the contrast between the few rich and the many poor, but the implications remain embedded in the screenplay, especially when the sheriff evicts the sharecroppers from the land.This brief comparison is not meant to be political. Rather, it's meant to suggest that certain economic dynamics are still with us, even 70-years later, a parallel making the movie's social topic as relevant now as it was then. Of course, as yet there's no Steinbeck or Ford to dramatize the plight in the moving way of the novel or the film. But then, this new era of collapse is still pretty young.The film itself remains a triumph of casting, staging, and scripting. It's really Ma Joad's (Darwell) film, her strength and sensitivity a stand-in for migrant resilience as a whole. I'm so glad Ford refused to prettify her appearance in any fashion. Fonda too provides just the right humorless edge, that of a good man rendered an outlaw by onerous conditions of the time. Carradine's preacher may be the most interesting of the characters. Having lost "The Call", he's a lost soul amidst the general collapse of all that was familiar. Yet, he retains the capacities of a visionary leader, someone who can help guide the new Israelites into a land of milk and honey. It's part of the movie's tragic sense of dislocation that his new understanding is cut short. Among many memorable scenes, my favorite is the kids at the roadside diner. The hash- house waitress is a typical sassy type, used to fending off jibes from weary truckers. So, when the deal-making Pa Joad comes in with his two hungry kids, she's at first resistant. But then with the cook pushing, her resistance gives way to the humane person underneath. At the same time, the sentiment proves infectious. And instead of the diner losing money by befriending the needy Joads, the truckers leave a sizable tip. In short, a layer of everyday life is peeled back to show a seldom seen solidarity beneath.To me, not everything is roses. Ford shows his penchant for broad character humor with Grandpa Joad (Grapewin). I know Grandpa is supposed to be borderline senile; however, his overdone antics threaten to undercut the movie's concern with realistic effects. Also, the waitress's scene ending tribute to the generous truckers is unnecessary. Letting the audience grasp the humane gesture would have been more effective.Nonetheless, these are small blemishes within a beautifully wrought canvas. My lingering image is the final shot of Tom as he crosses the skyline, a silhouette of the reformist spirit now loose upon the land. My hope is there are many Tom Joads still among us.


                
I am deeply thankful that Gregg Toland walked the planet and found himself to me in multiple projects. Its somewhat easy to pocket his presence when in the company of a great director. Its why you need to see something like this where his influence is so obvious it is hard to ignore.Ford isn't a BAD director, so much. He's actually something of a genius in taking life and simplifying it into one or two tosses of simple objects, then framing those simplifications in an effective way. His films work, pure and simple. But that's what they are, pure without challenging ambiguities. And simple in the sense that so-called conservatives politicians mime.Once you escape the pull of those simplified values you see that his films are a huge waste, fake values manufactured only to support a story strategy; values that have since taken on their own selfish lives.And here. The story is vapid. The acting trite (excluding Carradine) and offensively staged. Its actually demeaning as if these people suffered not in vain because they can "teach" us something. Suffering is suffering, not lessons. But you won't see the frustrating reduced, artificial here, even with all the obsolete stagecraft. Its because Toland has rendered this so with such remarkable richness that the art of photography overcomes the thing. He captures nuance that Ford cannot see. His documentation surpasses the fact that it is film extras and constructed sets in front of the lens; the lens sees beyond that and gives us genuine pathos, disconnect. Its never in the parts manipulated by Ford in the foreground, but the background elements, the world in which our little play is staged.There's something about the quality of the film that I think we will never see again. Even the Coens, when trying to reproduce the textures in "Man Who Wasn't There" Had to shoot it in color and print it in black and white. In a few years, it will all be digital. It may even look like this sometimes. But what was happening then, in Kane, here, was that there were chemical memories being formed in catalyzed emulsions in a device, while a master of that device had similar chemical processes working in his brain, and he was able to coordinate the two. Cognition controlled and preserved past death in smoky traces of silver.Bless you Gregg.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Steinbeck's classic comes to life. It's the dust bowl era and the depression. People are driven of their property by the banks. Of course, those banks got those people help getting that property and the depression was a complex collapse. Still, it's sad to see a portrayal of human misery. The Joads pack up everything and head west. Of course, there's the Woody Guthrie song "If You Ain't Got the Dough Re Me." There really isn't an easy answer. California represents the great unknown where the streets are paved with gold and there's work and land for everyone. Naturally, the whole country was wallowing in poverty, and California was pretty well overextended. There's a point where all of us would say, 'It's either me or them." Henry Fonda who looks like Jane (or is it the other way around) is young Tom. He can't stand any more of the stuff his family must deal with. He is going to become enterprising. Unfortunately, he finds himself on the wrong side of the law. It's a group of socialists (some would call them dirty Commies) who come to the rescue with their collectivism setting things right. We see things through a filtered glass. John Ford had his own belief system. I felt good and clean when the Joads had some things look up for them, but I realize, also, that it's not so simple. Sometimes there are circumstances that don't qualify as evil--they just are. I hope that we can take a balanced view of the world and help those who need help.


                
Even though good books rarely ever turn into good movies, the Grapes of Wrath sheds such a belief with beauty and charm. Granted, the acting may have been hokie in some parts, but the message is clear: the world is full of haves and have-nots. This is easily one of the few `old' movies I could watch on a regular basis. Even after all of the suffering the Joad family goes through, the clinging hand of hope still firmly hangs on. Certainly one of the best films ever made.


                
Forget the politics behind the stories of Steinbeck or the politics of films of Ford. What truly lies at the center of this classic American film is not a socialistic message but rather a universal message; one that says that all people suffer in one way or another and it is the defiance and resistance that separates us from anyone else and our ability to choose not to take this lying down.The story is well-known: the Joad family is forced off their Oklahoma farm along with thousands of other Dust Bowl victims and decide to move to California in search of jobs and wages. Along the way they encounter kindness, hatred, peace and anger. There are times when the tribulations they face in California are more difficult than trying to survive in the Midwest, but push on they do led by the recently-paroled Tom, played quietly and most effectively by the great Henry Fonda. Jane Darwell won an Oscar for her role as the mother who also does her best to try and keep the fit together despite serious situations that could force them apart. Every other role is well-cast and adds a rich realistic tone to this movie that only makes you feel even more for these people who are just trying to get by each day, hoping for some sort of break or providence as a sign.I can see how this was such a politically-charged story but I don't think Ford intended that to be the priority of the film. Rather, I think it can all be summed up in the words of the two gas attendants early in the film. One says he thinks Okies have no feelings because no human would live like they do. Really, he was complimenting them as they believed the same way and this whole movie is about them attempting to rise above that which they were previously part of and become part of something better or at least more substantial. All this because they're the people.


                
Good adaptation of Steinbeck's superb novel. The Joad family were farmers in Oklahoma (referred to as Okies) during the "Dust Bowl" years when drought caused a lot of farmers to lose everything.There are promised work in California and pack up their dilapidated truck with their family including the grandmother (I wonder if the idea for The Beverly Hillbillies came from this) and have a grueling trip there. When they arrive they are treated like "slaves," not even paid enough to buy food.This was probably Fonda's best role as the noble Tom Joad. John Carridine is also excellent in a supporting role.This film is historical and an important statement on how corruption lead to the formation of unions and workers rights!
This one is in my celluloid firmament. I've been returning to it for over fifty years.
I still think it is one of the most rewarding film experiences a person can have.
With very little encouragement I could call it John Ford's best/greatest film/work of art.
With a little bit more of very little encouragement I could call it the greatest american movie ever made.
Exquisite moments and performances.


                
When John Steinbeck wrote THE GRAPES OF WRATH it became a highly controversial book, which eventually became a highly controversial movie. For my money it's a near perfect film. The direction by two time Oscar winner John Ford is spot on. He tells his story and it moves along at a very brisk pace. One thing I always find that bothers me most about older films is that the pace tends to lag, a result of the film not aging well or it never had a good pace. This film, upon release, was highly successful and earned several academy award nominations including nominations for best picture and best actor for Henry Fonda. Fonda plays Tom Joad, a man on parole who returns home and discovers that his family has been driven off their land and now must leave Oklahoma and head to the promise of work out in California. The film has a dark view of life in the depression, but to view it any other way in regards to this family's story would be doing Steinbeck's material a great disservice. The family has to struggle to stay together. Grandma and Grandpa are quite old when the journey begins; Rosasharn is pregnant and, to leave with them, Tom must violate his parole. The characters in this film are very relatable because of the idea of family. We can all relate to the various things the characters do to help the family and sometimes to get away from it. One of the films biggest assets is Jane Darwell's touching performance as Ma Joad, a wise woman who is the glue that holds together the family unit. This is a film that must be seen, it's a true landmark film and a cinema classic.


                
Tom Joad (Henry Fonda) hitchhikes back to his family's farm in Oklahoma after getting released from prison. He finds his family gone after the landowner kicked out all the small farmers moving in the bulldozers and tractors. He and ex-preacher Jim Casy (John Carradine) go to his uncle John's place. The Joad family decides to travel to California. It's a long arduous journey.This John Ford epic is an American classic. It has some funny moments, tough social injustices and loads of heart-breaking stories. Ford delivers some beautiful destitution. It is more the human story that is so powerful. Henry Fonda does a great everyman which allows the audience to feel for the family right away.


                
"The Grapes of Wrath" is an inspired, harsh and critical retake on the Great Depression and its human fall out. While other studios were producing ultra high glamor and star driven vehicles, Darryl F. Zanuck chose to turn his spotlight on the crisis of the country and came up with an all time box office winner. It stars Henry Fonda as the forgotten man of conscience who is forced to leave his homestead in search of a hopefully better life that, sadly, is not to be. Jane Darwell is brilliant as Ma Joad, the defiant, resilient and compelling matriarch who keeps the family together through these tough times. Dark was the world of the 1930s in reality, but never was it more magically brought to life than in this inspirational film of hope, courage and the dream of prosperity that must have seemed so far out of reach at the time of the film's general release.TRANSFER: Previous versions of this film have looked as though they were caught in their own dust bowl. This DVD managed to recapture much of the lost visual style absent in earlier versions. Greg Tolland's evocative camera work is magnificently captured. Black levels are deep. The gray scale, for the most part is well balanced and captures the stark harshness of the original presentation. There are a host of age related artifacts present throughout but these have at least been tempered and do not terribly distract. There is some shimmering of fine details and more than a hint of pixelization in this transfer. Nevertheless, the image quality is an improvement over previous incarnations. Somehow it almost seems to add to the vintage of subject matter of this film. The audio is remixed to 5.1 but really <U+0096> this is a mono film with very little spread or reason for it across your other channels.BOTTOM LINE: "The Grapes of Wrath" is an enduring tale of enduring souls caught in the uncertainty of their times. But there's no uncertainty about my recommendation of this disc. An absolute must!
Henry Fonda is Tom Joad in 'The Grapes of Wrath', named one of the best American films ever. The director John Ford is one of the greatest of that time and still belongs to the greatest now. His direction is great. Together with the cinematography, by Gregg Toland who became more than famous with Citizen Kane one year later, they create the perfect atmosphere. Fonda is great in his role and you will remember him. Jane Darwell as his mother is great too. All the performances are good, but these are the ones you will remember. Definitely an all-time classic.


                
This is a good movie.  Although I find it really depressing, the actors make up for it.  Henry Fonda is incredible as Tom...he breaks my heart with his soft speech and gentle looks.Like I said, the movie is very, very depressing, but you really should see it.  It's a classic, and you shouldn't miss Henry Fonda's greatest acting, which makes my vote a 10!


                
This movie is John Fords best work, cinematographically and in every other sense. First of all it shows where capitalism is ending: in the complete misery of most of the people. Besides, and this is new since this film has been made, capitalism will ruin our planet, too.But, to use a quote of Ma Joad: "Rich fellas come up an' they die, an' their kids ain't no good an' they die out. But we keep a'comin'. We're the people that live. They can't wipe us out; they can't lick us. We'll go on forever, Pa, 'cause we're the people."So let us be optimistic that movies like this help us to work for the time when no ruthless capitalist can oppress and abuse anymore human beings, the people of the whole world.


                
The Grapes of Wrath (1940)A John Ford, Gregg Toland masterpiece. Even if you don't like the social politics, which people in 1940 often did not (the government was helping the poor too generously and so forth), you have to love the movie. Henry Fonda is only the beginning of a series of tough, beautiful performances. And the series of heartbreaks is balanced by glimmers of hope.Most of all, oddly, is that this is a cinematic masterpiece, tightly constructed, and seen (and photographed) with aesthetic intelligence. Maybe the most amazing performance is Ma Joad (Jane Darwell), who commands the role of an earthy, wise, smart woman fighting the disintegration of her family. She's quite astonishing.Toland's photography is worth noting not only for the usual framing of the shots or the occasional moving camera (when it moves through the squatter camp, slowly, showing the parade of poor people, it's quite striking), but for his use of minimal light. This isn't some film noir effect, but a way of capturing the candlelight, firelight, and just dim night skies that were very real, and very effective here. Great stuff.Dorothea Lange, the FSA photographer who set the framework for the visuals in this movie, is of a special order of photographer, visual but highly human and emotional. And empathetic. Ford and Toland manage to make this into a non stop moving experience, over two hours, and it's no small feat. The fact these are all actors, and yet they are so convincing, adds just another level of appreciation. Yes, great stuff.


                
This is my favorite John Ford movie. I've seen it many times and still love it. I feel so happy when the Joad family finally pulls into the government camp and are treated to kindness and decency. After traveling all that way with them, seeing them suffer, humiliated, spat on, you feel so much compassion for them. And the scene where Tom and his mother are dancing, and Tom is singing to her, that is pure joy. I don't know what Ford's politics were, but I remember reading somewhere where he is very conservative, and many of his film's deal with the frontier, rugged individualism and all, it's interesting that this movie deals so much with local corruption, exploitation and sides with the federal government and its programs protecting worker's rights. I think he also dealt with this issue abit in HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY with the miner's.


                
Yes, it's a book I think we all had to read in a High school English class, but that doesn't mean it's bad.This movie was used in a sociology class I took in college, and I instantly fell in love with it. It's a great story, with a great cast. It's a bit dated in it's style, but it really overcomes it's shortcomings. Check it out!


                
It is sad because it is true. Modern companies led by rich people don't care about poor and ordinary people who just try to survive. Henry Fonda is great as usual but the real MVP is the Mom. Her performance is stunning and it feels like she is that charachter for her whole life. John Ford once again delivers spectacular film. Great adaptation of the great book.


                
This movie is strong from top to the bottom.
From production to acting, everything is very very good.I think it's the best movie about Great Depression era and it doesn't need more explanation!
A great historical movie about a very dark moment in time...I love the way that John Steinbeck (The writer) puts the agnostic character to the heart of the story as a former religious person.These kinds of movies are rare even these days!!!8.5/10
talking about the great depression of 30s, this film depicted the real acting,the real story of social stigma of that time.the natural, serene acting of the movie stars was not simply fantabulous, it was really indomitable.the dialogues near the ending of the movie between a mother and his son was so vivacious that it delineated a latent power of human being to overcome the arduous sufferings.


                
When you watch the opening credits of "The Grapes of Wrath" you'll see a veritable parade of legendary names in multiple areas of production: Fonda, Steinbeck, Toland, Newman, Ford. Living up to a lineup like that is a tall order but this film manages it.For those unfamiliar with Steinbeck's novel, the story concerns a family of depression era farmers who are forced off their land in Oklahoma. They resolve to travel to California in order to seek work but are continually beset with hardships as their hopes are dashed time and again. The screenplay, adapted by Nunally Johnson, was rewarded with an Oscar nomination.The cast features Henry Fonda in one of his most iconic roles, that of recently paroled Tom Joad. He instills his character with a keen sense of justice, matched with the will to fight back when driven to do so. He was nominated for an Oscar but lost out to James Stewart for his performance in "The Philadelphia Story". I expect that was mainly due to Stewart losing out the year before for "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington". Jane Darwell, on the other hand, saw her Oscar nomination turn into a win. As Ma Joad, she was an effective counterpoint to Fonda's character. A couple of other standouts in support were John Carradine as a disillusioned former preacher and John Qualen in a small role.In terms of technique, the film is practically flawless. John Ford's direction is impeccable and the Gregg Toland cinematography is excellent. Ford took home an Oscar for his work but, strangely, Toland wasn't even nominated. For that matter, Alfred Newman's stirring score wasn't nominated either (perhaps because it's mostly based on the song "Red River Valley").I haven't read the novel but I know that the storyline of the film deviates from the novel somewhat, particularly when it comes to the ending. Ultimately, though, the movie's grueling enough already; I can't imagine it ending as miserably as the novel supposedly does.I haven't seen Hitchcock's "Rebecca", either, so I can't say whether or not this movie deserved the Oscar for best picture, though it certainly would have been a worthy choice. Simply put, "The Grapes of Wrath" is an essential American film.


                
It's the 1930's, time of the Great Depression.Tom Joad returns back home to Oklahoma, after doing time in prison.But he finds out he has no home.He finds his family, who tell them what has happened.They have lost their farm, and they are heading to California in search of the better life.The Grapes of Wrath (1940) is directed by John Ford, who got an Oscar from his work.The producers are Darryl F. Zanuck and Nunnally Johnson, the latter being responsible also for the screenplay.It's based on John Steinbeck's 1939 novel, which I read just before seeing this movie.The movie has taken some liberties on the story, so ít doesn't follow the book step by step.The cast is pretty amazing.Henry Fonda portrays Tom Joad brilliantly.Jane Darwell got an Oscar she deserved playing Ma Joad.Russell Simpson plays Pa Joad's role.John Carradine is amazing as the former preacher Casy.Charlie Grapewin plays Grandpa while Zeffie Tilbury is Grandma.Dorris Bowdon portrays Rose of Sharon.O.Z. Whitehead is Al.Frank Sully is Noah.Frank Darien plays Uncle John.Darryl Hickman is Winfield and Shirley Mills is Ruth Joad.John Qualen plays the part of Muley.Eddie Quillan is Connie.Ward Bond is seen as Policeman.What this movie shows us is some real and honest people.You can't hate these people.No, you care for these people, hope for the best to come in their way.But sometimes reality hits too hard on your face.


                
