I heard many people say that 'Memento' is an exceptionally brilliant movie which gave inspiration to our own local directors who took the basic concept from it and made a very successful movie here. Now when I see it, I am just wondering how come that it has occupied place in top 250 IMDb rating. May be that I like movies with straight forward story that is gripping and its narration flowing smoothly. It is all as confusing and vague as the mind of the character played by Guy Pierce. It is simply hard to find what he(the lead) did first and what he did later. Whether he commits murder and drives away in car or first drives in and then murders or whether he commits the murder at all. It is taxing on the mind of the viewer to watch the narration going back and forth and it is really tough to keep track of the story line. Many of movies of this director demand certain level of IQ from the viewers to get to his style of narrative. I am very sorry to say that ,but for me, it does not seem worth the time I spent watching this movie.


                
Memento is a film that I will never be able to understand the hype around. A curious but completely uninvolving piece from a director often criticised for being all brain and no heart (maybe the signs for that began earlier than most think). The whole draw of the film was its backwards moving narrative which reveals the details of the story in reverse order. I can only ask, what happens when that isn't enough? Take that away and this is a lacklustre, rambling, confused film that is trying to bite off more than it can chew. No matter how much you try to get away from it, the film is based entirely around a gimmick. Sure it's an inventive one, but you take that away and you're left with a bland murder mystery that plays out with equally dull individuals. Our lead character Leonard suffers from a form of amnesia, were he can't create new memories, and is trying to figure out who killed his wife by using clues that he has already created. This structure itself is just a mess. We see Leonard write on polaroid's and try to recall events, we see a scene play out, then another scene happen which is connected to the beginning of what we just saw and so on. I'm not exaggerating, over two thirds of the film are exactly that. It gets tiresome about half an hour in. There's no suspense or mystery because we've just seen what will happen, so what's there to be invested in? How he got there isn't of any interest.The film is ice cold. Too distant. Far out of reach. Way too impersonal. There is no way the audience can get connected to anything that takes place. The film makes no attempt to get us to sympathise with Leonard bar his mental obstacle, which isn't enough, and the rest of the characters are just sleazebags or wholly unpleasant. The actions of the characters make little sense, even once you find out their true motivation. Teddy's role is one which should have been mysterious and gripping, but it started off as baffling and ended up making no sense whatsoever by the time the film concludes. I actually realised that I wouldn't have cared at all about anything that takes place in the film if it had been told in chronological order. The further it progressed (or is it regressed?), the more detached and bored I felt. In Guy Pearce, Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano you have some fine actors that are completely wasted in parts that don't allow them to do anything of interest. All of them are shackled to the plot and restrained as a result. I feel for Pearce the most, he's playing a character so thinly sketched and loaded with quirks that there's virtually nothing he can do with the role. It's here that the entire narrative device falls down too. If it is trying to put us in his shoes then it fails because we feel nothing for the character. Beyond that Leonard is simply a muddled lead, and not just because of amnesia. He has tattoos all over his body that offer him information which he doesn't remember getting and yet he trusts what is written completely. If he has no short-term memory then how can he believe any of the details to be correct? That's not even nit-picking, that's a major flaw that isn't explained. There are a host of plot holes like that based around the entire memory loss area. This is clearly Nolan's attempt to craft a twisting film that can measure up to the ones made by the likes of Kubrick and Hitchcock. Something deeply psychological and with a noir twinge, with the reverse chronology being an added bonus. His first problem is that he doesn't create suspense properly. Partly because we're already a step ahead of the characters, partly because he's given us characters that we cannot gain a connection to. Then you have the writing. The dialogue is painfully simple at times, just lacking any dynamism or sharpness that could hold our attention. It's as if Nolan thinks the characters have to spell out what already a simple plot because we're too stupid to get it. I have little problems with his camera-work and the shooting style is vibrant, but it's clear that this is his debut and it's one he fails to get a grasp of. Maybe he was trying to be too ambitious by going straight for such a story first time round, I'm not too sure.The film ends with a twist that is so nonsensical on a grand scale that I can't help but feel angered that I sat through the entire thing. All of that for such a lousy payoff. What is key to note is that there is no substance to anything. It is a very basic mystery wrapped up in a gimmick that will make people think it's doing something unique and propelled by characters that are as one-note as possible. It is borderline pretentious. It's almost like people think that because the narrative style is unique that the film must be exceptional. Well the main thing stopping that is that it's not remotely entertaining or interesting to watch. It doesn't matter how clever a film is, if it's a dull mess then it's a dull mess.


                
Poor Lenny.  Or is it Leonard he likes to be called?  Dunno.  I've got a short-term memory when it comes to this turkey.  In order to care about a character or situation, I first must feel something for them.  The way Guy Pearce mumbled through his lines, he seemed drugged on downers and quite bored by the whole matter. In order to get my brain working to figure out this patchwork quilted scenario, I first must have some interest in what's going on.  During the period I lasted before fleeing into the night, I didn't care much who killed the wife, why she was killed or, for that matter, how those three kitty-claw scratches got on our doldrum hero's face. Maybe it was his house tom-cat in heat, after all.


                
Let me get it out of the way and say that I am a thriller buff. I'm not one of the countless reviewers on this site who watched Memento and didn't understand it<U+0097>I understood the plot perfectly<U+0097>and I am certainly not one of the countless reviewers who gave this a negative score because they see it as poor cinema. I don't have a pretentious bone in my body.I am writing a negative review of Memento solely because it's exactly like everything I've seen before, and that's something not many people complain about.The main problem I have with the thriller genre is that it repeats itself, in the same way the sci-fi genre repeats itself. When thriller films don't outright copy one another, they always seem to think if they can find some new, original plot they're going to be groundbreaking. The only problem with that last statement is that most thrillers with "new, original" plot-lines still simply have the exact same things happening on screen as all the others. The whole wife-is-murdered-I-must-avenger-her plot. Car chases. People talking about the plot. Intense confirmation between bad guy and good guy. You know the drill.While Memento tries very hard to avoid those obvious things, and in the end it somewhat does, it's still nothing you haven't seen before. It plays out exactly like every other thriller<U+0097>avenge-wife, gather info, kill guy who did it<U+0097>and ends exactly like every other thriller<U+0097>reversal of expectations. Some of the plot details may be a bit fresh, but when you see the same things that you've seen in every other thriller, who really cares? Memento uses the common mistake thriller writers and directors both make: watching a whole typical movie just to get to the less-typical ending is just boring and forgettable. There is no entertainment value in it. It's the same exact mistake The Usual Suspects made. It's like trying to force yourself to eat a stale long john doughnut just to get to the cream filling. You'll end up throwing the doughnut away.So how great is this "awesome, unbelievable" plot twist? Pretty average. It's a plot twist, sure, but with such a pathetic main plot, once again, who really cares they made it a little less pathetic in the last ten minutes? It's still the generic man-must-avenge-wife story.How was the directing? Once again, pretty typical. It just takes some elements of metafiction and puts them on film<U+0097>so what? Also, the use of black-and-white intertwined is just getting downright cliché, being that most every film with "amazing directing" (big emphasis on the quotes) uses it. I will give Christopher Nolan a bit of credit, because he does keep Memento a bit more fast-paced than most thrillers I've seen, but that's about as far as I can say. It still certainly isn't thrilling, and I find that ironic.So what it comes down to is this. If you're a hardcore thriller buff like myself, this is essential for you to see, but that doesn't mean you'll enjoy it. If you're an average movie watcher who just wants something entertaining and smart, look elsewhere. Fast.2/10


                
Ranked 10th in IMDb 250, the film is overrated! True, there is one clever trick, but what else? Only weak storyline remains. The main character is totally imaginative. The film makers do not really know what those people with "short-term memory" actually think. To put those memory in reverse order is way simple and silly.


                
Memento is a film recieving great praise for being a new and highly original idea. While it is original, that doesn't make it a good movie, nor does it make it any fun to sit through. The movie stars Guy Pearce as a man who is looking for the thug who killed is wife. The problem is, he has no short term memory, and has no idea of who his allies are and who is trying to manipulate him. The story is told backwards, with the film beginning at the end, and ending at the start. Unfortunately the novelty wears off after about ten minutes and the film becomes excruciating to sit through, and soon the characters become boring and the plot uninvolving.
Memento reeks of a script that tries too hard to be fresh and original. I must commend this film for avoiding cliche and formula, but at the same time I criticize it for being overly complicated and pretentious when it should have been entertaining. The final word is: Memento is a bust; don't believe the hype.


                
Oh, please! I don't understand why this has an 8.5 rating attached to it. It's just an average story which is filmed backwards. There's nothing particularly clever or interesting about the plot besides the timeline. People might look at it and think it's deep just because they're confused


                
Well I liked it. It was very good... errr.... that's it!I mean this movie has been reviewed so many times already, I doubt that anything I say is going to have much impact on you. It was intelligent, compelling and well acted. So what are you waiting for, go rent it!Still here? Well since you're so nosey, let me just add a few more thoughts. This is one of those films that people will tell you is very confusing and difficult to follow. Remember the Usual Suspects? People will go on and on about that film. Heck, there are people out there who found Dune and Mission Impossible confusing. When they finally "Get" an intelligent film, these people start evangelising. "I'm so smart, I got this film, my friend didn't, therefore it must be brilliant!" And by extension, they must be oh so clever too!Well, I liked the film, I paid attention and got it first time. I haven't rewatched it. Am I some kind of wunderkind? Not by the longest shot. Have I missed some hidden depths? Its about the nature of memory and how we construct ourselves, right? Even in the shallow end of the gene pool we spotted that one.Memento is a wonderful film that rewards attention. The film unfolds its mysteries as you watch. However the real mystery of this film is that the IMDb currently has it rated the 9th all-time greatest film. Its good, but if its in the top 100 I'll eat my hat. To the people who say it took them repeated viewings... PAY A LITTLE MORE FREAKIN' ATTENTION, WHY DON'T YOU? This is not a curate's egg, its an above-average thriller that explores a few interesting themes. Get over yourselves.


                
Memento is one of the most boring unimaginative films that I have ever seen. the fact that a jury a the stardance film fest gave this the Waldo salt screenwriting award, must have Mr. Salt turning in his grave! Loss of memory as a plot device. This is hardly unique and has its origins in a far more compelling film "Mr. Budwing? staring James Garner circa 1965(?). Also Sidney Lumet's "The Morning After" with Jane Fonda and Jeff Bridges also use the same plot device. The manipulation of time device. This is also old hat having been used by, dare I say it Orson Wells in Citizen Kane. And more recently, and far more interestingly, Doug Liman's "GO" Steve Soderbergs "The Limey" and ok, Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction." In Memento the use of a time device is quite tedious after the first go round. The pay - off is not worth the wait "TRUST ME!"Acting UG! the performances by all of the principal cast were soulless to say the least. there was no chemistry between any of the characters. Indeed the only actor who has a soul in this film is on screen far too little Stephen Tobalosky (I know spelling), who turns in a heart wrenching performance that outshines everyone else in the film! In short the film takes its characters and drags us down into a soulless nihilistic pit of slime that is uninteresting, unhelpful and boring! directing More ug! This director better not start believing his own PR or he will out tarantino on the down tic. He has nothing more than pedestrian story telling abilities. He does nothing with his camera that is noteworthy. If he didn't have good DP and a good editor we wouldn't even be talking! screenwriting Waldo Salt would be turning in his grave to learn that this poor excuse for a film was given a screenplay accolade in his name. the first rule of screen story telling is "Show us don't tell us!"Yet how is the "film" resolved? In the last act the Joey P character tells us everything. PLEASE EVEN A BAD BAY WATCH EPISODE could resort to a better means of revealing important story information. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME, TRUST ME!


                
I may not be the most sophisticated movie critic, but this move made absolutely no sense to my wife or me.  It kept going back and forth in time and was completely confusing.  Its meaning and what was supposed to have happened totally escaped us.


                
How can "Memento" be ranked the 12th film of all-time by IMDB viewers/raters?  I agree that the film is extremly well-crafted, imaginative and stylish - but that does does make it a top-ranked film.Above all, a film must first have a compelling plot/story-line (which "Momento" has) but it must be presented in some fashion that the viewer can reasonably hope to understand.  If it doesn't, then the film must convey its message to the viewer through visual and sound impact.  "Memento" is only average in the latter approach.Frankly, this movie is just plain incomprehensible and fails miserably because of it.  I tried to understand it, but after awhile one reachs the "I just don't care about these characters anymore" point and gives up.  A truly great film must be outstanding in all facets of filmmaking and must be able to communicate its message to the general audience.  "Memento" fails on this count.When people rate films (as with any other rating exercise that spans a long time period), they tend to remember and focus only on that which is "fresh" in their mind - in this case, recent films while forgetting and failing to keep the current film in proper perspective against the many, many truly great films of the past.While an interesting film, "Memento" by no means deserves to be in the IMDB Top 250 films of all time.


                
I can only imagine the reason this movie hit the top 20 of all time is because the majority of users to this site are under twenty. This is a cult film pure and simple. Did it hold your interests because of the tremendous story line or acting - NO!  The movie is effective simply because the audience is trying to figure out exactly what is going on in a moment of boredom -like trying to solve a crossword puzzle being worked out by the passenger in the next seat when you look over their shoulder. You watch it because it is there and you might as well be somewhat amused while continuing to be bored.Grossly overrated - The ending is a total disappointment. I wished I hadn't wasted my time - and yes I did get the theme.


                
I have absolutely no idea why people rate this movie as highly as they do. Not only is Pearce's acting altogether wooden, the "try" level here is so over-the-top and self-conscious it's pathetic: TRYING to be suspenseful, TRYING to be smart, TRYING to keep your attention, but utterly failing at every point. By minute 30 of this sorry film, my mind had already been wandering for 20 minutes. In fact, I didn't even finish this movie. I skipped to the last five minutes, just to see how it would end, and again, found myself yawning. What a boring, self-important piece if there ever was one. Do yourself a favour and skip it.


                
I can obviously say that my 2 hours were stolen! If you're kinda fan of action,thriller movies you better stay away from this bs! Im really regret I spent 2 hours watching this !


                
