If you are looking for the kind of Anime that will leave you sitting at the edge of your chair Hunter x Hunter (2011) is the right one for you.The story might seem a little childish at first but as soon as it picks up some pace it just keeps on getting better. The characters have deep personalities and each are unique and represent how different people react to different situations which is something that is present in Hunter X Hunter (2011) - the psychological factor. The fights are intense both physically and psychologically and as the Anime progress they tend to become more violent and over the edge.The soundtrack is beautiful. From the intense/epic classic orchestras to the guitar riffs everything seems to fall into place. Unlike some other Animes the "intros" and "outros" are very consistent and worth listening to.All in all, this is the kind of Anime that a true fan of this Japanese art will not want to miss.


                
Hunter X Hunter 2011 is an amazing work.I have read the Manga and watched the anime (1999), and it is certified to the origin.The animation is at the highest quality there is, giving the opportunity to truly enjoy this series. In HD-widescreen, you can really feel the action and connect to the story and the characters.I am following the new release weekly, and every new episode I am astonished by the high quality of the sound, picture and story which are exactly how they should be.Hunter X Hunter story is rich, interesting and authentic, and the writers of this new series did a great job transferring and transmitting it.Another great feature in the new series is the background adjustment to our time - Phones, computers and more electronic devices that were rare and undeveloped in the Manga can now be found and used anywhere, without damaging the story. I believe it even adds to the experience.This is a must-see show, to any fan of this genre (Especially to whom had seen and/or read Hunter X Hunter), though I would really recommend this series to anyone.


                
oh my god this anime is a whole new thing , it is better than one piece naruto and all the long animes , but i gotta admit it starts slow and it kinda feel childish but once you keep going the story takes another level of epicness , in my opinion this anime is ONE OF THE BEST !!! , if you did not watch it yet , go DAMN WATCH IT RIGHT NOW !!! , just to sum up everything , Hunter X Hunter 2011 = Epic and yet i can't believe that this anime is so underrated and only some people are watching it, people are watching one piece and other popular animes and not watching Hunter X Hunter 2011 HUH, thats really sad =(P.S: when i watched this anime in the beginning i thought it is childish but DAMN just give it your shot !


                
FYI, I'm a lawyer in my 40s, not some kid, and basically ran out of anything on TV that I could stand, as it was all so formulaic and tired and low-brain. Well, I noticed some anime seemed focused on adults (not the sex stuff, but violence and intelligent plots and stuff), so I tried own -- Sword Art Online. It really opened my eyes to these hidden treasures -- the stories blend fantasy elements with action and interesting characters. Really the main thing I noticed was being surprised by plot twists. Whereas an American TV series or movie you can pretty much guess where it's going to go, this took turns and twists that really impressed me with the intelligence of the show. I mean, Lost took a lot of twists, but they were sort of random/contrived, and my final analysis was the writers were just making it up as they went along to avoid answering any hard questions, very stupid and contrived. Sword Art avoided that.Anyway, after finishing that anime, I tried several more, and while some were good and still better than traditional American shows, none had the intelligent plotting of Sword Art Online -- till I found Hunter X Hunter, which just totally kicked it up a notch in both fantasy elements, interesting characters, intelligent plot twists you won't see coming, and the like. With some bad guys being sort of serial murderer/pedophiles, it's not for kids, but well done...even those pervy bad guys sometimes redeem themselves, at least for a short time.How the main characters got more powerful as the series progressed, to be able to best stronger and stronger foes (usually) was well thought out, too, and not overly simplistic. The only downside was that by the fifth (?) story arc involving mutant ant people, I felt it had gotten a bit formulaic and I was not buying into how the world was responding to this threat, and felt the series might have jumped the shark, so to speak. However, I stuck it out and halfway through the arc I really started to enjoy it and the plot kept taking interesting twists. I'm not ashamed to say that I cried at least once because there were such bittersweet moments created.I don't think I ever enjoyed a movie or TV series more than Hunter X Hunter, and with over 150 episodes, that's a LOT of great TV.


                
this is everything someone who enjoys animes could ever ask for. let me explain: epic battles that aren't stretched for 5 episodes. the story plot is so twisted but yet there are no flaws or loop holes. the explanations make sense and are fun to listen to. there is a balance between the intense gory moments and the light hearted jokish moments. the characters are liakable, even the villains. its just the perfect anime. and don't listen to those people who say that this version is rubbish compared to the 1999 version. its ten times better. the show might start of a little childish but its picks up the pace in no time. i recommend this to anyone i meet...literally. its just that damn good


                
This is a really fun and entertaining Anime that's all about one kid called Gon who is looking for his dad and the paths his dad laid out for him are truly incredible.He gets stronger at such a strong rate but the series always shows that there are way stronger opponents so he always has someone to fight in the way that his father laid out.This series shows a lot of fighting to get stronger but it also show that some people are meant to do incredible things. It's also a series that make you laugh really easily with all kinds of spontaneous and stupid humor that i love.The old one was as great, the only differences are that in this one Killua looks even younger and the last one ended at one moment where something happened that could have ended the series but in this one they continue from that moment.Watch this series, I beg you, and you won't ever regret it!


                
I want to share a lot about Hunter x Hunter i want to go on and on but i am not a professional reviewer or writer but i will try my best.I agree with others who reviewed Hunter X Hunter , that it has a childish like beginning . When i start watching it i did not plan to watch it further because of the above reason but i give Hunter X Hunter a chance and watched few episode and i was amazed by the story and the characters it got me hooked really. I am a anime lover and watched almost every famous title out there for example: One piece, Naruto, Bleach and much more. The story of Hunter X Hunter is about a twelve year old boy named Gon Freecss who has been told that his parent were killed in car accident but in reality they are alive and later he found out about his father by his father's old acquaintance that his father is alive and he is famous hunter. The show has many incredible fight sequence, The characters in the anime are super, since they all have their own ability and unique appearance. You will sit at the edge of your seat when the fights commence, and as the episodes progress our heroes face new difficulties, while still keeping the crazy humor, The genre itself is a ACTION,THRILLER & this has everything someone who enjoys anime series could ever ask for. I recommend this series to everyone and it doesn't matter what genres you like more, just trust me and give this series a go but stick with it cause it's kinda slow at the beginning. Overall:10/10 Meaning of Hunter in series as below The Hunters Association is responsible for the testing and licensing of "Hunters" a person that has proved themselves through rigorous examination to be an elite member of humanity. With the passing of the examination, a Hunter is rewarded with a license to go almost anywhere in the world or do almost anything. Typically, Hunters devote themselves to tracking down priceless items, mystical places, and the unseen wonders of the world.


                
7.6?Why so underrated?This rating doesn't do justice to this show,it needs more recognition. Lets set it right. I have seen both versions of Hunter x Hunter and I liked the 1999 version better so there will be inevitably some slight comparisons in this review to the 2011 one.Story: Togashi Yoshihiro is a very talented mangaka who managed to create a world of great imagination where he can take you from dark realistic settings to a virtual reality cheerful world.The story progresses in arc format with each arc being connected nicely together, of course there is the main story where the protagonist a small boy named Gon embarks on a journey to search for his father a "Hunter" where lots of difficult challenges and adventures awaits him.Apart for the first few episodes the pace was really good and I never got bored but it still was 10 times better then the old version where the beginning was slow and kind of awful.In the first arc you get to know the world of HxH and it's protagonists, it may take for a while to draw you in so stick with it because it will get epic.What sets it apart of any other anime at least of this genre if not all anime it's the disruption of a linear plot progress.Plot twists in some episodes are just insane.At some points I literally was in shock and kept thinking about what happened for many days or weeks after the episode. You will never expect for some things to happen.I found the complexity and simplicity of the story in perfect equivalence, it's simple in it's general view but individual elements can be quite complex(eg. a system of a country, fighting system, analytical thinking of an antagonist etc). In short it was an intelligent story with perfect mix of mystery,tension,comedy and action. Don't make the mistake I did when I labeled it as childish when i had seen only 10 episodes, give it a try and you will discover a mature and deep story with the psychological factor being present all over the place. Story:9/10 (I would rate it a 10 but I can't because of the weak beginning). Art: Animation is amazing in this series, the best of the best.And as it progresses it gets even better especially in the fight scenes where the effects are awesome and enhance the experience.The bright colors is one of the major things that made me personally like 1999 version better, because dark colors used in the old one created a dark atmosphere which suited better for this anime(it felt more epic and created more tension). That doesn't mean I hate the new version though.The designs of each character are unique and suits their personalities quite well which as an effect makes them memorable (one antagonist became one of my favorite antagonist ever!!!). Art:10/10Sound: There was only one thing I hated about the sound and that was the opening song(I always skipped it), the end song though was quite enjoyable. As for the soundtracks I can say they were epic especially in moments of tension or mystery. I didn't quite like the happy go lucky background soundtrack but that was only at the beginning, I actually appreciated it more cause it made the moments of tension feel 10 times more epic!!! Voice actors are all good except for the one of Kurapica who's voice I didn't like but I may be influenced by the old version. The voices for the 2 main protagonists are especially well picked up.Although I prefer the 99 version sound and voices better I will stay objective and rate the sound a 9. Sound:9/10 Characters:Most of my favorite characters are from this show and as you can guess characters in this show are amazing, there is no one who is underdeveloped or one dimensional. Lots of hours have been spent in developing each of them making them unique and memorable in their own skin, some will be mysterious and threatening like no other you've seen,some others intelligent and patient another might be compassionate and vulnerable.What is truly amazing though as I mentioned before is the presence of the psychological factor. Which means that no one will act always the same in different situations just to follow their stereotype as the situation changes.What I mean is that your expectations for some characters being one thing will be diminished into being the complete opposite. That's why the plot twists are amazing and logically and emotionally feel correct. Characters:10/10Overall:Hunter x Hunter 2011 is the best anime than any other at this genre I've seen.It blends together and balances exceptionally well themes like drama, mystery, comedy and action.I enjoyed this series so much that I am actually thinking about rewatching the old version first and at some point the 2011 again. I hope you will give it a try because I honestly believe you will enjoy it very much.I recommend this series to everyone and it doesn't matter what genres you like more, just trust me and give this series a go but stick with it cause it's kinda slow at the beginning. Overall:10/10*This is my first review so forgive me for any mistakes*


                
Hunter X Hunter may seem childish and goofy at the beginning, but it's actually one of the darkest shows I've seen, it's not your typical, Togashi did a marvelous job with Yu Yu Hakusho but IMO he has excelled himself with hunter x hunter. Very interesting characters, good story arcs, and the usual dependable themes. Beware if you are going to become an hunter x hunter fan craze cat you need to stay loyal to the series, because it is well known for being on hiatus. Interestingly for a anime it doesn't necessarily work on the lines of "I have more raw power than you therefore I win". In hunter x hunter it is more the case of how the powers are used, you can be weaker than your opponent yet you might win because of a special skill you have for example. The battle system in hunter x hunter is the most interesting I have encountered.


                
It's a remake of the Hunter X Hunter 1999 and its Ova : Ova 1 2002 and Ova Greed Island 2003 and Ova 3 G.I Final 2004 . The remake was so Loyal to the original anime But some little Scene were Cut to save some time for the new Episode that will added after it Complete the Original anime episode . The New Show was so Refresh When I watched the old one I was so angry Because of the Clarity wasn't cool But Now it Gives you a Feeling that it's Not the Remake its so much Better in the Story and in the Graphic Quality in the End I Enjoyed it as the same I enjoyed the old one and Now with the new Episode that Came out I can Say I enjoyed it more so I Give my thanks to the Creator Of this Great Show Good Job.


                
When I was younger I used to be really into anime. The amount of anime I have watched totals to about 50, and I can honestly say Hunter x Hunter is one of around five anime I do not regret watching at least a little, the others being JJBA, One Punch Man, NGE, and Soul eater. I carry a lot of regret for other titles I've watched, but hxh holds as one of the best shows I've ever watched.Characters: The characters alone merit this show deserving a 10. Every single character is deep, dynamic, and interesting. The main characters, Gon, Killua, Kurapika, and Leorio are all unique and contribute greatly to both the narrative and intrigue of the show. Every villain receives development most shows rob villains of. Every character feels like a real person, with real emotions and reasons for the decisions they make. I can hardly think of another show that does characters as well as hxh.World: Frankly, I can only think of two pieces of media that have EVER done world building as well as hxh. Those are Homestuck and Avatar: The Last Airbender. hxh can't really be trumped when it comes to world building. The magical beasts, crime-ridden cities, deep network of influential and ominous criminals, unexplored lands, heroic hunters, and fiercely powerful beings all blend seamlessly into a world that I can hardly help but think extensively about every once in a while when I'm bored or my mind wanders.Plot: Like most longer anime, hxh follows story arcs that tend to be rather distinct from each other. The direction in the beginning very clearly follows Gon's desire to find his dad. As any good anime should do, hxh has reason for, and connection between, each arc. Each of the main characters has their own distinct goals, and it would spoil part of the show to elaborate beyond that, but the goals of each character culminate brilliantly to advance the plot of the series.Overall, hxh is deserving of a 10 in every single area. In my own opinion, it's the best anime I have seen to date, as well as one of the best shows I have ever seen. Watch hxh to be exposed to a beautiful and rich new world, with deep characters that leave a lasting impact on the viewer. Watch hxh; I promise you won't regret it.


                
I do not think I will ever find an anime that is better than this one. EVERYTHING about it is perfect. The story, the fantasy, the themes, the feelings, the soundtrack, the characters... Oh, the characters. I swear- - The two main characters? I care about them more than half the people I know in real life. I've watched quite a lot of anime, and a lot of them had a few qualities about them that were outstanding. One Piece has a great sense of adventure, Cowboy Bebop has an incredible moving story to tell, Death Note had a great perspective on morals... Hunter x Hunter HAS IT ALL!!Do yourself a favor. Watch this anime. But don't go complaining to me once you finish it and realize that everything else pales in comparison.


                
If you haven't watched this anime, your life is INCOMPLETE. An epic out of this world adventure between three friends whose friendship never dies. I have never had more fun, never laughed more, and never felt more emotion than after watching Hunter x Hunter. Every anime series I have ever seen pales in comparison. Hunter x Hunter is better than Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood, better than Death Note, better than Naruto, better than One Piece, better than Steins;Gate, better than Attack on Titan, better than Code Geass. My eyes have been opened after watching this series: Hunter x Hunter cannot be rivalled. If Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood is a 10, Hunter x Hunter is a 15, no joke. Hunter x Hunter (2011) has better script, better characters, better acting, better scenery, better pacing, and better story than every anime I have listed above. It's a journey; it's an epic adventure; it's a coming of age; it's out of this world. It's a shame a lot of people don't know about it just because it doesn't have an English dub; it's a shame it only has a few thousand votes on IMDb. If only everyone knew what they were missing. I wish that I had seen the original series growing up; how different might my childhood have been; I grew up with Dragon Ball Z, Pokemon, and similar shows. My first time watching near the end of 2014, and Hunter x Hunter is now my favourite anime of all time, no question about it. The main characters of Hunter x Hunter (2011) will stick with me for the rest of my life. I have never laughed more than with Leorio. I have never cried more than with Killua and Gon who show the real value of friendship. The lessons I have learned from this show about friendship, love, and family have impacted me greatly.Thank you Hunter x Hunter. After binge watching every episode within one week because I couldn't stop myself at the bliss, I have been reborn. Best Anime of all time, without a doubt. I have nothing more to say, except that you MUST watch this anime before you die. YOU MUST. YOU MUST. YOU MUST.


                
After watching hunter x hunter i can say it is one of the best anime about which not very much people know but those who saw this they can understand what i m trying to say.The anime begins slowly but after a few episodes you will get dazzled by the offering of its characters,storyline,music,surrounding it has almost all of it a legendary anime should have.Seriously guys if you haven't saw this anime i won't consider u an anime fan.I can say it is better than one piece,naruto,and even on same level as full metal.The characters in this series specially killua and hisoka are great and will make you think about them but there is just one problem that the episodes should be more the series is incomplete because of its writer but although it is surely a legendary anime which is fully packed and will keep you binded with it until last episode.Without any hesitation go for it


                
I'm gonna keep this short and simple. This anime is a must watch for anyone, This is the only anime i can think of that might be better than attack on titan. After all, more than 5000 people rated this show, and it has a 9.1 Rating. This is an anime where you meet plenty of new interesting characters and you understand them very well. Every character feels connected to the viewer. This is a show that can hit all time highs and drop down to the lowest of lows. It can be very emotional in some episodes but damn, If a animated show can make you cry then it's well written. If it can make you so happy that you don't stop smiling, it's well written. Every anime watcher needs to give this a chance if you haven't already, Will not disappoint. Remember to come back and write a review after you finish all 148 episodes! Season 2 WHERE U AT?!


                
If you want awesome fights that drag out for 30 episodes and have explosions and crap then it may not get good for you. It is more intelligent and dark and it involves minimal to no ass pulls so the plot is very well though out. The first 3 episodes are pretty dull but then it gets decent and once you get to the phantom troupe are (Starts episode 36) you wont want to stop assuming this type of anime is in your taste. I also have to say you cant just skip straight to the Chimera arc because what this anime does best is character development so you wont have the same feels when you watch the Chimera Arc which BTW is one of (if not) the best arc in anime history.


                
If your looking for spoilers then you're reading the wrong review but I will tell you to get off of this site and check it out!! I've watched a lot of anime and in my opinion this is by far the best one to ever grace us with its presence. The storytelling of this anime is on another level, that is only outdone by its fight scenes. Don't get me wrong it has its classic good guy/ bad guy theme but the storytelling of this anime /manga has elevated that theme and has you rooting for the bad guys while hoping some of the good guys make it through to the next episode. If your tired of the same old rehash then please check this out!


                
I don't often write reviews, but I felt I have to for HxH.After watching Naruto, Bleach, One piece (still ongoing and should go on forever), steins gate, psycho pass, full metal and few more I can assure you this anime should not be missed at any cost.I was so addicted to this one, I used to take the laptop to my bathroom to watch the episode. really gutted the manga artist had to take the break due to his health issues and it has not been resumed since then but nonetheless 148 episodes are mind-blowing.will not spoil the story but killua netero and kurapika are really special characters.Don't F**IN MISS IT.


                
When I searched up this anime on INDB, I was expecting the rating to at least be above 9. This comes from a person who has seen Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood, Death Note and Attack on Titan.
 
Although, I haven't seen the 1999 version, the 2011 version is obviously superior in terms of animation quality. Niw, this anime has no low point. It kicks off a little extravagantly, but the Hunter x Hunter world is thoroughly explored , with no rock being overturned. Its pacing is perfect, it has the perfect blend of comedy and darkness. Everything has a greater meaning that would just blow your mind.The plot kind of cnters around friendship, purpose and fate., but is very complexIn fact, each arc is so good that you won't be able to decude which one is the best. The character are very likable and complex, the fight scenes are amazing and this is a series that just keeps you on the edge of your seat.Of course, the only bitter pill to swallow is that this series has an ending. Although its manga is still running, its very unlikely that we'll get another installment to the franchise soon.
***so.. I in my opinion, this review doesn't contain ANY spoilers, but just in case, reader beware*** This is, hands down, THE BEST anime series ever and I am puzzled why it's not more popular. I usually don't watch shounen but - boy, was this great! Animation was flawless (at least in my opinion), every single arc was fantastic (even if it doesn't seem so in the beginning), characters were AMAZING... at times you get some super creepy and pervy moments, but that just make it better. Bright, optimistic and funny at one moment, and dark and sad at other. The most entertaining emotional roller-coaster. I developed serious feelings toward this anime and I felt super depressed when it ended (temporarely I hope). This is the best FEEL-GOOD anime I have ever watched and I seriously recommend it. Go and watch it now! go go go :)
Hunter X Hunter had a slow start but when it got good it got real good. The battles are intense and super strategic. The characters are awesome too Killua and meruem are my favorites. The soundtrack is amazing and it has some really sad moments that will make a grown man cry. Gon is a really likable character he's 10 billion times better than Naruto. I highly recommend Hunter X Hunter especially if you like other great similar anime Like JoJo's Bizarre Adventure and Yu Yu Hakusho.


                
I am a fan of Full Metal Alchemist Brotherhood, Death Note, Future Diary. I also have watched a great share of popular animes. But after watching HxH, everything else seems dull in comparison to it. That how good HxH is.Story 10/10
I don't even know how to summarize the whole HxH because it is divided into arcs, little adventures wherin some or all 4 main protagonist are the center of the conflict. Each arc is wonderfully written where you can learn new things. (I even learned how darts game was scored). Characters 10/10
Character development was so good I sometimes like the antagonist more than the protagonist. Most characters have their own motives and attitudes I wonder how the mangaka keeps track of all of them.All in all, this is an epic masterpiece that everyone should watch.


                
After having watched pretty much every single anime out there including Fullmetal Alchemist brotherhood, Code geass, Naruto franchise, Death note, seven deadly sins, one punch man, Dragon ball franchise and there is still none that can compare to this legendary work of art. I believe it to be much better than attack of titan and to this day I have yet to find a single anime or show that can make me feel the way I did when watching Hunter x Hunter. If you love anime and haven't watched Hunter x Hunter you are no fan of anime. Believe me watching Hunter x Hunter will be the best decision of your life. An imdb rating of 9.1 doesn't do it justice.


                
Hunter x Hunter. Yoshihiro Togashi's masterpiece manga that never really got the adaptation it deserved because the material to be adapted, especially the Chimera Ant Arc, was too violent and graphic. Enter Madhouse. A Studio renowned for making innumerable anime classics. They brought in one of their most talented directors in Hiroshi Koujina to adapt this flawed gem and anime history was made.HxH is a story about a young boy named Gon who embarks on a journey to find his father. After learning that his father left him at a young age to become a Hunter, Gon decides to follow in his footsteps not only to find him, but also to see what was so special about the profession that made his father choose it over him.Now, believe me, the above synopsis doesn't even begin to do justice to the spectacular epic that is Hunter x Hunter. It's a story about friendship that shows that even flawed individuals could be redeemed and the purest of souls could be lost into the abyss.The Chimera Ant Arc, alone, is a sprawling masterpiece that just rises above any piece of storytelling in all of shounen, hell, in all of anime. It will make you care for every character, even the minor ones that don't really hold any significance to the overall plot & by the end of it, it will take them away by landing a sledgehammer of pathos and ripping out your soul while leaving you to drown in your sorrow as you reach the point of audible sobbing. But, remember, even through all the sorrows & tragedies, through all the tears shed, there will always be a ray of hope guiding you, leading you, through the lows of life as you search for your well- deserved happiness. Thank you, Hunter x Hunter, I can't see myself being the same person without you."You should enjoy the little detours. To the fullest. Because that's where you'll find the things more important than what you want" - Ging Freecs


                
I'll keep it short. I've seen just about every high-ranking TV show on IMDb, as well as 116 different anime. This trumps every story that I've ever experienced. I've watched it five times, and its re-watch value has not depreciated. The beginning is a bit childish, but make no mistake - this is a riveting anime with mature themes and exciting character depth and development. After completing the Chimera Ant arc, you will agree that there is no other anime like this one. Each character has a unique perspective and attitude; it's almost as if a different person wrote each of the characters. The one thing that a preponderance of the characters in this show have in common is that they are interesting and intelligent trains of thought that are revealed to you in their own way. You do not know what you're missing if you haven't seen this. Give it a chance, and I promise that you will be enthralled by this show.


                
