I have very mixed feelings on this series. For years I had seen it ranked as one of the best anime series of all time but I couldn't stomach the first few episodes. I was put off by the silly anime tropes, the random character designs and the bizarre nonsense that plagues it. I have seen many series that took awhile to get good though so I eventually decided to really give it a chance. I had heard that it was basically the best parts of Dragonball and Naruto but deeper, more mature and more complex. While there are points where that may be true, it certainly isn't evident during the first season. In fact it wasn't until the third arc that I really started to like the series and it wasn't until the Yorknew City Arc that it really got great.It is really difficult for me to rank this series because its quality varies dramatically. At its best (the later seasons, primarily the Chimera Ant Arc) its a solid 9 at its worst its maybe a 4. The good thing is that the series generally gets better each season. Unfortunately you really do need to watch the early seasons for it to make sense. The cons:If you are looking for a series with good fight scenes, be warned, there are none in season 1. In fact I would say that the first good fight scene doesn't happen until at least episode 30. Now that would be fine if the story was really fantastic and made up for it but I really don't think it does. The Hunter Exam arc literally starts off with about two episodes of the characters running through a tunnel and then having a giant cook off. To make matters worse, the instructor of the lesson is a scantily clad, loud mouthed stereotype girl with a giant knife. It's not exactly riveting or novel. For the entire first season Gon never really seems to be threatened. He's the same typically happy go lucky protagonist without much substance. He gets through everything with relative ease. During the entire exam, Gon really just seems to breeze through. He gets by just because he has a stubborn never give up attitude and for some reason everyone seems to respect him despite him having done nothing to deserve respect at that point in the series. You are pretty much told at the beginning of the exam which characters matter. The side characters are just generic stand ins they look and act like the don't matter so when they are beaten its never surprising. Most of the character designs are ridiculous. Form doesn't follow function at all. One of the characters always wears a business suit for no logical reason (even when they are in the desert). Gon is basically Goku crossed with Ash wearing short shorts for no apparent reason. He also has the face of a baby that makes it nearly impossible to take him seriously. His weapon of choice is a fishing rod for the entire first season (Thankfully he ditches it later). It's like a whole bunch of random traits were just thrown into a jar and picked out for each character. Most of their designs don't seem to be based on anything substantial. Later the designs get better, although that's not really saying much. The pros:The magic system of the series Nen, when it is finally introduced is excellent (although it doesn't get introduced until the 3rd arc). It is unique yet simple enough to understand and gets progressively more complex as the series continues. Every character has unique abilities that come with strengths and weaknesses. No one is really invincible; it is more a case of certain abilities being more useful in certain situations. The way those abilities evolve is also really interesting and makes sense within the context of the series. There are some lame ones but many are really unique and cool.The series almost steadily gets better. The Chimera Ant Arc is by far the best part of the series and while it has some obvious similarities to the Cell Saga in Dragonball Z it is better in almost every way. Even the bad parts, such as Gon's ridiculous uniform is given a better replacement during the Chimera Ant Arc. Gon also finally starts to show more complexity as a character and is no longer just the happy go lucky hero who just wins because he never gives up. He has to face real challenges. The Chimera Ant Arc is great because it doesn't overpower the main characters and it doesn't spare them from consequences. Gon has to evolve and he has to suffer. He has to earn his place in the series. Unlike in Dragon ball Z where the main characters all get magical upgrades whenever they need it. The main characters in Hunter X Hunter need to pay a price and are never on par with the true super beings of the series. Gon gets beaten badly often and needs to rely on more experienced Hunters to handle the big challenges. Sometimes he loses people and sometimes to win he has to go to dark places which takes a toll on him. The protagonists aren't morally infallible like they are in so many series of this type. Hunter x Hunter is a really unique series for better and for worse. It has moments that are truly brilliant and other moments that had me rolling my eyes and shaking my fist at their ridiculousness. This is a series that definitely isn't for everyone, if you hate the common anime tropes/silliness you are probably going to have a difficult time getting into the series. If you can tolerate the randomness and the tropes though, this series eventually has a lot to offer.
To put it simple,this anime is overrated. It was good at first, but had a lot of unnecessary stuff which kinda ruined it for me. The phantom troupe was very good, I like almost every character except Gon and Biscuit. Killua,Leorio,Kurapika and Chrollo are some of the names I'll remember for the rest of my life. BUT, the They messed up the chimera ant arc like anything!! , lot of unnecessary stuff and lots of talking, unnecessary violence,cannibalism and all. One of the important reasons I gave a 7 to this anime were the fight scenes.... (SPOILER) Gon vs Pitou was one of the worst fights I have ever seen. To sum it up , chimera arc is the main reason I hate this anime. And the protagonist was so messed up with hardly any character development and the ending, OMG, why did they have to end it like that???? It does not leave any effect or anything in the end. I personally felt disappointed for spending a lot of time for watching 148 episodes!!! Sorry if I hurt any fan boy/girl's feelings, its just my opinion.... I still think its worth a watch.
