Adventure animeFollow Gon and friends as he follows in his father's footsteps to become the greatest Hunter in the WorldGood supporting cast: an assassin and his family ; and a boy with crimson eyes, a fallen clan, and a quest for revenge ; the villain Hisoka Features more melodrama moments than action
For the softer hearts to relate too--------------------------
The Grand-master vs the Ant King is one of the Greatest Anime Battles in existence


                
My 9/10 mangaupdates review and the series stops at Vol 32, Chap 339. I also deducted 1 point as this adaptation rushes a bit here and there while skipping some of the violence and darker content: I have been reading the manga since 2001 and am as satisfied as ever. Great characters and inventive stories are the strong points. Some rushed art later on and one hiatus (he is a sickly man i have read so that can be excused) are the downside. More Leorio would also have been better. All in all i can find hardy any flaws in this great series and hope for at least 5 more years. I would also like to read a sequel to the chimera ant story because that was the high point of the manga. I especially liked how Gon lost his humanity while Meruem slowly turned human and . That is a hard feat as he started off as a cannibalistic child murderer. The whole thing can even be compared to the essentially perfect Parasyte. The Shin York Arc was the next best thing and both showed how developed the world is and that the leading heroes don't have to be the vocal point or all powerful all the time. I especially liked how Gon lost his humanity while Meruem slowly turned human and relatable during the manga's finest hour. I am a bit surprised that SJ allowed all the dark themes and the excessive violence as it is noticeably less young reader friendly then Fist of the North Star or JoJo despite the art style or the more upbeat moments so the manga should just switch to Ultra Jump already like the rest of them. This is the current golden standard of ongoing shonen action without a doubt. The 2 anime adaptations are both good but the recent one is better even if unevenly paced. Both have good ending points btw. as all the arcs tend to do. His two previous works have good ideas but i found them only decent all in all. Yu Yu Hakusho (6/10) is still worth a read despite its uneven and somewhat crazy nature and the ending is very strong in my eyes. Other quality adult friendly shonen are Claymore (8,5/10) and of course Attack on Titan but don't forget Shingeki no Kyojin - Before the Fall (9/10) as it is the best version of that tale. Rurouni Kenshin and Full Metal Alchemist are the perfect golden standard of all time of course! You know what? The first 2/3 of Naruto (7,5/10) are good too but don't tell anyone.


                
First of all I'd like to that say I've watched this show 15 years ago and I knew it wasn't completed back then. . . and it was a very good show I must admit. . . But to sum it all up without this post being too long, only the first parts of the current show was good, mainly up to Yorknew City Arc. . . Greed Island wasn't as interesting as the first two Arcs and the antagonist was boring same like Gon the main Protagonist, that's one of the problems of this show. . . Gon is too boring and bland, other characters or even antagonists were more interesting than him, e.g. Hisoka, Kurapika or Chrollo. Then comes the Chimera Ants Arc. . . boy did it turn for the worst here, it's too draggy, so many unnecessary scenes/characters, somethings made no sense at all near the end. . . I skipped so many scenes that has been done and overdone before. . . And then the Author is now on Hiatus again, but well, let's just hope for the best that he can at least finish this Story. For those of you fans of this Anime/Manga, I suggest you watch Yuyu Hakusho(Ghost Fighter) by the same author, it's better than this one at least because it has continuity and actually has an ending. There's also Flame of Recca if you're really a fan of Fighting Genre.


                
