Oh, it's well-crafted. I'll give it that. It weaves awful things like heroin addiction and its attendant horrors into a cutesy story that ultimately paints an irresponsibly rosy picture of being a young screw- up who's addicted to heroin.The movie gets its sweet taste from two things: a) sexy and talented young actors, and b) those sexy young actors hooking up with other sexy young actors. That's how it sells the crap underneath it: the idea that heroin addiction is just another (acceptable) alternative lifestyle. First of all yeah, young people are usually easy on the eyes. But talk to real-life drug-addicted youths, or just watch the VICE documentaries on young heroin or Krokodil addicts, and you'll see that their lifestyles not only typically render them even less visually appealing than that one guy in Trainspotting was just before he died. You'll see that real-life youth who have lifestyles like the kids in Trainspotting are flushing their budding little lives down the toilet, rendering them uglier than any physical trait could.See, real junkies are just sad and scary because they're on a slippery slope to death or getting locked up somewhere. They're also not all witty and intelligent. Trainspotting presents sordid aspects of the junkie lifestyle, but at the same time intoxicates me with these pretty people, and with the impression that everything will turn out all right for them in the end. I also think that it ignores the possibility of permanent brain, body, and psychological damage that such a lifestyle can cause.
Let's start with that this movie is about a bunch of junkies. And let's end with that. The lead characters are a group of drug addicts who put themselves in that position. Whetehr or some took responsibility for their actions is difficult to tell. That would be the only redeeming quality to this movie. I just don't care about the characters. If the O.D., should I care? I don't care. I feel bad for their families, who may be innocent victims of their stupid drug use. The production quality of Trainspotting was fine. The acting was also pretty much good, but I hated the story. I hated the characters. I didn't sympathize with them at all, nor the writer and director for their waste of millions of dollars in making this unimportant garbage. I would give the movie a 1, but it was well made.


                
Ugh.The first film that brought Danny Boyle to my attention, and I've been reeling ever since. Now that "Slumdog Millionaire" is such a sensation, I'm afraid we have more Boyle to look forward to, even though every movie the man has made has been crap ("Sunshine" anyone?)"Trainspotting" is an unpleasant film about unpleasant people doing drugs, being criminals, trying to avoid the responsibilities that come with growing up and being an adult. It's not the movie's content that bothered me, since good movies can and have been made out of similar material; no, it's Boyle's directorial style, the belief that fast and flashy is good enough, and that substance isn't necessary if you've got nauseating scenes of people sticking their heads in toilets.Boyle is a juvenile director, so I'm not surprised he could relate to the characters in this film.Grade: D


                
This rambling film looks at Scottish teens doing drugs. There isn't much of a plot. The teens sit around shooting heroin and talking about mostly uninteresting things in thick accents laden with Scottish slang. There are some repulsive scenes, such McGregor sticking his hands into the filthiest toilet in Scotland right having done his business and before flushing it. We are also treated to blood-splattering violence and scenes of needles penetrating the skin. While Boyle displays an interesting visual style, it is not clear what the point of this film is. It's either glorifying drugs or saying that drugs are bad. Either way, it does not qualify as entertainment.


                
I always feel compelled to write something when I seem to be differ completely with the views stated here. I guess I'm the only one in the world who didn't love this movie- in fact I thought it was awful. I gave it a 3 based on a few funny parts and for the effort of the cast. Apart from that it oscillated from sickening to bizarre with little or no redeeming qualities. No, it wasn't just because some guy stuck his head in a toilet that made me want to turn this movie off. There were several scenes that just were plain offensive as they were there merely for shock value as in Reservoir Dogs- another disgusting 90s mess. I give just about every movie a chance and I stayed with this one 'til the end, but if your tastes are anything like mine and you're not a glutton for punishment I strongly suggest that you avoid this one or turn it off after the toilet scene.


                
"Trainspotting" is currently #154 on IMDb's Top 250 list. As an insane film buff, I have been trying to watch as many of the movies from the list as possible and have seen about 235 of them However, now the ones I have left to watch are mostly films I normally would have no interest in seeing--so at the outset, I am not the most favorably disposed person towards this film. After all, I don't have a lot of interest in seeing a film about a bunch of loser heroin addicts--and that is the theme of "Trainspotting".Some who watched this film felt it was a comedy--I noticed this when reading through the reviews. However, I really didn't find this film funny nor do I think most would think it funny. I guess my definition of funny isn't watching people injecting heroin, babies dying of neglect and people crapping themselves. You'll see this and much more in this film about sad and impossible to like guys. And that is why I simply hated the film. While director Danny Boyle did a good job of making it all seem realistic, the film was so repellent that I can't understand its popular appeal. And now that I finished watching it, I am thinking twice about my crazy notion of seeing all 250. Gross and unappealing.


                
I hated this movie.  I started watching it, I found it annoying and I was not interested in it at all.  Very boring, and being a british movie made it hard to watch. It was so slow, just some guy running around talking about drugs and the problems he has trying to quit. I turned it off before the half way mark, then I watched Fear and Loathing and was happy, Johnny Depp was awesome in it, and it was actually funny.  Trainspotting did well, but I would never see it again.


                
Whew...what a waste of time.  This film is highly overrated and unworthy of anyone's time and money.I gave it a "two" out of ten only because the crib death scene was provoking.  I realize that the director and writer were attempting to portrait a particular underbelly of the drug culture in Scotland - but for pete's sake, I couldn't understand the english - it needed subtitles throughout.I never found a moment that was whimsical, in fact I had to rewind a couple of times after falling asleep.  Perhaps it would have been better if I'd seen it on the big screen?


                
I'm normally one that "gets it", pertaining to movies that have extensive use of symbolism, deep messages, hidden meanings, etc. etc. ... but I cannot for the life of me figure out why Trainspotting has any sort of following whatsoever.Y'know, I already wasted $2.15 and 94 minutes on this movie, so I do not plan on writing a lengthy appeal to the IMDB visitors on why they should avoid this movie at all costs.  I merely wish to let others know that possibly, in my opinion, the popularity of this film may have been due to a simple "bandwagon" effect.And by the way, those that have compared Trainspotting to Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas may not have even seen F&L, as there is nothing connecting the two other than the word "drugs".  Fear & Loathing is Academy Award material compared to Trainspotting.


                
