Amazingly in your face cinema from director Danny Boyle and writer John Hodge. Adapted form Irvine Welsh's novel, this is the story of four desperate heroine addicts who chose hard drugs rather than life. Instead of the drudgery of the every day, they prefer the ecstatic rush of the heroine hit.Audiences will have to ride through the early scenes that may put you off public toilets (among other things) for life. If you are even the least bit queasy, then "Trainspotting" is one film you should avoid. Containing much 'toilet' humour and graphic drug use scenes, this is not cinema for the faint hearted.Once you've adapted to Boyle's full on style (which contains some violence too), then you can really start to appreciate the sharp, incisive script from John Hodge, with its clever, biting humour which forces you to laugh at a way of life that is as close to rock bottom as you can get. Boyle and Hodge have given their film a unique Scottish feel, and the culture and psyche of Edinburgh's down and out comes through brilliantly.Of course there is the question of whether this flick glorifies drug addiction. Some aspects of the abuse of heroine are conveyed as a fantastic rush and a great escape, generally though the addicts are shown to be no-hopers headed for nothing but death and destruction.The other immensely enjoyable aspect of "Trainspotting" is the fantastic cast. Ewan McGregor heads up the young thesps as "Mark Renton", the central figure in the story and the only guy we really hold out any hope for. Backing him up is Ewen Bremner as "Spud", the nervous young lad whose fetish for "speed" makes him very excitable. Jonny Lee Miller is "Sick Boy", another rather twisted individual whom we find has a heart beneath his deceptive, tough exterior. But the real psycho is Begbie (Robert Carlyle), a guy who wouldn't touch hard drugs and believes that those who use them are soft in the head. His violent temper and passion for brawling make him a distinctly unlikeable chap. Then there's Tommy (Kevin McKidd), straight guy and fitness freak who enjoys taping erotic encounters with long term love Liz. Finally there is young Diane, a feisty femme who proves a handful, and a surprise, for young Renton. All performances from this collective band are strong, with McGregor the shining beacon at the top.Brian Tufano delivers some confronting cinematography, Masahiro Hirakubo supplies the sharp editing and the soundtrack contains a fresh collection of trendy tunes.Tuesday, July 2, 1996 - Hoyts Cinema Centre MelbourneSeeing Danny Boyle's "Trainspotting" for a second time really helps clarify what the movie is about, and that is what a dreadful life one can have if one chooses a drug of addiction such as heroin. On the other hand, if one chooses life, it can be a very intoxicating drug, as young Renton finally discovers.Standouts are still Boyle's in your face direction which leaves no aspect of the destitution of drug abuse untouched, and the performances from Ewan McGregor, Ewen Bremner, Jonny Lee Miller, Kevin McKidd, Robert Caarlyle and Kelly McDonald which bring to life the vivid characters who live this sorry existence.A groovy soundtrack accompanies Boyle's innovative film.Monday, April 7, 1997 - Hoyts Croydon
If a middle-aged man were to walk outside his house right now in a chicken suit and started attacking small children, a lot of people would say he lacks maturity. Or, perhaps, that he's a pervert. If he sustained his attack long enough, he'd be on the news, and the police would come, handcuff him, and laugh in the guy's face. Lack of maturity is something that is obviously negative in out society. What I find interesting, though, is: what is labeled as immaturity in real life is labeled as sublime quirkiness on the movie screen. Sometimes. Other times, in case of shows like The Wiggles, immaturity is labeled as stupid. Other times, in case of comedies, immaturity is labeled as hilarious. Other times, in case of books like Naked Lunch, immaturity is labeled as offensive. Other times, in case of movies like Trainspotting, immaturity is just generic, boring, and I've seen this so many times I know exactly what's going to happen in five minutes, oh look! I was right.I'll just get right to my point. Trainspotting is one of the most unoriginal movies I've ever seen in my life. From the opening surrealist toilet scene (which was used in everything from video games to books to artwork to cartoons long before Trainspotting was even an idea in the writer's head) to the childish DRUGS ARE REALLY, REALLY BAD!!! ending and everything between those two points.The nihilistic characters are trite and safe, copy/pasted from some MTV reality show that contains 2% reality and 98% what looks cool. Their generic nihilistic actions are so safe, most eight-year-old boys would think they're lame, but, for some reason, the middle-aged crowd calls them "intelligent". The entire drug-addiction plot line plays out exactly like it did in that DRUGS ARE REALLY, REALLY BAD!!! video you had to watch in high school health class.My point? It takes a lot more to shock people than a couple kids playing around in a toilet. There is absolutely nothing disturbing here whatsoever. Why? Because this is the pansy crap we see every single anti-drug movie ever made. It's so unabashedly unoriginal, I fail to see how anyone can even call it art, being that the definition of art is "an original body or work" . . .The cinematography is generic, and is only even slightly inspired when it rips-off Kubrick. The acting is generic, being that I don't think it's hard for a young twenty-something to act as a young twenty-something. I don't even know why they even bothered giving the characters names, because they completely lack any sort of identity that real people have. The only identity they have is that, they're boring, flat, copy/paste characters who are addicted to heroin . . . and they do heroin . . . yeah. And even if people say this lack of identity originality is the point of the movie—which it's not—then I'll say back, Brent Easton Ellis' novel Less Than Zero did that exact thing ten years before this movie came out and seven years before Welsh's book came out, and it did it infinitely better and more realistically than either one.If you liked Trainspotting, I pity you.2/10


                
This movie has a reputation as an unpleasant experience. And I'd have to say for a reason. Yet what often goes unmentioned is the fact that this movie is quite often classified as a black comedy. Again, for a reason.The story tells of a group of Scottish youngsters struggling through life despite their crippling addiction to heroin and other hard substances. We see them throughout the course of a perhaps a few years. Their highs and their frequent lows. Yet despite all this misery in their lives, they retain a surprisingly chipper attitude about life. They crack jokes, they talk in their thick Scottish accents, they have parties. Yet just beneath the surface, the heroin tightens its grip.And it's not like director Danny Boyle wants to glorify or romanticize drug use. No, it's still clear that these people have ruined their lives and those around them through their awful life choices. But the movie argues the point that these people are not stupid. There's a reason why people use drugs. Quite often they are the symptom of a life gone wrong rather than the cause.Very much a movie not for everyone. But, if you can stomach all those nasty scenes, the movie does have a story to tell. A good one and one excellently told.


                
While very enjoyable and engaging I found myself feeling like I was watching something that wasn't for me, by almost any means.
I had a level of misunderstanding when watching this film, half of that being my complete ignorance to the drug world and the other half being my inability to understand thick Scottish accents when it counts.
Not to say these are flaws of the film, by no means, however I did feel that the full effect of the film as a result was lost on me.
Again, I'm not saying I wasn't engaged or completely confused just, I just feel there are certain aspects that I 'just don't get' and as a result this film didn't hit me as hard as it could have.


                
The wild tale of a young heroin addict in Scotland, Trainspotting, based on a novel of the same name, makes for a strange and absurd film. Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor) and his gang of addicts are stuck in a mindless loop of chasing a high. Renton tries to give it up but wants to have his last hit which leads to a disgusting scene in a public bathroom. Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller) has plenty of opinions on pop culture and mocks Renton by quitting at the same time. Spud (Ewen Bremner) tries to stay unemployed but has to apply for jobs to continue to receive payments so bombs an interview by using speed. Begbie (Robert Carlyle) loves to fight and causes all sorts of altercations at the pub. Tommy (Kevin McKidd) is an honest kid but when a porn tape of him and his girlfriend is stolen it starts a downward spiral. Sober, Renton looks for a woman to have sex with and encounters Diane (Kelly Macdonald) who is revealed after a night of love making to be underage. Other gang members have awful nights that including some pretty gross scenarios. Renton only remains off of heroin for a while until he falls back into the deplorable lifestyle. Robbing and corrupting, Renton descends into addiction until they discover Allison (Susan Vidler) screaming. Her child, who had been living in the drug dealer's apartment, is found dead. Renton becomes an even worse individual and is arrested.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Where the glamorization of drugs comes in for some reviewers I just don't get. The early scene when Renton (Ewan McGregor) dives into the 'worst toilet in Scotland' makes drug users look like the vilest and lowest form of life on the planet, and his circle of friends a caricature of all the worst examples of humanity going. You look around and see the stark, disgusting flats they inhabit and there's no way anyone would want to emulate that kind of life. Unless you're a junkie I guess, and then it doesn't matter because the next hit is the only thing that does. I won't go to a lot of pains to review this film because for me it's a one off, something worth seeing as an insight into how low a person can get before figuring out that there's no solace in a needle, only a relentless slide to doom and destruction. Even Renton's ambiguous 'good deed' theft of the drug deal money at the finale left me convinced that in a sequel, he's going to be mainlining all over again.
This is my first review, before it I used IMDb only for voting (not that anyone would care, votes were for me to plainly compare movies) and movie list.Now Trainspotting here deserves some words. I wouldn't say I enjoyed the movie from begging to the end, maybe not my type of movie, I don't know. But there's something strange about the name this movie has. I didn't read the novel, but I do know in which context trainspotting was mentioned, and words at he end of movie gives a big allusion to main idea (yeah, I like to act like captain obvious): regular life, having TV, family is just like trainspotting - nothing fancy, but OK if you actually do enjoy it. And the life these guys live is nothing like spotting, it's more like riding train at full speed. Not that it's a better way to get to the destination(if such exist), but it's different, it's hardcore, and this ride most likely end with a fast death. If it's your choice, then go, ride it, but don't kill and upset innocent passengers.Bottom line: I wouldn't call movie a masterpiece, and it's not your regular drama/action movie, but very well watchable and recommendable
One of the cult-movies made in the nineties, often compared (a bit wrongly) to "A Clockwork Orange" (1971), "Trainspotting " is the revelation of a new talented director: Danny Boyle. If his previous movie "Shallow Grave" (1994) was not accepted unanimously, "Trainspotting" was critically praised and made a beautiful commercial way, notably in Great-Britain.Danny Boyle's opus is served by a galaxy of actors who are all outstanding (Ewan McGregor and Robert Carlyle at head) and whose characters are well-rounded. Moreover, McGregor's voice-over makes the movie more thrilling. It is to be noted that if Boyle perfectly used this device in "Trainspotting" it will not be the case four years later with Leonardo Di Caprio in "The Beach" (2000).Then, we deal with a dramatic story, it is indisputable but it is told on a comedy tone so as to avoid the movie to fall in absolute horror and the sordid and of course, this is often black humor that prevails."Trainspotting" confirms Boyle's master of the directing too. Nevertheless, it includes faults that spoil somewhat the movie. For example, this one, by moments evokes a clip. Besides, in connection with music, there is an excellent original soundtrack even if sometimes we feel that its constant and discreet use surcharges the movie. On another hand, through Mark's trouble with heroin, this is a realistic vision of a British society undermined by unemployment in the eighties. Even if the last movie is full of optimism, it nonetheless remains ambiguous. Indeed, as Mark walks on the bridge and enumerates the things he will know, the picture becomes increasingly blurred. It probably means that Mark's future will not probably be bright..."Trainspotting" is a vivid, sometimes raw movie (the sequences that involves heroin) but never boring. It deserves to be watched.


                
-"Choose life"
The film is about making choices, choosing everything you want. Danny Boyle, the director, shows heroin as an alternative lifestyle, that the characters chose. They chose their life, the needle and they don't regret it. The film does not glorify drugs in any way, most of the viewers will find many scenes disturbing, dirty and not pleasant at all. It won't be easy to watch, but it's not meant to shock, the scenes make perfect sense in context of the story, showing life of day to day heroin addicts.Without any certain plot development and chaotic storytelling, the film still takes you along the rollercoaster ride of Edinburghs aesthetics and terrifying truth of drug addiction with the help of Mark Rentons narration and portrayal of that times youth. The decision to become clean and get rid of the addiction was not an easy one for Renton, but how much your surroundings, so-called friends(basically, the only thing in common between them was heroin) can affect you sometimes and get back on the path you just rejected.The structure of the film makes a circular plot. In the beginning Renton denies choosing life, being a normal person, he chooses not to choose, he chooses heroin. Events of the film change him, make him realise he's growing older, more mature, that his friends are not really friends and can betray you at any moment, and he chooses to choose life.


                
It's a slightly sardonic slice-of-life story sent as a super-speedy shot-to-the-veins, a hyperactively eclectic look at four vigorously degenerate, disenchanted and desperately destitute individuals who each navigate through what they've come to call their lives and somehow like it, only occasionally glimpsing it through a lens that allows them to see the filth in which they lay and the perceived perfection of the greener grass on which most others make their beds, but though the simple thing would be for the flick to focus upon the negativities of the protagonists' chosen lifestyle and to portray the quote unquote 'outside world' as the drug-free and consequently utopian society so many pictures of the kind seem to do so, it instead chooses to place the audience within the headspace of its characters no matter how misguided it may be and allow them to decide whether they agree with the actions taken as opposed to spoon feeding them the easy answers so many may crave; it's in this ambiguity that the film finds both its nuances and its entertainment factor for though it is at times an affectingly tough and even teeth-clenching experience, one which never shies away from true darkness and even some disturbingly surrealist horror, it is also an enjoyable and funny flick which finds humour even in the 'blackest' of situations, but this may also contribute to its general sense of aimlessness which does sour the piece ever so slightly. 7/10


                
More dangerous than the addiction to drugs in this film is the addiction to a lifestyle. We can see that breaking a heroin habit, while not a very easy task, is one that Renton can do with relative ease. However, he keeps going back to it for the same reason: his friends. Now I don't like to believe that you are defined by or even overly affected by the company you keep, but it certainly holds true here. While Renton sees all sorts of reasons to leave his friends he just can't seem to do it. Even when he tries moving to England, Begbie and Sick Boy are right there. He also is not the only one who has become subjected to this unhealthy loyalty, as Tommy says after relating the whole billiards episode with Begbie "But he's a mate. So what are you gonna do?".Each of the characters is very distinctive and entertaining in their own way, though none of Renton's friends generate sympathy like he does. I found Spud the most entertaining to watch with his baffled expressions. Begbie might have been more entertaining if I could hear past his accent. The friends all stick together despite their differences, which sounds very touching on the surface, but it's actually quite sad. This is why I felt happy for Renton at the end when he steals the money from them. I don't know whether it was right, I mean stealing is not generally accepted as the right thing to do. But I think it was absolutely necessary for Renton to end his habit. He doesn't need or even really want the money, but the only way he could get away from his self-destructive lifestyle was by way of a betrayal.The plot mostly consists of Renton going through cycles of trying to get clean, and getting sucked back into the world of drugs again by various means, sometimes his own and sometimes circumstantial. Throughout we get development of the mad world that he lives in and the love-hate relationship that comes with his addiction. Some of the drug scenes can be disturbing, but I was expecting much worse. I was glad that all of the three hallucinations were unpleasant experiences for Renton because that made them less disturbing. As Renton says, he and the other addicts hate the side-effects, but it's not enough to deter them from taking more.The pacing keeps you interested as the scenes move fast, which might make up for the slower-moving plot. The cinematography and editing are also nice additions that improve the overall atmosphere. I thought that Danny Boyle's directing was more worthy of an Oscar nomination than the script was. Not that the script was bad, but it just wasn't amazing. The actors seem to do a nice job, but don't give very noteworthy performances.I will admit that I was a bit disappointed with the overall story. It was good, but just not what I was expecting. Primarily, it's entertaining, but the ending is somewhat inspiring. Renton's bookending monologues can be life-defining if you want them to be. There seems to be a slight caution in how much one can "choose life" as Renton outlines some of the more excessive points of stereotypical middle-class life. If you don't like drug culture and hallucinations and such, I wouldn't worry too much about that. I hate that sort of thing and wasn't really disturbed by anything shown here. If you have an addiction that you're trying to break, this might help, but I doubt it will be miraculous. If you're just looking for something good to watch, this ought to satisfy. Overall Rating: 7.7/10.
Trainspotting was labelled as both anti and pro drug when it was first released. The latter is somewhat baffling but I'm sure some of it must come from Ewan McGregor's enthusiastic opening and closing mantra which bookends the film. The funny thing is the abruptness of the tone of this short monologue and how it has shifted over an hour and a half. The film's soundtrack is like background club music, constantly pulsing and pumping as these Scottish addicts go about their aimless lives. That's how Renton sees this safe, domestic path of life - aimless, boring. Then at the end he has the same words, and I'm sure that he feels the same way too. But there's no longer that spitting derision that he once had. There's a resignation to his voice; this way may be boring and uneventful, but at least it is not life-threatening. Much has been made of Boyle's breakneck, irreverent style - the way the camera seems to be always rushing to the next hit like the gang is, the rough, offbeat performances, the brooding, ominous way the walls of their den have been colour-coded. Boyle never seems to really want to slow down, and here is where he hits somewhat of a snag. While the gang are deep into their addiction this style is hard-hitting, perfectly mimicking the wild world of the addict and their twisted logic. Their eccentricities are blown up in a hilarious sequence which cuts across each of their sexual encounters on one night. And then this makes it all the more appropriate and shocking when Dawn is found dead due to neglect - the walls cave in on them, the discovery creeps up on them like it does for us. But even as Renton goes clean (and the mis-en-scene is suddenly a lot cleaner, a lot brighter, a lot less grimy) the film still goes ahead at breakneck speed and is still setting up the punchlines. It is as if Renton cannot escape his dreaded past. Going clean seems a little easy for Renton. As if to note this, the script keeps pointing and nudging his way towards heroin once again. A big deal for all the product they could ever want to last them a lifetime, and guess who has to test its quality. But it isn't really presented as a mountain sized temptation and challenge, but more of an inconvenience. It's funny when he stacks up the piles of cans and nails himself into a room to quit once and for all (we sense this is a regular routine), and mildly horrifying when Boyle goes surreal as Renton, bedridden, pleads for just one more hit. For all the subject matter it feels a little safe, a little content to hide behind the stylistic touches that gives the film much of its energy - using a flurry of cuts for mundane occurrences like drinking milkshakes, throwing in dutch angles that flip around to reveal reflections, dollying along the nightmarish elongated room (or prison). What Boyle does nail is the youth culture of these Scots - there is no un-turned stone, no missed opportunity to make this lifestyle as frenetic and attractive as it can be. They inhabit dreary, run-down shacks, they beat up posh Americans in bar bathrooms, their bodies are withered and eyes darting. The dialogue, with its thick, Scottish dialect, is perhaps the film's greatest and restrictive trait - by not cutting down on any of these character's personalities and eccentricities (some moments even have subtitles) we view and experience the world in the same twisted way they do; the botched interviews, the way the mind warps toilets into filthy experiences, the way they cheer like juveniles when they deal with forces much larger than they are and get away with a small fortune. It's almost too convincing, which is why it seems a little strange when Renton quietly slips out the back.
This movie was by far one of the most brilliant yet most disturbing movies I have ever seen... As it first started out, it gave me a feeling of an English version of Requiem for a Dream, though Requiem for a Dream came out four years after it. As the movie progressed, though, it just became more and more disturbing. For example, each scene of the druggists "hitting up" were so detailed, I could feel the needle poking into my own skin. But by far the most heart clenching scene was with the decaying baby. The whole movie was based on drugs and its terrible effects, and after watching this movie, one can only feel sickened with the thought of drugs. Walking away from this movie, I was impressed with the filming techniques as well as the brilliant acting, but the story was just a little too much to handle. Needless to say, I felt really uncomfortable watching it, yet I do recommend it as a must see because it truly will change your life.
It seems like an intimate look inside the subculture of heroin abuse a young man's chose between self-destruction and free-will. I know it is better to watch movies that could give us some insight into our humanitarian values than to watch stupid action or horror movies. I heard that some people criticized the movie just because it glorifies the usage of drugs at some points well if you can't portray it in both ways you cannot create an art. I mean people gotta see why someone could have a reason to use drugs? They should see it doesn't always have to be sad ending? Someone can just get off that skag! In that sense it is such a nice movie. But no matter what... I am not a great fan of such movies maybe just because I am not living in a society that has any open drug problems or because I haven't seen anyone who has such a problem. But still the movie deserves the acclaim!


                
A powerful anti-drug movie which comes close to brilliance. Because it remains fairly one-track (drugs) it never quite lifts itself from very good to very special.But ... as a movie about the terrors of hard drug addiction I can think of no equal. The treatment of the subject matter is outstanding, and in many ways a MUST SEE for teenagers.


                
"Trainspotting" is a modern masterpiece. The despair and hopelessness of today's drug cultured youth is on full display in this quirky English film. Ewan Macgregor is magnificent as Renton, the charismatic "hero" of the movie. There is no better drug withdrawl scene ANYWHERE in movies. Keep your eyes out for toilet scene - you don't want to miss it. The movie is heartbreakingly real, and makes no apologies.


                
Renton (Ewan McGregor), deeply immersed in the Edinburgh drug scene, tries to clean up and get out, despite the allure of the drugs and influence of friends.This is one of those strange films that focuses on heroin use, and leaves the user wondering: is this glamorizing or denouncing heroin? With "Requiem For a Dream", the end was clearly against heroin. Here, it is a bit more ambiguous, because the characters have so much fun. And, with heroin today (2014) being as big a story as it was mid-1990s, the film again becomes relevant.Regardless of message, this showed the world what Danny Boyle could do with a small budget, and it was quite a bit. Thank goodness. Although not everyone loves "Trainspotting", as a whole we have benefited from the film's success because now we have his other films, not least of which is "28 Days Later".


                
McGregor's all-time best performance and Boyle's most hyped movie. Trainspotting precisely captures the spirit of the age through tracing the lives of four heroin-addicted Scottish friends, depicting their ups and downs, and their struggle to come clean and start a new life. The movie is highly graphic and quite shocking I have to say, but this somehow corresponds with the gravity of the experience itself that Boyle has brilliantly and vividly conveyed to the audience in fluttering stages: the absence, the denial, the realization, the struggle, the relapse... etc. The film doesn't lecture or blame; it doesn't treat drug use as an individual case but as a societal phenomena that has everything to do with the atmosphere back then. Besides McGregor's, Robert Carlyle's role as Begbie was remarkable as applause-worthy as usual.


                
I didn't see this film at the cinema, which was probably a mistake. I think its impact would have been all the greater on the big screen. As it was, I settled for the Green edition.Is this film pro-drugs? Given that it shows the deaths of both a baby and the friend of the central characters as a result, hardly. Is it anti-drugs? Not so you'd notice - it doesn't preach. It shows you the lives the heroin addicts live, and leaves you to draw your own conclusions.Marvellous acting, centreing (of course) on Renton, although Begbie was a fascinating role, which made you think: why DO these people associate with such a nutter? Favourite character has to be Spud, wonderfully blissed-out.There isn't a strong plot running through the film, it's more a succession of scenes illustrating the lives of the central characters. The sub-plot connected with the big drug deal felt a bit tacked-on and unconvincing, but that's a fairly minor quibble.Not for the faint-hearted or weak-stomached, although the Worst Toilet scene goes into surreal overdrive, while Spud's 'accident' is just plain funny.The additional scenes in the Green edition - rough cuts that didn't make the final edit, following the end of the film - were a welcome bonus; I felt that one or two of them would actually have made the film a bit more coherent.


                
Judging by the 8 out of 10 overall score and the overwhelming strong reviews, you'd think this is the 'Citizen Kane' of the early 90s, Mirimax, not quite independent cinema movement! It's worth a good laugh watching Renton and his punky, hipster druggy friends shoot dope, go to pubs and clubs, attempt to get jobs, get in violent altercations and discuss being downtrodden Scottish folk through a bunch of gimmicky camera tricks. It IS a good, fun romp through through low-life land with a really good soundtrack, a few laughs, lots of Iggy Pop reference and a naughty sex scene. But parents be warned! This is NOT an anti-drug movie! Yes there are those awful consequences but these are not the WORST consequences and judging by how the movie portrays dingy, low-rent apartments as 'cool' while Renton and crew load up on the good old H coupled with the relatively happy ending, this movie is very likely to insight a few copy cats who don't know any better.


                
A couple of weeks ago, the British Film Institute (B.F.I.) ranked "Trainspotting" in number ten (10) in a list of the one hundred best British movies. I found this rating exaggerated and decided to see this movie again for my personal reevaluation. The politically incorrect story of the Scottish heroine addicted Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor) and his supposed friends Spud (Ewen Bremner), Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), the athletic Tommy (Kevin McKidd) and the violent Begbie (Robert Carlyle) has a very original screenplay. In spite of having many disgusting and sick scenes, many moments of apology to heroine and a very amoral conclusion, the plot is not bad. But I would never list this flick among the IMDb Top 250 or rank it as the tenth best British movie ever. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Trainspotting <U+0096> Sem Limites" ("Trainspotting <U+0096> Without Limits")


                
I am writing in reply to "MaderR's" comment which stated that the movie was not as popular outside the UK as it was in the UK itself. I've watched a lot of movies from Western countries, Britain and USA included and i have always applauded the Americans for trying their best to suppress their diverse accents to make it more cognizable among oversea viewers. The producers of Trainspotting missed this point by miles.Coming from a background where English is mainly used as a second language, i found it utterly daunting to keep in track with the accents employed by the characters in the movie. I am not advocating for complete diluting of their roles but instead a softening around the edges to make the movie less of a task to follow through. Other than this, Trainspotting was a decent movie with a more than decent set of characters that interacted perfectly and drew us closer to them.On the issue of promoting drug use, i totally disagree with critics of the movie who base their arguments on these grounds. The miserable conditions in which the "junkies" are living are all too apparent and any mature adult knows how harmful drug use can be to both our social and physical lives. The death of the baby furthers this point.On a scale of 1 to 10 i gave the movie a 7 which would have been an 8 had i been able to grasp every word uttered by the characters. Thanks maytes(in an Irish accent)!


                
**Warning this review contains spoilers** This film is a dramatic story about a group of heroin addicts and their pursuit of drugs and money, but the focus of the story is about a man named Renton (Ewan McGregor). The overall theme is a struggle for human dignity and change. Renton is a pathetic heroin junkie who desperately wants to kick the drug but always fails at his attempts. Renton and his friends Spud (Ewen Bremner), Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), Bigby (Robert Carlyle), and Tommy (Kevin McKidd) find themselves in a dark place due to their misguided choices. Renton is down and out and realizes he's about to hit rock bottom after fishing suppositories out of a disgusting bar toilet. He and his friends decide to kick the habit, but it doesn't last long and they all soon end up going on a heroin binge. During the binge, Tommy is dumped by his girlfriend and shows his interest in starting to use drugs and a fellow drug addict and roommate of Renton and his friends finds that her infant child is dead. The shock of finding the dead baby due to the groups negligence is too much to bear and they fall deeper into their habit. Renton and Spud get caught stealing, spud is taken to jail for six months and Renton is ordered to drug detox. Renton's urge for one last hit pushes him to find his dealer for one final hit but he overdoses. Renton's parents take him from the hospital and lock him in his room where he is forced to clean up his act and shake the sickness of withdraw. Soon after Renton moves to London and starts a job but one by one all of his friends find him and drag him back into their crazy lives. Sick Boy sets up a drug lucrative drug deal but needs Renton to provide 2,000 dollars. The drug deal goes successfully but Renton realizes he has to get far away from his friends after he realizes he's outgrown them and wants nothing to do with them or drugs anymore. Renton flees town with the money but leaves 2,000 dollars in a locker for Spud. The film is good, with some interesting imagery that aids in showing the depth of drug addiction and how it consumes an individuals life. For instance the scene in which Renton digs into the feces filled toilet in search for pills but end up sliding all the way in and swimming down to the bottom as if it were a lake to get the two small pills. The film also uses a lot of dark light to evoke depression. The film is much similar to Requiem for a Dream, which also highlights how addiction consumes the soul and the pursuit for better things in life."I chose not to choose life. I chose somethin' else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who needs reasons when you've got heroin?" - Renton
What would you do if someone you were dating got wasted, took a dump in your bed, then accidentally splattered it all over you and your parents. Well Spud's girlfriend in the movie Trainspotting has to deal with these events. It plays out in a pretty hilarious way, but wow is it gross. I liked this movie a lot even though some of the parts made me cringe a lot. Especially the blue baby, I jumped when I first say that part; it was awful. I think it is kind of sad how they turn the one friend who is not on drugs into a junky by taking his sex tape, but then again who makes a sex tape in the first place?! The detox sequence is crazy; it made me never ever want to do drugs. I think this movie is definitely worth watching, but is certainly not for the faint at heart. P.S. I really love all the accents. Sean Connery isn't the only one with a sexy Scottish accent! I'm a sucker for anyone with an accent. Scottish ones are cute, they sort of sound like they are from space. A lot of times they are really hard to understand. I question whether they really know what each other are saying. Anyway watch the movie and see for yourself!
This film deals with one of the world's most abused drugs, heroin. We get to met some persons, whose lives are ruled only by drugs. Their lives are about getting a fix and thinking about how to get enough money for the next. The film has been made with a lot of creativity in order to illustrate what effect heroin has on our organism. The atmosphere is everything in this movie. Expressions, experiences and exertion related to the drug. It is in short a tragic, but entertaining portrait of the world of a drug addict. Surely worth watching.


                
