In 1996 John Hodge took Irvine Welsh's novel "Trainspotting" and with the help of Danny Boyle's direction created one of the most influential, modern cult classics Britain has to offer. Commonly ranked among the greatest films of the 90s; "Trainspotting" delivers satisfactory viewing every single time. The essential drug film.The term "trainspotting" in this case, is not the non-drug based hobby, but has two meanings for this film. A) The act of "trainspotting" is UK slang for trying to find a vein to intravenously inject drugs. And B) A joke not featured in the film, but two of the characters go to a disused train station to buy drugs and say they are going "trainspotting".Ewan McGregor stars as Mark Renton, a performance that put him on the map, a man who spends; or wastes, most of his time taking drugs with his friends in one of their apartments. Until he decides to finally pack it in and go cold turkey. We see the highs and lows of the drugs as Renton attempts to build a new life. He battles the strain and the influences of his mates; including Sick Boy (Johnny Lee Miller) a man who stops at nothing to take all, Spud (Ewen Bremner) a fast-paced anxious performance and Francis Begbie (Robert Carylye) a frighteningly intense character who is possibly my favourite of all-time; and Renton's sex life.Vibrant colour is used to exaggerate the actions to intensify the imagery on screen. This also makes it stand out from other films creating a massive impact on the viewer. Unforgettable. The soundtrack consists of the pop culture the characters themselves love and some regularly featured in real life at the time. The film captures the era perfectly.Danny Boyle's stylish direction is what mainly is so appealing about the film. Delivering an expertly structured adrenalin rush. The daring topic of the film was well perceived by critics and audiences to claim universal praise. But, they were still unsure if it was supporting drugs or an anti-drug film. In a way it is both.We are guided through the film with Renton's narration, making it an extremely watchable viewing, one irresistible to want to experience several times. A hilarious triumph. This is movie-making at its most exhilarating.9/10


                
Director Danny Boyle and screenwriter John Hodge's 1996 adaptation of Irvine Welsh's 1993 debut novel was so central to young British culture at that time that it was always in danger of being forgotten as a mere curio of a bygone Britpop era. Thankfully, good comedy leads a long life, especially the black stuff. In the meanest, wittiest way, Trainspotting said "bollocks" to Britpop - in fact, it said "bollocks" to every fad and fashion going - and so it became immortal.Welsh's novel is, like many of his works, essentially a series of short stories bound together by a group of amiable, self-centred protagonists who share a common interest in the procurement of a life-affirming experience - in this case heroin. Unfilmable as such, Boyle and Hodge do an astonishing job of wrapping up a majority of the best Edinburgh tales in a tight 90-minute narrative. The misadventures of Renton (Ewan McGregor), Spud (Ewen Bremner) et al is alluring because their lust for life eclipses their need for skag - the physical enjoyment is never denied, and yet neither is our heroes' desire to see above and beyond the depravity and the mundanity. The film-makers are not simply allowing us to relate to these emaciated thieves - they are necessarily ensuring it.The casting is spot-on. McGregor puts in a signature performance as the amiable Mark Renton; Bremner brings the sensitive Spud hilariously to life; Robert Carlyle is unforgettable as the monstrous Francis Begbie - a man I fear we have all met and to whose jokes we have all felt obliged to laugh. Johnny Lee Miller, Kevin McKidd, and feature débutant Kelly Macdonald support superbly.What's the point of it all? you might ask. To say its simply about capturing a moment in British pop culture would be to deny the quality of its storytelling. Trainspotting is more than a zeitgeist because, for all its swagger and the brilliance of its soundtrack, it possesses an intricate, multi-taloned narrative navigated by 3D characters, more than one of whom finds his way to an uplifting and hopeful conclusion. Trainspotting is vital.


                
I spent half the duration of this film with my eyebrow raised and occasionally wincing. This movie is rife with cursing, nudity, drug use, alcohol, disturbing images (that doesn't just mean dead bodies, although there is one in it) crudity, screaming, psychedelic flashes, crime, twisting minds, feces, pornography, knives, treachery, madness, blood, noise, you name it! The result is a movie which not only boasts incredible acting, but a tangible plot line, and a lesson that one can learn because it is immersed in such a vibrant and... eh, different plot.Do not mistake this movie for something like 'Requiem for a dream'. This i s not a movie that intends to spread anti-drug propaganda. Nonetheless, that is exactly what we get out of this movie, after we see how revolted we are with the main characters, only two of whom are worth anything. In the main 5 characters, we have a drug-free, irreverent psycho with a temper to match Timur's. We have an addicted young man who tries to quit, but just can't get free of his dirty lifestyle and eventually betrays all of his friends in a scam. We have a not-quite right in the head junkie with weak bowel control (oddly enough, maybe the one most appealing character in the movie). We have a blonde addict with certain criminal tendencies and a dead baby on his mind. We have a semi-crazed addict who breaks up with his girlfriend because he lost a porno with their video in it and eventually resorts to eating cat feces (charming).These five characters do things that would revolt the most twisted, demented incarcerate. One shoves drug-pills up his *** and then dives into a VERY clean toilet to get them (needless to say, this is sarcasm). One would fight/maim anything up to and including architecture. One...Well, it's useless to describe the main characters and their actions. This is something that has to be seen to believed. But WARNING:...This movie is not for the weak-stomached or perfectionists. Here, you will see what is possibly the worst of humanity in all of it's dirt, crudity, and viciousness. Here, you will hear cursing that would make a sailor stop chewing and cross himself (actually, only 'In Bruges' has more curse words per minute).A triumph. 9/10


                
It is doubtful that there is much new that can be said at this stage about this adaptation of Irvine Welsh's triumphant 1993 novel of the same name. The film follows the misadventures of a group of extremely dysfunctional characters who are immersed in an underworld of addiction, crime, and violence. Their darkly funny antics are shortsighted, aimless, and nearly always have a tragic outcome. In this universe, the humane become casualties and only the most unprincipled have any chance of escape. Nearly all of the main protagonists are addicts of one sort or another, with heroin being the drug of choice. However, this film does not glorify drug use. The addict lifestyle and worldview is portrayed as being just as pointless and empty of meaning as the materialistic values and aspirations that are promoted by mainstream society.The richness of the material allows the audience to read "Trainspotting" in many ways: as a scathing social commentary, a superb existential black comedy, a bleak human drama, a gritty portrayal of addiction in it's many forms, or as a meditation on the meaning of self and the nature of friendship in a brutal world. However one chooses to understand it, this film relentlessly challenges it's audience. It is by turns compelling, hilarious, and horrific. Danny Boyle's direction is truly outside-the-box in terms of his depiction of amoral characters in an amoral world. The dialogue is razor sharp and the acting is top notch. Special mention should also be given to the cinematography and set-design, and the soundtrack is flawless. This film is a classic.


                
Danny Boyle's Trainspotting is a film that has left me perplexed ever since the first time I viewed it as a teenager nearly a decade ago. I remember, as I finished the film, thoroughly hating it. There was something about its subject matter and characters that I immediately found off putting. It wasn't until my third or fourth viewing of the picture that I really understood what Boyle was going for.It's supposed to be off putting and the characters are supposed to be unlikable. The film shows just how much of an impact heroin can have on a young individual's life. It destroys it to the point where heroin because the only that the really matters. For these young drug addicts, the only thing that gets them through the day is the anticipation of the next hit. By using over-the-top visuals (the sequence with the dead infant in the crib is one that I won't be able to shake for sometime) and a rapid MTV music video style editing, Boyle makes the film visually fascinating while showing the truth behind the life of the average drug addict.If I have a problem with the film it's that it really doesn't go far enough. Less quick cutting and hyper stylized editing and more human characters would have made the film deeper and more palatable. But, maybe that wasn't what Boyle was going for. With his use of editing, he shows just how much can be lost when one is stuck in the sad world of drug addiction. That, in and of itself, makes the film something special. The film is gritty and dark, both qualities that are rarely seen in Hollywood movies today. I still think the ending doesn't work as well as it should as it feels a bit too upbeat but that's a minor quibble of an otherwise fine film.


                
'Trainspotting' is a bleak, powerful and harrowing indie film, which propelled then unknown British actor, Ewan McGregor, onto the world stage. Its a controversial examination of the exploits, simultaneously humorous and poignant, of a coterie of Scottish drug addicts. Amazingly enough, this is only the second directorial effort from Danny Boyle after his acclaimed debut, "Shallow Grave"(1994). Shot entirely on location in the capital of Scotland, Edinburgh, it revolves around six key characters--Mark, Francis, Sickboy, Spud, Tommy and Diane. The film is narrated by Ewan McGregor's central character, Mark "rent-boy" Renton, who decides to change his self-destructive lifestyle. His struggle to quell his heroin addiction subsequently effects his relationship with his family and drug-addled friends. Some will extol the film's unsettling and harsh depiction of a gang of drug junkies whereas others will rebuke the film for glorifying and advocating drug use.'Trainspotting' is like modern-day "Clockwork Orange" in terms of temperament and setting, as it were. There are a few scenes that are somewhat reminiscent of 'Clockwork Orange' but aren't necessarily identical. In essence, its a film about youth culture as well as drugs. and its incredibly funny. Its not easy to watch, though. Its not for the squeamish, that's for sure. There are really disturbing images that will haunt the viewer days, if not weeks, after seeing the film. I've seen a lot of great drug-themed films(ex: 'The Man With The Golden Arm', 'Drugstore Cowboy', 'Down to The Bone' and 'Requiem for A Dream' immediately come to mind), "Trainspotting" joins the list. I don't know if its the best one out of the bunch, but I like it the most. Its a rather strange film in the sense that there's no concrete story. A great deal happens inside the character's head and some of it is quite disturbing. Only toward the end is there a semblance of a chronological narrative. Boyle deserves credit for eschewing social realism because the film isn't as depressing as a result. Instead of basking in the depravity of the characters, he has chosen to celebrate the prosperity of life, even in the hardships of these junkies.The performances are simply exceptional through and through. As the flawed yet redeemable Mark Renton, Ewan McGregor turns in an outstanding performance, probably the finest of his entire career. He reportedly went to extremes, like Christian Bale did for "The Machinist", to make his character look more believable as far as physical appearance was concerned. Bravo!. The great Robert Carlyle, however, owns the film as the alcoholic, violent, mercurial psychotic, Francis Begbie. He exudes a sense of danger and ominousness whenever he appears on screen. Its a shame that this brilliant, chameleon-like actor has never received an Oscar nomination. Its been long overdue after so many great performances in his career. Johnny Lee Miller, despite the brevity of his role, gives an excellent performance as the James Bond-loving heroin addict, "Sickboy". There are other performances well worth mentioning as well. Ewen Bremner is quite superb as the funny nitwit, "Spud". Kevin McKidd really shines as Tommy, a drug-free but curious athlete. Kelly MacDonald makes a stellar acting debut as the lovable "Diane", the voice of reason for Mark Renton. James Cosmo and Eileen Nicholas are effective as Mark Renton's parents.Technically, the film is really top-notch. Besides the uniformly great performances, the film has a great script, solid screenplay by John Hodge(received Oscar nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay), clever editing, arresting cinematography, sharp and witty dialogs. The narration by Ewan McGregor is excellent and helps propel the story. The direction by Danny Boyle is truly superb. The soundtrack and innovative techniques really add to the film's drug-soaked atmosphere as well. "Trainspotting" is a film that will age well. After 11 years, its still as powerful and influential as ever. One of the classic chronicles of addiction. Make seeing this film a priority.
What a great film this is. I love how they can take the lives of ordinary people and make them seem cool. The accents in this movie are more than killer I can't get enough of them. I love how the movie is shot and I love the choppy cadence of the monologues. I really want to go to Scotland now after seeing this movie. I think all the acting was amazing and the characters were great. This movie has not one, but two jamming soundtracks. It is a definite in my DVD collection, as well as my CD collection. I haven't read the book, but I really want to. With a movie as well done as this the book must be amazing. It also makes me want to say no to drugs. Heroin looks like an all around bad idea. I highly highly recommend this film. It is amazing and most certainly worth watching.


                
I find that the two dug depicting movies that have marked audiences the most are Requiem for a Dream and Trainspotting. After several viewings of both movies, I came to the conclusion that Requiem touches upon audiences emotions and sentiments while Trainspotting touches upon their reason. Trainspotting offers a realistic depiction of drug use, making audiences enjoy the movie and not cry at then end as Requiem quite often does. An extremely intelligent script and famous "trippy" scenes (notably the famous, or even infamous to some, toilet scene) all add up to this movie's uniqueness in its genre. As the protagonist Renton puts it after all there is a concrete reason for their habits which are frowned upon by society. The realistic depiction of drugs like heroin are not enough to make a movie great. It is the subtle social implications raised which bring out the idea behind Trainspotting. Here, I am referring to the first lines of the movie, and when Renton evokes his mother's "socially accepted" drug addictions among many others. Also, the flow of the movie is really enjoyable, as the ending leaves its impact on the audience. Nonetheless, it isn't a positive depiction of drugs. The dark colors, the apartment's constantly decaying state, the dead baby, and Renton's friend's death reveal the utter realism of drugs.


                
One of the best films in the 90's, Danny Boyle's "Trainspotting" is also one of the most compulsively watchable. I saw this film for the first time in a friend's house, when he purchased it, about 7 years ago. We were on school vacations, so for many days we had nothing to do. We used to just sit in his living room, going "ohhh. So now what?". Practically, every time the answer was: "let's watch it again". The first time you see this film, you are left with little but a big time fun (which is, by the way, not at all a bad thing). But this film grows enormously with every successive time you watch it. Every character gains substance, and you begin to comprehend the depth of each one of the situations portrayed. This movie achieves to entertain, with a near-perfect pace, gorgeous performances and unbelievably wit lines, and still manages to tell an actually very important story, to reflect the view of the world that most of the people of our age share deep inside: the anger towards the modern empty ideals and the futility in resisting them. Trainspotting is one of the key movies of our generation, a document of great value and a film that will stay for years to come.


                
I'm still not sure how the title "Trainspotting" relates to the story, but this is one of my favorite comedies and I rate it 9 of 10. It deals with some rough subjects - hard drug use, HIV, premature death, theft, bloodshed. But the movie in a great sense is about the attempts of one main character to go straight and "choose life", but his 4 dastardly friends end up making that very, very difficult.It starts in Edinburgh, moves to London, then back to Edinburgh. The situations and dialog generally are very well written and performed. You have to have a sick sense of humor, like I do, to appreciate this scene, but the one where he ends up in the "worst toilet in Scotland", then realizes he has to retrieve his suppositories, is just great!You really have to appreciate British humor to like this film. I found it much, much better than "Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels."


                
In Britain, during the 90s clubbing was at a high, literally and drug abuse was a regular problem concerning the government. Pop culture was pushing the limits and changing the way many people on the drug scene were used too. The problems were being told through the news, the radio and the newspapers frequently. Then in 1996 an independent British film hit cinema, causing uproar, controversy, worldwide success, critical acclaim and even government mention, this film was called Trainspotting.Trainspotting is based on a novel by Irvine Welsh which charts the life of a bunch of non- existent losers who're living their lives to their "supposed" full on the Edinburgh drug scene. The film charts the issues of poverty, crime and anti-social behavior that are still alive in Britain today and shows the horrifying problems of drug abuse that the public-eye attempts to be unaware of. The film exposes the bunch of nasty, yet somewhat hilarious group of stoner's lives and how Renton (Ewan McGregor) attempts to find a true meaning to his chaotic and miserable life.Trainspotting is not a film that will appeal to everyone; it's graphic, nasty and harrowing. Yet, it retains from wanting the viewer to stop watching and manages to hold you throughout the entire running time. A film's content can, in some cases occupy the film's story and make you lose any pity, affection or remorse for the characters. Trainspotting manages to disgust, while still informing the viewers of the problems from drugs.For a film that is so startlingly daring and distressing at times you'd be surprised that it manages to make its point so clear and authoritative. A factor that caused controversy on release was that the film is not afraid to say "drugs are good at first", but then the film goes on to saying "but it's not worth it because the side effects will screw you up forever". It's an excellent message and one that alerts any viewer not to ever go near drugs, yet people have ignored the true meaning of the film which is held within some of the horrific imagery and experiences. If there is one that film that will make you never want to take drugs its Trainspotting. It really will make you think twice and also help you understand why people do such repulsive and then why drug abuse is wrong. Trainspotting is not a film that is preachy, it says you have one life which you should use with care and how you should realize the consequences of your actions. So at heart Trainspotting is an unforgettable and mesmerizing study of wasted life. It succeeds in making its viewers come out learning and understanding one of the world's many unpleasant problems.If you didn't see these characters going through such disturbing events the film would not have such a poignant message and one that shows so many devastating outcomes of the drug abuse. Trainspotting has many iconic and memorable characters that're acted out with the utmost sincerity, yet some remain oddly charming. The characters are hysterical at times and for a film full such shameful people you still manage to hold pity for their decaying lives as they spiral into a living hell. The characters are very complex, though at first they seem simple and you gain an indisputable understanding of every character for a film that only lasts 90 minutes. Trainspotting is a film that has been highly influential to cinema as a whole, sparking off many films to come out of the genre and some films even using the same visual delights. For example in Guy Richie's magnificent Snatch, the characters are introduced in a similar way to Trainspotting and this is just to name one of many influences. Danny Boyle is an imaginative director with a brilliant trademark style to accompany his films.A film like Trainspotting is extremely exhausting because of its disturbing and what could have been an unbearable explicit nature. Because the film is at times highly amusing and visually glorious with its matchless ambiguity you'll not want to turn it off, even in the most disgusting moments. Though the film is at times flawed in the plot structure and has a few plot holes, the cinematography washes over the viewer with a somewhat mind-numbing quality. The dialog is brilliantly paced and laced with pop culture references, studies of British social class and haunting narrative from the almighty, career-launching performance by Ewan McGregor. Trainspotting's soundtrack is another high-point and remains entertaining, quirky and also flawlessly fitting to the scenes it accompanies.It's a film that truly lays bare the problems of youth and drugs, showing the genuine effects with the needed explicitly and yet remaining solid entertainment from the comedy factor. A true gem of British, 90s cinema which unflinchingly depicts the lives of the no-lives in their cruel and deceitful worlds they've climbed into. Trainspotting has heart and works as an educational roller-coaster of pure realism that still shocks and teaches viewers the horrific affects of drug abuse. Trainspotting is a film that will never leave you which is ironic considering it's about addiction and affliction. Trainspotting is a film that terrifies me and should succeed in making anyone want to keep clean. We all know drug abuse is awful, but Trainspotting succeeds in showing its viewers why.
Prepare to be shocked, horrified, disgusted, appalled, and entertained all at the same time by this electrifying film. Danny Boyle's sophomore film is, without a doubt, one of his best. It's a darkly comic story of depravity, depression, and heroin. It follows Renton, a young heroin addict who is constantly trying to kick his habit but is only drawn back in every time by his friends and his edgy lifestyle. The film chronicles a multitude of different events that happen in Renton's life in a kind of free form method, all involving sex and drugs. The film doesn't hold itself back on the disgust and shock it so easily elicits, making it incredibly memorable in the most hilariously deranged way possible.From the opening shot of this film we get a nice feel for what is in store for us. We open with Renton and his friends running through town, jumping over cars as Renton narrates about life and normality, setting the stage for the overall motif of this film. Renton observes a normal life and he recognizes it, but he just doesn't see the use in it when he has heroin. After listing off a plethora of "normal life" things in his monologue he ends it by saying, "I chose somethin' else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who needs reasons when you've got heroin?" And that is how the entire film flows. Renton tries to get rid of the habit but then the allure just draws him back in, each time drawing him in deeper, causing his despondency to grow worse and worse.But Renton isn't the only reason why this film is great. The rest of the characters are fantastic. The supporting cast of this film is incredible and they really drive the story to its greatest heights while Renton keeps it moving so we never get bored. Each character shares the same problems in one way or another and then some are just insane. There's Sick Boy and Spud, Renton's junkie friends who cause more problems than solutions in Renton's life, but he can't escape them. There's Tommy, the clean friend who chooses not to pollute his body with heroin and yet still has problems of his own. Then of course there is Bigbie, played to perfection by Robert Carlyle. Bigbie is the definition of insane. He is a man who will kill you as soon as look at you. He is a violent, angry, and unpredictable man whose every moves make you uncomfortable. All of his scenes are hilarious, yet at the same time so disturbing. He perfectly fits the film's feeling of over-the-top insanity mixed with a harsh biting realistic element that allows you to connect and be fascinated by these characters.Trainspotting is a disturbed masterpiece. It's characters drive the story so powerfully and so electrically. And when you couple that with Danny Boyle's rough and rugged direction and an brilliantly witty script it makes the film that much better. It is hard to comprehend what you are supposed to take away from this film, but by the end you know you obviously took something away because of how strikingly incredible the film is. It's sporadic insanity drills itself into your mind, leaving you with so many scenes that you just can't shake. Trainspotting is brutally hilarious. It is one big oxymoron of greatness and you'll never see anything else quite like it.


                
This movie is the funniest, most entertaining and informative efforts to give insight on and discourage drug use. Although most of the movie shows the main characters in the depravity of drug use, the message and plot development don't glorify it but present the consequences. The dialogue of this movie makes almost all scenes hilarious. The sporadic nature of the speech, as well as the different pronunciations of words, prove to make the conversations interesting.There isn't much that I don't like about this movie. I can honestly say that I wasn't thrilled at the two dick shots in the movie and a few scenes were pretty disgusting, but I think they were presented for the purpose of showing how disgusting and desperate the main characters lifestyle was.In comparison to other movies about drugs, I believe that Trainspotting has a much better message or at least presents the story in way that shows the consequences of drug use. For instance, I believe the overall message of Pineapple Express is that one should always befriend their drug dealer, especially if they're James Franco. Don't get me wrong, I thought the movie was hilarious and I also realize that marijuana is not a hard drug like heroin, but I think I make my point. Trainspotting is a hilarious movie, and also the most disgusting, messed up, and honest version of an anti-drug message that there is.


                
What I liked most of all in Trainspotting - above the brilliant directing, acting and storytelling - is the completely objective portrayal of heroin. I never used heroin myself and i'm not going too, but it is very nice to see once in a while a film which does not tell you "do not do drugs, it's evil" - but rather portray them from objective point of view - the good, and the bad. And ironically, this fact made me even more afraid of drugs, and deliver the perfect anti-drug message.While the beginning might seem like it is praising heroin ("take the best orgasm you ever had, multiply it by 1000 and you're still nowhere near heroin..."), it proceed to a different direction, and shows, sometimes in very disgusting ways, how much the character depend on the drug. For example, the scene where Berton dives to the most disgusting toilet ever (while viewing the scene, remember - this is chocolate!) just to get his drug... The number of times a character states "i'm out of it", or "this is my last shot" is huge, yet they are having great difficulties to stand by their word.Overall - the movie is entertaining, funny, and very recommended.


                
In what can be described as one of the best movies to come out of Britain, Danny Boyle directed a film which will stand on its own for quite a long time. With a strong cast to back up the tongue in cheek dialogue, this film takes on another view of friendship unlike his previous work, Shallow Grave. Ewan McGregor was excellent as the troubled and weak Renton, giving us both a tragic hero, yet one with vices that tend to control him. Overall, I felt the story was very strong, and the other actors (Ewan Bremner, Jonny Lee Miller, Robert Carlyle, Kevin McKidd and Kelly MacDonald) brought in a rather quirky and dysfunctional backdrop to Renton's troubles. One of the best anti-drug movies of all time, hopefully this is one which will be remembered for years to come.


                
One of the most influential films in recent memory for the British film industry, skyrocketing the careers of Ewan McGregor and Danny Boyle.Set in contemporary 1996 Scotland, Trainspotting follows a small group of youths trapped in the grip of heroin abuse. One of them, Mark Renton, looks to better himself but finds the task monumentally difficult, not only because of the addiction but also because of the losers he decided to call friends.Trainspotting made colossal waves in the mid-1990s. Director Danny Boyle (now famous for Slumdog Millionaire and 127 Hours) would become a household name in the United Kingdom as one of the great contemporary British directors with this stylish, low-budget black comedy based off of Irvine Welsh's novel of the same name. Watching it now, over twenty years later, not only do I feel old but Trainspotting is a time capsule; a resoundingly 90s movie! This is mostly due to Danny Boyle's music choices, which would become a trademark of his movies (with exceptions like sci-fi flick Sunshine) and here is a tremendous example of his skill at picking and choosing his soundtrack. Perhaps the other nostalgic element, and most famous, is Ewan McGregor's voice-over "Chose Life"; single- handedly challenging society while also making great observational comedy. Of course, Trainspotting is also a deeply uncomfortable experience. Much of its fame is controversy; the shiny, bright and well off society of 1990s Britain being shown with drug-addled youths, lost generations and death. All from the perspective of these unhinged people "living life", a cold contradiction that they and those around them suffer yet they seem casually unfazed by it all. Jovial even! Indeed, the film goes to some dark places, and all within the first half! Within twenty minutes we have Ewan McGregor on a drug-fueled diarrhea trip, impossibly climbing into a toilet head first to reclaim lost suppositories. What!?!It feels at times like a British answer to Quentin Tarantino. Irvine Welsh's writing coming through the screenplay with wit and banter, at times long ranting monologues (one of my favourites coming from Renton while in the middle of a Scottish moor) the film is as quotable and memorable as it is brutal and nihilistic. Then there is Robert Carlyle as Begbie, the only one who isn't a drug addict and he is more terrifying than any of them!Trainspotting is a hard film to like, but an easy film to respect. An absolute must for anyone studying film (its screenplay was nominated for an Academy Award) and film history; it inspired many budding British filmmakers. Personally I can see the demented love, fun and confidence that the cast and crew poured into the film, and while I cannot relate at all, its rebellious and almost perceptive nature makes it rewarding regardless of the dark pit that it resides.


                
This movie is just different than what we usually see in movie theatres. In this movie we look at life with drug addict Mark Renton eyes and how he sees everything. This movie is also about friendship and I like the fact that everyone from that group has different characteristics. Movie also shows how even a single choice can change their lives and this movie is not fictional it shows how much dark can reality be to someone and tho they are drug addicts you still try to sympathise with them. Movie from a start to finish is just addicting after one time you want to watch it again and again and the movie was executed beautifully. Its sad that this movie didn't get the attention that it needed but it's not too late to change that. I recommend this movie to you 100% !!!!!!!


                
Since the trailer for Trainspotting 2 was released last week, I thought it could be a good idea to watch the first film again, and write my own review on it.At this point, Trainspotting has become a indisputable cult film, full of sketchy, shambolic characters, each one unique in his own way. The drastic representation of those people and of the dark world of drug consumption is worryingly realistic. This flick, directed by Academy Awards winner Danny Boyle, does not only show a one-way street in the drug consumption - as usual - but also the oncoming traffic once you're in. It goes purely into the addiction, then out of it, and then it comes back. When the director wants to show something, he does it by putting the perfect words into the actors mouths. The film strikes with original and memorable scenes which didn't take a lot of space in the original novel by Irvine Welsh. You'll probably never forget the scene with excrement flying around during breakfast, or the dive into Scotland's most insipid toilet (the water looks, however, strikingly clear). Every single actor sends out cool vibes, even in the least cool moments. The young Ewan McGregor impresses with his main role throughout the whole movie.The first time I saw Trainspotting I didn't watch it in English though, and only after watching it again in the native tongue I saw how much of a difference the local patriotism and thick Scottish accent made, giving it another layer of cultural references. The main cast doesn't consist of five friends in a desperate situation, but rather five random guys who lost the lottery of life. They steal from each other, lie to each other and always pull themselves into the swamp that is drug addiction. The only thing that keeps them together is their desire for money. 9/10
This is from "Barfly" which is to alcohol what "Trainspotting" is to heroin. This would make a helluva tag-line for the British cult-classic, but I'm not sure the feeling would last. Sepaking for myself, the worst toilet of Scotland is such a nightmarish vision it cured me from any temptation. Yes, I would keep my horrible life if it could spare me the use of laxative suppositories (I'm the type to cover the bowl with toilet paper before sitting).Being less than a decade younger than most of the cast, I can say the word 'drug' belonged to my dictionary since childhood, I didn't know exactly what drugs were but that was the point, I wasn't even supposed to try to know. Even my favorite kids' magazine dared to employ the S-word to describe drugs. It came to the point that I avoided cigarettes like the plague because I thought the first one magically started the addiction. Well, it wasn't far from truth either but I wouldn't have tried to check if this also stood for drugs, well, not heroin anyway. That's just to say heroin (or cocaine) is the ultimate interrogation mark and I owe most the answers to movies. I guess "Trainspotting" stands in the Top 3 behind "Requiem for a Dream" and "Panic in Needle Park".Things I learned about heroin from movies: there are two feelings when you're into them, one that transcends your highest perceptions of orgasm, and when the effect is over, the need for more drugs. Dependence and pleasure, that's the cycle of addiction. And having stopped smoking two years ago, I know how it feels to be dependent, you only wait for the next cigarette and everything is structured around drugs, in fact around addiction. And this is what Danny Boyle's directorial debut is about, the structuring effect of drugs in one's life and the alienating effect from the others' lives. The film sets the tone with its opening sequence featuring the three protagonists running in Edinburgh streets, why and where they run to isn't significant, it's all in Ewan McGregor's speech.The opening monologue could have been delivered by Tyler Durden in "Fight Club", an ode to anarchic freedom devoid of greedy impulses, the independence from the diktat of fashion, consumption or the whole baloney about having a regular life, family, kids etc. The merit of this scene is double: it has the honesty to say that once you're in drugs, you don't really care for the norm, in fact, you can't care. The second is to grab the viewer from the collar and take him into this journey with a promising and catchy soundtrack that made the film one of the most emblematic of the 90's (hell, they even included Dance Music), the whole things feels exhilarating, cool and young. And you know what this immersion reminded me of? Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas". This is the kind of film that plunges you into an underworld with its codes, habits, or lack of, and the way their members look at the rest of the world, girls, family, law, and by the magic of the screen, make their lifestyle look almost (I say almost) appealing. Of course, organized crime has a slight edge what's with all the money, cars, suits, but in "Trainspotting", there's this dilettante quality, this detachment combined with a camaraderie between those 'who know'. We wouldn't want to try, but if there ever was another way to get an idea of what their lives feel like, we would. That's the mark of great films: to make you part of an experience, following protagonists from start to finish and see what lessons they or you learned. And "Trainspotting" benefited from a an A-list of unforgettable characters, who complete each other perfectly. Mark (Ewan McGregor) is the guy under the influence, oscillating between heroin and Diane, his heroin so to speak (Kelly McDonald's debut), he talks so many times about quitting that we stopped taking his motivation as a serious factor. Spud (Ewen Bremner) is the goofiest of the bunch but also the nicest, he also tries to settle down and find a job but I'm not sure I'd try an interview under the effect of speed. Tommy (Kevin McKidd) is the clean guy with a weird habit to shoot himself while banging his girlfriend and by shooting I mean with a cam, only once he'll try with a needle, and it will be one time too many (Karma is the bitchiest of all). And there's Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller) who talks about Sean Connery and overrated awards movies like a legitimate IMDb user. And in the obligatory anger management department, Begbie (Robert Carlisle) pulls a Tommy De Vito in every single scene he is. Whenever you watch his pretty head, you know there's trouble coming. This is "Trainspotting" in a nutshell, it doesn't make drug look cool, like "Goodfellas", there's a moment where everything falls but it asks more questions than it provides answers. Speaking for myself (well it's a personal review what did you expect?), I spend so much time on IMDb, I love chatting about movies, sharing stuff with fellow movie geeks and reviewing that I wonder if it's not an addiction.Indeed, I review whatever I see, and right now, I should be watching a film, but I've got to finish this review before, and tomorrow, I'll start the film after the review of "Trainspotting" etc., IMDb won't have the same effect as heroin, but after these years, I can say IMDb won and structured my life. This is why you can't expect a 'total victory' in "Trainspotting", only a series of new beginnings, new cycles and maybe this is the secret of its enduring appeal, when you finish it, you wouldn't mind watching it again, in case you missed something.


                
I first saw this film a few years ago after viewing some other films by the director Danny Boyle and also out of interest from reading the original novel by Irvine Welsh.The novel was well written, darkly funny and shockingly disturbing in places too. The film adaption follows in the same trend.Featuring some of the most notable and talented British actors, the film is portrayed in a very authentic and believable fashion, often with a light comedic influence. It would be hard for me to write about the performances of the various actors cast in the film with out spoilling it for people who are yet too watch it, but the cast do play the film out exceptionally well.Trainspotting is in my opinion Danny Boyle's greatest film, well choreographed, well acted and has a score fitting to the scenes in the film.9/10


                
It's amazing to think this was vilified for glamorizing drug use at the time of its release, because it's as stirring an anti-drug sentiment as I've ever seen. Ewan McGregor gets his breakout role as the weak-willed heroin-addicted poster boy Mark Renton, who constantly surrounds himself with a gaggle of the worst friends money can buy. It's a thousand different emotions all rolled into one concise package, with a dozen scenes that had me laughing out loud, an equal number of gut punches, a few manic spurts of action, a load of excellent off-the-cuff conversations and one giant, trainwrecked final score. A nonstop, chaotic adventure with a well-rounded cast of characters and a knack for extreme moods, it's occasionally tough to discern the dialog thanks to the abundance of thick Scottish accents. Several outstanding selections on the soundtrack unify the scattered emotions very nicely.


                
If you want an honest, unflinching portrayal of drug use, then this is your movie! Trainspotting stars an excellent cast Ewan McGregor as "Renton," an Edinburgh twenty-something with no goals but to score some heroin. He and his "mates" run amok throughout the city looking for any way to get high and, along the way, must deal with sadistic girlfriends, juggling friendships, and avoiding withdrawal. Renton resolves to kick his addiction, but his past keeps coming back to haunt him. Boyle doesn't pull any punches with his storytelling, giving us the good, the bad, and the ugly with equal force. And he does this with masterful cinematography, editing, and music. The acting is praiseworthy as well, providing a bevy of memorable performances, including Robert Carlysle as the psychotic "Begbie." This film is one of the best films I've seen about this subject matter and one of the best to come out of modern British cinema!
This is Danny Boyle's second feature film and I must admit that by the time I'd seen this one I was convinced he was Scottish. Fortunately I know better now. This one's all about drug addiction and the consequences of it. Sounds a drag, but believe me, it's one of the most entertaining films you'll ever see! But more on my thoughts later, here's a very brief summary first (summary haters please go cold turkey in the back room while I write the next paragraph).Set, for the main part, in Scotland, this film tells the story of Renton and his friends, Spud, Sick Boy, Tommy and Begbie. It tells of their flirtations with heroin and all that brings. How they rip each other off, ruin each other's relationships, get high, get low, get sick, get off the drug, get back on it again<U+0085> it's all here. Eventually Renton decides to get off it entirely and moves to London, but that is far from the end of it. I'm going to leave it deliberately brief and vague because this is a dish best served without too much prior knowledge my friend.First of all, it's a great script by John Hodge based on the novel by Irvine Welsh; add to that the directorial skill of Danny Boyle and you have a bit of a masterpiece on your hands. There are times where things do get a bit surreal, but I think it all adds to the brilliant execution of this tale. Really great performances all round, particularly from; Ewan McGregor as Renton, Ewen Bremner as Spud, Jonny Lee Miller as Sick Boy, Kevin McKidd as Tommy and Robert Carlyle as the psycho, Begbie.There are scenes in this film that are quite hard to watch but I believe it is all included to show just how real the effects of drug addiction are. There is also a lot of humour in this film which, kind of, plays against the grain in a couple of places, but it didn't detract from my enjoyment too much. Over all, with an iconic soundtrack, some great performances, a tremendous script and some brilliant filmmaking, this one is very, very highly recommended.My score: 9.2/10


                
At initial glance, Trainspotting, dealing with somewhat rather controversial issues, seems horrendously sickening. Despite this, taking Trainspotting for what it is, Danny Boyle's second venture into the world of film seems rather uplifting and invigorating despite the somewhat macabre storyline. Clearly making references and paying tribute to many independent pioneers of pop cultural ladened films, it surprised me to discover that Trainspotting is in fact based on the novel of the same name. Despite such a fresh and promising film, Trainspotting when examined under close scrutiny seems rather unextraordinary. Although performances from most of the cast are rather nice, with special praise going to Ewan McGreggor and Robert Carlyle, the storyline still seems to be rather void of any life; it instead has to rely upon it's pop cultural references and controversial themes to keep both the plot and its audience plodding along nicely. Trainspotting is ultimately a fantastic homage to all things, admittedly not the best selection, British. It's because of this, and with some rather nice camera work, that the audience deems it acceptable to look over any minor errors that stop this film from becoming a brilliant piece of British cinema.
this movie is highly recommended for anyone interested in existential themes. i found Danny Boyle very nicely illustrated Irvine Welsh's story of a man who questions his purpose and has to choose between life and nothing (thereby not choosing at all). by not choosing, he means falling back on heroine, the ultimate escape from reality.The acting delivers the great plot and script perfectly. I couldn't ask for more.i loved it. especially when he goes to London to try to integrate into 'life.' please watch. spud: this is not natural man. tommy: it's the great outdoors! it's fresh air!


                
