If I was to think of this and part 1 as one long movie, it'd be a 7/10. However it's not and part 2 was a shadow of the first. A real 'hollow' film that seemed rushed and had no great emotion or character depth which, to me, is what the final film should consist of the most. The bad. 1. Goblins getting stoned from spells. 2. No real dialogue between any of the characters 3. Harry snaps the most powerful wand ever, with his bare hands after Olivander makes wands seem like living things earlier in the film. But yeah. He just snaps it. Poor storytelling. 4. The only good thing in the film (Snape's memory) was rushed. 5. Bad humour to break the tension when the tension should not have been broken. It is meant to be a dark film after all. 6. Not showing characters deaths. Which one of the Weasley's died? I challenge anyone that hasn't read the book to answer that. They showed no close up and didn't really give any notification as to who it was, except for maybe once. Which doesn't really give the characters justice and makes them seem worthless. 7. The Death Eaters just leave and I'm left asking..why? Why is this not explained? 8. The Elder Wand should not duel against it's master Harry, I thought? So why did it do so once the part of Voldemort was out of Harry and just before Nagini was killed? It's as if it went, oh, Nagini is now dead. Voldemort can die. Let's deflect the spell onto him now. So stupid. Substituting suspense with a consistent plot. 9. You'd expect some interesting words from Harry and Voldemort, especially since their feud has been hyped up for 10 years. There was none of that. 10. No screen time for anybody except Harry and Voldemort. The Good. 1. Voldemort walking through blood in his bare feet talking to Nagini in parsel tongue. It was dark and brilliant. If there rest of the film had continued like that, it would of been a lot better. 2. Snape's memory. It contained emotion and served justice to the character. Which no other character truly got in this film.There's loads more bad things about this film. But it's annoying me just thinking about them. There is not other good things I can think of. I feel robbed as a fan of previous films and a fan of the books. 1.
Elder Wand works despite cracking??? What is going on in this film??? Humor was placed at inappropriate times. It was supposed to be a hard, intense, fast-paced, all-out action, battle-hard, World War 2-kind of film, but this is anything but. Those who are in need of a good laugh might enjoy this film. Rowling's wizarding laws are completely decimated. Since when did Harry start 'sensing' horcruxes? Did Harry even possess this ability to 'sense' horcruxes to begin with? In that case, why didn't he realize that the diary in 'Chamber of Secrets' is a horcrux, and Slytherin's locket and Nagini in 'Deathly Hallows Part 1' are also horcruxes? In such as a situation, the trio would've been totally spared the trouble of wandering around like nomads (searching for the remaining horcruxes) like they did in Part 1. It doesn't even work that way. But then the previous adaptations were so horribly created (if you can call them adaptations, that is) that the film-makers had to tie up the loose ends somehow, and the end result is there for everybody to see. Oh yeah, Bellatrix and Voldemort burst and erupt like confetti when they die. And after Harry kills Voldemort, no one even cares two hoots about what has happened. They are all behaving as if Voldemort never even existed in the first place, drinking tea in the Great Hall (not even a "Well done, Harry"). In that case, why did they even fear to speak his name for all these years?I am a fan of Rowling's writing. But the films have never lived up to that standard. And this one, I'm afraid, is no different.
First of all I must explain that I am a huge fan of the books. They practically taught me to read. This is perhaps why I found the film so devastatingly disappointing. It is worth noting that if you have never read the book you may find this film to be entertaining.The good: -The scene with the room of requirements is very accurate and entertaining. Especially with Harry saving Malfoy and Crabe dying. Helena Ravenclaw, he scene was spooky and pretty much the same as the book. However it just seemed so rushed.Neville was pretty much spot on. Just not enough air time.The Gringott's scene was accurate, but again so very very rushed. And that's pretty much it for the good.The Bad: -The constant pointless inaccuracies to the book. I'm well aware that things must be adapted when making a film from a book. But here they seem to change so many things, some important some not so important, for no particular reason. For example some of the Hogwarts students SEEM to be living in the room of requirement, so they can hide from Snape but they still go to the great hall, when he calls them. And when the battle for Hogwarts is about to begin, instead of evacuating all the under aged students out of the castle, they are allowed to fight, and the Sliverins are just kept in the dungeons. I won't list them all, as there are far far far too many to mention. But this is the main thing that really lets the film down.-Bits of the story that they failed to mention earlier in the films just appear out of no where, and carry on as if we've known about them all along. For example the ghost of Lupin talking about his son. Nowhere in the films is it mentioned that he has a son, and its actually a fairly big part of the book. -Fred's death is skated over very quickly. This is so disappointing, because in the book this is pretty much the biggest death. But before you know it, its over and Fred is never talked about again.-There is hardly any talk about the deathly hallows. No wait scrape that, there is pretty much NO talk of the deathly hallows, and it's the title of the FILM! Not even Dumbledore talks about them, and that is such a massive part of the book, and a massive part of Dumbledore.-The entire film should have been called "Harry and the lost Cameo" because that's what it is! Every other actor just seems to have cameos. Percy's on the good side all of a sudden. No explanation at all (a reoccurring theme with Yates, don't you think?).-Absolutely no Dumbledore back story. This is just such a huge part of the book.-The final fight scene Between Harry and Vol is just completely inaccurate. The whole point of Harry being the master of the Elder wand but not possessing it is that Vol can't cast any spells at Harry, and there he is shooting all sorts at him.-Voldemort's death is pathetic, plus its meant to take place in the great hall were everyone can see it. -One of the worst parts of this film is the epilogue. It takes place 19 years into the future. So I hoped they would have used different actor. NOPE instead they made a very poor attempt at ageing them all, by making Harry and Ron Fatter and Ginny and Hermione just plain frumpy. It's a horrible way to end a hugely disappointing film.I can't believe the film is being so well received, and I really can't believe that J.K. Rowling is happy with this film. If you're a lover of the books then please don't do it to yourself to watch this film. Just read the book again.
I've been a big fan of the books having read each several times in the American and British versions. I was interested to see the movies knowing that there would be some changes required because of length and the fact that it is hard for movies to show thoughts. I have often been disappointed in each movie because of the illogical changes to plot lines beginning with Professor Quirrell not being harmed when he touches Harry but being destroyed when Harry touches him.The seventh movie in the series was the WORST for plot changes. Voldemort (the "t" is supposed to be silent) does extraordinary things with Dumbledore's wand, not because it's part of the plot, but because it makes more special effects possible. While, in the book, Harry never jumped off the school with Voldemort, it's added to the movie because it's another chance for unnecessary special effects.In the final battle, it isn't shown why Fred was the one killed. Whenever anyone "good" is killed, they simply fall over dead. Yet, when Bellatrix Lestrange and Voldemort explode into tiny black triangles(?). Neville's attainment of the sword of Griffindor after his speech to Voldemort and Harry's speech with Voldemort wherein he wraps up all the plot twists is changed to nonsense to allow the addition of more special effects.I've never been more upset after a movie, tho' having to waste $18 on totally worthless 3D effects didn't help.
The final nail is hammered into the coffin of Harry Potter as the series dies in a stupid action-fest. I'm going to list three reasons I dislike this movie and the direction the Harry Potter films have taken, and then I'll let you all lynch me.1. ToneTone is important to a movie. You can make it dark, or light-hearted, or funny, or scary, but if you mix it up too much you'll end up with a film that's hard to take seriously. Harry Potter started off as a charming phenomenon for kids - the peril was mild, we were constantly meeting magical new people and creatures and it was all great. Then we come to this movie, and by now I've got no idea what the tone is meant to be. It's certainly not a light-hearted movie for kids any more. It's not really an adult film either. You've got something close to horror in one scene, and then you've got comedy, and then romance, and it's hard to tell when you're meant to be excited or laughing or scared. The constant humour and the earlier films have established this universe as a very light-hearted one, and so when we're introduced to Voldemort and his big, evil taking-over-the-world plan, there's not really much of a sense of danger. People try to tell me that the series has grown and matured as its audience has grown and matured. Now, I started reading the books when I was very young, so I'm part of that audience. I'd rather appreciate it if people stopped feeding me that crap - you pick a tone and you stick with it, or I won't be able to take anything seriously.2. No TensionYou can spend as much as you want on amazing visuals and complex action sequences, but they won't be exciting unless you make the audience care. I have to be worried about whether the protagonists will succeed, and the obstacles need to be hard to overcome. In the earlier films, they had interesting obstacles: look at the first film, where they had to get past a series of tests to get to the philosopher's stone. Then in the second, they hatched a plan to transform into other people in order to sneak around. It was tense; they could get caught.The new films may have cool visual effects, but they're unimaginative. The phrase "deus ex machina" sums up a lot of this movie. For example, they enter the bank. Holy crap, a giant dragon! How will they overcome this?! Oh, don't worry, this goblin guy is just going to ring a bell. Yeah, keep ringing... There we go, problem solved. Wow, how exciting! Now, let's get the thing we came in to get which the audience doesn't care about... Oh no, the room's filling up with gold, but I'll just keep going and... Yeah, there we go, got the thing. Now, let's leave. Oh, no! The place is collapsing! How will we get out?! Oh, a massive flying dragon we can ride on. That's convenient. Off we go!It just felt like a series of things which happened. Every obstacle had some immediate and convenient resolution. Even when Harry died we all knew that he'd just somehow come back to life. It just sucks out all the tension.3. Harry Potter is RuinedLike I was saying earlier, remember how Harry Potter used to be a charming adventure for kids? By the end of this series, that's all gone. They don't spend much time in the magical castle, they spend it in the dull English countryside. Every book used to be a fun adventure at Hogwarts, which was full of mystery as well as familiar, enjoyable people and settings. Now our lovable fictional universe is the setting for some uninteresting conflict which we don't really care about. JK Rowling wants to make a load of points about modern issues and politics. In the end, these turn out to be very shallow, broad, and uninteresting. Here's a hint: your books got popular because we wanted to read about Harry's magical adventures, not the Ministry of Magic getting taken over by Nazis. Oh, no, wait, it's a serious series for adults now, no more childish fun to be had here. Anyone who watched George Lucas ruin the Star Wars franchise with the prequel films will see that mirrored here: iconic, wonderful, interesting things from the earlier films are shoved into the film in excess. George Lucas had a billion lightsabre duels. In Harry Potter we've got a massive fight with wands. It looks amazing; bolts of red and green stuff flying all over the place, people getting knocked down, things exploding... But that's not the point of wands. Think back to the duel between Harry and Malfoy in the Chamber of Secrets. That looked rubbish. It was small. But it was far more exciting and gripping than hundreds of wands discharging all over the room like they're laser guns. Likewise, remember the duel between Harry and Voldemort at the end of the fourth film. Different coloured streaks of magic stuff came out of the end of each wand and the only real action was in Harry's face going grrrrhnnngrrrr... But that was great - it was the first proper face-off between Harry and his mortal enemy; it was a clash of good and evil, an exciting showdown with the villain. Now all that's been ruined.There are many more things I could list. The fanboys will hate me in any case. But this simply wasn't a good film, and the magic of Harry Potter is long gone.
Deathly Hallows works all right as a film, I suppose. My enjoyment of it was just spoilt by the total lack of respect shown by the director and scriptwriter for the source matériel. The book had a rather good plot and not bad characters. Would it have hurt the film that much to include any of that. No, all of that was junked to put in scenes that had nothing to do with the plot of the book, twist and slant other parts of the book plot, ignore quite a lot of important book points and simply never refer to the main plot point of the book at all. Does anyone recall anything about what the Deathly Hallows actually were and how many Harry had, if indeed he had any?So OK film, terrible, terrible adaption.
I don't think it matters whether you are a fan of the books or not to be able to come to the conclusion that this is the worst Harry Potter film of all and one of the most over-rated films ever! I have not read all of the books which means that I have a fairly unbiased view when watching the films-I'm not expecting the film to follow the books exactly.This film was awful for several reasons: 1)Lack of dialogue- what's the point in paying the actors millions of pounds for them to say virtually nothing throughout...apart from Harry and frankly I would rather he remained quite throughout because his voice and wimpy demeanour irritate me! 2)Poor action scenes- for example an exchange between Harry and Voldermort- was pathetic. It wasn't an intense duel; it was poorly acted.3)Wooden acting- for example the romance between Ron and Hermione- you could tell how uncomfortable they felt together! And the ending is incredibly poor- it was too abrupt and didn't connect smoothly to the rest of the film- a rush job I think.I can't believe this film is expected to gross the most money of all the films. And I can't believe I actually PAID to see it...I would have to be paid to see it again that's for sure! Don't waste your money and time (2hours40mins)on this film even if, like me, you're going to see it just because it's the last ever films- it's the worst of the lot!


                
it was very much disappointing. the first 5 parts were taken nicely, started very well.in order to make more money, the last two parts of deathly hallow was taken giving out just disappointments.in previous parts it took more time to find the ho-crux. it took time to find how to destroy it. in hp7 every 15 to 20 minutes ho-crux was found and destroyed.hp7 was confusing to understand. my least favorite part is the ending where harry defeats Voldemort. I was expecting something more. the poorest by director David Yates.
They went for dramatic visuals and effects rather than follow a good storyline.Lots of changes to the books and scenes added for cinematic view.They do not care about the books or the storyline as long as it looks good and they can get in 3d shots.You also wont see a more anti climatic end to a film ever.After a decade of movies they finally kill the most dark evil wizard of all time and nobody gives a monkeys.Well done David Yates for ruining the harry potter franchise.YOU directed 4 movies and ruined everyone of them.Order of the phoenix was the longest book but the shortest movie.Half blood prince was butchered beyond recognition.Deathly hallows part 1 was dragged out too long and was boring.Lets hope you do not get a chance to ruin anymore movies.


                
One year on since the movie was premiered and I can still taste the bitter pill the production team of Harry Potter 8 made me swallow and to believe I actually paid money for it.After the first installment of Deathly Hallows I said to myself <U+0084>You know what, that wasn't bad, not bad at all" but that was more because it didn't disappoint me as much as the other 6 films.I have, as you guessed it, read all the books, back and forth, north to south and I loved them. And the climax that was book number 7. Never in my wildest dreams did I think that the book would be so good, but it was and is one my favorites.It almost got tarnished and burned with the death mark because of the eight film. Why is that movie so poor? Because the production team had in its mainstream view's and perhaps laziness given themselves no time to get a feel for the book and the wizarding world the author created. Scenes and venues changed, the proper way something happened was changed and often utterly deformed from its original setting. I will lose your attention by starting to talk about "that did not happened like this in the book" so I will end my bad review shortly.Do not watch this movie. Thank heavens we have the books. Get yourself cozy and read the book(s), and it doesn't care if you have already read them, re-read them, everything to get your interest away from this movie.ps. One detail, I thought I would leave the theater when He-who-must-not-be-named gave Draco a hug. Really Yates? Is your understanding of the book so simple? Common, pick up the book and read it.


                
Warning! Contains few spoilers on numerous scenes in the movie due to the lack of thinking that went into those scenes. For those who haven't seen the movie don't read this.Warning Contains Spoilers=WCS Let me just start off by saying the movie does not deserve a 8.2. People have rated this on the fact that it's the last movie. There are many scenes in the final movie I hated.WCSThey are the breaking of the shield, Harry nodding to Narcissa after his run in with death, the color blue and the final duel. Firstly the color blue is so annoying. More Spoilers=MSThe color blue is heavily used in the battle of Hogwarts. There is too much of the one color and its really frustrating because the producers are better then that. This along with part 1 are the two worst Harry Potter movie's I have ever seen. The previous movie's are creative and unexpected were as this movie in particular is not. This is because they 're getting lazy towards the end. This is expected but for Harry Potter that's a low point in the franchise. MS I mean come on! The Voldermort and the Death Eaters took the easy anti-climatic way of breaking the shield. What they should have done was used the latest digital effects to make it epic. An example would be like the fire snake scene. MSThe second scene I don't like is Harry nodding to Narcissa. This gives away the fact he is alive and that's not a good thing. If they kept the fact he was dead concealed a little longer it would have added more emotions to the movie.MS& contains a Order of the Phoenix SpoilerLastly the final duel is also anti-climatic. It needed to be epic by using a variety of spells. If they used a combination it would keep you on the edge of your seat. For example the duel scene in the Order of the Phoenix between Dumbeldore and Voldermort. This was epic and the reason it is one of my favorite Harry Potter movie's. The books by J.K Rowling are epic and everything you want in a book. The movie's take you back to reality that it can't be as good as the hype. That's why I want those who believe this to give the movie a 1 to bring the movie done to its rightful rating( at least 7.4). I have nothing against Harry Potter I just believe in fair voting and not just giving it a 10 because you like it.
Awful, awful is the word that comes to mind. After the highly waste part one was and trying to find out how to destroy the horcrux this starts where the last one left off.Harry and co continue their quest in England to find the last few horcrux which is summed up quickly within the first half hour then to go and prepare for the final fight at hogwarts for next hour and a bit.At this point I thought why Hogwarts yes the final Horcrux is there but wouldn't Voldemort want to take this into a giant field not a school. The battle feels rushed and you can't see any of the action :(The story explains how Harry survived Voldemorts killing curse. The explanation flawed and shows how the story could pretty much end from the beginning (which would've ended this horrible story).The story feels like an RPG finding 7 objects to defeat the bad guy and to be honest I wanted Voldemort to triumph instead of seeing a sickly sweet epilogue showing that J.K Rowling can make another saga at Hogwarts if she wanted to make more money.All in all the end is a fail, for this to be considered good is poor stupidity and biased views. There are other movies that should be watched witch don't force you to watch the movie twice to get to end of their epic ending.


                
The movie does not cover most of the important plots of other characters. The movie only only tells the story of harry Potter whereas the other character are far more interesting but the movie leaves their story out completely.It is not just this movie but the whole series was not made well. They have spent too much time trying to show harry's emotions instead of showing more about the magical world. Primarily the movie is shot for kids and not for mature adults unlike the books. The special effects are good but was highly disappointed by the story. The movie might be worth watching for the people who haven't read the book but i would recommend everyone to read the books instead of seeing this movie.


                
I was very unsatisfied when I left the theater. I felt like the creative team behind the movie gave up! I did enjoy this, but I also got board.Here are ten reasons why;1. The 3-D was a waste.+ Can't they make freaking lens free 3-D glasses!!?2. There weren't enough fantasy creatures, and unique special effects that made the first couple movies feel as if you were in a unique world!! HP 7 felt old and boring. There was no environmental depth and this ties into the movie being "setty" (see 2nd to last point).3. CHEAP. I was expecting big fight scenes not a average two man brawl. There were better fights on the last couple of movies. There wasn't enough blood and bruises (for a finale) and when many characters got hurt or died you didn't see anything! 4. The opening scene was like watching a really bad reality show where there were abundant pauses and script stumble and lots of awkward silence. Also after 7 movies I'm sorry I need to be refreshed. I can't remember everything!5. PLOT HOLES! One that bothered me the most was in the first scene, Luna was present, later on she just seem to end up at a place Harry didn't know about. Why wouldn't she just tell him she was going there? If the world was ending and you and your friend split up wouldn't you tell them where you were going? He acted like he was surprised. I thought maybe she was evil an hiding it. 6. No Dobby. No Rubeus spotlight. These two characters are some of the best and neither of them made great appearances here. It's sad. A finale should have all the elements of the last couple movies combined. It would have been awesome to see Rubeus fight more! And to make it worst he has a lackluster scene with Harry that just plain sucked. There was no joy. It was boring. As far Dobby, I feel like they are saving him for the nest series and I felt like it was a money issue...in that they needed a reason for me to watch the next series (though maybe this was from the book for if they make another Harry).7. The ending!!! Good luck getting over the 30 year old Harry Potter and Hermione! I can't believe they didn't save that for the blu-ray extras! I felt like this was a SCAM and that they were just trying to set up the next Harry Potter franchise! Yuck. Great way to ruin a movie! 8. The dragon!!! Come on it's an awesome dragon! This is fantasy land! Do more with the dragon! Hey how about some 3-D flying angles?!??!! Instead he's chained up and BOOORRRRRING. Maybe they were following the book. I don't know.9. Next this was "setty". FELT LIKE I WAS WATCHING THEM ON A SET. During one scene all these people are around watching a fight go down than the next thing you know characters run away and go fight in there own little rooms. A big scene get's set up than Harry and He Who Must Not Be Named literally walk away and fight in the same old cheesy castle. 10. The kissing scenes (if you want to call them that) sucked!-------------------------------------------------------------------With just a couple tweaks, this GOOD movie could have been GREAT!*Also it seems to me, after reviewing movies for awhile now that a lot of Critics are afraid to review something so popular so poor due to the fact that soccer moms, and easy goers may start to dislike them and stop reading their reviews. There's no way on God's green earth this movie is as good as they say! Harry Potter 7 reminds me of M. Night's Last couple of films!!
It really felt like something was missing the whole time. I don't think that changes were at all necessary and I often wonder if Yates ever read the books, because I never felt he put so much thought of the movies. The acting was great, no doubt. That's about it... It really felt like something was missing the whole time. I don't think that changes were at all necessary and I often wonder if Yates ever read the books, because I never felt he put so much thought of the movies. The acting was great, no doubt. That's about it...It really felt like something was missing the whole time. I don't think that changes were at all necessary and I often wonder if Yates ever read the books, because I never felt he put so much thought of the movies. The acting was great, no doubt. That's about it...


                
The Gringotts Dragon....are you kidding me? I could see the combination of plastic and paper maché from the back row. And the storyline was not followed in the most crucial part of the saga, the ending. Do we really need that many scenes of Ron and Hermoine, and Harry and Ginnie, getting all mushy like every ten to fifteen minutes? And Daniel Radcliff needs to stop trying to be a hero, you are and will always be a lame, end of discussion. I hope someone remakes the seven (I can't call them movies) pieces of trash who actually can stick to the story line with a set of real actors. Don't call me a harry potter hater because I love the books, for those who haven't read the books , this "trash" makes the book out to be not worth reading, while to those who did read the books, this "trash" makes it a disgusting portrayal of what did not even happen in the books. GAME OVER.


                
I have never really been a fan of Harry Potter, and I truly do view this series as a passing fad, nothing more. I have never read the books, and I am only reviewing this as a film, nothing more.Well, folks, we have finally come to the end, the last Harry Potter film, THANK GOD.How does this film end? Not well. Instead of a coherent story, we get flashbacks and other excuses for a lack of a decent script this time around.The plot, or lack there of, finds Mr. Potter and his two friends looking for pieces of the villain Voldemort's soul while at the same time, their boarding school is attacked by minions of his enemy.What should be an exciting scene, or battle, instead becomes a frustrating experience, with scenes cutting back and fourth, back and fourth. We get a scene with Harry, then cut back to the "battle" over the school, then back to Harry, we see people seriously injured or dead, but we don't know how. That is another reason why these films are so frustrating to watch, because a person should not have to read a book to know what is going on.Another case in point, Voldemort clearly kills Harry Potter at one point, but then he "miraculously" comes back to life, and in their final wand fight, Harry clearly kills his adversary, but the film clearly doesn't not explain why very well.I found the ending completely anti-climatic, confusing, and dull as well. Even worse, many of the performances are completely wooden, including Harry's red headed girlfriend. At the end of the film, which takes place 20 years later, she looks about as uninteresting as a person can be.I'm sure that many Potter fanatics will disagree with my review of this film and the others in the series, but oh well, I'm entitled to my opinion and I am sticking with it and I always will.The Potter films have always been a frustrating and dull experience for me and this film is no different. Give me the Chronicles of Narnia any day over these headaches any day. The best thing I can say about Deathly Hallows parts 1 and 2 is that Harry Potter is FINALLY OVER. Thank goodness! Please Academy, ignore this tripe and give the awards to far better films this year!Overall this film is FFO, For Fans Only, nothing else!
As much as I liked the books, I hated the movies. Although I must admit that The Deathly Hallows part 1 was pretty close to the book, I still didn't like how they split up the movie in two parts of the book. So when I saw Deathly Hallows part 2, it was everything I thought it would be: not much. The entire movie is basically one big scene. I have no idea why they would promote it as an entire movie, because it is just not. Walking out of the cinema I felt disappointed beyond believe. There is nothing that makes this movie ( scene ) special at all. Although I must say that the acting of most of the actors is pretty good. All in all, if you would see this right after Deathly hallows part 1 ( in a marathon kind of way ) it could be okay, but not as a movie on itself.


                
This stuff is retarded. There is virtually no plot. Half the film is filler and the other half is meaningless action. Moreover, the film demands that the audience knows the name of every single protagonist (of which there seems to be an endless supply) and remember everything they have done and said in the previous films. Basically, unless you are a hard core fan who has watched all the films several times and read the books, you will be confused time and again. This film is not shy about introducing a new character every five minutes. Do we need this many characters to tell a story about a magical kid with glasses? The characters are so numerable that virtually every British actor has been given a role. I thought by the end that they might run out of people to cast.What else is wrong? Well, the same things that have been wrong from the start of the franchise. The tone is all over the place, shifting from ridiculously childish to failed attempts at serious drama and dangerous encounters with sinister antagonists. I am sorry, but you do not fight an evil prince of darkness riding a broomstick and waving a magic wand. It does not work. It is ridiculous.The second problem is the magic itself. Too much magic removes all the magic from the film. If anything is possible, why do we care? Sooner or later some form of deus ex machina will save the day.Furthermore, there are inconsistencies. The protagonists can teleport themselves when they want, yet they travel by train all the time. They can go back in time when they need to, but forget they have that power when it can come in handy. In general, protagonists can forget they have certain powers when the plot needs them to, or they can produce new powers at will when the writer is too lazy to get them out of the jam some other way. This is extremely irritating because it blocks the involvement of the audience. Basically we are left as passive observers who wait for some contrived solution to save the day.Finally, the film is not emotionally satisfying. The ending is prolonged and convoluted and basically this final film in the series loses the rhythm completely. My guess is that the screenwriter was too eager to shove every plot point from the books into the film, and thus sacrificed the cinematic experience for the sake of not leaving out anything from the story. This is poorly adapted material.There you have it. Why so many people kept watching this mess is beyond me.
Harry Potter of course is based on the book by J.K Rowling and is about Harry. But the most bad part of all is Harry himself.This movie again fails. It's the worst film to come out after Batman & Robin, And when did the studio start remaking this film. Because clearly Harry Potter is not popular at all anymore. Again the books taught me nothing and neither have the films. So all this means is basically that it's all just complete Garbage which fails to entertain the audience yet again.This film has to be like Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight, It has to be suspenseful, Menacing, Disturbing, And yet Violent at some points throughout the film. But also the Humor is not supposed to be placed in this film. It's completely dumb and silly and is not supposed to be even involved. They could have made this film into a World War 3 sort of type of film but yet failed.Harry Potter used to be for kids. But it's ruined yet again and this franchise just proves that the original films of Harry Potter really made the people realize that they just messed up the franchise yet again.Also Dumbledore was not shown in this film. Nobody portrayed him or even showed him in this movie. Complete failure! Another thing i don't like about Harry Potter is that in this movie he fights with Lord Voldemort and that Voldemort dies in the end is completely ridiculous to me. And the same could be taken for Hermione Granger and Crabbe the villain who did not even appear in this film also which is horrible.The wand coloring that is taking place in Hogwarts battles and fights is quite annoying. For example when Harry fights Voldemort his wand turns blue for some reason and it really makes the audience confused as if saying why is his wand blue for some reason. Well it's because the filmmakers wanted it to be that way. Not to be confused with the color or other things either.Second J.K Rowling could have made a better film franchise then Harry Potter because it just feels as if he was not too dark to star in this movie. Wow! Seriously because i feel sorry for all the people out there who like Harry Potter. But we just hated him because he did not look all that great.Also this was a book adaption of the same story from the books. Of course this movie is not the best and is plain average for a superhero movie. Either the actors could have acted better and their performance could have changed. Or the producers who made this film better would have did something to make it more scary and dark like The Dark Knight was with it's elements and of course the story. Also let's not forget that Voldemort's death was really silly and that it could have ended in the grand hall or something like that.Seriously if a film is good at first. But then it turns lame and just plain ordinary. It's not suspenseful and does not have too many fight scenes. Because the fight with Harry and Voldemort is plain cheesy. Plus the way the Characters react in different situations is just dumb because they don't know what is happening.I advise you not to watch this film, Don't buy it or rent it, And worst of all don't even plan to see it if you are a Harry Potter fan because this remake is going to be just plain horrible. Plus if it gave us more scary scenes and more fight scenes then it would be a lot better. But if it's not too violent or scary, Then it is not scary. It was supposed to have a World War 3 plot added into it. But if you're going to rent this movie. Then please don't, This movie takes away from the dark scary scenes and makes it too childish to see in theaters.Also the script as i would say is dumb and silly like the film Batman & Robin. Trust me! If you are going for a good Movie, Then see Spider-Man or The Dark Knight. But don't go out spending your money just to watch a piece of junk that nobody loves anymore. It's just getting old these days and besides it could have done better at the box office no matter what the directors say about this film. It could have been better, But i am sorry for the people out there that can't act properly.There used to be times when a film would be darker and violent. But still talk about horrible casts, Acting, And performance, this movie is just plain garbage. That you will have to throw it away in the trash. Because seriously who would wanna watch a film that is so horrible it fails to please the audience.Harry Potter is just a plain ordinary film. The remake is not all that great. It should have more suspense, Scary, Disturbing, Or violent, But instead the jokes and humor are what ruined it. But still it should have happened at least.


                
Rowling ends both the book and the movie in an appalling manner! By allowing the vanquished Slytherin house with it's evil Snake crest to remain active at Hogwarts at tne end of the second Wizarding World War. Moreover, she didn't close down the death-eater's portraits which she breathed immortal life into. In the books Rowling created, the portraits themselves are sentient; able to speak as if still alive. They are also portals to other portraits and have every means available to them to re-group, re-organize and start another literary world war. Beatrix Lestrange for instance, would surely enjoy training a pack of new slytherins with her dark magic and cruel intent, with only one aim. To destroy the world of good magic, and to take over the human world by force. In symmetry to enhance my point: I have an example from Lord of the Rings I cite King Elrond of the Elves, in LOR trilogy, whom allowed the ring to go free at the end of the first war in Middle Earth. Because of this, the ring grew power again. Sauron regrouped with more force than before, and started the second world war. Elrond made a terrible, horrible blunder. He admitted it, worked to fix it, and author Tolkein ended the ultimate literary war of good and evil with the ring being thrown into the fire. It resulted in a victory for the peaceful citizens.Collectively the group of Death-eaters were a bunch of mass murderers who tortured their victims before killing them. The Death-eaters world domination attempts resembles another vicious group of war mongers, infamous for hurting victims and then executing them. I'm talking about the Nazi's and I'm equating the Nazi's to the death-eaters, and Hitler to Lord Voldemort. Both wanted pure-blood races to dominate, and neither cared about the cost to cultural diversity or considered the value of human life. However, the Nazi's at the end of WW2 were vanquished of their power symbols. The swastikas were removed and destroyed. They went bankrupt . To associate with this group is to integrate into a hatred that is repugnant to everyone. SO why did ROwling leave the Swastika (the snake of Satan) on the house crest, leave the Death Eater portraits at the school,and why did she kill Dumbledore who was a GOd FIgure of reason whom would have likely removed Slytherin house as vanquished and replaced with a new house that is more progressive. He also would have ended the war with no trace of a chance that a new world order of Slytherins could prevail. Ever again. A good author does this for the readers. Closes shop on the evil.Instead, by allowing the Slytherins to remain powerful--she invites another mass scale War, and on loopback. With the portrait system of the Dark Lord's most loyal supporters, helping now-- the next Hitler to destroy more children like the Creevy's or Hero's like Cedric Diggory and Professor Snape.
After burying Dobby, Harry Potter asks the goblin Griphook to help him, Ron, and Hermione break into Bellatrix Lestrange's vault at Gringotts bank, suspecting a Horcrux may be there. Griphook agrees, in exchange for the Sword of Gryffindor. Wandmaker Ollivander tells Harry that two wands taken from Malfoy Manor belonged to Bellatrix and to Draco Malfoy, but Malfoy's has changed its allegiance to Harry.In Bellatrix's vault, Harry discovers the Horcrux is Helga Hufflepuff's cup. He retrieves it, but Griphook snatches the sword and abandons the trio, leaving them cornered by security. The three release the dragon guardian and flee on its back. Harry sees a vision of Voldemort killing goblins, including Griphook, and learns Voldemort is aware of the theft. Harry also realises there is a Horcrux at Hogwarts somehow connected to Rowena Ravenclaw. The trio apparate into Hogsmeade, where Aberforth Dumbledore reluctantly instructs the portrait of his deceased younger sister, Ariana, to fetch Neville Longbottom, who leads the trio through a secret passageway into Hogwarts.
That would be the headline of the Daily Prophet the day after the battle. Absolutely nobody witnessed the fight. After so much was made in the other movies as to whether Harry really had seen and fought Voldemort how could they not have had the final battle witnessed by all the wizarding world. The greatest duel of all times and nobody was there to see it. Afterwards Harry walks into the school and everyone is like , hi harry , hey potter, ah by the way how'd it go out there. . It never ceases to amaze me, how a director , making millions of dollars, can make such a colossal blunder.
They should redo the other movies according to the standards of this last one. This is almost the best we (fans of the book story) could have hoped for.It is sad that they decided to cut the dialog of the showdown between Harry Potter and Voldemort, that was the most important bit of text of the 7 books and it would have made the ending a more satisfying one.They removed some books chapters but overall, and FINALLY, they managed to get the tone right as well as the most important details of the story.If only the other movies would have been like this last one.Clearly, this shows the positive impact of having 1 more year of post-production. Perhaps a lesson to be learned by the money-hungry studio at Hollywood; This movie will still be good in 10 years, the others will not.The musical score is also better and more adventurous this time; amazing studio mastering on the soundtrack. The "Hogwarts" musical theme is still as bad as before however.


                
