At the start of J.K. Rowling, thank you for this wonderful series of books forever. I can tell you this current state of my childhood and my future. Sign up everywhere it has always been a part of Harry Potter's name. I'd say the most important series of my life. I owe my childhood such wonderful pass to the books and movies of this series. In this series, even though I know better than the series it has always been a special place for me in this series and it will always continue. This movie is definitely the best in the series. And the players is the most mature film. You feel throughout the film until the end of the final air and this is an amazing thing for fans like me. Book series as well as certainly never did. However, in each film it was pretty cool. And with incredible finale made this film. Harry certainly kept the best for last. Put all the music from the beginning to the end of the movie you are very successful and internal chills. You feel deeply cool is really going on. When the film ended up being a very big gap within you. Of course, you are a part of this world...


                
I am a huge fan of the Harry Potter books, they're all so great and magical. But I didn't think the film series were perfect at all, but they were still great movies. With that, I was extremely excited to see the end of the film franchise, and impressed with the trailers. So I had high expectations. And thankfully it did not disappoint, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II, blew past my already high expectations and I was enthralled!The whole movie looked spectacular! The cinematography extremely well done, the art direction was incredible. The movie was beautiful to look at, the visuals were spectacular and truly Oscar worthy! The set designers, cinematographers really need to be awarded for their work, because it looks like they spend of time and money on the look of the film. The cast of the film was pretty much perfect, they should all be applauded too. Emma Watson, as usual is and great and she'll have a bright career ahead of her. Rupert Grint is pretty much great also, he is a fine actor indeed. Daniel Radcliffe did an amazing job and was very memorable as Harry Potter. Although I think Ralph Fiennes was the star of the film, he did unbelievable job as the evil, crazy Lord Voldemort, I think he deserves an Oscar Nomination for his role. The rest of the cast were also great too.We all grew up overtime with the series, we followed the adventures of Harry Potter for around 10 years, I think. It seems very weird that there will be no more Harry Potter films to look forward too. I will miss the franchise very much! However I am happy the series got an amazing ending. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II is not only the best film in the series, but it will probably be one of the best films of 2011. Everyone should see this film, even if they don't like past Harry Potter films.


                
This movie could not do any better, it ended the Harry Potter series with a bang. It is a good balance from the first part of The Deathly Hallows. The first part was more of a drama, while part two was action packed left and right. This may be my favorite movie of the series, though all of them are equally amazing. I have read the books, and there are definitely major changes in the movie, but I find they fit perfectly well with the story, even if it isn't the original plot. Even for those who haven't read the books (why wouldn't you?!), it is equally enjoyable. This movie, along with the rest in the series, will be loved for years and years to come.


                
Even though I consider myself to be a huge HP fan I never thought I would actually give a movie from this series straight 10 out of 10. Just saw the movie today and the word epic is almost an understatement. This movie really lives up to the promises that have been made. Further more it is (in my opinion at least) the movie that stays most loyal to the book. I did miss some scenes from the book yet nothing relevant was left out. I don't want to give out any spoilers 'cause I don't want to ruin it for you but if you have read the book it will be very easy to follow and if not - well I think it still makes sense most of the time. I highly recommend you to watch it whether you're a fan or not. 10/10


                
I predict this will be the movie of the year.I was thoroughly immersed in this movie from start to finish and when leaving the cinema (twice in the last 24hours) I could only hear the endless chatter of comments like "That was great" and "Brilliant way to end the series".Though, in my opinion, some key factors were missing or needed more exploration I think you'll find it's easy to clue on whether you've read the novels or not. Some previously main characters were lucky to slip in a line or two whilst some of the more minor characters sneaked their way up to the top.The film was brilliantly directed. Music, lighting, script; everything was flawless. Some scenes had my skin crawling and heart racing for absolutely no reason other then the fact that it was utterly eerie, it was hard not to grip the armrests in anticipation.Dramatic musical build up mixed perfectly with lingering silences in all the right places. Spots that would usually host a soft violin were left with the honest and real quiet so that you could wrap your head around everything.My emotions were chewed up and spit out over and over, I didn't know whether to grieve, cheer, laugh or scream and neither did the audience I was with.By the end I couldn't even think of the fact that it was the end of an era, I couldn't even grasp everything that had happened which is why I'll be going to see it for the third time within this next week.You wont regret paying for the full experience with this one.


                
An incredible journey that began a decade ago finally arrives at its close with David Yates' "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II", as 'The Boy Who Lived' comes face to face with 'He Who Shall Not Be Named' in an epic showdown between good and evil. And what a showdown it is- tense, thrilling, breathtaking, and fitting of just about any superlative you can think of. Whereas the first instalment of the 'Deathly Hallows' emphasised the profound sense of loss and isolation among Harry, Ron and Hermoine, screenwriter Steve Kloves and director Yates leaves behind the moody atmosphere of the previous movie for newfound immediacy and urgency. This is all about that final battle where only one can live, and from start to finish- for once in a Harry Potter movie- the action is swift and relentless.Part II picks up right where the previous film left off- the dark Lord Voldemort smiles in evil triumph as he steals the most powerful wand in the world, i.e. the Elder Wand, from the tomb of beloved Hogwarts headmaster Professor Dumbledore (Michael Gambon). The next shot is equally ominous- students are marched rank-and-file through a Hogwarts courtyard, watched closely by cloaked Dementors hovering over the school grounds. If there was any need of a reminder of the danger facing our three protagonists, these opening sequences should just about refresh one's memory of what is at stake.There is precious little time to waste, and the first we get to see Harry, Ron and Hermione, they are already hatching a plan to break into Gringotts to retrieve a Horcrux. Their break-in settles upon a plan of deception that allows for some rare moments of levity in the film, as Helena Bonham Carter gets to ham it up as a polyjuice-disguised Hermoine impersonating Bellatrix Lestrange. This being the first 'Harry Potter' movie in 3D, Yates caters for some distinctive thrills in the additional dimension with a roller-coaster ride through the vault, culminating in a daring escape on the back of a dragon.But as readers of the book will tell you, the last stand happens back at Hogwarts, and true enough, after this thrilling early set-piece at Gringotts, the trio head back to the School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to confront their foes. It is also where the last Horcruxes are supposed to be, and Harry's return to the once sunny and cheery grounds now besieged by darkness and doom becomes a true test of allegiance. Fans will be glad that Kloves gives room for otherwise supporting characters to step into the limelight- in particular, Neville Longbottom (Matthew Lewis) emerges as one of the unlikeliest but also truest heroes on the side of good. The Hogwarts stalwarts also get a chance to show off their magic, and Yates gives each largely enough screen time for the heroic send-off they deserve.Yet he reserves the most emotional moment in the film for Severus Snape's (Alan Rickman) vindication, long thought to be the Judas Iscariot-equivalent in the Order and the one who pushed Dumbledore to his death. Yates delivers a truly poignant and deeply heartfelt revelation of Snape's true colours, and it is a farewell that even those who have read the book and can expect what is to come will be overwhelmed by its sheer emotional muscle. While Part II was always meant to be an action-packed spectacle, it is to Yates' credit that there is still as much heart as before in the storytelling.Though brief, this revelation also works brilliantly as a catalyst that propels Harry to come to terms with the sacrifice he has to make. Harry's realization of this leads up perfectly to the ultimate duel between him and Voldemort, one that is fierce, ferocious and- thanks to Yates' imagination- more exhilarating than reading it off the page. The outcome of that battle shouldn't be a secret by now, and when the 'happily-ever-after' coda in Rowling's book set 19 years later is also faithfully adapted here, you can't quite help but be moved by how it so properly gives the series closure.They are of course no longer kids here- Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson now young adults who have through the film series grown up right under our eyes. While Part I had greater emphasis on Ron and Hermoine, the focus here is squarely on Harry and Radcliffe truly shines in this instalment- his usual understated performance allowing his audience to appreciate the enormities of the challenge before Harry.That we can be so fully immersed in Harry's world is testament to the craft of each and every one of the technical team. Production designer Stuart Craig does a masterful job portraying the devastation around Hogwarts, complimented nicely by Eduardo Serra's beautiful cinematography and Mark Day's skillful editing. Alexandre Desplat's evocative score, which combines his own elegiac work with both the John Williams theme as well as Nicholas Hooper's mournful composition for the sixth movie, works magic with the visuals. And most deserving of credit is none other than director Yates himself, who has matured movie after movie to deliver a crowning achievement for the series.Pardon us if we have also taken this opportunity to extol the merits of the 'Harry Potter' franchise- it's really hard not to considering how this is the last time we will see the Potter-world in its current incarnation. It is this to which the movie is a farewell to, and it is as beautiful a farewell as it can be, packed with visual spectacle on a scale never before seen in any of the other films and fused with the same powerful emotion as Part I and the Yates films before. All good- even great- things have to come to an end, so there is really no better way to bid adieu than with this grand and glorious final chapter.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, part 2 also known as the movie that tore my heart and soul into oblivion. If you thought goosebumps was the criteria for a good scene, then mix those goosebumps with emotional upheaval, coupled with your hands almost shaking and this is Deathly Hallows part 2 in its entirety.Harry, Ron and Hermione are still on the pursuit to collect and destroy Voldemort's horcruxes. They believe the next one is hidden away in Bellatrix Lestrange's vault in Gringotts, the wizarding bank. But going into the bank is near impossible – unless you know a goblin who worked there, which they do. And so a deal is stricken. At Gringotts, they are discovered to be impostors. Hearts will race as they try to escape with the horcrux and as Harry soon finds out the next one is hidden inside Hogwarts and it's something that belongs to another founder of the school. And it is to Hogwarts that he goes. But Hogwarts has changed. Snape is the new headmaster.But there are many things that Harry doesn't know, the ultimate secret being one that revolves around his every being. Things are never as it seems. People will show their true colors and they will come out as triumphant even after years of hatred.Dan Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have done the impossible here. They are possibly the only set of actors that you have seen grow up on the big screen and as the actors grew up on a personal level, they added their maturity to their characters. It's very fascinating to watch them interact. Their acting is relentless, captivating and charming as it should be now that they have mastered the characters they're playing. You cannot imagine other actors portraying Harry and Ron or another actress to portray Hermione. Alan Rickman and Maggie Smith as Snape and Professor McGonagall respectively gave their all in this movie. You cannot help but be on the edge of your seat whenever any of these two actors are doing their thing. Rickman has a part of the movie entirely dedicated to his character's personal story. It is also one of my favorite parts of the book. The Prince's Tale is transferred so magnificently on screen that it WILL bring you to tears.Professor McGonagall takes a stand – several, actually – in Deathly Hallows as well. She stands up for a Harry and when she does, the whole theater will explode in applause. Maggie Smith fortifying Hogwarts and then cracking a joke to lighten up the mood<U+0085> Just the way I like it. You cannot but share the pain in Smith's eyes as she sees her beloved school crumbling around her, as she sees all the work that they've done go to waste<U+0085> And what better actor to portray this generation's most bad-ass villain than Ralph Fiennes. He gives his character an extra dimension in this movie now that he has the room to spread his wings so to speak, seeing as he's one of the movie's main pillars. Lord Voldemort is all evil. But in this movie, another side of him shows up: anguish and misery. And yet, there's this subtlety to the nuances of the portrayal that make up the overall result to be very epic, indeed.Steve Kloves is the movie's screenwriter. He captured the movie's essence perfectly. He presented J.K. Rowling's work in such a brilliant way that even the slight deviations from the book (and they are very few) do not even matter anymore. He portrays the gravity of the situation to the letter: the deaths, the destruction, the revelations, the build-up<U+0085>. His version of the story is so well done that it would be incredible not to see an Oscar nod (and a win!) for him in the Screenplay category. He added his touch while keeping Rowling's magic. Some of the lines from the book are transferred to the movie as they are and for someone who has read the book over and over again, I was ecstatic to hear them on screen. "Look<U+0085> at<U+0085>me." Enough said.Director David Yates has helmed the last four Potter movies and while I had my doubts about him at first (Order of the Phoenix was not exactly great), he more than surpassed my wildest expectations in this. The pace he sets for the movie never dies down. It keeps on building up and up like a beautiful orchestral crescendo. He guides his actors and actresses with confidence. He's working with a marvelous script based on a terrific book. And he has the green light to give it all out. What do you expect from a very talented director with those options? Something not less than magical.Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2 provides you with a sense of catharsis as it ends. It lets your senses go. It lowers your inhibitions more than alcohol. You cannot help but see your hands automatically clap at some points in the movie. You shout in desperation without even controlling your voice and you root for your characters like they're really in front of you. Tears flow down your face without any power of you to stop them. There isn't any better way to end the epic series that was Harry Potter. If only it weren't ending<U+0085>
Some might stop reading by my review title, and that's okay. First thing to know if you want to keep reading is that i'm more than a huge fan of Harry Potter, books and movies (even though i love the books much more... however, while i haven't been on board with every decision on screen, i have LOVED all the films and they are my favorite films in the world. I understand they're not the best, but they are my personal favorite, and considering all the love they get, i can honestly say i'm not alone).So you might see where i'm going. I LOVED THE FILM! I just did. I have been waiting to death for this final installment and even from the first trailer it looked just epic. Obviously it came from the perfect finale from the book, but it still was hard to translate to screen. And they manage to do it perfectly for me. Spoilers from now on I cried my heart out (especially since Snape dies), i laughed (well, they included more jokes than i would have intended, but boy i laughed) and my heart was beating all the way through the fastest 2 hours of my life. And you can't just have a better cinema experience.Now, as an adaptation it is good. There are many things missing from the 2nd part that i won't ignore and some things could have been better, but they conveyed the main theme, sticked to that and made an awesome film. Although even at my 2nd viewing i'm not still convinced with Ron and Hermione just letting him go to die so easily, that should have been like the book.But that's just it: so many things can be added, but the film is just so amazing as it is. It has EPIC written all over it, and the finale we had all been waiting for. The battle scenes were breathtaking, and the characters were at its best.As usual, but even more this time, the production was great: visual effects were top notch and deserve the academy award; Desplat outdid himself with the score, and while i loved part 1's he creates the music so fitting and so beautiful that made us all bawl; Stuart Craig needs the Oscar, enough said; Serra made some beautiful and memorable shots, editing good, etc.The acting was actually very good from the trio and mainly from anyone, but it is obvious who stands out: Alan Rickman as Snape. Seriously, i was very afraid of this scene, and they did it beautifully (they cut many things but did it perfect). Alan not only made us cry, but he gave a very VERY strong performance.So many things could be said about this perfect final film for this incredible series of films. David Yates (who directed this incredibly) created an amazing send-off to this story (in the films of course) that will stay in many of our hearts, and personally it shall never leave mine.So go see the final film or miss the amazing final film of a series that has changed millions of us... into much better people. Thanks Jo, i can't ever thank you enough.
Fifteen years of tireless, incredible hard work from some of the best of Britain's storytelling talent, supported by an equally faithful and eagerly devoted fan base, now culminates in the cinematic experience of a lifetime. Ever since the frothily juvenile but still undeniably good quality Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone first hit cinema screens in 2001, the Harry Potter saga has experienced countless crucial plot developments, more and more introductions of new characters and actors, several new directors and frequent changes of tone, all to give an astounding and vastly rewarding end result. As a stand-alone film, this largely action heavy film would most likely be dismissed as merely glitzy uninspired bore, but our familiarity and previously established emotional connection with these characters and their stories means that we are holding our breath during every dangerous moment instead sitting back indifferently and indulging in ego- boosting cynicism. Today's moviegoers will not just simply throw away their sympathy and compassion at any tortured, miserable face a director puts on the screen, unless the film in question is a serious depiction of a real-life tragedy. However, when it comes to the Harry Potter characters, there is a remarkable type of long-term relationship that has been built over our long period of acquaintanceship with them, transcending the usual barriers that are placed in front of fictional characters and ultimately making this an impossibly lovable and endlessly enthralling movie.Part 2 of the final chapter initially continues in the vein of its taut yet gloomy predecessor, showing our three effortlessly likable main heroes on their believably difficult quest to locate and destroy Lord Voldemort's horcruxes. Whilst searching, they must constantly be on the lookout for any of the dark lord's ever more numerous agents who are trying furiously to hunt them down. In addition to the vicious death eaters, many other wizard folk who were formerly opposing him have now begun to join his side of the battle out of a deep-seated fear. Others have simply found it easier and simpler to continue drifting along living sheltered lives and being, for the moment, cocooned from the horrors taking place outside. After the comically inept Ministry of Magic was swiftly overthrown, most of its employees have been compliantly carrying on with their everyday work, even though they know what they are contributing to. The same applies to the sedentary yet sinister Gringotts goblins, as we see when the trio makes a clumsy infiltration of the almost impenetrable wizard bank in order to find the next horcrux in a frivolously entertaining early action sequence that, like the opening sequences of the similarly paced Indiana Jones series, is a wonderful appetiser.However, nostalgically like the first six Potter installments, the bulk of this film takes place at the historic Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, placing the search for the remaining horcruxes in a profoundly different environment and atmosphere. Instead of feeling alone and helpless surrounded by nonchalant and corrupt citizens, they are amongst the most loyal and supportive friends anyone could wish for. The infallible trust and beautiful hope we see in their eyes as they see that Harry has arrived to rally them all into finally facing off the forces of evil that are oppressing them is astonishingly touching.However, this is all sadly a double-edged sword, with terrible consequences being presented as well as good points. Voldemort predicted that Harry would return to Hogwarts at some point to seek the aid of his old allies and is ready for him when he arrives. When he makes a full-scale siege on the castle in order to extract Harry, the hundreds of teachers and older students as well as the surviving members of the Order put up a fiercely brave struggle against a colossal dark army of snatchers, giants and death eaters. With the ongoing fatalities and mortal injuries, Harry's conscious is pricked by the thought that he is letting them down as "the Chosen One" by not being able to defend them. Our empathy is certainly with Harry as the guilt and the doubts overwhelm him, but it is clear that his friends would much rather die in this horrific battle then join Voldemort and gutlessly scavenge an undeserved existence. They stare in the face of terrible danger and somehow know that this can be overcome in the end.This rebellious spirit is supported Voldemort's visible deterioration. He cares only about avoiding death at any cost, and so he has in fact resorted to scavenging that miserable existence, with horrifying results. As the horcruxes are disappearing, he is experiencing a gradual destruction of the soul that is far worse than death. His final demise is far from sudden: the direction from David Yates drops small hints and artistic allusions that show the formerly great and powerful figure slowly being reduced to nothing. That this has all been depicted so effectively is largely attributed to the masterful acting from Ralph Feinnes, who has managed brilliantly to create a very fascinating character. It is often mentioned that the cast is filled with an abundance of accomplished British actors that help significantly to lift the status of the films. While there are countless acting veterans listed in the credits, apart from Feinnes, it is really only Rickman, Gambon, Maggie Smith and Helena Bonham Carter that are given a decent amount to flourish with. Matthew Lewis is another standout, giving a terrific performance incredibly noble, righteous and heroic Neville Longbottom.Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 is a film undoubtedly about loyalty, and both its characters and its fans are in the end rewarded by it. For that, and all of the other reasons, I look forward to seeing this gem soar up the top 250 as far as it can possibly go, and I hope it really pushes the buttons of the arrogant anti-Potter cynics when it land near the top.
By the end of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1 everyone was ready for one thing, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2!!! And on July 15, 2011 at 12: 05 I got the privilege of experiencing the end of my favorite series. I was with other die hards so it was a great experience. I remember watching the first Harry Potter movie when I was 5 with my mom in the theater. I was immediately hooked and looking back I didn't realize how much this series would shape my life. The movie is a non stop action movie from beginning to end. By the time Harry kills Voldemort and he's sending his own son to Hogwarts 19 years later it was a very emotional film. Alan Rickman gives a truly heartbreaking performance as a tragic Snape. The film is a whole new level of epic. The CGI in the film might be the best all year. If this film does not win an Oscar for Set Design and SFX then something is seriously wrong. The score is also incredible.On a whole this film will definitely be on the top of my Best Film's of 2011 list. It's easily the best HP film.I loved this film and I will always love the series. I will cherish the memories thanks to the series. Thank you Harry for the best 10 years ever. And thank you for my childhood.
No i didn't love it cause its the last one, but out of all of them i've seen, this is probably the only and the first out of all 8 of them i actually really enjoyed.The beginning- Bang Bang good! The Middle- I'm on the edge of my seat! The End- I jumped out of my seat and screamed, eff yeah!I in my 2 years of being a Rookie Critic have never done that watching a Harry Potter Film.Don't let anyone spoil it, it doesn't need anymore to say But just"WOW"! My first 10 out 10 of all the Harry Potter MoviesIt deserves nothing more than at least "Worthy Best Picture nomination"It may be late at night but heck, this is really rare from me to actually remember a Harry Potter Film.Farely well to Harry Potter, this outstanding film will be remembered, Sincerely.


                
"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2" is my favorite HP movie ever! The fact that everything the previous films set up comes to a conclusion and that the film is also not burdened by setting future films makes this great! Also, it has the best story, acting, visual effects, storytelling, and twists, particularly that of Snape's past. If one rewatches the entire series with knowledge of Snape's past, Rickman's performance makes a lot of sense. (ALAN RICKMAN IS GREAT HERE!) Lastly, this is also the movie that made me realize that, aside from Bonnie Wright as Ginny, every actor was perfectly cast!DEAR WARNER BROS., HAYDEY FILMS, HP FILMS PRODUCERS, ACTORS, J.K. AND EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THE MAKING OF THIS SERIES.I love all of you. You made a great film series. Thank you for the adventures. PLEASE ADAPT "THE CURSED CHILD."
Thrilling, powerfully acted, and visually dazzling, Deathly Hallows Part II brings the Harry Potter franchise to a satisfying -- and suitably magical -- conclusion


                
What am tell about this movie...
Its such a great movie in..
Everyone should watch hs imovie


                
Harry Potter is a series of fantasy novels written by British author J. K. Rowling. The novels chronicle the lives of a young wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry


                
Absolutely phenomenal film with great philosophical messages, acting, producing, directing, etc. It is a renowned and fantastic film! I highly recommend this film to everyone!


                
This is a movie I cannot stop watching. We've come so far with this series, and seeing it end in such a brilliant way was just awesome. It was amazing to see the growth of Daniel, Rupert and Emma in their performances as the big three, classic actors like Alan Rickman (RIP), and many others. I can't wait to see the future of this franchise with Fantastic Beasts and future projects Rowling can cook up.


                
I love this movie so much. I've read the books and just reading the books and watching the movies makes me so happy. The first part of the Deathly Hallows was boring at some parts but overall good. But this movie really out did it. I cry every time I watch the penseive scene with Snape. This movie has all the feels and emotions that the book has. It is my favorite movie of all time.


                
The brilliant series ends with a brilliance. Harry's death at the hands of Voldemort and his coming to life again; the secret about Severus; the bravery of Longbottom; the demise of Fred; the sharpness of mind of Luna and many more to mention. All the knots tied from the first part are opened and what can the viewer want more. Direct encounter between Harry and Voldemort at the end and Harry throwing the Elder wand at the end gives a true meaning as Harry does not run for the quest of power. The lesson given to his son over election to Slytherin is also worth noting. The series ends but with the hope of coming back with another story. Good bye Hogwartz.


                
This movie was amazing, the way they told the story of what happened when harry was little and Professor Snape grew feelings for Harry when lily died but at the end when the character died and the huge fight happened
As i already said in my summary, the movie was pretty good, and i also think that there were some elements which may have surprised some of the viewers, but i'll talk about that later. I think i have only one bad point for this movie, but i'm not sure if it was the movie or the cinema... I watched the movie in "3D", but the only things that were 3d were the ads BEFORE the movie, and some very short scenes in the movie. I didn't like that at all. To be quite frankly, though i secretly hoped that Harry would survive, i was quite expecting him to die. I don't know, but they said that some "amazing deaths" would appear, but i didn't find it amazing that Freddie(i think), Snape, Bellatrix, or Voldemort all died. However, Part1 made you expect that Severus was the bad one, but as i understood he was the good one. I think that the directors were a bit too cruel when they told harry that Dumbledore was a bit of a bad guy. There also are a couple of thing which i really liked about this movie: 1. I think that the graphics were amazing, respect for those who did the image editing. 2. Another interesting part is that in my opinion the producers made up the question whether or not James Potter is Harrys father, because at some point there are mentioned some similarities between Snape and Harry. 3. I was also expecting that if Harry would Survive, he would become the next Headmaster of Hogwarts, but instead he seems o haven a pretty normal Muggle life(come on?!). In my opinion, the most funny part of the entire movie is at the end, where Harry with Ginny and Ron with Hermione bring their children to Hogwarts. The funny thing is that Harry's Son is Called Albus Severus Potter, which in my opinion is interesting, because if it were after the name, he would be the greatest magicians of all time.
Frankly it's sad, and at the same time happy. I simply do not belong to those who have always responded with a special enthusiasm for any of the movie franchise about a young wizard. However, I am glad that we always had to consciously approach the fact of its existence. Much has happened over the years. For some of us have been ups and downs in relation to the part of Harry Potter, for someone not. We are alone. Such stories - only a sign of how this loneliness we are trying to escape. When there is that it is able to unite us, and the same eyes we are able to watch the same story. Harry and his friends always reminded very much of themselves, because of two things - simplicity and good nature. Also, like any other person, we grow, mature, and it all happens under the influence of other factors. We observe and listen, exactly the same as the one when a little boy, in the course of years became a man. He had fears, and there were mysteries. He sought to solve them, and overcome all sorts of difficulties. He was tough, and friends were always glad to help. Is this not a reflection of our life in certain stages of her? Istoriya3D finally reached the tipping point that, when there was absolutely no childhood, and adulthood appeared views of the surrounding events. No more compromises, and as it turned out, it had to Yates to clear better film3D Potteriana.Finals begin at the same place and finished last. Harry continues to search and destroy krestrazhem, revealing a truth long after the other. Each of the stories of how wonderful flower blooms on the quality of its on-screen incarnation, and this against the background of the war, that this time reached the very heart of the School of Wizardry - Hogwarts. So we have not seen it, and now never see. For many viewers Hogwarts was a kind of contact point values, which were always presented in the form of friendship and nastoyatelstva. And no more delays, no unnecessary chatter. Only Harry, only fidelity, and pursuing all the destruction. You can refer yourself to whichever of the categories of viewers, but the fact remains a fact for all - "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" is the perfect combination of language and the magic of cinema, so perfect a form of which is sought or one year.Yates throws us into an even more oppressive and heavy atmosphere with all the consequent seriousness from the first seconds. Conversation with Kryukohvatom each evokes the idea of <U+200B><U+200B>just how significant was the approach to creating images of goblins, only gaining full speed as soon as we find ourselves in a bank vault. Excellent work on the sound makes itself felt, balancing between the absolute silence, drama and suspense.Yet in one part of the franchise was not represented in such a grand magic number, as here. If someone had thought of her lack of a rare and often repeated occurrence, there is an argument not able to find a way for his being. Scenes from the attack on the school and a further battle in its territory amazing imagination, especially by the scope with which this material came to the creators. Protection of Hogwarts gorgeous scenes extras are told by their size, and many characters appear in a surprisingly strong and significant way.The entire color stunning British school of acting punches for most of the scenes, making us even more insight to treat them. Finally, the record screen time was Ralph Fiennes, whose "you know who" the destruction of each of the next Horcrux is even more direct correspondence notions of darkness and gloom. Neville takes off from their shoulders image of a modest and humble guy, and gives your episodes live energy of goodness and faith. Home trio strongly demonstrates a complete renunciation of those pranks that are brought before us in various amounts for previous years. Romantic issues are themselves short, direct and confident answers. This is not the children we once knew. Now it's two guys, behind which the power and courage, and a real woman, able to charm anyone looking right at it man. However, I think, a hero of the imagery comes to Severus. It is starting to deploy its history, it's not just Harry. It is not just the bar, which surely holds Yates first hour and a half. It is much more than that.Severus makes history more than ever to penetrate the gap and in the emotional space in which Alan Rickman is calling us. Beginning to emerge as answers to many protracted and complex issues. What happens immediately taking shape full epics, which is so easily dissolved, knowing how long we were going to this. And the last conversation with Harry Dambusom only emphasizes the last time that a tipping point, when the whole world that was built many years around one person starts to go away from under his feet. Saying goodbye to them, leaving alone with the problem itself throughout his life that he so carefully prepared.In the finals can be found inconsistencies with the book, but their role does not affect the plot by a radical way, and all the changes made by Yeats, were personally approved by Rowling. Staged ending only emphasizes the importance and drama of the whole junction, causing the heroes to face any one time with each other. Two opposing world, the best colors and shades, with unique emotional content and the history of origins.Just supporting each other we are capable of much. Unsurpassed finale unmatched history.Goodbye, Harry.


                
So I saw Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 and I must say that it was PERFECT.From the very beginning until the end.Acting is unbelievably good,Daniel Radcliffe is still one of the best actors of all time,Rupert is very talented and Emma still perfect actress.Special effects and action scenes are breathtaking.Dvid Yates proved again that he is a great director.Don't be surprised if this movie win 10 Oscars including for Best Director.Alexandre Desplat's music was emotional and exciting,which makes movie even better.The whole story is focusing on Harry and Voldemort showdown but there are some part of Snape story and Lily's also.You saw Titanic,you saw The Godfather,you saw Shawshank Redemption but believe me:This is better than all of this movies together(in my opinion,of course).We are saying goodbye to boy wizard but Harry Potter will never end.It will stay in our hearts forever!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Despite being burned before about watching HP6 in 3D IMAX, I made it a point to see this one, for all its sentimental value, in that format. I must say that the 3D IMAX was worth every cent. The big images and the added dimension also added to our immense satisfaction about this film, added expense notwithstanding.There action here was relentless as it goes from one highlight scene to another. From the exciting incursion of the trio into Gringott's Bank to get into the Lestrange Vault and their exhilarating escape, the unexpectedly (for non-readers) revelatory Pensieve memory of Prof. Snape, the very intense and destructive Battle at Hogwarts, the explosively watery destruction of the Hufflepuff's cup, the fiery aftermath of finding Ravenclaw's diadem, all the way up to the final showdown between Harry and Voldemort. These scenes were all very memorably shot, with incredible visual and sound effects. The way the ultimate destruction of the Dark Lord was rendered (of course, you knew that good will triumph over evil) is a 3D moment to remember!This movie is, for all intents and purposes, a perfect film to end the franchise. It was indeed the grand finale, if you will. I'm not anymore going to go into how the children all grew up in front of our eyes. Having gone through eight films with these people, we also share in their despair and eventual triumph. We all probably had a teary smile during that charming little epilogue showing a scene at the train station 19 years later. Okay I am going to say it now: This is the best movie of the year for me. Congratulations to David Yates and the excellent cast for perfectly recreating J.K. Rowling's incredibly intricate final book (some small details changed notwithstanding). This film is indeed a bittersweet victory for the creators and for the fans alike.
This movie was very special for me. Nine years ago I saw first Harry Potter movie. I loved it and in few next months read all books available at the moment. It was the first book franchise, I read and tough, it was never my favorite, it always had a very special place in my mind. And now nine years later, after I've read all the books and seen all previous movies, it was time to finish this. Movie started very good. It started just, where the first part ended. Soundtrack, that played in the beginning, was awesome and from the very beginning gave an epic feel to movie.Storyline was not made by this movie's makers, but by Rowling, so I can't really judge it. I can judge only the way it was told. And that seemed very good to me. Nothing seemed forced or rushed, or going too slow. Movie was moving at a very good pace. Special effects were also good. Loved Daniel's, Rupert's and Emma's performance. Evanna Lynch (Luna) and Mathew Lewis (Neville) did an outstanding job in this movie. I thought they should've given Evanna more screen time, but I had the same thought after watching every movie she was in...It's been a real while, since I read Deathly Hallows, and I read it only once, so I didn't remember much and couldn't judge any inaccuracies. Though, even if I could, I wouldn't, because, I think, movie doesn't have to go just the same way as books.I really loved part, where Snape died and showed Harry his memories. For me, It was the best and most touching part in the whole movie. Battle for Hogwart's was also pretty good, tough I think they could've shown us more from it. Now about things I didn't like. Nothing much to tell really. Special effects in scene, where Voldemort and Harry were jumping/flying (not sure) of the tower, seemed pretty lame. And that's pretty much all. If we wan't to be really picky, then I thought Molly's Weasly's expression after killing Bellatrix was quite strange. And no Fred's, Remus's and Tonks's death scene. So, in the end I loved this movie and enjoyed it very much. I give it 10/10, mostly because it's the last movie and it was very satisfying.
