I gotta chance to see this movie in 2D (Luckily) since i read the reviews of the 3D being bad . . but after seeing the movie even in 2D and witnessing the end of such an Enormous Mega Series . . i felt this was a very very disappointing end . . the HP Fans Have Been Robbed off their immense trust and money in seeing some modified illogical end to the story ..than what everyone had pictured in the mind after reading the Final Book of deathly hallows(SPOILERS) HP Deathly hallows part 2 was very shallow. I was surprised that some REALLY special scenes from the book were excluded (robbed) off from the movie and instead they added their own new scenes which really didn't fit into any plot that was being brought up since 1st movie . . 1)PLOT Mr. Yates . . i think the sole purpose of breaking this last movie in two parts was to do justice to the plot and build to an ultimate finale . what happened ?? I saw this movie with my sister who prefers to watch harry potter movies rather than reading the books . . so here i asked her a few questions after the movie Q:-How did harry survive after Voldemort killed him in the forest ? A:-I didn't understandQ:- How did Dumbledore help harry understand the mystery behind hallows? A:-i didn't understand . . he never mentioned about hallows in Harry's dreamQ:-Who died George or Fred ? A:- They didn't mention it Q:- How did Percy come to fight ? A:- i don't know ..Q:- What happened to death eaters ? A:- I don't know may be they ran out of fear Q:- Why did Elder wand didn't work for Voldemort ? A:- couldn't understand Q:- Who killed Nagini ? A:- Ron Hermione and Neville Q:- WHere were all the Hogwarts teachers ? A:- I guess fighting . . i saw them only once in a scene Q:- How did u feel after harry defeated Voldemort ? A:- Nothing special. . they didn;t show any Victory shouts or glory This clearly shows immense loopholes in the plot that Mr. Yates tried to explain in his own way . . but really it didn't work well2) The Final Battle - It doesn't take place in front of everyone in the Hall . . In the book the whole magical fraternity witness the Epic Moment Harry and Voldemort in the centre circling each other and harry finally coming to terms and calling Voldemort . . Tom Yes I Dare . . Where The Hell Was This Scene? . . Death Eaters and Hogwarts Teachers . . Students . . Ron Hermione Neville Luna. . Kreachers army . . every one see Harry and Voldemort circling each other and Harry telling Voldemort . . I have knowledge of magic and a weapon more powerful than yours. . that wands choose their masters on their own. . that Snape was never yours he was Dumbledore's Nothing of this is in the movie . .Very Disappointing. .all that happens is harry and voldemort fight outside the castle and Voldemort curse backfires,and he turns into smoke . .what nonsense 3)Dumbledore's SceneDumbledore doesn't explain why harry doesn't die after Voldemort killed him . .this is where the whole plot and mystery of entire Potter Series is to be explained . . the elder wand killed only the Horcrux inside harry and how Harry's blood still runs in the veins of Voldemort and so he'll be able to return backDumbledore doesn't explain how he was destined only for the elder wand because he was meant to tame it . He doesn't explain at all why only Harry was worthy to posses all the three deathly hallows . . because he is not scared of death . . instead accept it as a friend . . and becoming a true master of death. Giving movie the title The Deathly Hallows . . ask yourself truly what did they do in the movie ? . . Nothing4) Lack Of Emotion and Glory The Trailers say very bright and Loud 'THE Epic Battle' . . ask anyone who saw the movie 'Did it actually feel that epic ??? Did they feel for the characters during the movie ? In the book . . everyone run towards Harry . . Ron and Hermione lift him up they hug him . . there are cheers and cries of Victory . . Glory.. Harry Ron and Hermione go into Headmaster's Office . .where they are welcomed with a standing ovation of Victory . . An Epic Feeling that something huge has finally ended . . In the movie . . you don't feel anything . .Harry just walks by in the hall and no one looks at him until Ron and Hermione . . Then he takes them to the bridge and tells them about the Elder Wand and breaks it . .Ha Ha Ha. . Come on Mr.Yates5) Background Music Imagine huge action scenes without a thrilling background music. . neither rejoicing nor scary . . That is not how you make things EPIC.I think the music given to the trailers was really perfect . . it set theme for the final battle . .it was no where in the movie Over all i think the movie could had been done a lot better if some plots would had been explained properly .For those who haven't read the book . . its a Visual Treat For those who have read the books . . this is Severe Disappointment for their favourite series to end this way . .
This movie was so low on my expectations, and it did not disappoint. From the last few movies of Harry Potter that have come out, being an avid reader of the books, I've absolutely loathed the way they've been commercialized for the box office, ignoring a lot of the story that made the story so very emotional. Yes, when I say that, I mean FOR the box office. Yates probably knew he had messed up the series and thought he might as well earn a few bucks and make this an utter fiasco instead of using its plot to live up to the potential it had for an Oscar.Spoiler alert: This movie had so many moments where people go out of character I don't even know where to begin, but I'll try. I'm actually finding it really hard to understand how people have missed it. I'll point out a few instances, they're not in sequence of events, they're just what comes to mind spontaneously:During Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort's epic battle, at a time when Voldemort is ARMED WITH A WAND, instead of targeting the killing curse at Harry, he KICKS HIM AROUND ON THE FLOOR. What is this? Alcoholic husband goes on rampage? THIS is HARRY POTTER people. The world of MAGIC. These things DO NOT happen, sorry Yates.As part of the same scene, Harry throws out a one-liner at Voldy and grabs him by the head and jumps off what appears to be some like of a terrace in Hogwarts, pummeling them in to a fall which appears to be about 15 seconds long, and they just shrug off the dirt from the ground and start crawling toward their wands, unharmed.McGonnagall throws out a couple of one-liners that are totally out of character when she asks Filch to escort Slytherin house to the dungeons and another when she casts that Locomotor spell and says she's always wanted to use it.The oh so timid Neville also comes up with a stupidly placed heroic speech when Voldemort brings Harry's body forward and asks people to join him.Don't even get me STARTED at the part when LORD VOLEMORT *HUGS* Draco Malfoy. Since when does the Dark Lord HUG people?On a lighter note, when Harry returns to school, Seamus throws out a one-liner at Ron when Ginny sees Harry.Those were probably the more major ones, but I'm sure everyone would've liked the movie better with a few changes like more scenes from Snape's past and better makeup for Mr. Malfoy, but I'm restricted on words here.End of spoilers.You also probably should know that I've registered on IMDb JUST to rate this movie the pathetic 2 stars it deserves and write this review.To sum it up, Yates, you're the biggest fool on Earth, oh and PLEASE read the books.
This final Harry Potter movie might be one of the worst films in years. But only if you've read the books. If you didn't read the books, it's nice and entertaining. The acting is quite good and the special effects are amazing. If you did read the books, it's absolutely dreadful. I consider myself to be a Harry Potter fan. I just love the books, I've read them all a couple of times. Especially the last one "The Deadly Hallows" is one of the best books I've read, even though this is a children's book. The whole story comes together beautifully.But in this movie, The Deadly Hallows Part 2, the magic that the book offers is completely absent. In the first movies, some of the details were a little bit different from the books. It annoyed me, but I could understand it. It made the movies more watchable and you can't get every detail from a book into a movie can you? But here! Not only a few details are different, everything is different! I would expect a few scenes to be faster or more dramatic, but there are whole parts of the movie that are nowhere to be found in the books. I simply can't understand why they've changed so much. I wonder if I've read a different version of the book than the directors. They just made up whole new scenes. Imagine Frodo in Lord of the Rings not dropping the ring into a volcano of lava but in one of tar. Imagine everyone but Frodo sailing away in to the west in the end. That would make the whole thing kinda different right? Why is the whole school called in front of Snape, while the key figures are supposed to be hiding in the room of requirement? Why does Harry just reveal himself to Snape instead of in a classroom with the Carrows? Why doesn't Harry reveal himself to be still alive once Mrs Weasley has killed Bellatrix Lestrange? But no, he's already running around and fighting with Voldemort. And why does Voldemort go up in smoke once killed? This is all wrong. I give the movie a 2 for effort. If you like the books, don't watch this movie, it might ruin the story you love.
There are an awful lot of reviews talking about how this film is 'the best yet' and how it 'ticks all the boxes' or is 'a must for fans'. It is none of these!7 years ago I walked out of watching the 3rd film cursing and swearing out loud about how poor the conversion of book to film had been done. Scenes dropped and changed for 'time considerations' whilst others were invented and thrust in- all creating plot holes that did not exist in the novel. This time I walked out praying that I live long enough to see someone take the books and redo the ENTIRE series properly, using the obvious failures done in the films to date as a road map for improvement.**SPOILERS**It is, unfortunately, near impossible to give a proper review of this film without including at least some spoilers. Whilst one can make generic statements such as 'divergence from source material is too great', 'plot holes cause a lack of integrity' and 'over editing leads to a lack of connection to the characters' none of it means too much without going into at least a little detail.Simple things such as not showing the death of Fred, despite having gone into George's injury so well in part 1, or the massively powerful and indestructible Elder Wand being snapped in half with little to no effort whatsoever are good examples. Bellatrix's wand was more durable for god's sake!Meanwhile, having just spent an entire previous film searching for Horcruxes they suddenly jump from finding one in the form of a cup based on logical deduction to guessing where the next one is on what appears to be a whim. For the sake of taking 90 seconds of screen time to mention that the ring was Slytherin's and the goblet was Hufflepuff's, and it would seem logical for Voldemort's ego to have a desire to stamp his dark magic on a legendary item for each of the 4 founders- therefore Ravenclaw would be a good place to look next- instead Yate's goes and has the characters make a crazy leap of logic for which they need to endanger their lives with no apparent reason behind it whatsoever. This is storytelling of the lowest calibre!These things aren't just failures to adapt the book correctly when to do so would have been better than making alteration, they are basic failures of storytelling that any student on a film or writing course would have lost marks on if it were an assignment. These plot holes, discontinuities, omissions and alienations are in such great number that if it were an assignment it would, in fact, have been lucky to scrape through with a D as a result!No doubt we will see the score of this film drop over time as more and more people- particularly on 2nd watching, or seeing it for the first time on an average size TV or ten years from now when special effects technology has moved on- find the imagery far less awe inspiring than the films flaws. At that point the realisation will kick in that this is actually a very poor rendition of the source material that almost any hack director could have put out just as well if not better with the budget and cast/crew available to hand.


                
The movie is emotionless. And in the climax the movie really lacks of heroic feeling, rejoice & hype. Actually the movie is only 2 hours, still got some free time to extend, maybe 10 more minutes in the scene when Harry Potter died, more time to explain about Master of Death & Deathly Hallows. It's so shameful, the essence & main story of the last series, like in the title "Deathly Hallows" has no portion in this movie. That's the climax part that should be has some heroic feeling, "wow" feeling and eager but it's just flat in this movie!I understand that they can't put all stories to the movie because of the time limit, but that's one of the main story beside hunting the hocrux, ooo my :(Through out the movie, I didn't feel anything, sadness, rejoice. It's just a flat movie with great action :)
I am a large fan of the harry potter books and have enjoyed watching at least the early Harry Potter movies. I must say however this is a horribly disappointing movie seemingly made by a production team who have no intuition at all.When adapting a book into a movie there are two things which distinguish the amazing movie from the disappointing ones: 1- The little things, the small details which the fans really want to see portrayed, even in the background.2- The secondary characters are extremely important to the viewers.My main issue with this movie is that it lacks both of these in a massive way, leaving out the little thins and focusing way too much on harry.It is a terrible adaptation, removing the magic from the whole movie, making it a cheesy battle movie which MAKES NO SENSE ACCORDING THE THE WORLD WHICH WE KNOW AS POTTER!! Issues of stupidity in the movie- - Harry appirates to diagon alley, not under the invisibility cloak then waits around for a chat in the lane-way. Seriously this is just a ridiculous error when everyone is looking for him.WHY IS THE BRIDGE BLOWN UP OMG!!! In all seriousness this is so stupid. I was getting used to the fact that Yates decided the death-eaters can all now fly, so why blow up a bridge. It is just stupid!!! They can fly over and THEY HAVE MAGIC WANDS or go across another bridge.All of the snatchers! They don't even hit Neville as he runs, and he somehow manages to hit it behind him as he runs, (wat?) They instead of using their magic abilities they all just fall into the abyss! Another stupid error - Why did harry break the elder wand? No further comment - Why would the people hiding out in the room of requirement be happy enough to just go down to the great hall when Snape summons them.Issues of disappointment in the movie- -NO FRED DEATH, NO TONKS DEATH, NO LUPIN DEATH.-Mrs Weasley vs. Bellatrix. The most fearful thing about Bellatrix is her taunting words yet in this pivotal scene we don't see any build up of taunting about Ginny and Fred - Why was Voldemort not destroyed in the hall in front of everyone. It was important that Voldemorts rage at Harry should have been shown as harry believes he will win the fight. We needed to see Mcgonagall, Kingsley and Slughorn fighting Voldemort to show his strength and show harry isn't the only one standing up to Voldemort. Issues of annoyance in the movie- -SO MUCH OF HARRY AND VOLDEMORT JUST RUNNING AROUND, pointless and boring - Why is there no footage of Mcgonagall, Lupin, Fred, George, Dean, Seamus, Ginny fighting in the actually battle. Seriously they left all the good characters we wanted to see out of the battle.Mrs Weasley why do you know how to make a massive shield. WHY NOT ARTHUR WHO ACTUALLY WORKS AT THE MINISTRY. Another silly idea from David Yates.-Why do Bellatrix and Voldemort burst into little pieces WHY WHY WHY -We really wanted to see the Ravenclaw common room and Amycus Carrow abusing Mcgonagall. That would've been a great scene to see, Harry defending Mcgonagall with the Cruciatus curse. Yates has completely rejected the enormous power of words in conveyed hatred, menace and friendship.The two massive issues Overall the most disappointing thing is the lack of secondary character involvement in the battle of Hogwarts. Characters which we needed to see actually fighting in the battle included Prof. Sprout, HAGRID Slughorn, All of the Weasleys, Lupin and Tonks. Some characters which it would've been nice to see is the fat lady, sir Cadogan, Nearly Headless Nick, Peeves,fang, Buckbeak, Grawp and the professors portraits.Essentially Yates had removed the magic from this movie. Wizards not using any named spells and simply shooting light from their wand as if it doesn't even mean anything. The magical creatures all left out with the exception of pointless giants without Grawp even there to attack them.Overall I give this 2/10 simply because I love the series and ultimately if i continued to speak on this movies failures i would downgrade it to 1/10. So disappointing for such a great story to be abused in this way
OK so I'm a huge film fan and I've been on this Harry Potter ride for the last 11 years. Every film is just a piece of a grand puzzle that will all come to a triumphant conclusion. Well somebody forgot to tell everyone involved with the film. I have never been more let down by the end of anything ever. The main focus or my rage is to be focused on the 30 sec light show between Harry and Voldemort. Harry destroys all the Whorecruxes and finally faces off against the ultimate evil but now that his little trinkets are broken he's actually a pretty weak wizard. In fact Harry kills him in 2 seconds and he just melts away. We've been waiting for this battle for 11 years and all that happens is Harry's beam is stronger. No screaming, no yelling, no fight for their lives. Just 2 beams meeting and Harry's is better. You don't diminish the enemies power throughout the films. To build suspense you increase his power, making him nearly unstoppable at the end and somehow Harry must overcome the unsurmountable to succeed. Instead Voldemort is now weak and his super wand is busted. Splitting this movie into 2 parts was simply a tool to make another billion. They stretched out boring story telling for the last 4 hours of this series and they didn't even wrap up the characters. They just jump 19 years into the future and Harry Potter is just some guy with a wizard for a son. The most powerful wizards seem to all be pivotal parts of the wizard world but Harry is just some guy in a sweater vest.


                
Seriously guys. Many of you probably won't agree with me, but good movies are made of innovations. When something completely different from your expectations happens, you get surprised (obviously) and then amused, because it's completely different. This key factor makes a movie IMPREVISIBLE, and that, my friend, did not happen at Harry Potter And the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.But, first, let me talk about the soundtrack. It was just poor. If you go back to the other Harry Potter movies, you'll see a completely different story. Beautiful choirs singing (remember Double Trouble? Look it up on YouTube) were not seen in this movie. But, a choir singing like that wouldn't of course, appear on every single movie, until the last one. But AT LEAST something, come on? All you could hear, was silent violins and pianos playing on the background.But, was it so bad after all? Well, remember what I said at the beginning of the review? It did not happen at this movie. In fact, I won't spoil, of course, but if you think about every single possible cliché of both action and drama movies, you can absolutely deduce everything that will happen in Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows Part 2. Seriously.I would recommend you to watch, because it's the end of an amazing saga. But just don't expect too much


                
Many other reviewers have listed all the differences between book and movie and I'm happy that it wasn't only me who saw them. There are just so MANY of them, it's unbelievable that Rowling herself approves of it. (Where was Dumbledores and Grindelwalds backstory? Why did they change Snapes character even more? And so on and on)But even if you haven't read the books, you can find enough logical mistakes in the film itself to spoil everything. Here are just a few examples: Snapes memories: Not only that they invented some new version of his life, but they also show scenes from Prisoner of Azkaban with Wormtail. During that time, Snape was unconscious! They could never ever been in his own memories! Teddy Lupin: Every reader was waiting for the sensational news that Remus and Nymphadora got a son and when he was finally mentioned, it was so totally out of context, that everybody who didn't knew the books must have thought: Wait what? Since when does he have a son? One short line of information before would have been enough, but it seems that the time wasn't enough even for that! Eye Colors: Really, it's okay for me, if Harry has blue eyes and not green. It was good that the older Lily had blue eyes, too, because he has his mothers eyes! But it was a blunder to have a young Lily with brown eyes! You can tell that they changed young Snapes eyes to black, to match it, what was so difficult to do the same with hers? That's just pure illogicality. Voldemort hugging Draco Malfoy: That was just odd and totally out of character, even for the movies. The Death of Voldemort and Bellatrix: That was the same. What were they thinking?Sepcial effects were nice, but they would more enjoyable without all the previous mistakes and when all makes more sense. And they could have been a bit more outstanding during the wizard fights. They were in previous films, why not in the final one? Most of the acting was good, some was brilliant and some other was weak. Even the epilogue wasn't nearly as good as I had imagined it.I was disappointed in nearly everything! What a waste of money, time and talent.
In the past I have seen many awful films like last years After Earth and Iron Man 3 but this is the worst by many miles. It is so bad that I am hating writing this review.So where to start. First lets talk about how very boring this film is. Most of this film is about how Harry Potter is tracking down items to stop Voldemort which ends up not working as he nearly dies once meeting him. Also there is less action scenes than After Earth and Iron Man 3 combined.Next this film is 2 hours long and should have been half an hour less and I might have enjoyed this film. This is the first film that I was tempted to stop watching it and turn over to the BBC1 and watch Sherlock which would have been 1000 times better than this.But the worst thing about this film is the ending. With it being the final film in the series I thought Voldemort would die in a big explosion but no he dies getting hit by Harrys wand which is disappointing. Also Helena Bonham's character dies in the same way. Plus after all the fighting we see Harrys and his wife's (This film was so boring I can't even remember her name)kids and Hermonies and Ron's kids go to Hogwarts.Altogether this is one of the worst films ever made.
Ugh! This film has as about as much drama as a phony halloween costume party.Know there's a lot of Potter fans, but this film just jumps from one load of super effects to another complete with crap music. HUH? WTF is going on aside from looooong drawn out scenes (violins), a few quick back flashes, and then it hammers on the audience with who's bad and good.What an over-produced load of SH*T! No drama here--except for a disabled 6yr old.It's really about as exciting as Ralph Fiennes' nose.A nonsense parable (insult to the word) where even someone very high would hit "delete".
This movie (the 2 parts) is an absolute disgrace. It does not respect the book, it does not respect the world of Harry Potter. It's just a big joke, they decided to cut half of the book, including some important scenes, but they also decided to change what happens and when it happens. They added stuff and made some impossible things possible in the movie. In the end, it's a movie showing off all you can do special effect-wise, they focused on that and chose the scenes they would do from the books based on whether they would allow theme to show off or not, and left big chunks of the story. I re-read the book just before and it's just a shocking movie in the end. I can not believe JK Rowling said yes to that. She must really like money. But it's not like it's a new thing in the Harry Potter series. Half of the movies are lame, disrespectful to the original world, and focused on minor parts while leaving important story parts left abandoned.


                
This story appears to be without any inspiration: a story forced to end.
Issues:
1) Voldemort has enough power to destroy all but he prefers to talk waiting to be destroyed;
2) Potter has to die to kill Voldemort but survive. Forced happy end;
3) Neville survives all attacks because of fortune so to kill the nasty monster: ridiculous;
5) the movie has too much negative aspects.The story should have been good if Severus had faced Voldemort to defeat him so to avoid Harry Potter's death. This choice would have been very surprising.The positive: a reason to avoid to see the previous episodes and to avoid to read the books.
Part 1 of the deathly hallows was extremely emotional. This one was ok at most. There was alot of good parts such as-Ron's absence-back to the future 4/ the train scene-Baghilda Bagshot.Then all the bad things like Snape and Lily,the missing crowd of Harry V Voldemort, Neville e.t.c .
It's just disappointing to watch and it's really hard to empathize with the characters at this point. It feels extremely rushed. Oh well, we've got the cursed child to give us cancer and sucicidal feellings....
This movie is bulls**t! There is so many useless scenes and they make me angry! They decided to make two movies out of one book, they cut many scenes out and then come up with scenes that don't exist and make no sense. I'd ask, but I know why: money. Two movies make more money than one. The people behind these films don't care about story telling they do this thinking about dollar signs - or pound signs, since it's a British film.The original novel is so sad. There are so many significant deaths of characters you never feared would die. And in the movie those scenes are butchered. You briefly see someone dying - or you don't even see them dying, they just are dead all of a sudden. It's a lousy way to do this, because the emotional response from the audience isn't as great as when reading the novel. First part had the tale of three brothers that was so beautiful and amazing. The second part has nothing beautiful. Everything is million times faster and all the important pieces of information are lost. It's annoying!I don't know if I can express my anger and frustration towards the series any better. Everything is wrong, and there are so many weird and awkward scenes that just don't go with the original story. The only thing that brings life to this movie is the cast, but many actors and actresses are now seen for maybe five minutes and that's it. They should've given more thought to how this movie is going to go down. Agh!


                
I don't recommend this movie. the only reason anyone would watch this is if they already watched all the previous movies and wanted to see how it all ended. This movie only exists to make money - money that it wouldn't have made if it wasn't attached to this franchise and all that this franchise includes at this point which is..Unexplained magical items which only show up once. FillerBad actingFillerBad CGFillerPlot conveniencesFiller Ex machinas Filler No established rules/logic-Filler Forced relationshipsFillerFanservice that only works if you've read the book.


                
