SERIOUS SPOILERS INCLUDED ***************************** David Heyman, the Producer of the Harry Potter films, made the single biggest mistake of his career when he decided that the Director of each film would be offered the opportunity to direct the next. Chris Columbus did a great job working with the young inexperienced actors and actresses in the first 2 films. Alfonso Cuarón and Mike Newell did good jobs with the next 2 (I wish Goblet of Fire had been split into 2 films to include many more subplots, but the primary emotional content was maintained). For various reason, each of these three directors stopped.Then David Yates entered the scene and proceeded to dramatically change the feel of the films. For lack of a better word, the "magic" was expunged and everything took on a more "realistic" look. Films 5 and 6 were terrible compared with the books. I initially blamed 5 on the fact that Steve Kloves did not write the screenplay, but I now know I was wrong.The film of Deathly Hallows, Part I was OK, but it was simply the setup for the emotional second half.I just saw Deathly Hallows, Part II this evening and I was speechless. In addition to adding useless parts to the narrative, critical emotional scenes were eliminated (e.g. final conversation with Dumbledore and the final conversation between Harry and Voldemort/Tom Riddle where Harry gave Voldemort on last chance to find remorse).Yates even managed to suck the life out of one of the most exciting moments in the book, where Molly Weasley intervenes to save Ginny from Bellatrix and yells "Not my daughter, you bitch!" In the film, Molly calmly makes this statement as if she is some western gunfighter.The final scene between the 3 main characters (not including the epilogue) had NO life at all.David Yates - shame on you.Thank goodness we will always have the books.
I just saw the movie and i have to admit.. the special effects and whatnot are good.... BUT I'm 100% sure that David Yates never read the books, cause there are nearly no similarities to what happened in the books. I could make a full list, but i think its not worth the web space filling, so i will only write down what i remember:1. In Bellatrix chamber the things inside are not just duplicating, they get very hot, so hot that they are burning them.... 2. Harry isn't telling anybody then Hermine and Ron about the Horcruxes and especially not Dumbledores brother... 3. The flames would have destroyed the diadem anyway so it wasn't necessary to kill it with the basilisk... at least not in the books... but in Davids world i guess its OK -.-' 4. The fight with Volde at the end was in front of all the people, but i guess Yates missed that too cause its certainly more expensive then just alone somewhere in the bush. 5. Harry repaired his own wand before he kept and never used the elder wand again until he would die so the power of it would vanish. 6. A looooottttt more!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!All in all i hated the movie, in the last part of the movie i stopped watching the movie and was just thinking about how it is possible to make such a bad movie out of a wonderful book. Thanks David for making that possible!!!!!! PS.: Eng is not my foreign language, if u find spelling mistakes u can keep them :D
David Yates is one of those directors you either hate or love. If you have never read the book, there is a chance you might like/love his work. If you have read the book, there is a very high chance you want to grab hold of him and stuff the vomit-est vomit flavored Bertie Bott's beans in large amount of quantities in a particular orifice that ...well I leave it to your imagination. I have read the book and I hate his work, his sloppy story lines, his directing of the actors/actresses are hideously horrendous. If ever you want to make a comparison, watch Goblet of Fire and there is a distinct difference in the way the acting is done. This review is about HP7B- HP7B is better than the order of phoenix and very much better than the HBP. I like how he sped the entire 1st part up and yet made the storyline rather polished...then it slowed to crap. Like the HBP, if you have read the book & might have imagined Dumbledore's death much better than what Mr Yates had put out on screen; you know he clearly lacks imagination in delivering real emotion to cinema-goers. Such is the case when Harry finds out he is porky pig walking to a large oven filled with green green light that will bake him to crisp. I was surprised Daniel Radcliff acted pretty well at the end, the mud streaked face and perpetual soot covered all over look made him look very much like a potential murder victim. I also liked certain parts I thought clever like the shield around Hogwarts, very Final Fantasy like; oh an the elaboration of Ron n Hermione destroying the cup- thank you very much, I always thought JK rushed through that part rather carelessly. But again, the snog-ging o the snogging, must it be so well...necessary and fake. Then there was the ending, my point about Mr Yate's lack of ability to deliver proper emotion to ticket holders exact. Zap zap and zap zap and then Volde dies, then oh lets just waltz back to school. No yelling whooping cheering elation screams of joy clap hands stadiums filled with ecstasy. Just ... Nothing, the sickest baddest mother of naughty wizards without noses has finally been killed! zip nothing. It seemed like Mr. Yates ran out of budget, time, creativity towards the end and quickly sped through the script for the sake of making tons of muggle gold. Then the worst thing happened- the wand of destiny, the death-stick, the branch of doom, the amazingness fantastic-est bes-test most sought after stick of power! The ONE STICK TO RULE THEM ALL!! The one link to the DEATHLY HALLOWS was snapped like a brittle piece of instant noodle by a teenage boy. He wrangled that thing like an irritating wet fibrous piece of wood and tossed it away. All for the sake of not having to explain too much. Yes! Mr Yates, the reason readers really hate you is, you take short cuts just because of your inept ability to tell good stories in film- you did not want to explain too much how Harry could survive Voldy's zap, you were just too lazy to elaborate on the Deathly Hallows and did not trust us to understand wand lore. The result is, HP7B is very much a confusing movie for muggle readers and to those who have been magically blessed to read the book, it lacks imagination. 8.4 on IMDb! Pffttttt what a load of crock.
Story: Now this is where the film falls short the most, paramount importance is given to scenes where cheap romance occurs (retrieval of the basilisk teeth), which does nothing to enrich the plot, because it has no effect on the overall story, but the filmmaker does not seem o think it is important to explain Harry's "loljks, I wasn't dead", probably assuming that most people have read the book and the others will just say "It was probably magic", but this cannot be too much of a criticism because many of these weak storytelling mechanisms are taken directly from the books. As for the epilogue it seems cheap, gratuitous and completely out of tone with the rest of the film. It feels like it was left there to get a few cheap laughs and to leave the viewer with no uncertainty that Harry does live happily ever after. But most of these criticisms should probably go into a book review, because the source material is as weak as the film itself.Camera-work and Direction: Average to low standard, especially considering the budget was $250 million. The shots where steady cam was not used only seem out of character with the rest of the film. The sequences where Harry and Voldemort communicate through their psychic connection seem incredibly redundant and have a tendency towards fake experimentalism, which has no motifs and seems to be completely self-indulgent. Under this category falls also the white Kings Cross station, which seems to be an optimistic attempt to form some sort of symbolism, but once again this optimism must go unrewarded. The animations are standard, not adding much to the plot, even when they are mostly visually pleasing.Acting: The acting in the lead roles seems to be consistent with the rest of the series, even though our familiarity with the characters does not seem to make them more sympathetic. The supporting actors seem mostly relived to be over with this lengthy project and their performances are very weak, which is not saying that they are given enough screen time to give their characters any development. Sceenplay: Steve Kloves' screenplay seems to be an incomplete work where the adding in of interactions with cute animated creatures through out the film, seem to have importance over the development of the plot. With the fact that his only large job has been in writing the screenplay for the Harry Potter series, his knowledge of the overall story should have aided in tying loose ends, but these remain completely unsolved and seem accentuated with lousy dialogue and lengthily emotionally dry scenes. Soundtrack: Forgettable rehash of previous successes Poor ending to the epic (in size not in merit) Harry Potter franchise.


                
Before any fanboys, fangirls or IMDb users mark this review as "not helpful" without actually reading it (based on the 3/10 rating), I beg you to read this as a whole and not be a butthurt fan who can't stand someone criticizing the "best movie of our generation".The final Harry Potter book was epic, the reason they split it was because the whole book was you couldn't really omit any important part of it without losing relevance. When I first watched the 7th movie I was really surprised since it was impressively loyal to the book. The first movie had been 90% true to the novel, they really couldn't mess up the second part, could they? But they did. The movie starts dramatically with shots of Hogwarts and Professor Snape staring at students from his balcony; the next scene showed the trio making plans for breaking into the magical bank of Gringotts... there was where the movie started to go downhill.The book was perfect, marvelous, but after 10 or so minutes the movie started to focus more on humor than drama. Yes, HUMOR. There was a missing important character in the beginning and while funny somehow, the scene at the bank simply wasn't really loyal nor impressive.Instead of pointing out every difference in the book, I'll just criticize how the second and third acts were more focused on humor than drama. Ron and Hermione being attacked by a tsunami and then kissing? The whole D.A. members looking more like scolded children than a suppressed army?There's a HUGE difference between doing the final confrontation in front of everyone (explaining it all, as in the book) and making Harry and Voldemort chase around Hogwarts and throw themselves from a balcony. Destroying the Elder Wand with his hands and rushing a "19 years later" epilogue has to be the worst ending ever.Way to go, Hollywood. I really couldn't believe that you could kill the whole drama in one of the best fantasy books in the last decade. If you want a GREAT fantasy book-to-movie adaptation watch the first Narnia movie, that's one the few cases when a movie's better than this book.I might have left out how the movie had no 3D effects (other than the Dragon at the beginning) and was a whole rip-off my money...
After the dull abyss that was The Deathly Hallows Part 1, I didn't think that Part 2 would really be much better. And it really wasn't. I have no idea how it got an 8.5 rating.I have enjoyed the Harry Potter films, although I have never read the Books. However, I have found the films to be poorly written. The scriptwriters seems to eschew actual narrative and instead just drop scenes in here and there.*HERE BE SPOILERS* Firstly, the plot holes. So the elder wand is this awesome powerful device. Except it doesn't really do much at all. Well, okay. Maybe "powerful" is a metaphor for something else. And the wand apparently serves Harry, not Voldemort, although that really doesn't make any functional difference at all. Poor writing. The Order of the Pheonix is destroyed, apparently. I'm not sure when that happened, exactly, since they never bothered to show that to the audience, and all the members are still alive til the end. Part 1 ended with no cliffhanger, and the whole subplot of the Deathly Hallows was largely irrelevant. The elder wand was pointless. The resurrection stone didn't make any sense. The invisibility cloak didn't even show up as far as I can recall.The end result is that it's okay. The acting is the same as all the others, the special effects the same and so forth. Thankfully they kept the same actors throughout the series. The real problem is that the filmmakers never bothered to build a strong narrative. It's fast paced, but shallow.My guess is that they tried to save all the interesting parts til Part 2. However, the functional result is that Part 1 sucked and sucked and they spent an hour in a tent doing nothing, and Part 2 had too much to cover to make a powerful narrative. What should have happened is a more even spacing of events.6 out of 10.
Time for your OWL marks Mr. Yates and Kloves! No- don't bite your fingers; You don't get a Troll nor a Dreadful either- you have just managed yourself a resounding Poor though. Hmmm, better luck next time!- not for you but for HP fans who may want to see someone else re-doing the entire series in future. Death Hallows Pt 2, for some time to come, will remain as the foremost example of a movie that could had been a classic if not for the grand opportunity missed, or rather wasted by the director and the crew. It had every resource at command- a very talented set of actors, latest 3D and computer technologies, and a 10 years old legacy to guide its way to greatness. But quite inexplicably it refused to even say 'accio' to these sources, and instead, after running impressively through half the way to summit, it wandered, stumbled, and then jumped off the path into same abyss where Harry is made to throw the Elder wand at end. The movie starts convincingly from part 1, and holds itself really well until the time the trio of H.R.H enters into Hogwarts. The scene in vault where artifacts start to multiply or the flight of dragon are superlatively done, there is no question to it. But once inside the castle, the fizz suddenly goes off the movie. Yates wanted to rush towards boom boom explosions with such haste that it let the thing implode on itself. And so the second half becomes a rubble of montages and frozen frames crashed in a monumental heap where Harry Potter fans like me are still trying to find some meaningful pieces together. To put it another words, the entire second half of the movie is just arranged together- there is no feeling introduced, no association built with the characters, no bridges created (but blown away certainly). It just compilation of images one after another. Pretty, no doubt, but Mr. Yates, ought to know that in wizarding world people in images also have soul; and the second half had not a shred of soul in it. And therefore, I did not feel any personal sense of loss when Hogwarts shook and crumbled, when Fred, Lupin , Tonks and so many others died, and quidditch ground burned to ashes. Damn you David Yates- I had loved Hogwarts more than my own school, had ROFLed at Fred's quips and jeers, followed wizard quidditch more than Ron, and had made friends with Harry's batchmates. You dehumanized the entire saga, and left me with not even a feeling of mourning at these losses and worse-- neither one of jubilation at Harry's triumph. And this is my principle discontent. In the movie, the climatic fight between Harry and Voldi occurs completely isolated and away from everyone. There is no one to watch watch this epic struggle which was building since last 7 years of the movie chronology. It was absurd and spoiled the movie for me. I had never liked the 7th book much, but still the conversation between Voledomort and Harry at the end was thrilling and enthralling – equally moving was Harry's conversation with Dumbledore's portrait. Yate's machination constructed an altogether different and vastly inferior ending.As a foot-note, this is still a tolerable movie- and certainly not 'OMG-worst-movie-i-ever-saw' kind of stuff. Pity is that, it could had been much much much better.
It's been 3 years now since I first saw this, but after the very strong "Deathly Hallows Pt. One," this movie came off as a rushed and incompetently written and directed mess (ironic considering they directed part one). I'm shocked J.K. Rowling put the stamp of approval on this heap.This review won't be long because my complaints with the movie are as follows: Dumbledore's back story was given no attention (hugely important to the story). the Battle of Hogwarts (pivotal in the book) was glossed over with a few sweeping panoramic shots. Finally, Voldemort and Bellatrix's death was ridiculously anti-climactic and stupid- looking. I was ready to walk out when Voldemort did a Microsoft Powerpoint transition, but for whatever reason I stayed. The epilogue was "cute," but still couldn't excuse the mess that was the rest of the movie. I know they were strapped for time, but this movie seriously did nothing but tick me off. I remember people shaking their heads as they were leaving the theater because they thought the ending was so bad.
I'll admit that I've never been big on the film series as a whole (only saying I even liked two of the installments), but after the major emotional improvement that was Deathly Hallows: Part I it just felt like they threw all of that way for Part II. They put 95% of the focus onto Harry and let all of the other characters fall by the wayside, so when major emotional peaks happened like the Hermoine and Ron kiss that had been building for eight entire films, it became this throwaway moment that had no significance. This happened a good dozen or so times throughout the film with moments that were supposed to be huge emotional payoffs and ended up just feeling like footnotes on "The Harry Story" for two hours.This is the only film in the series where I felt like they should have actually made it longer, since instead of dragging like some of the installments it felt like so much of it was incredibly rushed to get to Harry's big scenes (several of which did drag a lot). Several of the big moments felt incredibly cheesy, but the action scenes were pretty well done other than the pauses in the middle of them for poorly delivered one-liners. My favorite character in the book series ended up being someone I couldn't have cared less about in the films and his huge moment here gave me absolutely nothing. Overall, a large disappointment to end a very disappointing series.


                
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part II needed more improvement. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is a great book but the movie is so horrible but it is good at the same time!Harry Potter is a great franchise there are some movies that are horrible and boring like this one and the Half-Blooded Prince.Even though I didn't enjoy Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, I was wowed in some parts it was great but not so great at the same time. It is stuck in the middle.I do recommend you go and see it since it is the last movie but don't blame me if you are upset by wasting your money, Thank you!


                
Well I watched this last night and left the cinema feeling a but underwhelmed. Its seems to be me like they lashed this movie together knowing full well that it was always going to be a sellout. If you have bothered with the last movies then you find yourself wanting to just get to the end. Its hard to pick 1 particular scene out but to me it didn't flow well and the script was very wish wash. I could give examples but I don't want to give anything away to those who have not seen the movie. I never found myself once feeling sad that it was the final movie. It failed badly to get the hairs tingling and the lump in the throat effect most saga's have. Very disappointing but hey, this is just my opinion. See for yourself. I would wait for the DVD tho.....


                
The series ends, at last. Good riddance. (Until JK Rowling needs money, I guess).The first Harry Potter was interesting, and good fun. Much of this was due to the novelty of it all. The first Harry Potter introduced us to the characters and concepts of the series.The second used that template and provides another plot. The plot was fairly mundane and overwrought. At nearly three hours it was ridiculously long for a linear plot-driven kid's adventure story.This is all said, there was a momentum that kept it going. There were some new concepts and characters. All this was enough to make it marginally likable.By the third, however, it was a tired formula. From then on it was all about gouging more money from kids and nerds.Rating for this last one should be lower, but it gets a bonus point for finally ending this seemingly-never-ending, sequels-for-the-sake-of-more-money series.


                
Just the necessary end of a book adaption which goes worse and worse with every part. For example, the first and second have been good movies. But then the third which turns the book with the, in my opinion, most exciting story into a boring whatever. The fourth could be named as a "nice try" but everything after that was just boring stuff with exaggerated and obsessive special effects. One could get so much more out of this story, but also the last part was full of these things I've sad before: groundless protracted, useless effects, lame gags and a final battle that could'nt be more unspectacular; by the way: no more ideas since the fourth part, except this strange black and white smoke flying thing which is just ridiculous. no innovation, no profundity, no good filmsorry for some grammar mistakes, but English is not my native language


                
This movie was a big disappointment.Im going to make this short and sweet.The movie sucked.The only reason I gave it 6 stars is because of the battles.Without the intense scenes this movie deserves 4 stars.Lets start in the beginning.Its starts right off where the last movie left off.Not good at all.Even if you saw the movie a couple months ago you will not remember all of the last film.So the film producers were kind of stupid of not taking 5 minutes of the film and tell us what happen before.Like when they run on TV a two episode with the same plot and on the second episode in the beginning they say previously.Thats what they should of done.So I what I would do is see part 1 again.Then go see this film.What really kills me is that this movie is on the top 250 list.This movie is a disgrace to all movies.The only reason this movie got on the list so far is because everybody who has voted for it is a harry potter fan.So when you see on the list don't let it fool you.The only thing that is worth seeing in this movie is the attack on hogwarts castle.But remember Im not a hairy potter fan.I reviewing this movie as a critic.I don't care if its harry potter or not this movie was a disappointment to me but maybe not to harry potter fans.One other thing i feel sorry for the people who camped out 4 night just to see the midnight showing of this movie.
Well wasn't really shocked, I expected it to be bad even though it was worse than I could possibly guess. It's a beautiful book that we all loved, it's hard to watch an adaptation that almost literally ***** on it. The most enjoyable part of the movie is probably the CGI, that's how bad it was. So here is a list of the worst things that can be found in this movie (in all honesty I'm only speaking of the very worst):SPOILER ALERTProtego suddenly can stop the Avada Kedavra. Fred scene where he dies isn't shown, name wasn't even specified. Percy pops out of nowhere. Voldemort and Harry's idea of a battle is hugging and kicking each other because you know they are wizards. Voldemort personally cuts Severus's throat because he likes cutting throats. Severus's throat is cut but he takes his time to say more than in the book, I must insist the beauty in the book was the "look.. at.. me.." PERIOD Hermione had a flask in her bag, that she carries even in war, just in case Severus' memories were mere tears. Harry's eyes aren't even green (or slightly). Lily and Severus are best friends and suddenly she is married to James. Albus Dumbledore absolutely no back story. Aberforth seems to be as good of a wizard as Albus was even though he quit school and is supposedly not even able to read (he had one of the strongest Patronus charms in the series..) Hermione and Ron try kill Nagini by throwing stones at it Everyone can fly even though Voldemort was suppose to be the only character to be able to Harry tells Ron and Hermione what he saw in the Pensieve The Ravenclaw common room wasn't shown, Harry doesn't defend Minerva, suddenly the whole order is in the castle and Severus and Minerva fight.. Minerva jokingly says that she always wanted to use that spell (was suppose to be an epic scene) The diadem is broken with the basilisk fang not Fiendfyre not even mentioned A bridge scene with explosives, Hagrid wasn't shown when he was taken and suddenly he is at Voldemort's side The Elder Wand splits (Why? Please, why?) Hagrid stops screaming because he was asked to. Harry suddenly understands that he isn't dead even though he didn't even ask the question Reference to the fourth book where Dumbledore had a gleam of triumph in his eyes, one of the most interesting twisted plots in the whole book,the fact that Voldemort had some of Harry's blood in him, not mentioned. Harry was suppose to be angry at Dumbledore, because he didn't trust him, because he made it so hard for him, not mentioned. Since it isn't specified we can think that a disarming spell killed Voldemort The elder wand is broken and thrown, Harry's wand isn't repaired Harry doesn't speak to Dumbledore's portrait. The ending, is so bad, it's just as bad as it gets.
Is this film good? Yes. Is this film that good? No. This is a film that was overrated by the audiences and the critics. The set pieces, visual effects, or plot are worse than those in Star Wars or The Lord of The Rings. Perhaps the film is just made for the fans, instead of the general audiences. The Harry Potter novel is brilliant, while the film is not.


                
