I saw this at a preview screening in London.Deathly Hallows part 2 ends this incredibly well produced saga with tremendous grace and a beautifully orchestrated climax that I am sure will satisfy both lovers of the books and films.If you have read the books as I have you will be glad to know major key moments are intact. Much is missing but I won't dwell on that, no point, its how well this movie plays out and for me it rolls wonderfully between excitement, thrills and emotional drama towards a satisfactory (though a slightly rushed) conclusion. There are at least 2 sequences so powerful that I defy anyone not to at least stifle a tear or choke a little. One of those sequence is an exquisitely executed flashback that is pivotal to the whole story. I have to say, that despite the woes we book readers have when elements (big chunks of it too) are omitted from the movies, much credit still has to go to Steve Kloves for adapting the books for the big screen, cleverly weaving, changing and even adding new big elements to give a kinetic flow to the narrative and here it all comes together superbly.David Yates assured direction has nurtured our young actors in the last 4 films to blossom into even more adept actors who convey their characters with natural tones without overacting. Daniel Radcliffe had to carry this movie more than any other and has done so brilliantly complemented with great support from his two companions, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint.Pretty much all the characters we have met in all the movies have made an appearance in this finale but one actor stands out, Alan Rickman. His portrayal of Professor Snape has always been a joy to watch (if a little novel) but here his scenes will leave a dramatic engraving in my memory. Here he elevates his portrayal of one of the most complex character in young adult literature to an unforgettable piercingly emotional one.Another actor who really shines in the few scenes that he has, is Matthew Lewis as Neville Longbottom who we see gradually transforming over the past films from the clumsy bullied boy to a brave warrior in this final film. Many other British thespians of the series also have their few moments to shine especially Maggie Smith's Professor McGonagal who was a delight to watch as she takes charge of the defence of Hogwarth School.As for the spectacle of the battle and showdowns, while not at the scale of Lord of the Rings, I honestly cant think how it could have been done better as the film makers have intertwined heart stopping action with dramatic progressions in the narrative. Its actually more visceral and dynamic than the rather smaller scale battle of the brilliant novels (not to take anything away from Rowling's writing). Do I have any gripes? Yes I do. Although I applaud Steve Kloves for a difficult screenplay adaption...I think he could still have done better at explaining some odd anomalies that only readers of the book will understand. This might annoy you if you haven't read the books. But its a small gripe because what we get is delightful.What an amazing achievement to faithfully bring Rowling's epic saga to the big screen with the same cast and largely the same crew, maintaining the brilliant quality right to the end.Oh my god, its only just sinking in, this was the end....but what a great great end.


                
Endings are usually the problems of most movie series. They usually end up being mediocre & unsatisfying or they are made to cash in people. The great thing about Harry Potter movies, the filmmakers are taking their job seriously. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 is a great ending of the series. It's more than throwing a lot of action and exposition. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 is one of those conclusion that actually care about the series.Deathly Hallows part 1 is just the first and the half of the second act of the story. Deathly Hallows part 2 begins straight forward to its continuation of the last Harry Potter film. And of course, if you haven't seen Deathly Hallows Part 1 or any of the Harry Potter movies, you'll be confused to death. Obvious isn't it? It's pretty clever to make the whole Deathly Hallows story like a slow burn. It started from silent thrills, plans, and escapes to big and loud battles.The series doesn't only end with big and loud action. It also gives us some nostalgia from the old Harry Potter films. And we still get to see more of the characters. The movie itself is pretty exciting. It's a good choice to let David Yates direct the rest of the Potter films because he made this series darker and bolder. Aside from that the film still has its compelling moments like the Prince's Tale scene.No need to tell about the performances of Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and the rest of the cast because they are obviously good to their characters but there is one actor here is worth mention and that is Alan Rickman. We already knew him as Snape but there is one scene where we see more of his character and his performance was excellent. The filmmaking, the special effects is obviously good. The music score really made the battle scenes epic and perfect for a final film.For me it's really hard to write a review about Harry Potter. Is it because I never read the books or I'm not really a huge fan but in my opinion Harry Potter is a successful series. If I rank all the movie conclusions, this could be number three because nothing beats Lord of the Rings and Star Wars. Either you're a fan or not, you'll love this series. And yes, this is another remarkable movie series.


                
I quite luckily got the chance to see this at an early screening on July 7th.First impressions of the film? Brilliant.Director David Yates, who also directed the 5th, 6th and 7th films is back to direct the final. This pleases me because these 3 films are my personal favourites out of the 7 that have come out so far so I think it's fair to say that I was expecting big things from this. I'm very pleased to say that he's pulled it off ending the series in a fast paced, well written final act.The film (in case you're wondering) picks up straight after where Part 1 ended, Voldemort (Ralph Finnes) has the most powerful wand in his possession and he's finally ready to succeed in what he tried to do over 15 years ago. He finally has the power to kill Harry Potter. I won't go into much more detail in what happens as most people will have read the book and I don't want to drop spoilers! Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) need to seek out and destroy Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes. This is the only way that will give them a chance of stopping He Who Must Not Be Named.Their final journey takes them to places we may not have seen recently or remembered, places such as Gringotts Bank in Diagon Alley and Hogsmeade. Along the way they encounter a variety of creatures, both friend and foe from dragons to spiders, death eaters to old friends and of course, the Dark Lord himself. Will Voldemort Succeed? Or will good trump evil? For those who haven't read the book this is your chance to find out.What I especially love about this film and Part 1 is the direction in which they've taken, adding more cheesy lines and (for example in Part 1) that dance sequence. I feel that these small touches bring the films closer to our hearts and help us to connect with the film a lot more. Sure they leave out a lot of information that the books provide but that's the same with all film adaptations! They've got the main story down and where they've deviated from the book it has been for the best. Not everything written down on paper will translate into visually appealing footage.Part 1 to me also felt unfinished (well it was only half the book I suppose!), I mean in the way that it was long and never seemed to climax. Sure at the end of Part 1 Voldemort gets the want he so badly seeks for and leaves then the films ends on a giant cliffhanger. Part 2 definitely adds the rest of that epicness that so many other films have towards the end. It's full of action! I definitely believe that both Part 1 and 2 are best viewed with a short as possible gap in between them. Otherwise it's like watching the first disc from one of the extended editions of The Lord of the Rings and not watching the second disc for another 6 months!This paragraph is about the visuals and 3D. Skip to the final paragraph for final thoughts.Visually the film is stunning from an effects point of view. From the trailer alone you can see that this film has quite a lot of action in it, crumbling buildings, hundreds of spells and lots of fire. Everything looks great, from the wand duals to the dragons it all is fantastic. Also this time around it is being showed in 3D and is the first (and (probably) last!) potter film to be shown in this way. Now I was very sceptical about this, especially since they announced that the films (originally both parts) would be converted from 2D to 3D instead of being natively filmed in 3D. I believe that what they should have done was what they did with Part 1, scrap the 3D. I'm going to say that it's not great, at times it's pretty good, but never great. For the most part it's okay. I'm going to compare it with the last blockbuster film to come out in 3D, Transformers: Dark of the Moon. The 3D effect is not even close to looking as good as what that film (shot in 3D) had. So I'm going to tell you now, 2D is the best dimension to watch this film in. Having said that if you still want to (or have to) see it in 3D by all means do, the 3D doesn't take away anything from the film, but it doesn't add much.I will end by saying that I definitely recommend this film for everyone, especially Potter fans. The ending that many thought could easily be done wrongly has been done right. Then when you think of Part 1 and 2 as the same film I believe that they are easily the best Potter films. This truly is a fitting ending for the boy who lived.


                
Yesterday i went to a private screening of the movie and here is what i though.Harry potter and the deathly hallows is the final volume in the award winning Harry Potter series and boy does it have a good send off. The acting, as usual is sensational and very convincing. Ralph Fiennes does a really amazing job at playing Lord Voldemort as he has done in all the previous movies.Lord Voldemort gets a lot of screen time and you should be please because he is really great.Also as usual, Daniel Radcliffe, Ruper Grint and Emma Watson are great as Harry,Ron and Hermione.Alan Rickman as Severus Snape is the best choice that could be done for the character as he is nearly exactly what i was imagining what he would be like when i read the book. I really do not need to tell you about his acting because its Alan Rickman and as usual he is fabulous. Michael Gambon is, as usual, a great Albus Dumbledore.Maggie Smith does a very very good Prof McGonagall...well you will have to see the movie to know what i mean but i am pretty sure you will like everything she does ! The film takes quite a few liberties from the book but to be honest, thats fine with me..one of the prime examples is the scene in the trailer where Harry and Lord Voldemort seem to hug and jump of a roof. In the trailer it looked odd and out of place but in the movie it looks pretty good and a lot less odd.The Battle for Hogwarts takes up about half the movie and is pretty spectacular and on a pretty large scale..well as spectacular as a PG-13 can be..there are so many explosions and things going on at the same time and it is just pure chaos,as the book intended i am sure, and its plain old fun to watch.Quite a few things happen in the battle that do not happen in the book but to be honest thats fine...doing a 100 percent adaptation would be a tough task and might not be as fun to watch.The movie does a great job, as the others did, at being funny seconds after a emotionally charged scene..and there are a lot of them ! I heard quite a bit of crying in all the moments you can imagine (if you have read the books) and also a lot of laughing.The special effects where very impressive, and well made if not a little over used.My only main problem with the movie is it did not need to be 3D.quite a few of the effects where clearly just to say look at me i am 3D !! It just did not feel needed. The sense of danger that Harry and crew face is very real and the director did a great job at making sure you are kept on your toes.The film is definitely the darkest in the saga so far and has quite a few intense scenes..Knowing how uptight censors can be its good that it gets away with a PG-13..I am trying to do the review without giving away too much because i am not keen on giving spoilers away at all but if you have any questions just ask and i will do my best to answer them. If you are a hardcore Harry Potter fan, you will most likely love it and it will be a whole bunch of fun.if you hate changes being made to the book chances are you will not love it so much...It may have a couple of flaws, which i am going to address below, but other than that its what it should be; a whole bunch of fun and a pretty good send of (or is it the end?) for the saga.The final scene is sweet and in all a good ending. When i left the theater it felt quite surreal as i have been nearly growing up with the Harry Potter saga, and it made me sad to know it was over..or as David Hayman said in the speech he gave before the movie, The end is just the beginning.My final thoughts on it are that its a pretty amazing end to a pretty amazing saga. (i am trying to improve my reviews little by little)
While never an avid Harry Potter fan, I have watched all eight Harry Potter films on the big screen over the past decade. It's been a long, bumpy ride, with some films stronger than others - mainly the first few (in my own honest opinion). After a while, however, it all felt like the biggest cinematic tease ever. I mean, we've been told about Voldermort ever since the beginning, and we've known all along that the saga will end with this big, epic fight between good and evil... err, I mean Harry vs. Voldermort. However, that never came (except for a few teases here and there), and when the producers decided to postpone the inedible and split the last film into two, it became ever so frustrating.Thanks god, then, that Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 came along to right all the wrongs the previous films have made and to give us the proper closure we've all been waiting for. Finally, after all this time, we get to see the main protagonist for more than a glance. We get resolutions to plot lines that began in parts 6 & 7, Hogwarts makes an awesome comeback for one, final stand between forces between both sides, and there are even some twists and turns that echo all the way back to parts 1 & 2.So yes, THIS is the Harry Potter we've all been waiting for all along: edgy, dark, more mature and complex than ever before, with solid performances from all involved (especially Ralph Fiennes, who gets some space to play with his character, and that guy that plays Neville Longbottom, who grew up to become quite a man from that mousy little kid he once was). But more so - and unlike any of the other films in the series – HP7b stands as an independent piece (alongside its 2010 counterpart), and doesn't leave the viewer unsatisfied. Here, we get a proper ending, we know this is the Harry Potter to end all 800 or so films that came before, and it seems that the producers knew this and gave it all they could. I only wish they've done this more often during the previous films, instead of saving the best for last.All in all, this is THE best Harry Potter I've seen from all the eight, and a truly exciting roller coaster of a film, filled with top notch storytelling alongside impressive special effects (even the 3D felt appropriate and relevant). I gave it a very solid 9 out of 10.


                
The one that ends it all, after 8 films (7 books) in the wizarding world, Harry finally has a showdown with He Who Has No Nose, and it's rather confusing, but also satisfying, and other than Harry and Valdemort, the other characters who get to shine are Mrs. Weasley, who gets fed up and dispatches Bellatrix, Neville Longbottom, who singlehandedly stands up against Valdemort despite everyone laughing at him, and it is he who offs Valdemort's snake, the last vestige of his soul, allowing Harry to finish him of - and Neville also gets the girl (Luna Lovegood, a cute couple), and finally there's Severus Snape, who turns out not to be a villain after all, but endured a lot as he infiltrated Valdemort's ranks in a plan that eventually proved fatal, and all because he loved Harry's mother from afar. In the end, Harry looks upon Snape as one the bravest, noblest men he's ever known, or ever will know. So yeah, a very entertaining conclusion.
This movie was the perfect ending to the best movie series of all times. Start to finish perfect!


                
Best cinematic universe out there! Thank you J.K Rowling.


                
I was really looking forward to this movie. The final parts of the final book are epic and very satisfying. And for most of the movie was very good, until the end.I understand when directors change things from the book for brevity. For instance in the book the diadem is destroyed by the fire in the Room of Requirement, but in the movie they just stab it rather than spending time explaining.However, when they make scenes worse that could have fit in the 2hr time, that is not good.I wanted to see Mrs. Weasley show some uncharacteristic fire in defeating Beatrix, as in the book, but the scene was brief and passion-less.In the book, Neville got a "quest" from Harry to kill the snake. In the movie they tried to turn Neville's killing of the snake into something more exciting, but it seemed forced and just luck that he was in the right place at the right time.In the book Harry battles Voldemort in front of everybody, circling, taunting and explaining who is the Master of the Elder Wand. In the movie, they battle alone and Voldemort seems to die inexplicably from no visible spell hitting him.In an attempt to make the movie better, I think the director's changes made it worse, and it ruined it for me.
i was looking forward to seeing the last part of harry potter, i've read all of the books and they're amazing. movies have never been as good as books are, but still, i enjoyed watching them, when i saw Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 - i was surprised, how good that movie was and was waiting for a better one.visually movie is perfect, there are very beautiful colors and cinematography is also very nice. although, it's one of the best 3d-s i've seen lately. visual effects were very good and i think it's the best part from harry potter series by all means.actors were just as usual, not very good, but not horrible. but, i must admit, Ralph Fiennes did awesome job as voldemort.it is just what i expected after deathly hallows: part 1, and i'm glad harry potter has such an epic, interesting and nice conclusion. i advice everyone to read books at first and then watch movies. you won't regret, this is AWESOME!


                
Yes, I would've liked to have seen more scenes from the book. But I don't fancy spending 6 hours in the cinema! I love Harry Potter, but honestly, I have spent enough time reading the books!Go to the cinema and watch it, give our British Film Industry some well deserved cash.Personally, I would've liked to have seen Voldemorts face when Molly kills Bellatrix. I wanted to hear more about Dumbledore's life and it would've been good to see Percy make up with his family. Even though it wasn't a big story in the films anyway. I didn't really like when people got killed they burst into confetti (taken from X-Men Last Stand, I think.) No doubt it won't end there though, they will probably create a film based on Rita Skeeter's book and another film about Voldemort (as they didn't use all the material from The Half-Blood Prince book.)But all in all a good film, the acting has improved tenfold and the special effects were amazing.I will leave you with one word for all people who will not stop complaining: "ADAPTATION!"
The end of the Harry potter series has now come, but the last film will surely make it one to remember. At least for myself I can say that I had quite the adrenaline rush to see how Harry Potter and his brave companions would destroy the remaining horcruxes and at last kill Voldemort. I must say Director David Yates really gave the much anticipated film it's character.The film started literally where it took off in part 1. Voldemort got his almighty powerful wand and it seemed that chances were slim for Harry to succeed the dark lord. If you have not read the book, I won't drop a spoiler rather tell you that the young Hogwarts students have it in them to give the dark lord a run for his money(power). What really gave me the chills was when Harry & Voldemort fought for the last time. Ten years we have been waiting to see what happens and trust me, it's worth the wait! I was in shock when I found out what happened to Harry before this, I would've never guessed. Overall, 3-D is great, action is amazing, and the ending to an amazing saga could not be better!


                
I love Harry Potter and I'm not ashamed to admit it. From Platform 9 ¾ to Quidditch to that trusty old Invisibility Cloak, I love it all. In fact, I think I'm still struggling to get over the non-delivery of my own Hogwarts letter. But they say that all good things must come to an end, and so I regrettably find myself here – Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows - Part 2 - the final installment in the Harry Potter franchise, a movie that I was both beyond excited about and dreading all at the same time.Last time we saw Harry and Co. things weren't looking too hot – The Ministry had fallen, the search for the Horcruxes wasn't going exactly to plan, and You-Know-Who had finally gotten his grubby hands on the all-powerful Elder Wand. Part 2 follows on perfectly from where the first installment of The Deathly Hallows left off, whereas the first half was all about building up the tension, this half is all action all the time.All the main characters we've come to know and love (or hate in some cases) return for the final farewell. Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson play Harry, Ron and Hermione to perfection, as they all come into their own during this last part of the tale – through bravery, love, grief and fate we watch as their characters become the people we knew they were always destined to be. Radcliffe has always done a great job of portraying The Chosen One, but in his final outing he is particularly brilliant. Helen McCrory is great as Draco Malfoy's mother, Narcissa, who manages to endear herself to the audience as, when it matters most, she finally seems to do the right thing. Helena Bonham Carter remains flawless as the excellently evil Bellatrix, especially in the scene where she is actually playing Hermione impersonating herself. However, it was Matthew Lewis as Neville Longbottom who gave my favourite performance of them all, he's definitely come a long way from that bumbling kid swinging from the ceiling in The Chamber of Secrets.The Snape Saga has been a major feature of the entire series - is he good? Is he bad? Does he possess the most dulcet tones of all time? Let's be honest, until the whole Dumbledore incident at the end of The Half Blood Prince it never seemed all that clear whose side he was really on. In Part 2 we finally find out exactly what Snape has been up too, why he said the things he said and why he did the things he did - and in a movie that is full of poignant moments, the most poignant may be when the heartbreaking truth about him is finally revealed.Most of the film is centered around The Battle of Hogwarts, which is nothing short of a bloodbath, and, as anyone who has read the book will know, not everyone makes it out alive. At times it does make uncomfortable viewing - Hogwarts was the place that was always safe, it was always the shining beacon during even the darkest of times, and so to watch it turned to rubble isn't easy.Of course the main crescendo of the movie is the final showdown between the artist formally known as Tom Riddle and The Boy Who Lived, as they finally finish what was started all those years before. This is what we've been waiting for from the start, this is what we knew would happen eventually and the movie does a brilliant job of reminding us that Harry's entire life had been leading to this moment. Thankfully when the moment does come it is every bit as spectacular as it needed to be.As with all the Potter movies that have come before it, the special effects in Part 2 are great, and again they have created Harry's world perfectly. Throughout the series the adaptations have always stayed pretty true to the books and this one is no exception to that rule, and I don't think those who have read the books will be disappointed with how the finale is brought to life.And so, it all ends <U+0085> but does it really? As a very wise woman said last week, 'no story lives unless someone wants to listen <U+0085> the stories we love best do live in us forever. So whether you come back by page or by the big screen – Hogwarts will always be there to welcome you home.'-Lauren, Spinetinglers
This was one of my favorite film out of the Harry Potter Film Series. It had everything in it Romance, Drama, Fights, Great Music(which gave me the chill) and a Great script with brought tears in my eyes. They have kinda change the plot by adding new scene to the movie, which I liked. But there was some up and down side to the movie.GOOD-SIDE OF HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS PART 2:- 1)The new scenes they added was prefect for the movie, it gave more life and drama to the movie with kept me to the edge of my chair the whole movie.2)The fight between Harry and Voldemort was one of the best fights I ever seen, I thought it would only be for 10 second but it wasn't which made me happy.3)The dramatic music and the well made of the graphics was breathtakingly awesome! Even a person who doesn't know anything about Harry Potter would love it, I grantee that.THE NOT SO GOOD-SIDE OF HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS PART 2:- The movie cannot be compare to the book. The book was much much better then the movie for many reasons 1)The movie didn't explains the reason for Harry Potter not dying when Voldemort cast a Killing curse on him. I knew it because i am a big fan of Harry Potter but how would Non-fan of Harry Potter know? I when for the premier with my sister, she is not a big fan of Harry Potter and she couldn't understand and i had to tell her the whole thing. So this type of unexplained thing was not good for them to not tell. There some other unexplained thing like:- Why did Lily Potter become unfriend with Snape? Why did Snape join the Death Eaters? Why did Albus's brother hated him? Why did people think that Albus was evil?
10 years after it began, the Harry Potter franchise has achieved something unheard of in film. Never before have we seen a film series that has not only kept up the overall quality through this many installments, but it actually got better as it went. There was never a bad Harry Potter film, and we can expect that there never will be. Whether "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2" is really the pinnacle of film making for the series is debatable, but what isn't debatable is that it resolves this elaborately crafted story in fitting fashion, one that will surely please anyone who made it this far.It is hard to rate this final installment by itself. Since it is really the second half of a movie that was split up because of time constraints, it's really more appropriate to combine both parts of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" into one when judging it on quality. I enjoyed Part 1 a lot, feeling that although it lacked some of the excitement and wonder of the best of the series, the increasingly dark atmosphere and fantastic performances made it a worthwhile film. While Part 1 did feature far more character development, it paid off in setting up all the action and heroics that are seen in Part 2. Together, they make a marvelous picture, even if they do need each other to achieve proper balance.Part 2 does feature the same solid direction and scoring we've come to expect from the Harry Potter films, and since 7 films of character building has led to this, the film makers don't have to worry about us caring about the outcome. The length is just right, not feeling rushed or letting things cool down too much. Most of the secondary characters get their moment in the sun, properly closing arcs in dramatic (if sometimes predictable) fashion. What really sets this film apart is the truly excellent backstory segment seen 2/3 through. Beautifully filmed and edited, it ties the entire saga together to give even more depth and meaning to everything that has come before. Alan Rickman shows once again what a brilliant casting choice he was back in 2001, as he in my opinion has been the backbone of the series, commanding our attention in every scene he has ever been in.In the previous 7 films, we as an audience never really got to see the epic scope that the story promised. We caught a glimpse at the end of "Order of the Phoenix", but Part 2 definitely brings the heat. A convincing courtyard battle sets the stage in grand fashion. There is finally some proper consequences to all the threatening the villains do, which is much appreciated. It makes the series as a whole far more compelling when there are sacrifices on both sides and not every character is made to be simply black or white on the morality scale. Indeed, some of the most interesting material in this film has to do with a character who isn't even alive to see it.Is "Deathly Hallows Part 2" the best Harry Potter film ever? It is easily one of the most exciting, engaging films of the series, and the scope is unmatched. The effort put forth to send the series off in admirable fashion is clear. It's hard to imagine anyone having a negative reaction to it, something that no previous installment can claim. I would still put my money on "The Prisoner of Azkaban" as the overall strongest Harry Potter film for a few reasons, but this definitely not far behind. "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2" is a terrific ending to the series. Overall score: 8.5/10


                
A wonderful movie and when Snape is dying I got choked up even more so when Harry finally sees who Snape really is and why he acted the way he did towards Harry. A lot of fighting that is brutal and graphic and also very sad when you see who dies. There is a scene of the death eater who is a werewolf gnawing at Luna Lovegoods dead corpse which gave me chills until Harry blasts him out the window which I applauded. Also the duels between Mcgonagall and Snape and Molly Weasley and Bellatrix that are scene stealer's. I loved how Mrs Weasley went ballistic on Bellatrix after she nearly kills Ginny. And tough old broad Maggie Smith shows you why you shouldn't mess with McGonagall - now whether or not Snape had no attention of fighting back, she really lays into him with some serious curses regardless. I wish though that they could have had a better ending , I blame that on Rowling who simply ended it without any wrap-up to the surviving characters -even though I didn't read any of the books i had to see how she ended it compared to the movies ending and its the same so i couldn't blame it all on the people who adapted the book to a movie although from what I've heard from the people who were devoted Potter fans who read the books that a lot of stuff was either cut out or redone differently and really ticked off a lot of the more devoted fans of the books. I can sympathize with that as I thought Lord of The Rings overblown inclusion of Arwen when she was barley mentioned in the books to be more so for the hormone ravaged young boys to gawk at than any real importance .And while the epilogue ending written by Rowling is meant to be heartfelt and sentimental , it was not really fitting in my opinion .skipping ahead 19 years for some reason ,why 19 who knows but it felt forced,with little dialog and no real chemistry between the characters,the makeup effects to make them look older were rather poor and that is why i give this movie a 9 and not a 10.
Most probably one of my favourite film series ever. Shame it had to end but "all good things must come to an end"...


                
I really like this movie - except for the end of the final battle. I feel it did not capture what the book tried to convey - I was actually pretty disappointed by this ending. But besides this, I really loved the movie. It's a great final and rounds it well up.


                
Truly the story of Severus Snape, heartbreaking every time.
Cathartic on many levels, this is an extremely satisfying conclusion to a beloved film series. On a production level the direction, cinematography, score and visual effects are sublime, but the most impressive aspect is an emotional narrative that ties up many loose ends while providing amazing moments for many characters.The ending is also beautiful in its ability to make the audience reflect in the nostalgia they have for the series, but also to poignantly accept that this is the right note for the series to end on.It's a final film I couldn't have asked for much more from. I'm glad everyone in the cast and the filming crew were able to complete a stellar job.


                
The final chapter of the Harry Potter series approaches in which Harry (Daniel Radcliffe, Now You See Me 2), Hermione (Emma Watson, Beauty and the Beast) and Ron (Rupert Grint, Driving Lessons) must locate and destroy the remaining Horcruxes to weaken Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes, The Grand Budapest Hotel) so that they can defeat him leading to the saving of the wizarding kind. Though mixed feelings and thoughts flood the last Harry Potter movie because of how dark it is compared to the book and all the missed opportunities to follow the book more, though it is still amazing and just the send-off that the epic series deserves.


                
The acting, direction, characters, CGI were all really nice, but it just had one simple flaw; the spell names. I've always though of them as unoriginal and easily thought up, but that doesn't mean I don't like the movie. The scene with the dragon was really well done, having every little part look good. But after all, it's unrealistic, so a Hogwarts student did try and kill another with "Avada Kadavra".
The tagline for "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" is "It all ends." That's right, the ending has finally come to the movie series that started ten years before this movie, the movie adaptation of the classic Harry Potter book series. Like Roger Ebert wrote in his review of this film, we have a big class reunion here, and a great, epic, dark, dramatic one, too. I remember when I first saw the (comparatively) light and innocent Sorcerer's Stone. I was nine years old at the time. Here I am, eighteen, and writing the review for the last film, which I saw on Wednesday. I watched over the years as the movies got progressively deeper, more emotional, more mature, and darker, to the level of darkness at which this film is (tone-wise, and light-wise, in certain scenes). The movie picks up where the last movie left off, and covers the last third of the seventh book. This movie continues with the excellent balance of action, suspense, mystery, character and story development, tone, emotion, etc., and excellent special effects, only it has even more action.When we last left off, Harry had left the Malfoy Manor, and Dobby had been killed. Now he continues his quest to hunt for the final horcruxes and kill Lord Voldemort once and for all. His quest eventually takes him back to Hogwarts for some epic action and showdown. The film, meanwhile, takes us on a roller coaster ride through thrills, excitements, excellent suspense, and dark magical fantasy, thoroughly entertaining throughout. Although the film is over two hours long, it doesn't fee that long – it seems to zip by relatively quickly. And the film ends well, not just for is film, but for the entire series as well. It was a very well handled, well wrapped-up, strong, and emotional ending, almost as strong as it was in the book.An epic final installment to a series such as Harry Potter, which requires such a finale, is hard to achieve, and requires a lot of hard work, talent, writing, effort, and thinking. David Yates handled it very well. Granted, it's not perfect and he could have done several things to make it even better, but he does very well nonetheless. Some of the acting could've been better, too, but it was alright, especially since the main actors have gradually improved their performances as the series progressed. I even enjoyed the musical score, composed by Alexandre Desplat, especially in the parts where he references back to the themes from John Williams' old score for the first three films. "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" is one of the better installments in the Harry Potter franchise. It all ends, and it ends well, very good ending to the series. Harry Potter goes out at full speed and with all wands blazing.My Rating: ***1/2 (out of ****)For more reviews, visit my website: http://robertsreliablereviews.blogspot.com


                
I'm out of words to describe this masterpiece.Sadly after 10 amazing years we say goodbye to characters we have grown to love like relatives.First of all I'd like to congratulate David Yates for directing this in the best possible way he could and for making one of the most spectacular finales ever seen on screen.Daniel,Rupert and Emma shine as always but Alan Rickman is very deserving of an Oscar for his performance which completely stole the show.The score is great,the script is great (very good twists for those who didn't read all of the books) and the action scenes are fantastic. Overall this film created a bar and reached it with great style and I think it could be capable of getting an Oscar nod for best picture and more than capable of being an unforgettable blockbuster.So to finish it all off I'd like to say Ron,Hermoine,Harry you will be missed.


                
I have now been to see the second part of harry potter twice and both times have been impressed with how good the graphics and acting of the three main characters are, however i was disappointed that it did not stick to the book as much as part 1. My main problems were:teddy lupin is barely mentioned Freddie's death is barely seen snapes memories are rushednot enough screen time on professor mcgonagall or snapemy least favourite part is the ending where harry defeats voldemort and afterward he goes back into the great hall but nobody says to him well done or finally voldemorts dead which is a little bit weird.However it has some great music and brilliant acting especially by Alan rickman who is portrays snapes emotions brilliantly and shows a more vulnerable side another great performance was by Mathew lewis who plays Neville, Neville steals the show for me being the surprising hero.overall this is a must see film but if you are a big fan of the books you may find the film slightly disappointing
