I should have known to stay away from this movie when it was recommended to me by someone who wouldn't normally be caught dead watching a foreign language film. The best way to describe the kind of movie we're dealing with here is to say that if you liked "Life Is Beautiful" you will like "Cinema Paradiso." People who don't like foreign movies like this one because, if you take away the Italian subtitles, this film is as fake and schlocky as the worst piece of sentimental clap-trap churned out by the Hollywood myth-making machine. Not one single moment of this movie rang true for me. Subtlety was passed over on every occasion for the the most manipulative of cinematic tricks, and the love story that anchors the film is boring and completely missing any sort of sexual spark.I have a feeling that this movie is so beloved because people who in reality have pretty low-brow movie tastes can watch it and feel like they're cinematically smarter. A double feature of this and "Life Is Beautiful" might just be enough to make me lose hope in serious film forever.Grade: D


                
Granted, I've only seen the US release version, which apparently chopped out quite a bit of footage, so this may be an unfair evaluation.  That said...There's an interesting *idea* for a movie here, but ultimately it's just not about anything.  The whole film is a flashback from a character we hardly know -- had we a better idea of who this guy was as an adult, then his formative childhood/adolescent experiences might mean something, but since he's a cipher, why should we care about how he got there?Even the much-lauded montage at the end (that's all I'll say about it) is kind of clumsy, and too-little too-late.  There's nothing more painful than *not* crying in the last reel of a tear-jerker, and that's how I felt at this film.  (And if someone like me fails to respond to a sentimental film about a person whose life was molded by the movies, trust me, something is very wrong.)I'd like to see Tornatore's original edit, though -- I may just be responding negatively to the chopped-by-Miramax version.  (Check out the director's very anti-nostalgic "Everything's Fine," which acts as an enema to the saccharine of "Cinema Paradiso.")


                
This movie started off very interesting as a view into cinemas of the past. The movie began on track to be entertaining, informative, well crafted, and presenting the writer's intended message. This should have shown the boy's love for the cinema, taking it over, and watching it slowly decline in popularity.However, halfway through the film, the plot takes a 90 degree turn and suddenly becomes a painstakingly generic romance movie. For no apparent reason, it completely abandons all of the buildup that was made in the first half and turns extremely bland.Usually movies with no purpose and direction receive a lower rating from me, but the only reason I have rated this so highly at a 3 is solely because the setup was good. Thinking about the second half's ruin of this movie still makes me mad.


                
