People sure love this movie.  I have a friend who says that it's good because of the ear-slicing scene; most directors would cut away from such violence entirely, but here, we get to see the aftermath of a maiming.  Well yeah, "Reservoir Dogs" does push the envelope - but towards what?  Should we really praise a movie just because it wallows in violence more willingly than its predecessors?My ex-girlfriend says this is a Greek tragedy.  If that were true, the violence would be entirely justified, because it would help elevate "Reservior Dogs" to the level of an enlightening commentary on human nature. Alas, none of the characters is particularly noble; they start off as low-lifes and have nowhere to fall.  So, that defense doesn't seem to work either.In short, people have long tried to convince me that this is really a masterpiece.  But even the best parts - such as the opening dialogue in the restaurant - seem artificial and engineered.  Tarantino is ripping off older, better films and directors wholesale.  There are shades of "The Taking of Pelham 123" here, and there's also a dash of "The Omen" at the end.  Hitchcock, Frankenheimer, and even John Carpenter did this kind of stuff before, and they did it better.  No doubt Tarantino was a breath of fresh air after the shallow era of 1980s action movies, but he was not much of an innovator, and I don't think that his super-cool style has stood even the shortest test of time; he has, after all, practically dropped off the face of the earth.


                
It is extremely difficult to make a good movie when almost the entire script happens in the same room within a few hours.  In fact, at the moment, I can't think of any movie that has accomplished that.  Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs" certainly hasn't."Reservoir Dogs" could have been an excellent theatre play.  In fact, it IS an excellent theatre play that was taped and sold to us as a movie.  It is sad that we are so preoccupied with movies that a script like this has to be wasted on one.Making matters worse is the violence.  Tarantino often uses it in his movies to get attention, and this time takes it too far.  "Pulp Fiction's" violence was milder and stood out less from the rest of the story, but "Reservoir Dogs" goes way over the top.  It is very difficult to offend me with violence yet Tarantino does just that.


                
Reservoir Dogs was a complete disappointment. Despite the hyped reviews and high rating on IMDb it was nothing special. Mostly consisting of dialogue of pointless banter between the characters dragging out for uncomfortable amounts of time, the story had a weak plot and built up to nothing. Although to be fair the acting was very good, it did not redeem the overall poor script and plot which has its audience checking their watches within the first 30mins. The violence factor was nothing that shocking either, nothing much more you would find in a Bond film. Personally I do not understand how this film gets good reviews. Please do not be fooled into wasting your time with this bore of a film. I'm surprised that this was not a career-ender for Tarantino.2/10 Good acting, very boring plot. Overall poor.


                
I'll give the director this much: few films have ever gotten me thinking so much about why I dislike them.  Actually, I would have just walked out on the thing and be done with it, but the movie's undeserved reputation caused me to wonder if I'd missed something in my rush to judgement (and, not coincidentally, to the exit).  I suspect I didn't miss much.  There's a lot to dislike about "Reservoir Dogs".  The film's violence is legendary, as is its potty-mouthed dialog, but neither of those are necessarily bad things in a movie. 
No, what's unforgivable in this movie is the way the director revels in his ability to offend the viewer.  The stage is set in the diner scene, as the cast takes turns mouthing cleverly-scripted yet coldly unfunny trash talk, and by all accounts reaches its climax in the bloody scene that finally got me to walk out of the theater, 20 minutes after I first felt the urge. 
But never mind the blood and guts--though one suspects that if Tarantino had directed "Fargo," it would consist of little more than shots of the woodchipper in use.  The diner scene pretty much spells out that the director's not interested in making the viewer laugh or think, but only to make him recoil.  Tarantino is undoubtedly skilled at this, but it's not the sort of reaction I'm willing to pay to experience, as one gets enough of that for free these days.


                
I know everyone seems to love this movie, but I just didn't like it!  I have enjoyed other movies by Tarantino and even loved the camp of From Dusk 'til Dawn, but this one just left me cold. I love Michael Madsen and Tim Roth, but they alone were not enough to carry the movie for me.  Maybe I just wasn't ready for this movie because I had just finished watching Glengarry Glen Ross beforehand.  The two combined were a deadly combination!


                
Yuck!  I saw this after I had seen (and absolutely LOVED) "Pulp Fiction", thinking I might enjoy this too.  God, was I wrong! It was long, boring, and had barely any of the comic touches that made PF so great.  Like many other people have said, I can't to this day hear "Stuck in the Middle With You" without thinking of that hideous ear scene.  In PF, you were actually on Vincent's and Jules' sides even though they were criminals killing every other person they came across.  Not so here for me!  I don't like Michael Madsen to this day in anything else I see him in because I can't get Mr. Blonde out of my head.  The scene where they got their names was clever, ("Why do I have to be Mr. Pink?") but other than that, I found no redeeming value in this movie.


                
A group of men meet in a diner. They are each assigned names after different colors. Then as a team they set off to rob a jewelry store? The robbery goes bad and what ensues is a bloodbath as the police and the robbers face off with each other. This is not a good movie. I love all the actors but I don't think this movie is well written or directed. If you're going to make a movie about gangsters one should do more research then Mr. Tarantino did. He stayed home for a few years watching old cowboy movies and came up with this garbage. I love Pulp Fiction but this film is so horribly conceived its impossible to take seriously. I don't understand Americans. I don't understand why people like this movie. It is so completely unbelievable. I would have rather watched a movie about a child stealing gum from a grocery store.
I had heard tons of good reviews of this movie so I said "Why not?". I was thoroughly disappointed at this. I had said not very good things about "Kill Bill" but compared to this, that's a great film!By what it seemed to me, i should give it an 0/10. However there are two reasons why I give it a 2. One point is thanks to the first scene, a conversation about the connotation of "Like a virgin". The other is the scene where Michael Madsen (Mr. Blonde?) is torturing a guy. He makes it very funnily.For the rest, I have no desire now to watch "Pulp Fiction", or "Jackie Brown" and when needing action, I'll just pick a John Woo film, or simply watch "Mean Guns" again (years go by, and it's still my favourite American action film)2/10


                
I quit watching when Keitel was dragging some corn syrup drenched fool along a warehouse floor.  I could've quit during the lecture about tipping, but that could've been an interesting setup for something, who knows?  If you're going to have people doing a lot of talking on screen, they should have something to talk about and they should have some reason to care about what they are talking about.  I didn't see any of that.  Pulp Fiction was brilliant, but this?  Phooey.


                
Was I the only one who saw this movie and thought it was actually just an excuse for excessive violence with hardly any story or any relevance to anything? I watched this movie as I had been told by so many people it was a classic film that could never die and I have to say i was seriously unimpressed. I am a movie viewer who on principal will watch all of a movie and then judge it because I think its unjustified to comment if you haven't got the whole picture but it basically ended up a pointless bloodbath.I can see why this movie got its violent reputation as with all tarantinos movies yet the others such as kill bill and pulp fiction do not seem quite as pointless as this. The acting however was of a good standard but with lines like this and a story this bad you have to be fantastic to even seem OK as an actor. Tarantino himself who appeared in the movie seems to much of a wet blanket to be connected in any way to this Mafia like gang and to be honest it was obvious to me who the policeman was before you found out. I only give this movie a two as it wasn't soo bad i HAD to turn it off but it was pretty close.xxxxxxxxxx
I would have given it a "1", but there were some funny lines.Based on this movie, and others by Quentin Tarantino (probably spelled incorrectly), I think he should be thrown in prison for being a marketer of immoral depravity. Looking past the poor cinematography, it's just a story about lowlife crooks. I felt like I wasted 90 minutes of my life. I would have left earlier, but I kept thinking "maybe it will turn around before the end". I went on to be mad I didn't leave earlier. The only saving grace is that the theater charged only $7, compared to the normal $12 (that's right, now it's $12 to see a movie in Manhattan), since it was not a new release. This movie once again convinced me that it will be VERY difficult for me to ever like an R-rated movie. I don't mind violence, when it's a good guy, or guys, getting the bad guys, but this was almost all bad guys. Don't waste your time.


                
Have no clue why this movie gets such high reviews... it was awful from the very first 5 minutes. One of the sorriest movies I've sat through in a long time. Same ole Quentin nonsense ... I'd rather sit on the crapper for a few hours than have to watch that stinker again... good luck with all that...


                
Correct me if i'm wrong, but i do not see how a film pretty much dedicated to mindless violence can get so high a rating? The story is shoddy, the characters are over the top, especially Mr. Blonde and its just constant swearing and violence. Not cinematic art.The 2 stars go purely to Harvey Keitel's performance who is an exceptional actor and should have achieved greater fame.Tim Roth was good as always, Steve Buscemi was surprisingly annoying and Michael Madsen was just plain retarded. No emotion whatsoever.Watch it and make up your own opinion, but do not be hooked on it like all these other Tarantino fanboys.


                
Excrement.Quentin Tarantino's "brilliant" crime drama is just an excuse to show new and exciting ways to violently violate human bodies. I actually felt sick watching this one long snuff film, with cops, robbers, civilians, and quite possibly water fowl getting shot and butchered and defiled. But hey, it's Tarantino! We're supposed to bow down to the god of guts and gore because it's all so well pieced together and film noir-ey.I watched Reservoir Dogs 23 years ago, and my impression is still one of heartache. I felt as if I had wandered into a battlefield, and I hadn't been drafted, nor had I volunteered. This trash has no-- scratch that--negative redeeming social value, unless, of course, you enjoy watching an LAPD uniformed officer, captured by Michael Madsen, get his ear cut off.Good God, what makes people think Tarantino is anything other than a pornographer? I find almost everything he has ever done disgusting and a supreme waste of my valuable time.I know that makes me a provincial redneck, an illiterate buffoon, a, a conservative, but I like to think that, usually, implied violence is more effective than the lurid, the exposed, the defiled, and the exsanguinated.


                
Highly over rated. I can't believe it has a 8.4 rating.The movie literally consists of 70min of dialog about random boring **** with the occasional occurrence of some relatively entertaining segments. However these do not redeem the movie. If you are deciding on if you should watch the movie of not based on the high reviews given, do not, you will be bored. p.s. The trailer pretty much shows the only interesting segments of the movie.


                
