Quentin Tarantino seems to concentrate his movies very much along the lines of "cool" and "tough" and pulpy storylines and characters. To me, his scripts come across as done by someone who reads too many B-grade comic books, mainly because his movies have very similar content.The story is very thin, and to sum up the what you see on the screen most of the time: there's a bunch of cookie-cutter emotionally retarded tough-guys who compete over who can deliver the coolest and toughest lines to each other and wave their shiny guns at each other with the right sort of swagger. That sort of thing is just so ho-hum, clichéd, and juvenile that I felt like tuning out right away.Mixed into this macho posturing is some gratuitious violence (even to the point of being repulsive at times, for example when Mr. Blonde gets his way with the cop) and a couple of "cool" stories in the vein of Pulp Fiction's story about McDonald's in France (what depth). Too bad it's pretty much gloss over content. The only flash of intelligence in this movie is right at the beginning where Mr. Pink delivers his speech on tipping. That's what kept me somewhat interested at first. Unfortunately, it was all downhill from there.This sort of movie doesn't appeal to me at all, although I'm sure it has some appeal to teenagers who consider the like of _The Fast and the Furious_ to be "cool". Me, I guess I'm just too old (27) to be impressed by this sort of trashy stuff. Had I seen it ten years ago, my review then might have been somewhat different.


                
I didn't enjoy this movie one bit. I found this movie to be very boring and absolutely preposterous at times. The only reason I even gave it a 3/10 is because it was so bad it actually made me laugh at times. The story line lacks depth and promotes violence. The hatred that is exhibited for police officers is somewhat repulsive. It was actually painful to watch. The actors did a good job at portraying characters but most of the scenes are so unnecessary and irrelevant that I lost interest in them. This movie is an absolute NO from me! Do not waste the hour and 39 minutes of your lives. I am actually in awe at the amount of people in the reviews describing this movie as a "classic".


                
The only reason I give this 3 stars instead of 1 is because of the funny moments in the film. Now what in the hell do people like so much about this? It was just a literal bloody mess, none of the main characters make it, a cop is saved just to be brutally murdered later, and the only people who seem to be friends and you sympathize with, one of them kills the other in the end, just before the cops could've come and save them both! Just a brutal, bloody, cruel, sadistic picture, it's beyond me what kind of people enjoy this. I've seen a few Tarantino movies and they were similar, didn't like them, now I'm convinced, I'm never watching a Tarantino movie again, I wish I hadn't wasted my time on this.
Quentin Tarantino has become famous and been called a genius for showing us what he thinks is cool. He's been called other things too. You can practically hear him during each shot . . . "Now, wouldn't it be cool if, instead of slicing off Marvin's ear with the razor, he ripped Marvin's ear off with his teeth, spit it into the air, called him an anti-Semite, then punched him in the face? That would be cool, wouldn't it?" That would be cool, but it would take the Coen brothers and John Goodman to get that shot right. What Tarantino does in Dogs is use a simplistic backdrop to draw head shots of comic book gangsters, like a kid making shadows on the wall in front of a projector after the film runs out. A kid who tortures puppies. The whole film is a bad impression of a good gangster picture. The intimacy of the cinematography draws the audience in; makes us a part of this crew of facile felons. The dialogue leaves you searching for a Q-tip. The one that reminds us of our greedy little selves gets away with the diamonds; the rat, along with everyone else, dies violently. The audience gets one in the gut, too, as the screen fades to black. Tarantino's freshman bark comes out more Taco Bell chihuahua than New Jack City rottwieler.
This was possibly the most uninspiring 100 minutes of film I have sat through in recent history (Pulp Fiction being a close second).  There's no WAY I'm renting Jackie Brown at this point, despite being a huge Samuel Jackson fan.


                
Over the top violent assault that goes on and on.Most of drama takes place indoors with some very yakky dudes.I liked some of the dialogue with sayings that I haven't heard in some time but overall I did not enjoy this movie.


                
Looking at the high rating of 8,4 and knowing that this is considered one of Quentin Tarantino's best movies i thought i was about to see a great masterpiece. I was absolutely shocked about how terribly boring this movie was. There is no progression in the plot at all, they didn't even show a second of the robbery the movie was about. For the first 50 minutes of the movie the viewer just sits through completely irrelevant and boring scenes, experiences next to no action and just gets bored, since nobody is presented with who is who in the first half of the film. It is impossible to be compassionate for the characters, since you don't even know who they are and all you see is just a bunch of useless drawn-out conversations, using a lot of useless sentences just to add to the screen time, which is only 99 minutes, by the way. The movie uses a lot of excessively drawn-out conversations, it is not necessarily a bad thing, but here it didn't fit, since the screen time is so short, leading into a very boring plot and irrelevant actions. I don't get what people see in this movie, yea the acting is OK, but otherwise, it is just garbage. Is it only because it is Tarantino? Is that everything people need to hear to give a positive review? I get that many people see this movie as ''different'' just to show others they enjoyed it, it would be awesome if everybody wasn't afraid of expressing their opinion and sticking to it.Overall a terrible movie, don't see that as a classic for sure, would not watch again nor recommend it to anybody else. Short, no action, zero plot progression, drawn-out irrelevant conversations, boring.


                
