After watching this half a dozen times with a biased, anti-Tarantino, "what the heck is so great about this guy, anyway" view(which, as most anyone watching any film with that view and a fair bit of self-knowledge will tell you, is a rather fruitless practice in pointlessness... if you've decided you're not going to like it, there's very little reason to think that you will, no matter how good it is; you need an open mind), I finally decided to give it a fair hearing... and I saw it for what it is. An unusual film, at least for its time. A stylish film full of cool dialog, cinematography, editing and music. The whole thing comes together perfectly and is very short of creating a sublime film experience. The plot is excellently written and told. The pace is perfect. I wasn't bored for a second, nor did I ever really want it to move faster or slower. The cinematography is magnificent, and incredibly well-integrated. Pans, dolly trips and, lest we forget, the stationary shots... all perfectly used. Very stylized. The acting is top-notch all-round. With most of the cast being name actors, this is no surprise, but they really do shine. Madsen, Buscemi, Keitel, Roth... all incredible. The one role that had less than good... well, let's be honest, it had rather awful acting. I'm speaking, of course, of Tarantino's character. Now, don't get me wrong; in From Dusk Till Dawn, this man did great. But just about any other time I've seen him act, he just doesn't seem to have the first clue. Being a film-maker myself(albeit on somewhat of a smaller scale than Quentin), I can relate to wanting to cast yourself in a role... but sometimes, you just need to face up to the facts, and admit it if you can't act. Still, that is a minor complaint. Another one might be that there are at least two fairly big characters that seem completely and entirely expendable... they had no real role in the action and could very, very easily have been cut with no real loss to the overall product. I won't name them here, but anyone who's seen the film will know who I'm talking about. All the characters, however, are well-written and their actions credible. Tarantino knows his stuff when it comes to writing... something that also shows in the dialog, which, although somewhat drawn-out at times, is exceptional. Well-delivered, too. When it comes to direction, he shows how talented he is, as well. The film is very well put together. The editing is great, with the non-linear time-line telling the story far better than a "regular" film ever could. One of the many Tarantino-fans, in fact, the very person who originally talked me into watching this film, once told me that he had heard of someone editing films with such time-lines - this, Pulp Fiction, Memento, etc. - so that their time-lines were perfectly linear. I'm sorry, I entirely respect their right to do such a thing... and I won't claim that their doing so has less artistic value than the original films in any way... but I refuse to watch that. A big part of this being so well-told lies in the time-line. Also, I'm a firm believer of watching something the way the makers intended it. Don't edit, don't censor, don't make your own version and pass it off as anything but just that... your own version, and not the original. Sorry, rant over. Finally, I just need to comment on the music... the soundtrack of this is just great. Tarantino collected so many amazing 70's tunes for this film and used them great. All in all, just a really, really good film. Very little keeps this from being a perfect ten, most of which I've covered here. I recommend this to anyone who can stomach the violence and who likes their films with a side of style. 8/10


                
"I feel like a director who has not yet directed, therefore I don't exist." Said an idealist, enthusiastic Quentin Tarantino back when he was working at Video Archives in the early 1990s, eager to start climbing the directorial ladder in Hollywood. At this time he was just a screenplay-writer, penning early works such as Natural Born Killers (a baby of his he felt he stabbed in the heart when he gave up to Oliver Stone to rewrite), True Romance and From Dusk Till Dawn<U+0097>all initially fruitless fares that no one dared to green-light. Production companies were choosy, cliquish and wouldn't give an untested director like Tarantino a break. Not even for Reservoir Dogs.Growing increasingly frustrated at navigating the world of hard-to-please production corporations to OK his project and pass him the director's chair, Taratino approached producer Lawrence Bender<U+0097>arguably the best choice of his career (he's been working closely with him ever since). Bender loved the script of Reservoir Dogs<U+0097>and who wouldn't? It pours crime, gangsters and humour into an exquisite blender and sprinkles it with heavy doses of edgy style. Together the two of them set out to do this film, and soon caught the eye of Richard Gladstein at Live Entertainment in Van Nuys, who would later agree to finance the little project.It really was a "little" project, too, with a budget of a mere $1,200,000<U+0097>which meant that the '65 Yellow Cadillac that you see in the film is Michael Madsen's own. Yet breathless and excited at becoming a debut-director and finally getting to tend to his baby himself which this position now afforded him, Quentin Tarantino and Lawrence Bender began the process and the mega cult hit that is "Reservoir Dogs" (1992). Harvey Keitel was first approached to star as Mr. White and with his name on-board, he himself convinced several star-actors to grace the cast list along with him. He told them they wouldn't get much money for it, but that the script alone was worth jumping on-board for. They agreed.That's some basic back-story for you on how this film came to be, and I feel it is important to keep in mind the fervent enthusiasm and gratitude with which Quentin Tarantino embarked on his debut-director journey. It translates in the eager, rapid-fire dialogue between the characters, the clever pacing of the story and the fresh edge of the narrative. This is a man with a deeply-rooted love for films and who wanted nothing more than to make his own--and now that privilege had been granted, and not a minute too soon. Upon the release of "Dogs", Tarantino was rightly vaulted into the great directors' fame and, I imagine, became even more enthusiastic about film-making.The end product is a very good film that sees five anonymous hit men team up for a big heist <U+0096> an armed robbery on a Diamond warehouse that will be central to the wide variety of eccentrically quirky characters who all lend their skills to the job. The heat of the police clings onto them during this task because there's talk of a rat in their group... but who is it? The film starts at the end of the robbery, zooming in on a chaotic bloody state and then backtracks in flashbacks<U+0096>non-chronologically and a bit babbling, but it still works<U+0096>in an attempt to answer this question. Does it? Yes, but perhaps not in the way you think.Although this fare is devoid of any profound message, morals or statement and there's no discernible kind of symbolism, it is extremely enjoyable on a basic level. In fact, maybe its straightforward approach to a story<U+0096>but with criminal diversions, twists and plot-devices<U+0096>is what makes it so great. This is a clever heist, just take it or leave it. The interactions and actions between the characters are at focus, placing environment in the backseat; this means that Reservoir Dogs can proudly boast of having one of the greatest dialogue-driven scenes in film, and it takes place at the beginning at the diner when Mr. Pink (Steve Buscemi) explains to the other guys why he does not tip waitresses--the others are compassionate and argue that they are minimum-wage workers no rely on tip, but Mr. Pink is stern: "Do you know what this is? Its the world's smallest violin playing just for the waitresses. "The film is full of gems like these, full of great colourful gangster performances (in particular Michael Madsen as Mr. Blonde--the most badass character in history) and full of clear-eyed and gory style. As far as heist films go, this is a grand accomplishment. If anything, it is a bit short (99 minutes). These characters are so interesting that we never feel as though we get to know them enough--it's a little rushed and a little dizzying at times. This is no surprise as Reservoir Dogs was originally written as a short film, barely stretching 20 minutes and with characters that weren't meant to be particularly developed or dimensional. They are more so in the final, long version, but it's still a little too rushed. Although I suppose is intentional on Tarantino's part to signify the hectic pace of the heist and the cops chasing them.Tarantino sported a modest wallet and a modest ego that had not yet swelled to a "Cro-Magnon forehead"--as ex-friend and Natural Born Killers producer Don Murphy would describe it--when he wrote and directed this film. Indeed, this aspiring filmmaker loved films so much that he would make a lot of enemies and lose a lot of friends during the course of climbing the directorial ladder in Hollywood. No friends were harmed in the making of this film.8/10


                
Reservoir Dogs is easily the best film Quentin Tarantino has directed. Much better than Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown. RD is funny, entertaining, intelligent and actually not so violent as some people say. Sure, lots of blood, but not so much violence, according to me.The acting... Steve Buscemi has never been better, Harvey Keitel is great, but the stand-out in this great cast is Tim Roth. He's brilliant. Great flick. (8/10)


                
Reservoir Dogs is a crime thriller starring Oscar nominee Harvey Keitel (who also starred in Taxi Driver) and Tim Roth (from Rosencratz & Guildenstern Are Dead). It is directed by Quentin Tarantino, directing his first feature-length film. I've got to confess that I was disappointed. I thought it was going to be fun, creative, wonderfully weird, etc. The whole thing didn't really seem to have a point. And the fun dialogue got old after a couple minutes into it. And it just kept building up and I thought it was going to lead up to an amazing climax, but it didn't. The whole film leads up to nothing. Thus it being pointless.One thing I have to give the film is it is creatively directed by Tarantino. The use of music during the torture scene really lightens the mood, even though someone gets his ear cut off. It just would've been stupid without the music. And the opening scene where all the guys are at a restaurant talking about normal things is amusing and one of the best opening scenes in a movie ever.But it all goes downhill from there. Like I said before, Tarantino makes you think like this is going to be a great film but it ends up disappointing. I really wanted to love this movie because of its creativity but the script completely ruined it for me.I don't recommend this movie but I do recommend Tarantino's next film, Pulp Fiction. All of the positive aspects of this film that I mentioned above are in Pulp Fiction but ten times better. Plus, Pulp Fiction has a good story and actually leads up to something. So I suggest for you to skip this film and watch Pulp Fiction instead.


                
In terms of directorial debuts, this is a solid entry that assured Tarantino as one of the best directors working today. Now, as most of you know, I'm not a big fan of Tarantino. Just not my cup of tea so to speak. Yet this was a good crime thriller. After a heist goes terribly wrong, the group of professional robbers make haste and convene at a remote warehouse. During this time, they try to find out who snitched on them to the police. In glorious (see what I did there...) Tarantino fashion, there is a bucket full of blood and a script full of profanity that infuses rather well with the story. Fortunately the narrative is not linear, so we're flipping back and forth between character introductions and the aftermath of the heist, to keep the plot's pace rapid and fresh. The characters themselves may not be completely memorable, but their names are. Mr White, Mr Brown, Mr Blonde, Mr Orange, Mr Pink and so on. With one humorous scene involving a small argument about the particular choice of "Mr Pink" (who was played excellently by Steve Buscemi). It's a story that is dialogue driven, like most of his films, so the wit and dark humour is conveyed through sharp exaggerative banter between these characters. It works, stupendously well actually. Harvey Keitel was the most enjoyable to watch, and finally we have a film with Tim Roth that I actually like. Hooray! Quentin himself should not act in his films. Why? Because he is abysmal. Makes me cringe every time I see him. The torture scene is filled with gore and is probably the most engaging scene in the film. Don't get me wrong, it's a compelling script. But I find the execution extremely, how to put this, noisy. I like subtlety. Sometimes less is more which is why I'm not his biggest fan. Atleast it's not 3 hours long, my brain would've been numbed if that were the case. However in saying that, I find this to be one of his better films (behind Pulp Fiction and Django Unchained) with a punchy script filled with plenty of violence. A damn good directorial debut.


                
Now don't think I'm being biased on my opinion because Quentin Tarantino is my favorite writer/director hands down, but you've gotta admit, this is one awesome movie. Another thing that makes this so special is that this is the first movie I've ever seen. But enough about that. This movie is down right amazing. The performances (especially by Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, and Michael Madsen, who plays a convincing psychopath) we're incredible. Also great and original, was the plot (about a bunch of criminals who team up to commit a diamond heist, but turning on each other when it goes haywire), but most of all, the script was the glue that held the movie together. It was funny, cool, pop cultered, and vulgar. The only thing that let me down was the short length (compared to other Quentin Tarantino epics), and the ending, but overall, it was a fantastic movie experience and one of the best movies ever made! Watch it!


                
Mr. Pink: You kill anybody? Mr. White: A few cops. Mr. Pink: No real people? Mr. White: Just cops. This is probably the most succinct characterization of this movie. We are talking hardened criminals here that have no regard for cops. Killing them is a sport. This movie shows the criminal mind better than any other I have seen. It is raw and hard and bloody and violent. It is not full of shootout and special effects. It is pure and clean and focused on conversation that gives some insight into what a criminal goes through. The anxiety after a botched job becomes paranoia and suspicion. Yes, it is justified, but here you see it to the extreme.Harvey Keitel, Michael Madsen, and Steve Buscemi were a joy to watch even though I would have shot Mr. Pink at the first opportunity just to shut him up!


                
Ever since I was a little kid, Back to the Future was the s***! For years, I tried to find out how to actually build a DeLorean time machine, or any time machine. I practically lived and breathed time travel, and I still somewhat do. But, after years of watching movies, seeing nothing that could compare to Michael J. Fox. Out popped a movie that was minimalist and natural. My new favorite movie ever.Plot - 6 guys robbed a bank under the guise of colors. They are Mr. White, Mr. Orange, Mr. Pink, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Blue. They were hired by two guys Joe Cabot and Nice Guy Eddie. S*** goes down, Orange is shot and Blue and Brown die. The guys start wondering how the cops got there so quick. They begin to suspect that there is a rat/cop within their group. There is nothing wrong with the plot except that, they only slick back their hair in order to mask themselves. Who is to say that not one person would see your face. They have artist renderings. Also the plot is sort of borrowed from City on Fire (1987) and Kansas City Confidential. 7/10Acting - The acting in this movie is superb. That can be credited to the fact that the dialogue is extremely relaxed and realistic. Props to the opening diner scene, where they discuss Like a Virgin and how it's all about d***. Tarantino had a sort of style that you're all familiar with. It's sort of laid back and the characters talk about stuff not important to the plot. Michael Madsen and Steve Buscemi are the best ones. Tim Roth would be the same, if it weren't for the scene where he's bleeding in the car. Keitel, Penn, Bunker, and Tarantino are good. I heard Lawrence Tierney was a pain on set, but he's not that bad. 9/10Set Design/Location Shoot - There are barely any locations in this movie. There is the warehouse, the diner, Joe's office, the bar, and another diner. It's really nothing to brag about, though the minimalist is just amazing, as Tarantino shows he does not need a bunch of locations to make a great movie. That warehouse is also pretty memorable. 7/10 Cinematography - I really don't like reviewing this part of any movie, as I feel that it is so mundane and uninteresting. I completely skipped it over in my An Extremely Goofy Movie review and my still not submitted Beauty and the Beast review. I however include it, as there are films that deserve for their cinematography, good or bad. The cinematography is good, not great. We see Tarantino is not an amateur with his shots, and I will mention the credits sequence and Mr. Pink's flashback. There is however, nothing great about it. 7/10 Costumes/Props - The actors all brought their own costumes, because it wasn't in the budget. Nice Guy Eddie's track jacket is actually Chris Penn's and it is hilarious. The suits add to the cool factor of the movie, the cop costumes are standard, and the guns are also standard. There's no real focus on the costumes or props in this movie. 6/10 Soundtrack - My god is that soundtrack amazing. Little Green Bag is forever stuck in my head, and Stuck in the Middle With You was unbelievably awesome. Other than that, the movie is quiet for the most part. 8/10 Script/Dialogue - Like I said before, the style is very relaxed and cool. It's a really great script with realistic characters. 10/10 Characters - We don't really no much about the guys' backstory. We do know about their personalities. White (Lawrence Dimmick) is compassionate towards Orange (Freddie Newandyke) and takes the responsibility of being his mentor. He is really hurt when Freddie turns out to be the rat, and regrettably shoots him afterwards. He however, can be a killer when he needs to. I couldn't really pin down what Orange's personality is, he seemed kind of cool and scared of death, but he was mostly knocked out for most of the movie. He is also way to quick to single out Pink for not tipping, foreshadowing events to come. Blonde (Vic Vega) is a sociopath. He just doesn't care. He shoots down cops and civilians once the cops arrive a little too quickly, and he tortures a man, while at the same time dancing to 70s music. All the while, he's cool and suave, and he shows no remorse. Pink is selfish, greedy, and just wants to get the job done. He fancies himself a professional and sees Blonde as nothing more than a Psycho. We never find out his name, and yet he is the only one to survive the entire movie. Nice Guy Eddie seems like his namesake at first, but will instantly lash out if anyone threatens his dad, or if he found out his friend was trying to make off with the jewels. Joe fells every one of them is untrustworthy, so he never gives out their names. Instead he gives them colors. Although, he never gives himself or his son a code name, so he's only protecting the guys he hired and not himself. Brown and Blue were barely in the movie. We did see that Brown is very talkative. Great characters who never spout out their backstories and instead show us who they are. 9/10 Overall - It's a really good movie that borrows elements from other gangster movies. But other than that, it's fine. It's good, it's a fun movie. Mexican Standoff, awesome. And was a great movie for Tarantino to start with, unlike My Best Friend's Birthday. Inspiration comes from Kansas City Confidential, The Big Combo, The Killing (1956), The Taking of Pelham One Two Three, City on Fire (1987), and Au revoir les enfants. 7.875/10, rounded is 7.88/10, rounded is 7.9/10, rounded, 8/10.
Reservoir Dogs is the debut film of director Quentin Tarrantino. While its not a masterpiece like his later effort Pulp Fiction. For a first time effort coming from a video store clerk who didn't go to film school, this is a remarkable achievement in the world of independent cinema. The storyline is simple. Crime lord, Joe Cabot and his son "Nice Guy" Eddie have arranged a diamond heist. To cover their tracks, they hire several associates who don't know each other personally and thus can't give information out in case they get arrested. These associates are Mr White (played by Harvy Keitel), Mr Pink (played by Steve Buscemi), Mr Orange (Tim Roth), Mr Blonde (Michael Madson), Mr Brown (in a cameo by Quentin Tarrantino) and Mr Blue (played by real life former criminal Eddie Bunker). The heist immediately fails ending with a massacre that leaves Brown and Blue dead, Orange has been shot, leaving it to others to figure out who snitched them. What makes the plot interesting is not in the story itself but how it's told. When discussing mainstream cinema, Andy Warhol said that "All the interesting bits of a film are left in the cutting room floor". Reservoir Dogs is the anti thesis of Hollywood filmmaking. Yes, the heist happens but we don't see it. What we get however, is the events that happen before and after, feeding enough details to figure out what happened. This is Tarrantino's skill as both story teller and director, he can make details or characters we don't even see seem significant. Part of this is easily attributed to the excellent script. This is where the dialogue deserves a special mention. In an ordinary film, the dialogue is typically used just to explain the plot to the audience. Tarrantino breaks this rule by letting his characters converse from Brown's graphic explanation of Madonna's "Like a Virgin" to the humorous interaction between Eddie and Blonde. By avoiding the usual traps that plague Hollywood films, Tarrantino manages to make a movie solely dedicated to its characters and their knee jerk reactions to the heist. Raising the mark even further for the film is the carefully chosen ensemble cast. Harvey Keitel is superb as Mr White. His skills shine in the films early scenes where he shows his empathy with the dying Mr Orange. One might say that this portrayal is almost the exact opposite of the typical hardened criminal. Michael Madson, whilst having a limited screen time delivers the films most infamous scene as Mr Blonde, a psychotic criminal who is both brutal and cool. His dry deadpan delivery sets up most of the films tension. Perhaps the most memorable performance however goes to Steve Buscemi as Mr Pink. Out of the entire cast or characters, Pink is the most interesting which is ironic given that he is the only character we know nothing about. Buscemi manic performance proves equal match for Pinks loyalty and concerns about what is "professional" in the crime world. It is the films finest and most articulated performance. Reservoir Dogs is still not perfect though and I wouldn't recommend it to all people. For starters, Tim Roth's performance as Mr Orange while strong suffers greatly from his constantly slipping vernacular. You won't be sure is he's Italian American Mafioso, a street wise kid or simply a whiny brat. Thankfully, his most of his dialogue is kept to minimum as he spends much of his screen time lying in a pool of blood. Secondly the level of violence in this movie is bloody and gratuitous, peaking at the torture scene which was reportedly disturbing enough to prompt several people to leave the theatre. Yes the film is violent, but in the stylized way of the Hong Kong films that inspired it. Thirdly, the film is full of enough profanity laden dialogue to fill a text book. I don't actually mind it though, as it makes sense given that these characters are p*ssed off at the failure of such a carefully planned heist. But if you cant stomach excessive bad language, then isn't the film for you. These arguments should not be seen as detractors to the film though. Would I recommend Reservoir Dogs? That depends. If you're a cinephile, a pop culture fanatic or just want to see a refreshing film, by all means do. If however you're a concerned parent who wants to see something with the children or someone who cant stand such graphic violence and language, then avoid it all costs. Make no mistake though, this is a fantastic film that paved the way for the way for the career of a talented director.


                
Reservoir Dogs,if you like movies with twists,movies with loaded guns,movies with action,movies with some great dialogs,reservoir dogs is the one for you then.It has everything of the above.The movie itself moves so fast that it is tough to catch if you miss anything.Tremendous plot and a perfect execution.Quentin Tarantino's best so far.And funny thing was that they used to call each other by colors not names.Casting is very good specially Harvey Keitel & Michael Madsen have given a good performance.Steve Buscemi as Mr pink is terrific.The ending is pretty cool.All trust & betrayal.Whom to trust & whom to betray.Till the end you just keep guessing.Reservoir Dogs is pure entertainment,99 minutes of no nonsense stuff.


                
***1/2 out of **** starsOkay...I've been a big fan of Tarantino's work since he exploded onto the scene in the early nineties. I've watched Dogs several times and watched it again tonight on IFC with the instantaneous intention to finally review it. Not for the squeamish, this one: large pools of blood; screams of pain; a severed ear; people (cops mostly) being blasted with deafening gun shots...so how can Dogs be so darn funny with so much carnage and suffering? Well, it's what makes Tarantino so darn special; the melding of gut-busting dialogue and gore, along with the prototypical wardrobes of black and white gangsta suits. Let us not forget Quentin's love for 70s nostalgia as well, which in one case is evident in his characters parleying about bygone blacksploitation movies and television shows. And what a fantastic ingredient to use Steven Wright's dead-pan voice to introduce all those archaic B-siders on K Billy's Super Sounds of the 70s.A lot of Reservoir Dogs could be a stage production. I can easily imagine sitting front row in a playhouse watching all the actors hit their marks with precision, and hearing their voices reverberate throughout the building. Obviously, I speak of the warehouse scenes. For me, this is quite an accolade because how often can actors work so wonderfully and successfully in two different mediums with the same story? I realize that Dogs has never been made into a play, but it could be...don't you think?Only a half-wit would bitch about Tarantino's formulaic storytelling. Does every movie have to begin, then go on to the very next thing, and the very next thing, and the next, and the next? Tick tock tick tock? Zzzzzzzz. What brilliance to amalgamate past, present and future with such rotating uniqueness. Keep teaching your audience to tune-up Quentin. Nothing wrong with starting your story somewhere in the middle and going anywhere you want from there. Way to go man, is what I say.It seems as if Tarantino's career will be a bit like Kubrick's: quality instead of quantity. The bummer is having to wait for his next project, which can never come soon enough for me. What I love most about Q is his obvious great love for film-making. He seemingly has a child-like enthusiasm for the creative process, and his love for simply viewing movies, let along making them, is very evident.Keep making movies as if you're watching them for $9.50 like most of us Quentin. If you do, you'll always have an audience that is just as excited about your stories as you are!


                
For me, there's too much emphasis placed on Tarantino's technique of cinematic self-reference and personal homage. Although it has become something of a defining characteristic of his work - even more-so since the release Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003) - it is simply one single layer of a rich tapestry of elements that make his films so effective. When Reservoir Dogs (1992) was first released, the referential aspect was almost completely ignored. Instead, critics applauded Tarantino for his strong characters, clever dialog, use of violence and music; and the effortless use of structure and narrative, which helped to turn a seemingly pedestrian crime-thriller into an exciting and enigmatic exercise in cinematic tension building. Over the years, audience have noted the references to films such as City on Fire (1987), The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974) and The Killing (1956) (though Tarantino claims to be more influenced by the original novel, as opposed to the Kubrick film) and dismissed these references as simple theft. This is foolish though, and flies in the face of the very cannibalistic nature of film, and the idea that every single story, character and theme analysed in 20th century art can be traced back to a secondary source related centuries before.If you've seen enough films, then you can easily draw surface similarities from almost anything made subsequent to 1970. In fact, in a world in which comic book adaptations and "foreign language" remakes dominate the box-office; Tarantino's approach is truly defiant. If he were a musician, he'd most probably be a hip-hop producer - someone like RZA or Danger Mouse - taking ideas and samples from a variety of different works and blending it all together to produce something new and exciting. So the themes may be well worn, but the presentation and technique is electrifying. Think of that opening scene in particular; a seriously minded discussion of the textual-interpretations of Madonna's Like a Virgin and a debate on the ethics of tipping that not only sets the scene - quite literally - for the use of dialog to follow, but establishes the single characters and their personalities perfectly. We take it for granted now, but try to think of any other American crime film made prior to 1991 that manages to successfully appropriate a scene of pop-cultural discourse into the opening sequences of a tense and violent thriller. Then, look at how it moves seamlessly into the credit sequence; a moment of decade defining cool that some have seen as a nod to A Clockwork Orange (1971), though it really serves a far more functional means of further introducing this broad ensemble of characters, so as not to over-complicate the actual viewing of the film once we get into the telling of the story.There's then a flash-forward, introducing the idea of a fractured narrative. Again, we take it for granted, but think about it; any other heist film and the scene of the heist would dominate. Here, we don't even get to see it. As a result, the botched robbery and the violence that is described to us takes on a more enigmatic purpose, creating something of a Rashomon (1950) like conundrum in which we're forced to take these varying characters at their word, and - much like the protagonists of the film itself - draw our own conclusions and allegiances. By not showing the heist, Tarantino adds to the tension, not only between the characters on screen, but between the characters and the audience. It's a radical move on the part of the filmmaker; as jaw-dropping as making a film about the D-Day invasions without ever showing the soldiers hit Normandy. The film is also remarkable for the atmosphere that Tarantino creates - both in the way in which he stretches out shots and scenes beyond the point that most other filmmakers would, and of course, in his careful use of framing, minimal production design and the use of hand-held cinematography - all to establish a sense of urgency and unease that escalates as the plot goes backwards and forwards on itself. It's a definite pressure cooker-like environment being developed throughout, as each scene builds and builds and then cuts back in on itself; giving us more of the back-story and further reinforcing the bitter ironies of both the characters and that ending.It is also helped by the fine performances, with every member of the cast defining these characters, not simply as archetypes or conventional components of the narrative, but somewhat believable human beings. This quality is pushed further by the use of the fragmented narrative, as Tarantino presents the story almost like a jigsaw puzzle, with information held back from us until the right juncture in the narrative, at which point we can finally put all of the pieces into place and then stand back to appreciate the view. Without question, Reservoir Dogs is a tense, coolly ironic thriller that not only subverts the usual codes and conventions you would expect to find in a heist thriller, but does so in such a way as to remain light, effortless and greatly entertaining. Today it is synonymous with changing the landscape of mid-90's cinema; creating a brief resurgence of intelligent, character driven films that were quirky, self-aware and filed with that spirit of independence. However, before the hype and the greater success of Pulp Fiction (1994), it was simply a great film; one that presented a clever story, cinematic characters and an unconventional approach to on screen violence that reminded people that you could have more from cinema than a bland reproduction of a story.


                
I really find Tarantino totally overrated: He tries to make an impact by overwhelming his audience with unbelievably gory scenes, while his films lack any substantial and interesting element; the "Kill Bill" series are a prime example of this lame strategy. However, there is one single exception to the above: "Reservoir Dogs".To start with, "Reservoir Dogs" still has the necessary Tarantinesque blood galore and shocking scenes, although these are more limited compared to his other films. Moreover, blood is not what makes "RD" stand out: Instead, the film has a very distinct style, as it depicts the characters of the movie in a very ordinary, "next-door-guy" style, while they commit not-so-ordinary crimes. The dialogs, the setting, the suspense, everything is very simple and yet very different in its way, as the film has a structure which is elementary yet intriguing. The plot is also quite simple (five strangers perform a bank robbery and then try to find a rat among them), yet it achieves to keep our interest in high levels until the very end. The performances are good, with Harvey Kaitel being first among equals.Pity that Tarantino did not make any other movies like this one. 8/10.


                
A set of criminals gather in a garage to discuss a jewel heist that has gone tragically wrong.What a fantastic film to start a career with. Tarantino shows that while he has never been to film school he knows what he wants and he knows how to get it. This doesn't take cinema to a new level but shows how to make a simple story - that could have been a cheap TV movie in someone else's hands - in to something epic. Yes epic, not a word I use very often.If you want proof that stories are in the telling, the mood and the music just look here. The story is nothing, but the delivery and the acting make it what it is.There really is no substantial plot. It is just throw you off balance cinema. Roth plays a man bleeding to death on a floor through most of the movie: what a fantastic device and so original. Who would have thought of that? Who indeed would not only have thought of that, but used it so effectively?The criminals (known by colours - or is it colors?) are funny, dangerous and strangely real. Real people that squabble over names, food and even tips. People that go from killing to small talk to humour as if it as all the same thing, in the same way that Prince goes from talking about sex to god as if it is also part of the same thing. Is this real? Is this how real criminals talk and behave. Not in the main, no, but probably true of a minority. The only problem - beyond this movie - is whether he can capture other types of criminals. The question remains open.Criminals, cops and  bystanders are all out to earn a dollar and return home to watch TV. The criminal is caught by one policeman and takes it out on another, who knows nothing about the original crime. People are in the wrong place at the wrong time. We have outlaws, but they are 9-2-5 outlaws, they want to eat out and drive nice cars. They are career criminals for whom the real world is too much like hard work. They want to live off the fat of the land, like the idle rich. They may have had real jobs (indeed they say they have), but it is not for them. As I said earlier, the plot is nothing. It is a frame for mood and atmosphere (what Kubrick took twenty years to learn Tarantino knows day one) and how it all turns out doesn't really matter. It is a journey, not a destination.Is the film moral? Not really. It is a mixed bag, but he is more moral than some comedies where out-of-work middle aged couples ride of in to the sunset having robbed a bank. Movie morals are different, it is not that people are dead, but how they died that matters. If you believe that cinema should include all people from society then films such as this should exist.Sadly Tarantino loses control in the "ear" scene. I have nothing against the haunted house experience, but you can only spend so much time in it before emerging in to light. Making the audience nauseous is no achievement. Nor is shocking it. We can all do it. In life or on film.All movies have to have drama and to create all drama we must have conflict. We haven't much to play with here. It is a minimalist playbox, although we have the robbery (used sparingly and not at the beginning as most fly-by-nights would use it) and some gun play, but these are sidelines. This is a relationship play. People (criminals) that want both anarchy and order. They come together for greed, but the pecking order has to be established. It is not easy being leader of the anarchist, they are, by nature free thinkers that play and work for themselves.It doesn't let anyone believe that being a criminal is easy or a good career options. After all, as I hinted above, who are you working with? Other criminals who only want to look after themselves and would happily steal for you as much as the original target. This doesn't make it as clear as say Goodfellers, but the message is there all the same. When this film came out it maybe it wasn't as big a deal as is made out to be now. However the industry stood up and took notice as did most film buffs. This is something new and - as has been shown with the better Pulp Fiction - the product of  someone that has the seeds of magic in his fingers. Sadly QT started to believe his own hype, and worse started thinking that he only had to please himself to please his audience.
The problem is that QT is like the sexy girl your old school class. The problem isn't that she is sexy, the problem is that she knows it.


                
Such a classic. Great dialogue. Surprising turns. Characters are unforgettable.


                
This is the film that spun Quentin Tarantino's long running career of gruesom and violent masterpieces. With this film, Tarantino has made his first classic, and it remains a classic to this day, and will continue to do so for a very long time.A director's debut for Tarantino and he came off to a really great start with this immensly intruiging and different take ganster genre. With this piece Tarantino started sharpening his knife, and he had a real sharp one to begin with, but you can tell there are some rough edges still.The movie starts off with all the main characters having coffee together, chatting, doing what Tarantino is best at. Having seemingly pointless scenes, but that actually establishes character. Here from the beginning you get a sense of who is the leader, the comedian, and who you might wanna look out for. Even forshadowing some events to the trained eye.But here already can some of the rough edges be seen, as the dialogue isn't as sharp as some of his other movies, and the Tarantino-esque stories don't have quite the same sting in them. However it is forgivable, as it is infact his debut film, and it is overshadowed by the rest of the films brilliance.The film is beautifully built up towards the ending, through tense interactions and clever glimses into the past. It is a bold move to play haywire with the script and have it go in a non-linear order, but in this sense it works really well, building up tension and unravelling more and more as we go. And it all leads up to the scintillating and brutal ending, that would set out to become one of Tarantino's trademarks. The only problem I had with the flashbacks was the character of Holdaway, who we don't get any introduction too. The only thing we get to know is that he is a buddy of one of the other characters (not to spoil anything) and that he helps him in his task. A more detailed introduction of him would have been needed, to not make his character seem somewhat unnecessary.That said, the movie is very nicely done with little to no music, except for the songs playing on the radio, providing a raw touch to the film. It is not too long, as a story like this could easily have turned out boring with too many bland and boring scenes. Instead Tarantino has made sure every scene is counts and is of importance.A genre defying movie, or rather, a genre making movie. As this movie falls under the gangster and crime, it also creates it's own genre, or should I say, Tarantino has. With his first film, Tarantino manages a clean birdie, and creates for himself his own genre: The Tarantino-genre.


                
Even after almost 30 years Reservoir Dogs is a fresh and unique take on every Gangster Movie that exists. From the beginning of the movie you feel confused, because of the different charakters, that discuss the strangest things on the dinner table and you have know idea what is going on. Tarantino clearly knows how to write dialoges and grips the attention of the viewer, even if they do not want to look at it. The concept is very interesting and leaves the viewer always with less information than the charakters, so the viewer wants to know more. Every detail that is revealed makes the story more interesting. Unfortunatly near the end the scenes fell out of the story and reveal information that had been better unlocked. The acting of all charakters is brilliant and especially Tim Roth delivers an extraordinary performance. The brutal movie is accompanied by fitting music and makes the viewing experience very special.Overall Reservoir Dogs is a very good debut film from Tarantino that delivers almost on every level. The brutal take on the Gangster Scene is unique, surprising, full of black humour and very thrilling, even though it falls a bit near the end. 8/10


                
Movie Review: "Reservoir Dogs" (1992)Relentlessly in its 95-Minute-Editorial-Format extensively cut-to-close-perfection by the director's close-encounters editor Sally Menke (1953-2010), in benificiary 35mm cinematography by Andrzej Sekula, comes already the early fulfillment for feature debutante Quentin Tarantino, at age 28, getting lucky by presenting a pushy draft of the screenplay, co-written with "A Band Apart" companion Roger Avary, in industry-influential actor Harvey Keitel, also-playing the lead as mid-town sharp-to-overthrown character of Mr. White, who builds close ties with independent Hollywood producer Lawrence Bender, who then again equally benefits from Tarantino's ingenious combination techniques of past-tense motion picture beats reflecting "Nouvelle Vague" of Truffaut / Godard owned 1960s and "New Hollywood" enfant terribles as Sam Peckinpah's directions for "Straw Dogs" starring Dustin Hoffman (1971) and the action-thriller "Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia" (1974).This movie, marking one of the most receivable low-budget - realized with just 1.2 Million-Dollar production expenses - scenes of non-stop talking ultra-cleverly build characters, including Michael Madsen as Mr. Blonde, Tim Roth as Mr. Orange and a show-stealing Mr. Pink due to playing-defector actor Steve Buscemi, which performing beats could only be topped by a lucky striking appearance as Garland "The Marietta Mangler" Greene in the unlikely but major entertaining action-movie "Con Air" starring Nicolas Cage of Summer 1997, when Tarantino utilizes signature-defying explosions of violence in deep blood-reds on black suits and white shirts in a neutral-conflicting warehouse exploitation, when the plot constantly thickens in favors for twisting flashbacks and intermingling of narratives brought to a young director's perfection in "Palme d'Or" as Best Screenplay Academy-Awarded recognitions for improving successions with "Pulp Fiction" (1994) of a depth-reaching, substance-digging collector of national and world cinema.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Reservoir Dogs was released in 1992 and was directed by Quentin Tarantino in his directorial debut. The film is about a group of strangers who band together for a jewellery heist, however after it goes terribly wrong they take refuge in a warehouse whilst they begin to suspect that one of them is an undercover police officer. Because of this being his first film, it really shows throughout the film how ambitious and excited Tarantino was to be making it; the film is full of style and great direction.To start off with, the film feels very raw and realistic which I loved and nothing feels altered to fit the accustoms of cinema, and I could genuinely believe that all of this stuff happened in real life. It is extremely impressive for an independent film and cleverly made throughout.Even though the film's cast are known only by colours, they each have a memorable quality for them which makes them feel more like real people; Mr White supports others frequently, Mr Pink only looks out for himself, Mr Blonde is essentially a psychopath and Mr Orange is a newcomer with not much experience. Each cast member gives a great performance, however there are some slight issues with some characters that I'll get onto later.The film's story is told in a non-linear structure, with the present section of the film taking place entirely within a warehouse. Each character recounts what happened to them and we are shown parts of their backstory leading up to the robbery, as well as a few things that occurred afterwards. The intelligent thing that the film does is never actual show the heist itself as even though by the end of the film most things would be solved, it leaves some mystery still lingering there and makes the film more intriguing throughout rather than just simply showing stuff.It is clear throughout that Tarantino is a huge fan of classic songs and films, and the inclusions of these references don't overstuff the film in any way and instead makes it more unique and stylish than your average crime film at the time. Music is also cleverly used ironically throughout the film too, as in one scene a man is being tortured in a very brutal manner but due to the happy song playing in the scene it makes you relax and enjoy it, until the moment when the music goes off and you realise what really just happened.So the setup for the film is absolutely brilliant and it is thoroughly entertaining throughout, however when I look back at the film I realised that not really much happens in it; there's the criminals arguing about what happened, them going to do their business and then the rat is revealed. While I liked the reveal, I found it to happen very out of the blue and I personally thought it would have been much more interesting if the criminals had to piece things like clues together themselves to work out the truth, and due to them each likely having a different perspective it would cause a conflict between them (which is what the film makes). What we received wasn't bad or lazy, I was just hoping for something more intriguing.I also felt there were a few unnecessary elements to the film. There was one particular character who was rather pointless and he literally has no character in the film, even the poster and the tagline of the film forgot he existed. The fact that he is rather unknown creates a suspicion throughout that he may be the mole, however after we find out that he isn't the mole it makes his character pointless in the end. There is another character in the film who pretty much has the same sort of role as the other one (a McGuffin), but what was different about this character was that he was an amusing person and had some sort of character to him, and it's also clear that the film is aware of his part in the film as in the very first scene he is subtly set up as a non-important character.Another thing I felt which may have just been me was I thought that the backstory for Mr Orange went on for a bit too long, as it sets up both his character and also the start of the robbery because of his character being the last one whose backstory is shown. These two parts are shown without any cuts in between which felt a bit overlong to me (the film doesn't feel overlong in total length though). However, I may be the only one with that gripe like I said.As I ended the review with my criticisms, it may sound like I gave the film a mediocre review but overall, I thought that this film was great and the issues I pointed out weren't major but things I felt could've been done slightly better. I had a blast watching the film and I would happily rewatch it any time; it has great performances from the cast, an interesting and intriguing storyline, lots of style and a very entertaining film throughout, however there were one or two things I would change if I was the one who had made the film.8.3/10


                
"Rent Dogs" transpires style and charm, in his first film, Quentin Tarantino shows the public all his cinematographic resources, ranging from the script to the use of cameras, through cuts and soundtrack, even if many of the resources are abandoned later , Quentin arrives with his foot in the door bringing a gangster movie that closes almost an intersection between films of the genre of directors like Brian de Palm, Martin Scorsese and Coppola, because it brings the tone and photography would be alienated the irony, joke and humor black. With a Linear script that has several tours to the past, we have a movie about a theft to jewelry, where the robbery is not shown, and this is absolutely brilliant, as we see the consequences and discussions about what happened, imagine the scene, Tarantino Gives us the brushes and we paint the screen, it is worth noting how Tarantino completely develops his characters only through dialogues, although later in the film has scenes of pure developments that are played on the screen. We have a history of a group of 5 criminals who are hired by a mafia to steal a jewelry store, but their plans end up being very, very wrong to find out that one is an infiltrator. The film does not establish any type of morals, nor does it need to, this is not its function. We have a photograph that contrasts strong shades of gray with warm colors, although at times it seems careless, it is beautiful, filmed completely in roll, at times it seems that we are watching a film of the 70s, and that is a compliment, because it brings A giant charm the film, without original songs but orchestrated by pop music of the 70s, its track is completely irreverent and dictates the rhythm of certain scenes, besides making the viewer want to dance, its use in opposition to violence and crime is a Complete discord, we hate to love it. With a good sound mix and a completely fabulous editing, the publisher Sally Menke has many merits for leaving the film round and the famous expression "Tarantinesca" passes through her hands, and of course, we can not ignore the camera angles, the Tarantino's famous counter-plongée camera is used a lot here, not to mention its circulations on the bar table and its angle in the "Mexican Impashes" promoted by the director. All the actors are very well here, save a highlight for Steve Buscemi and especially Tim Roth who freaks out on the scene, even though there is a good part of the film on the bloody floor, obviously we can not fail to mention Harvey Keitel. Finally, the first Tarantino film has errors, such as the overdevelopment of certain characters and a rhythm problem; besides, Tarantino never marks his acts (which is a style, not exactly a defect) even though it is full of Charm, although very simple, it has a giant cinematic quality and certainly the few features contribute to the inherent beauty of "Rent Dogs"


                
Right from the first minute, this movie takes you into its own world and keeps you fixated. Tarantino's script + direction means that the movie was pretty gripping. Like many others, I too loved the background score. It is unconventional but goes well with the movie. The overall execution of the movie was so good that we forget the actors and instead focus on the characters like Mr. Pink, Mr. White etc. Special mention to Mr. Blonde who made a lasting impression through 'that' one scene. The movie, its characters, its music, all have become a part of the pop culture and there is a very good reason behind it.It left me asking for more. Which is a good thing, but I really wanted for more to happen once such interesting characters had been developed and the platform was set.


                
Quentin Tarantino did not miss his debut with this one. He wrote and directed Reservoir Dogs which premiered at the prestigious Sundance Film Festival. A lot of great movies have premiered at this festival but 'Dogs' will probably remain the most famous passage. Although, 'The Usual Suspects' and 'Memento' are better movies, in my opinion. 'Reservoir Dogs' stars the great Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth, Harvey Keitel, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Lawrence Tierney and Tarantino himself.The cast is simply terrific, everyone is great in this movie. This is of course partly due to the many talents in the cast but also because of the great dialogue and characters. Michael Madsen's character in particular will stay with you forever. The 'Stuck In The Middle With You' scene is brilliant and horrific. Tarantino is at this day still a controversial director, and it all started with this movie and this scene. It's a shame that the violence gets so much attention in Tarantino's movies, because it shouldn't. The violence serves the story, and is in fact essential to the movie. Reservoir Dogs is a crime movie but isn't your average crime movie. The opening scene is a banal, but funny dialogue between the 'Reservoir Dogs'. It sets up the characters brilliantly and shows that the movie is going to be entirely different from what you might expect to get out of a crime movie. Dialogue is the core of every Tarantino movie. In 'Dogs' this becomes clear right from the start. The dialogue in this movie is however not the best Tarantino has written. Great dialogue builds character or introduces characters, serves the plot, is interesting, and does this without being straightforward. Every line of dialogue in this movie was interesting, it always is with Tarantino. But sometimes it didn't serve the plot and merely confirmed what we already knew about the characters. But of course, it was still interesting, entertaining and incredibly funny.'Reservoir Dogs' deserves to be called a classic. Tarantino's debut was so innovative to the movie industry that it will remain a classic forever. Reservoir Dogs will never cease to be relevant. Tarantino's potential is shown in every aspect of the movie. He was however not yet the film maker he is today, in my opinion. The bar scene in 'Inglorious Bastards' is one of the smartest scenes he has ever written. The level of suspense of opening (milk) scene of that movie hasn't been matched very often in movie history. In my opinion 'Pulp Fiction' is still his best and even though 'Reservoir Dogs' is absolutely great and innovative, I don't give this one a higher rating because there was still room for progress, in Tarantino's standards. In his next movies he achieved this progress.


                
Quentin Tarantino is one of the greatest directors of the last few decades, he seamlessly blends dialogue with brutal violence in his films which are always compelling and extremely entertaining, while is do not think this is his best film Reservoir Dogs is a fantastic opening to his filmography. The dialogue in this film is absolutely perfect, it makes the film feel genuine, characters talk about random things that don't always have relevance to the plot but it feels like what real people would do in this situation which makes this film feel real. Another thing that feels real in this film is the violence, this is an extremely bloody movie but not to an excessive level it helps to establish the dangers these characters are presented with and gives the film a grittier edge. This film always had me engaged, Tarantino perfectly built up this central mystery perfectly it keeps you guessing for the entire run time and your more than likely to change your mind at least once. All the performances in this film are fantastic with the standouts probably being Tim Roth and Harvey Keitel, Roths character is in pretty much excruciating pain for most of the film and he's never not convincing, your always convinced that he is in as much pain as he says he is and it was just brutal to watch. All the characters have amazing interaction in this Film they're all set up as very different people which makes them more interesting to watch together. This film is told in a non linear fashion and for the most part it worked, it helped to establish the mystery and the characters better but they didn't always work for me, a lot of them show how the characters came to be on this job but I felt that the film contradicted itself by doing this, it's established that all of them are mysterious figures with no backstory so telling us this was just an odd choice and honestly they just didn't add much to this film. I also don't feel the pull to re watch this film like Tarantinos other films but I think that's just me. I really did like this movie it's got amazing characters and performances, it's never anything less than engaging, the mystery is established perfectly and like most of a Tarantinos films, the characters were ultimately what made this film worth the watch.85%/A-


                
This film inevitably divides opinion due to the sheer level of violence and gore that is crammed into its 100 minute running time. Regardless of your attitude towards Tarantino's excessive use of violence, however, it has to be said that this is one very well written, directed and acted film.'Reservoir Dogs' is smart and entertaining, with interesting characters, great dialogue and an absorbing storyline. This film seems to fly by, and not just because of the relatively short running time. The tension and unpredictability alone make 'Reservoir Dogs' a fascinating watch.Whilst this movie won't be to everyone's taste, it's undoubtedly an excellently made, highly entertaining spectacle, and arguably one of Tarantino's best.


                
Knowing now that Quentin Tarantino can make movies, it's amazing how well crafted his film debut was.I give credit where credit is: right from the start, not only was Tarantino a great director, he was also a great screenwriter. In all of his films, he would set up his characters in any scene (from a diner, to an empty warehouse), and then put them through a stick-up that goes disastrously wrong. What would follow afterwards is a bloody aftermath. This movie has one of the best casts you could imagine, led by the legendary Lawrence Tierney, who plays Joe Cabot, an experienced criminal who has assembled a team of crooks for a big diamond heist. The key to his plan is that his associates don't know one another, and therefore can't squeal if they're caught. He names them off a color chart: Mr. White, Mr. Orange, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Pink, and so on. Mr. Pink doesn't like his name. "You're lucky you ain't Mr. Yellow," Tierney rasps (which is one of my favorite scenes in the movie).I feel this is where Tarantino is at his strongest: right from the opening scenes, everyone can tell they are in for a ride; these characters play off of each other so well. They can discuss anything from Madonna's "Like a Virgin" to the difference from a black woman to a white woman, and it would not feel uncomfortable. We as an audience can relate to them and feel like we're in the conversation with them. So much so that we want to butt in and contribute.We see the bungled crime in flashbacks. Tarantino has a confident, kinetic way of shooting action: guys running down the street, gun battles, blood and screams. But the real drama is finding out who's the snitch in the operation. It's a good way for dramatic effect because we as audience don't know who the snitch is even more than the characters do. Tarantino's stamp is all over this film, and it's amazing that this was his film debut. Great writing, great characters, and a great set-up lead up to a film I can watch over and over again and see the details that I have missed.
