Words cannot describe how amazing this documentary is. Watching the series, you will continuously wonder how the camera crew was able to film the events and in such high definition.When I first watched the 'Planet Earth' series, I thought the production qualities on a documentary of this genre could not be surpassed until I watched 'Life'. Narrated by David Attenborough, 'Life' feels like an improved version of 'Planet Earth' with a focus specifically on how life works. The series shows how complex, beautiful, and harsh life is with absolute clarity.Most of us live in cities away from wildlife making us forget about the world beyond humans. 'Life' takes us on a journey into nature we never get to see in our normal lives, and for the most part, never knew existed.


                
This has to be one of the best documentaries I have ever seen. The cinematography is amazing, the narrator has everything down perfectly, and the wildlife they show throughout the series is very interesting and colorful. The film crew travels all over the globe to capture nature's greatest moments, and they pull this off with ease.I would highly recommend this documentary to anyone. It is quite comparable to Planet Earth or Animal Planet.Check it out and let us know via comments what you guys think of it.I can't wait to buy the BluRay 1080p versions of this series...10/10!


                
I love the BBC's nature documentaries. They are some of the best in terms of photography and detail. LIFE is a favorites among them and David Attenborough again does a stellar job of narrating, providing hitherto unknown facts about life in all it's various niches. The chapters on Plants and Insects were best ones. I never knew how extensive and diverse these life forms are and all the environments they occupy. Simply amazing! This is a good educational series for children as well as adults. There is so much to learn about how nature works. The more we know, the more appreciative we become of our unique blue dot in space.
Despite how much he apparently dislikes the term "national treasure", that term really does sum up David Attenborough to a tee. He is such a great presenter (in his 90s and still sounds, and looks on a side note, great) and whenever a new series of his is aired they are often among the best the BBC has done in years.Am a great fan of a lot of Attenborough's work and BBC's nature documentaries with his involvement are among their best work in years. Have been watching the BBC less over time, but there are always exceptions, unexpected gems and expected treasures that come our way every now and again and their nature documentaries are the perfect examples of expected treasures. 'Life' is a crowning achievement for a documentary series and actually, like the best documentary shows, feels much more than that. As far as Attenborough's work goes too, 'Life' to me is one of his biggest achievements.'Life' is an exceptionally well-made series first and foremost, in fact saying that doesn't do the production values justice. It is gorgeously filmed, done in a completely fluid and natural, sometimes intimate (a great way of connecting even more with the animals), way and never looking static. In fact much of it is remarkably cinematic. The editing is always succinct and smooth and the scenery and various habitats are remarkably diverse and look speechlessly spectacular.On a documentary level, 'Life' continually fascinates and illuminates, while there are some familiar facts here a lot of it was very much new (like a lot of the principles of evolution) and by the end of the series for me more was gotten out of it, and educated me much more than, anything taught when studying Geography in secondary school. Attenborough's narration helps quite significantly too, he clearly knows his stuff and knows what to say and how to say it. He delivers it with his usual richness, soft-spoken enthusiasm and sincerity, never talking down to the viewer and keeping them riveted and wanting to know more.The wildlife and life-forms are both adorable and dangerous, the wide-ranging diversity of what was included was staggering and it was lovely to see a mix of the familiar and the not-so-familiar. How they adapt to their environments, why they behave the way they do, how nature works and how what the wildlife and life-forms do affects their environments were all touched upon and made their points subtly, not hammering it home too much (a potential danger with documentaries).Many powerful and poignant moments, as well as suspenseful ones, while not trying too hard to evoke a viewer reaction. One really cares for what they're told and the wildlife. Each episode doesn't feel like an episodic stringing of scenes, but instead like the best nature documentaries each feels like their own story and journey, with real, complex emotions and conflicts and animal characters developed in a way a human character would in a film but does it better than several.Overall, a crowning achievement, for Attenborough and nature documentaries in general. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
