Words cannot describe how amazing this documentary is. Watching the series, you will continuously wonder how the camera crew was able to film the events and in such high definition.When I first watched the 'Planet Earth' series, I thought the production qualities on a documentary of this genre could not be surpassed until I watched 'Life'. Narrated by David Attenborough, 'Life' feels like an improved version of 'Planet Earth' with a focus specifically on how life works. The series shows how complex, beautiful, and harsh life is with absolute clarity.Most of us live in cities away from wildlife making us forget about the world beyond humans. 'Life' takes us on a journey into nature we never get to see in our normal lives, and for the most part, never knew existed.


                
This has to be one of the best documentaries I have ever seen. The cinematography is amazing, the narrator has everything down perfectly, and the wildlife they show throughout the series is very interesting and colorful. The film crew travels all over the globe to capture nature's greatest moments, and they pull this off with ease.I would highly recommend this documentary to anyone. It is quite comparable to Planet Earth or Animal Planet.Check it out and let us know via comments what you guys think of it.I can't wait to buy the BluRay 1080p versions of this series...10/10!


                
I certainly take no issue with the overwhelming positive reviews that preceded mine: the series provided amazingly photographed and dramatically presented insight into the diversity of life on the planet. We watched the entire series, and wish we had kept track of the number of times that we said "Oh. My. God." or "That is so bizarre..." Very much like "Planet Earth", "Life" demands a renewed sense of wonder of all that surrounds us.Having said that, and to take nothing away from the indisputable positive attributes, I thought that the series fell something just short of 'absolutley perfect'.At the highest level, information, and video images (albeit amazing ones) are presented quickly and are short. I'd liken the effect to flipping through a NGM, as opposed to reading the articles. The effect is strong, but I was left thirsting for a little more hard information. I realize that one could probably do a 10 part series on any one of the many lifeforms that are touched on in any single episode. But I still felt somehow shorted...like I was being shown shots to maximize the 'wow!' factor and emotional response, rather than present information.which leads to the more specific criticism: over and over again, my wife wondered...where the heck is that, and what is the scale of that thing??? With respect to the former, general place names are given, but many aren't that familiar to me...some sort of mapping segue would have been nice. I fully acknowledge that such would need a really artistic touch in order to avoid a 'cheapening' effect, but would satisfy our curiosity. Perhaps even part of the 'special features' on a DVD set? With respect to the latter, many times, we were shown amazing pictures of bizarre creatures, but often with no sense of scale. Size or mass range was sometimes mentioned, often times it wasn't. Often times, especially with the amazing photography, one couldn't really tell of the subject was 1 inch, 1 foot or 1 yard in size.Notwithstanding these comments, I'm looking forward to buying the set when they come out, and look are hoping that they contain the sorts of 'making of' features that were included on the "Planet Earth" set.
I was expecting this film to have a creationist slant, but it does not. It is a bit like David Attenborough for children. It has first class nature photography, but it is aimed at children with a dumbed-down narration by Oprah Winfrey and somewhat Disneyfied music. It sometimes has an odd prudishness about fish reproduction.The creatures chosen are each bizarre and entertaining but ones I have seen before.Some of the principles of evolution are presented, but in a subtle way. The focus is on strange animal behaviour, not how it could have evolved. I learned something new, that the schooling behaviour of anchovies is indeed very effective against predators.It is not totally prettified. It shows flamingo chicks that died after they fell out of the nest.I think the insect segment was most interesting with the most material I had not seen before. The jousting tournament with the surprise ending really tickled me.There are bits of Disneyesque anthropomorphising, for example talking of insects "fighting for their dignity".This is first rate family entertainment. I am ready to see it again already.


                
After the tremendous success of the extraordinary and revolutionary nature documentary series Planet Earth, a similar programme was bound to follow, and indeed it did. Narrated by Sir David Attenborough, this series uses the same special camera normally in the film industry to slow down the quickest action and get close to it. The programme sees how the animals and creatures of all parts of the world manage to survive, looking at what they eat, giving birth, fighting, looking after each other and much more. Throughout the programme we see reptiles and amphibians, mammals, fish, birds, insects, hunters and hunted, creatures of the deep, plants and primates. It was interesting to see the familiar animals and creatures you have seen many times in other programmes, but also the ones you have probably never seen. Filled with colourful worlds, magnificent living things and hearing the wonderful narration by Attenborough makes this just as brilliant as its predecessor, a must see. It won the Emmy for Outstanding Cinematography for Nonfiction Programming "cinematography team", and it was nominated for Outstanding Picture Editing for Nonfiction Programming, Outstanding Sound Editing for Nonfiction Programming (Single or Multi-Camera), Outstanding Sound Mixing for Nonfiction Programming and Outstanding Writing for Nonfiction Programming. Very good!
I love the BBC's nature documentaries. They are some of the best in terms of photography and detail. LIFE is a favorites among them and David Attenborough again does a stellar job of narrating, providing hitherto unknown facts about life in all it's various niches. The chapters on Plants and Insects were best ones. I never knew how extensive and diverse these life forms are and all the environments they occupy. Simply amazing! This is a good educational series for children as well as adults. There is so much to learn about how nature works. The more we know, the more appreciative we become of our unique blue dot in space.
Despite how much he apparently dislikes the term "national treasure", that term really does sum up David Attenborough to a tee. He is such a great presenter (in his 90s and still sounds, and looks on a side note, great) and whenever a new series of his is aired they are often among the best the BBC has done in years.Am a great fan of a lot of Attenborough's work and BBC's nature documentaries with his involvement are among their best work in years. Have been watching the BBC less over time, but there are always exceptions, unexpected gems and expected treasures that come our way every now and again and their nature documentaries are the perfect examples of expected treasures. 'Life' is a crowning achievement for a documentary series and actually, like the best documentary shows, feels much more than that. As far as Attenborough's work goes too, 'Life' to me is one of his biggest achievements.'Life' is an exceptionally well-made series first and foremost, in fact saying that doesn't do the production values justice. It is gorgeously filmed, done in a completely fluid and natural, sometimes intimate (a great way of connecting even more with the animals), way and never looking static. In fact much of it is remarkably cinematic. The editing is always succinct and smooth and the scenery and various habitats are remarkably diverse and look speechlessly spectacular.On a documentary level, 'Life' continually fascinates and illuminates, while there are some familiar facts here a lot of it was very much new (like a lot of the principles of evolution) and by the end of the series for me more was gotten out of it, and educated me much more than, anything taught when studying Geography in secondary school. Attenborough's narration helps quite significantly too, he clearly knows his stuff and knows what to say and how to say it. He delivers it with his usual richness, soft-spoken enthusiasm and sincerity, never talking down to the viewer and keeping them riveted and wanting to know more.The wildlife and life-forms are both adorable and dangerous, the wide-ranging diversity of what was included was staggering and it was lovely to see a mix of the familiar and the not-so-familiar. How they adapt to their environments, why they behave the way they do, how nature works and how what the wildlife and life-forms do affects their environments were all touched upon and made their points subtly, not hammering it home too much (a potential danger with documentaries).Many powerful and poignant moments, as well as suspenseful ones, while not trying too hard to evoke a viewer reaction. One really cares for what they're told and the wildlife. Each episode doesn't feel like an episodic stringing of scenes, but instead like the best nature documentaries each feels like their own story and journey, with real, complex emotions and conflicts and animal characters developed in a way a human character would in a film but does it better than several.Overall, a crowning achievement, for Attenborough and nature documentaries in general. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Amazing shots and facts, David is great narrator, but I found loud cheesy music very annoying at times and distracting me often, and along with too few killing censored, it sometimes felt like show for ADD kids. I think shows like this don't need that much music, if any, and should show more actual gore and violence to make people realize that it really happens in nature, so some ignorant idiots open their minds.
Otherwise amazing.Great document, amazing narration, but IMO too much loud, cheesy music and censor.


                
Overall good but far from great. My biggest issues were varied starting with most of this has been filmed and covered by bbc in past nature docs. My second issue was with Oprahs narrating. It was almost robotic with rarely any excitement on her part. Very unlike Attenborough who nails it every time and is very emotive. A big thing that took me right out of the doc was watching on BluRay the cuts to the commercial breaks were very very obvious. It's something I've never noticed in any of their nature docs and I've seen most repeatedly. Last complaint was a lack predation and a definite lack of showing the gore.


                
Great documentary. I cannot say anything negative of this, it was simply amazing


                
