I accompanied my soon to be 2 year old son to see the "Bom bom bole" movie (He recognizes Amir-dada by its most aired song on TV). My son was mesmerized by the brilliant cinematography in the first half which captures the wild imagination of Ishaan (btw - they share the names). I was taken aback by the simplicity portrayed by him - I guess everyone one of us went back few years to the dreamy world of fantasy. You can so easily identify yourself with Ishaan - who anyway likes to read books, do homeworks, get bullied; but then everyone likes to catch an hour extra sleep, find a way to draw a picture of thought works, have a child's day out. At least, I admit I have done most of them and yeah given a chance would have started bunking schools in my early days.Amir as a director was brilliant; but the story and script was lacking in many sense. I was expecting a generic story of an average intelligence boy who lets down the expectation of his family by not doing that great in academics. I wasn't thinking of such a hard-faced irrational (or sadist?) father who doesn't give a second look when he leaves his son at the gate of the boarding school. I wasn't expecting teachers to be so ill-mannered and ruthless. I wasn't expecting a sing-along and dance-along teacher in a boarding school whose pillars are discipline and hard work. In this movie only Amir and Darsheel has has shades of white; rest all are black (ok..some of them are grey).The issue is relevant in today's society and Amir rakes it up by its nose; but he fails to provide justice by bringing in the dyslexia angle. Why does he need to prove that every fallen angel can be a champion. A child not good in academics need not necessarily suffer from dyslexia; he may excel in other fields or he can just remain as average intelligence person throughout his life. What is the need of proclaiming that the kid is suffering and needs treatment. I would've personally liked that instead of bringing an ailness, accept that the kid needs help - but the help is in form of acceptance from society - that its OK if you fail in academics, but there can be thousand other good things in you which can leave a mark. So what if you don't become Einstien or Da Vinci, but you can become a Tom, Dick & Harry and at least live in this world like a normal human being. You can continue drawing your imagination, writing your poems and throw colors to your dreams.


                
