I will just start with some quotes from other reviewers that describes it the best."This is easily one of the most overrated films of the year and probably the worst film Tarantino has ever done." "The ONLY good thing in this movie was the performance of Mr. Waltz"."So I was really disappointed, and seeing this movie on place #40 of the greatest movies of all time is the only thing about this, that leaves me with my mouth opened" Now for more details go and read "Hated it" reviews.One thing I hate about a movie is when it treats audience as bunch of dumb people. (Spoiler ahead). Now I know Tarantino's style is based on fantasy and fictitious plots, but come on, Adolf Hitler and 200 top Nazis Officers will be in attendance of a movie premier in occupied France and you have only two guards in the whole theater and the surroundings? Where also an American-African walks around freely with steel pipes locking doors and setting fire. These 2 guards are then executed in seconds opening the door for our 2 "heroes" to slay Hitler at point blank with around 100 rounds... very dumb. At least, challenge our intelligence and create a smarter plot to kill one of the most feared tyrants of all time (Go watch Valkyrie). Besides, Mike Myers impersonation of a British general is more realistic and authentic than the guy doing Hitler, just picture that.What ruined it further, is that the only smart and powerful character, which nailed everyone in the movie, with his psychological and mind bending interrogations, ends up to be effortlessly tricked by the most mindless character in the movie.After watching the movie, I was sympathizing with Nazis, who were portrayed to have more bravery and humanity than our Basterds!!! Imagine that.My recommendations, if you have insomnia, 2hrs 33 min to waste or you want to give your mind a break, go watch this movie.
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.What is the purpose of this movie? A bunch of Americans enters Nazi-occupied France and starts slaughtering Germans. You see them scalping their enemies and beating them to death with baseball bats. While making jokes, of course.Some will say that this movie is a parody of a certain genre. For a parody, it is neither witty nor funny. The contents is zero. It is exceptionally brutal and disgusting. Underneath lies a subtle political message, because it is again "the good guys" killing "bad Nazis". The whole plot is unthinkable if you turn it around. Could you imagine a storyline where Nazis (while making jokes) kill everybody in the Warsaw ghetto with flamethrowers? Probably not, but this movie is exactly about that, with the exception that is satisfies the weird moral expectations of a certain audience: slaughtering people is so cool when done by the right people.This movie only works because of the hidden Nazi-ideology underneath. It does not regard the enemy as people. And if the latter is supposed to be an element of the fun, I am happy to say that this kind of fun will always remain a mystery to me.Another mystery is how such violence can fascinate the American crowd while a bit of nudity will freak them out. But if a naked body is pornography, this movie with all its brutality is pure pornography at its very worst.Inglorious Basterds is a pointless, boring and tasteless waste of time and money.
I simply cannot believe this movie's current rating on IMDb.It is currently sitting in the IMDb top 100, nestled closely with The Bridge on the River Kwai, Raging Bull and the Prestige.To find this movie in the same standing as those three is truly staggering to me. Hence I am taking the time to give this film 1 star, to hopefully help get it down towards its rightful place among the other pieces of truly worthless cinema with which it belongs.I can understand that this is a movie that you either love or hate - it is certainly true that it is both a provocative and original film. However, what surprises me is the massive bias towards the "love" side, given the film's content - which can be summarised as an unashamedly unrealistic and soulless collection of sadistic/casual mindless violence, strangely blended with dramatic scenes of the kind of things that genuinely took place under the Nazis.What I am trying to say is that combining very tense, well written SS interrogation scenes (which evoke some genuine emotional investment in the film) with comic book character British generals/Nazi leaders/Jewish soldiers makes for an extremely uncomfortable combination for me. At times it feels like someone has spliced together Schindlers List with Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.My best guess is that the film's originality and uncompromising approach is refreshing to people bored of the same old Hollywood formulae. Certainly the film is unpredictable. The plot (such as it is) is extremely meandering and many of the characters' actions are pretty much inexplicable. *SPOILER* (I point here towards Colonel Landa's killing of Bridget and his non-killing of Shosanna.) But then again every single character is so one dimensional that it leaves you with no idea which characters you are supposed to actually care about anyway. There is no real shock when anyone gets killed because you don't know who anyone is or what makes them tick.Brad Pitt gets the award here for the most wooden and pointless character to appear - he is truly awful throughout the film and finds himself in a role where he does not have to portray a single emotion throughout the film. Nothing.My final point is that originality on its own does not make a great film. Yes, Tarantino has made a movie where you see things that you have never seen before in a major Hollywood release, but that is not any sort of achievement. The reason a high budget film has not been made before where the entire German high command has a day at the cinema in occupied France with almost no guards or security is because that idea is stupid. Yes, the film is stupid - and no amount of brushing over with "Tarantino is being postmodern" or "he's being ironic" will overcome that plain fact.In summary this is a film that takes an exploitation film script, (that would ordinarily be filed under "trash cinema") gives it a big name director/very high quality cast and then takes the plaudits for being ground breaking.It is not. It is simply a steaming turd given a coat of gloss paint.
For those that have studied WWII, and unfortunately, seen real human brains on the ground, this movie is a travesty, a sadistic farce, and a complete waste of time like most of Tarantino's other questionable work. I do admit to liking "Reservoir Dogs" to a point. However, this thing does not even have an original title.I (unfortunately) received this DVD by mistake and see this project as a new low for Brad Pitt and the other actors taking part in this joke of making jews more barbaric than the Nazis. It perpetuates blame on the common German soldiers while covering up the major part US and UK bankers like Prescott Bush had in funding Hitler, as well as, the now confirmed part that British Intelligence had in bringing Hitler and Mussolini to power beginning immediately at the end of WWI.WWII was a complex and tragic event, and the real world history deserves better than this self serving, mythological blood feast served up for fools too lazy to look for the truth and try to prevent a recurrence. History can repeat itself when we become manipulated by propaganda, desensitized to inhumane actions, and self righteous.If you want to look at atrocities, many can argue that Stalin made Hitler and the Nazis look like rank amateurs in the business of murdering innocent people, as well as, the drug crazed gangs of Niger roping off streets with human intestines. Where does it end? We need to be getting the multitude of shadowy intelligence agencies under control and accountability instead of getting a cheap emotional thrill about perpetuating their myths in Hollywood and our capitol cities.
Chapter One: Once Upon a Time<U+0085> At A Table (1941)In which a German Nazi and a French Dairy Farmer talk at a table for 20 minutes; first in French, then in English.Chapter Two: Three Years Of Inglorious Basterds In Sixteen Minutes... Without Tables (Mostly)In which an American Lieutenant talks to his newly formed 8 man Jewish- American commando unit. There are no tables present. Cut to Adolf Hitler, three years later. He is angry at his men's inability to deal with the Basterds. Hitler does have a table. We return to the Basterds in a flashback. Again, distinct lack of table-based content. Chapter Three: German Night in Paris... At A Table... TalkingIn which a Jewish woman who escaped from under the table in Chapter One has somehow managed to become the proprietress of a cinema. The Jewish woman talks to an Actor at a table in a bar. Later, the Jewish woman, the Actor, Joseph Goebbels and a Translator talk at a table in a Restaurant. The Actor and Goebbels talk in German. The Translator translates the German into French. The Jewish woman replies in French. The Translator translates the French into German. Goebbels decides to hold a film premiere at the Jewish woman's cinema. The Actor and Goebbels leave. The Nazi (who talked with the Dairy Farmer at a table for twenty minutes back in Chapter One) arrives. He talks with the Jewish woman at the table. He leaves. The Jewish woman breaks down; overcome with emotion at having spent so long talking at a table. Chapter Four: Operation Table TalkingIn which Austin Powers sends a British Officer to join the Basterds and an Actress on a mission to talk in German at a table in a Tavern. After 21 minutes of talking at a table they all shoot each other. The actress survives but spends the next 5 minutes lying on a table talking.Chapter Five: Revenge of the Giant TableIn which, The Basterds decide to continue the operation by talking in Italian and suicide bombing the cinema. The Nazi takes the Actress into a small room where they sit next to a table. A hoe that he found under the table in the Tavern fits her so he kills her. Then he takes two of the Basterds to a big room, where they sit and talk at a table. Meanwhile, the cinema burns down, Hitler is riddled with bullets and the two Basterds blow themselves up for no good reason at all.The End
Reviews of this film are largely split into 2 camps; it's good because, or it's bad despite, it's direction by Tarantino.The question I asked myself after this was would this have been made without the Pitt/ Tarantino stamp? The answer was no; and the result was a film that made me so irate that I was moved to post my first review on IMDb...I found everything about this film treated the film goer with something approaching contempt. The script was thin with the exception of one well written character - Landa. Scripting for other characters was anodyne or non-existent, or, in the case of the "Jew-Bear", simply a bit weird. Same for the other aspects of characterisation, that was formulaic and thin in nearly every case, especially the made-for-Pitt Aldo Raine and the other Basterds. Style pastiching that normally works didn't; subject matter was treated with either insufficient levity or indifference; scenes were badly edited or irrelevant. The redeeming aspects were cinematography and production values - style over content.So - am I taking it too seriously? No; this is not a funny film (though occasionally it seems to try) and the violence that is shown sits uneasily between cartoonish and unnecessary - a prime example is that of the surrendered German who was beaten to death; added nothing, in any way. In fact the tone of the film was so inconsistent in the way it considered the material that it made me very uneasy.For me - Tarantino needs to start making films to impress others, not just himself. Obviously (most of) the rest of the world disagrees, but that's something either Mr T or I will have to learn to live with...One of the most disappointing films I've seen.
I will never go to another Tarantino movie again. The entire film was worthless. My wife and I both regret that we didn't get up and walk out at the first indication of what the film was really going to be about (which is still hard to determine since it was such a ridiculous storyline...blood, guts, and violence seemed to be the only real theme), but we kept hoping there'd be something redeeming just around the corner. Unfortunately, there wasn't because there wasn't anything that made sense! We, along with a lot of the other people in the audience walked out of the theater muttering "that was disgusting", "what a waste of time", "I should've walked out", "where was the comedy", "that was pathetic", etc. It actually made us, the audience, voice our disgust and the feeling that we had just been thoroughly ripped off. The only thing of merit in the film was the costuming and the acting ability of almost everyone in the film....there just wasn't a plot/script worthy of their talents. I rate this a 1 because there isn't a 0. I can't quite understand how anyone could rate this higher than a 0!
Seriously disappointing performance by Brad Pitt and Q T, the plot is very superficial and lame, and, unless indirectly intended, this film actually glorify the Nazis and portrays them as men of honor, and show that the Jewish people are deceiving, cant keep promises and bloody vicious. ((THE FOLLOWING CONTAINS SPOILER)) Hitler together with the most notorious Nazis are attending a stupid plot less movie about the killing of 300 Italian soldiers in a small cinema theater in Paris is unbelievably ridiculous. the Nazis laughing and hooraying each killing in the movie as if watching a basketball game STUPID, the deal at the end is lame. whats really appalling is that the movie earned great reviews and is ranked here in the 40s amongst the greatest 250 films. will not be surprised if it harvested many awards, including Oscars, as well. the movie is simply a kissing ass to the Jewish people, but hey reconsider, its not even doing a great job doing that. it truly dwarfed the whole Nazi - Jews conflict and a pure insult to all who fought and suffered from the tyranny of the Nazis.
"Inglorious Basterds" is a movie so clueless, so sloppy, so jam-packed full of half-ass characters and shock-value violence, so relentlessly terrible that I can't even muster the rage and indignation that most intelligent film fans feel toward Quentin Tarantino.I just pity him.American soldiers engaging in acts of deplorable violence against Nazi soldiers is not only justified- it's hilarious! And admirable. Just look at Hugo Stiglitz' statistics from the 1942-43 season in a flashback segment narrated by Samuel L. Jackson. Yes, Samuel L. Jackson. The idea that we're supposed to derive satisfaction from the torture of Nazis is just as abhorrent as a Nazi relishing the torture of a Jew. Let me tell Quentin something he should have learned in grade school: two loathsome evils do not make a right.Brad Pitt- one of my favorite actors- gives the worst performance of his career as a loudmouth macho bloodthirsty cartoon... I'll never look at him the same way again. He also looked particularly angry... for some reason I get the feeling he and Tarantino didn't quite get along. I can picture Brad slapping him silly between takes. Next time slap harder.Quentin has finally gone off the deep end and become the hack we all feared he would. He doesn't know if he's making a war movie, a parody of a war movie, an outrageous B-movie bloodbath or a documentary about milk & strudel. This is the definitive shrug by an artist who has nothing to say and insists on saying it loud.The one standout in the film is supposed to be Christoph Waltz as Col. Hans Landa, the icy, intelligent, brutally-violent Nazi commander. (There's a character we've never seen before.) His only crime seems to be the masterful use of conversation as an indirect threat of violence. The only reason for this of course is that Tarantino hasn't bothered to create any genuine tension or conflict, so we as an audience are forced to watch characters being forced to listen to Landa's menacing monologues. Dinner with a Nazi is scary enough... but by the time we get to his fifth interrogation I simply stopped caring.Who gets the award for worst stunt casting: human dingleberry BJ Novak from "The Office" or Mike Myers as British General Winthorp J. Starchington, III? I'd have to give the award to Myers, since his absurd makeup and wandering accent are funnier than Austin Powers on his best day.By the film's finale even the fundamentals of film-making have been abandoned and all sense of reality obliterated. We enter a small French movie theater so full of Nazi officers and SS propaganda that it might as well be Hitler's disco. Quentin has forgotten to introduce key characters earlier in the film, so now he compensates by scrawling their names in on-screen title cards, using hand-drawn arrows to identify them in the crowd shots. (Even with this pathetically sloppy device we have no idea who these people are- or why we should care.) Then Tarantino plays a David Bowie song on the soundtrack that was recorded 40 years after the film takes place! Your guess is as good as mine.A movie this awful does raise a lot of questions: Do most teenage refugees own and operate their own cinema? Are nonstop subtitles good for your eyes? Do war heroes play themselves in motion pictures? Do Nazis kidnap women and buy them dinner? Does Der Fuhrer pay full price for a matinée?Does a dying German soldier have just enough energy left to shoot our heroine? Would any high-ranking Nazi ever surrender to enemy soldiers after HE captured THEM? Should you try to masquerade as Italian when you can't speak the language?Was Hitler really gunned down in a movie theater?Of course not.Of course not.GRADE: F
Tarantino continues to make idiotic cartoons that at best glorify and at worst encourage violence. Next time there's a mass shooting somewhere, consider whether movies like this one have made violence fashionable, dramatic, cool, newsworthy, glorious or even a little less than totally unacceptable.Suspension of disbelief can't possibly include fantasizing that the Nazis would be stupid enough to send all four of its top leaders into a tiny Jewish-run cinema in Paris. Comic book authors usually won't insult their readers to that extent. On the contrary, they tend to write with a level of logic and intelligence far above Tarantino.Production, acting, music, cinematography in the film are very good, but they can't counteract the insipid premise, plot, and overall concept. Speaking of music, the borrowed Morricone pieces are very good, but the rock, r&b, etc., are totally out of place and tear down the facade of a period piece.Similarly, Christoph Waltz as SS detective Hans Landa gave an amazing performance which was ruined by psychotic leaps out of character as written by Tarantino. Yes it showed Waltz's amazing acting range, but it also destroyed the integrity of his character.There are numerous "artistic" continuity errors in the film, no doubt created to give a cleaner looking shot. When Landa strangles von Hammersmark, both of their chairs mysteriously disappear. When Raine carves Landa's forehead, Landa's handcuffs disappear so he can grasp at the grass in pain, etc. Again this reinforces the notion that these are comics, and rather bad ones at that.
This usually all sounds a lot better in my head (so forgive me for rambling) I'm hardly Tarantino's biggest fan (and will *try* not to stoop to calling him a 'hack'....which is quite hard) I don't like to mock or critique a movie before seeing it. So with cautious hesitation, i walked to the cinema today to watch 'Inglorious Basterds'Now, to call it a 'rip-off of a rip-off' would be unfair here. Tarantino is happy enough to take the title from Enzo Castellari's (less than spectacular) Dirty Dozen clone, but not it's plot points (that, he takes from all other genre of movies) 'Inglorious' opens with a Nazi officer and his lengthy interrogation against a farmer who is hiding Jews in his basement. This is such an anti-climax, in that, it's dialogue is stale, and outcome signposted a mile off. Of course, one of the hidden Jews makes her escape (but more of her later) We (the obviously, easily pleased) audience are treated to the introduction of Lt. Aldo Raine (ha-ha, that name almost sounds like B-movie king ALDO RAY....ha-ha Quentin...keep those 'tributes' coming) and this character is played by none other than Brad (DALLAS) Pitt (sorry, DALLAS was about the only good thing he's ever starred in) and with jaw-jutting, Mr Jolie treats us to a hound-dogged, southern drawled, smirking Nazi-killer. Meanwhile Mr Tarantino forgets that actual grown-ups may be in attendance, so assumes that the teenyboppers won't have heard of the 'Dirty Dozen'?Raines 'platoon' consists of (John Cassavettes looking) blood-thirsty Jewish soldiers, all looking to get the big payback on Adolf Hitler. Tarantino in all his superior knowledge, pays special attention to two of these men, by casting his long time best buddy (and fellow homage-sycophant) Eli Roth (as the baseball bat wielding 'Bear Jew') The other man is called Hugo Stiglitz (and i'll wager more than half the QT fan-boys had never heard this name before this movie) Keep up the good work Tarantino, you've managed about 6 or 7 'hommages' so far (in the first 15 minutes) keep adding them, and it may detract from the plot (or lack of?)Anyhow, cutting a long (and extremely boring and protracted) story short, both Raine and his men (the 'Inglorious Basterds') and the sole survivor from chapter one, both have separate plots to kill Hitler at the showing of a Nazi-propaganda movie, in a french cinema (owned by the fore-mentioned survivor, now grown up)More boring (and pointless) conversations follow two and fro, as Pitt mugs away at an audience past caring. And any genuine suspense, leading to the assassination of the most deadly tyrant of all time, is thrown-away by the directors insistence of placing a 1980's David Bowie song in a WWII movie.My problems (and there are many) with this movie, is the re-occurring problem i have with most Tarantino product.....he rarely knows when to either start or stop. I don't need 'homage' after 'homage' to get the *joke* (whatever it may be) I knew of Inglorious Bastards, Enzo Castellari, Aldo Ray, Hugo Stiglitz (and the ultimate crime of the entire movie) Ennio Morricone's haunting score from REVOLVER. I go to the cinema to see the stars.....if the best you can do is the dire Barad Pitt, i'll assume You (Mr Tarantino) are the main draw here? I don't want the audience directing the movie. I pay to see YOUR vision, your ideas, your creativity....NOT how you can patchwork (time and time again) endless scenes from endless movies. It's high time the fan-boys (on IMDb) employed some 'tough love' on your 'idol' (god knows, if you don't....the studios should?)The tired old argument with Tarantino worshippers is "well, if you can do better...do so" Let me tell you, if i was a 46 year old director, with the (unfortunate) pull QT has.....i'd want to offer YOU a lot more than a warmed up muddled re-hash of better WWII movies than this tripe. The directors he attempts to emulate, made movies so bad by accident, or due to budgetary constraints. It's a cop out, time and time again, to hear his fans campaign his lack of imagination as 'art'. I'm sure he's capable of better (but after giving him the benefit of the doubt, once more....and not to mention 2 and a half hours of my life.....) maybe he isn't?
I am witnessing a decrease of IQ in scripts and directing over the last 20 years in Hollywood. Never quite liked Tarantino movies but I have to say I always enjoyed a good plot and believable acting (Pulp Fiction).I hate the thing that nower days anyone can be a script writer and a director. This movie should be offending for a man with IQ over 85.The conversation is childish, there is not one thing that makes this movie believable in any way.I will not even begin to relate to the bad acting. But hey, what can you expect from an actor playing a ridiculous f--ked up character?! I will end it here: the worst thing in this movie is the gratuitous violence that marks the long conversation scenes.And mister Tarantino, if you are a homicidal maniac in abeyance, if you have money, fame, and many important friends does'n't mean that the rest of us will enjoy your twisted gratuitous violence. Please, keep your maniacal impulses for yourself and don't poison us with it.You should come forward and appologise to the German people. I have a few German friends and they are not a bunch of drunks, idiots, sadistic killers as descripted in your sick joke of a movie.As a human being I am offended of this movie and others like it and think that the world should stand up against this kind of gratuitous violence and movies like this one should be thrown away to the trash can where they belong.
Previous Tarantino movies were from a guy in love with other movies. This one is from a guy in love with his own writing. It isn't Inglorious, its disgusting.I absolutely hated Inglorious Basterds. The entire point of a film is to entertain - if u call bashing people's heads and removing their scalps entertaining!!!! - and if there is one unforgivable sin a movie can commit, it is extreme boredom or disgust.The movie is just a collection of endless and excruciatingly boring and disgusting scenes of people talking at tables in various languages. There is even one scene where 3 people talk for nearly 45 minutes at the same table, before, thankfully they are all shot. I wished they would have been killed off after 5 minutes. Even Woody Allen knows when to shut the F**K up.This table talk style is a Tarantino hallmark, but in other films, I actually cared about what they were saying and the people who were talking. Here, I couldn't care less. All of Quentin's films display an enormous confidence, particularly Jackie Brown. But here there is a pervasive feeling in every scene, Tarantino had no idea where he was going with the film.Is it violent? Sure there's torture and scalping galore, but you'd have to remind me. Thankfully, the film was so thin, I didn't even remember I had seen it earlier in the day when until I saw a review headline on MSNBC.He's out of gimmicks and apparently dying to write a novel. But do us a favor QT and spare us the movie.I walked out of this movie halfway through and I would never recommend anyone seeing it no matter what a die-hard quarantino fan he or she is.I give it 0 / 10.
... would you have seen it ? The first scene was very inviting and promising, with a fabulous Waltz and Menochet, and then it slips into the third dimension. A Jewish woman with a black young man managing a cinema (or whatever shop), in France in the middle of the 40s ??? Hitler's attending somewhere without tight security of Leibstandarte SS ??? Where do they all get tailor made smokings in a few hours time, all that, without people noticing that they can't talk french or German ??? You are kidding me. What's the point of this movie ? It has no historic value, no humor, nothing. WWII is a serious matter. This film is an insult to all our parents and grandparents who lost their lives to fight the evil. At least, I would have preferred if there were no reference to historic characters.
Countless Historical & cultural mistakes 0/10(1) A Jewish guy named OMAR!!! Hahahaha (2) Brilliant detective was taking out by the least intelligent guy in the movie! (3) Jewish suicide bombers!! That was funny. (4) Hitler and his top guns went to watch a movie downtown Paris!!! With two guards at the door. !! shoot me. (5) Brad Pitt overacted and it was painful to watch him. (6) Mr. QT is re-writing history, "Hitler was killed in a theatre<U+0085> really!" the funny thing about this is that people "and I mean stupid people" will actually believe this plot. And finally can any one tell me, how this movie made it to the top 250 movies of all time!!! Shame shame shame, still wondering how can anyone like this movie.
Too many morons will believe this is a factual film and those idiots will pass it on as such. It is an insult to the veterans of WWII, and an insult to the intelligence of film goers. The trailer for the film is a piece of misleading garbage that has little to do with the film, and the group portrayed in the trailer should have been called "The Inglourious Idiots". Added to all the above is the fact that too many Hollywood drug addicts think that having most of the film in a foreign language makes it a better film. That just proves that much of the Hollywood crowd is a bunch of snobbish, self-important, elitist, and truly uncreative a**es that do not know how to make a good film. I have never been more disappointed in a film. The high point of the movie is Brad Pitt (Angelina Jolie's live-in). His pitiful imitation of the Billy Bob Thornton (One of Angelina's many former squeezes)character in "Slingblade" was hilarious. The attempt to copy Billy Bob is soooooo bad that Pitt should be at the top of the list for that "Rotten Tomato" award.. Sheesh, when will film makers try to actually make a good film again. Of the last 100 I've watched, there have been two I'd like to see again. This one is 101 on the list...
Hooray for Title Misspellings! After reading reviews and contemplating, my girlfriend and I confirmed that this movie is an utter piece of trash. This movie lost her as one of those Rare Tarantino fans.I wish it were made on nitrate film, and all the copies piled neatly underneath a chain-smoking Tarantino fanboy. The literally needless violence, the plot holes, Tarantino's table-itis sans drama, and absent character development made this a thoroughly painful, glorified montage. What acting was there? And how much of that was just because I was too busy reading the subtitles? I watch my share of fansubbed anime, and kudos for the attempt at authenticity, but it was overdone for an English-language movie. With the glaring historical inadequacies, the constant reading killed what acting there was.Why pay money for a narrator who will have absolutely no tie to any of the characters, plot, themes, setting, or anything involved in the movie? When the movie needs that sort of off hand explanation, it's foreshadowing the utter filth that follows.Historical Research - while it was sprinkled with interesting factiods, used the proper costumes and props for the soldiers, this movie stretched the truth beyond belief even for historical fiction. Kudos on Mata Hari reference, though using it as foreshadowing was a bit much. Mata Hari was executed by a firing squad, not choked in an isolated room. This ruined any sense that the reference may have had.Other reviews mention more than half a dozen homages to other artists in the first 15 minutes. Considering the audience, all these and other references were completely lost on many who would bother to see this movie, and all who would enjoy it.I'm confused by his choices of when to start a scene, end it, and what needs to be included. In a movie promoted as an action film, why did it take nearly 20 minutes to set up any sort of testosterone? What I believe to be the message was trite. The idea of rats and how we act on a primal nature against them, and "who is the rat?" were at best clichéd, but at worst not realized. Mention of American camps for the Japanese and German Americans would have added legitimacy to this question to the moral high ground. Literally every character in the film that gets a speaking role was caught up in their own legend. Is that the world in which Tarantino lives?I'm glad I didn't pay to see this one. I regret that I bothered to view it at all, even with well-meaning hosts. There was a rich base of ideas to develop, but none were realized.
This was by far the worst and sickest Tarantino film I've seen, and I've seen all but one. It's an ungainly mix of cartoony revenge fantasy and sub-Eli Roth torture porn. The Basterds roam around France without any apparent source of supplies, ammunition, or command of any language other than English. Their actions are hideous, scalping bodies (with vivid sound effects and exposed brains), carving swastikas in foreheads..slowly.., sticking fingers in bullet holes, yet these are the good guys and the torture is played for laughs. Tarantino doesn't know any difference between ordinary (e.g. drafted) German soldiers and Nazis, and thus any amount of carving up is OK as long as it's done by Jews or their redneck leader. I guess he thinks it'd be equally OK if the Germans scalped American bodies and carved stars in their foreheads? Tarantino is good at dialog and set pieces, but fails to weave them together into a coherent narrative. There are basically two revenge fantasies coming together in the Paris movie premiere, but neither one affects the other. There is zero character establishment or development. We're not told how a penniless Jewish girl came to own a fabulous movie theater a few years later in occupied Paris, or even how she established a false identity. None of the Basterds have separable personalities or life histories (we don't even find out why Aldo has a rope burn on his neck). Compare and contrast with "The Dirty Dozen."The climactic premiere sequence is so absurd it's not even laughable. Sometime after the Allied invasion (which is never referred to, although we've been told it's June 1944), the entire German high command takes off for a gala film event in Paris, about 300 miles from the front lines (it's not like they had any pressing business). At the theater, Hitler is protected by a grand total of TWO guards. When you can't even be as realistic as a Mel Brooks movie ("To Be or Not To Be"), you're just insulting the audience. I've seen better security at the library.Hmm, what else? Why aren't the Basterds surprised when the theater catches on fire? That wasn't part of their plan. Why did Landa completely lose control and strangle the actress? It's wildly out of character from every other scene. If he's angry she's a traitor, he already has it in mind to become an even bigger traitor himself. Why does every German they meet speak English? What was the point of scalping the driver at the end? The war was about to be over, who were they trying to freak out? Does Tarantino even know what Goebbels looked like?I could go on, but it's like picking apart the physics of Bugs Bunny. It's a spectacle of Tarantino acting out his man-child, which unfortunately gets taken as a daring alternate history.
The failure of "Inglourious Basterds" is the failure of "Death Proof" and the "Kill Bill" films. After "Jackie Brown" Tarantino jettisoned any concern with gripping storytelling and decided to focus on constructing fan-boyish collages, like an amateur film maker recreating his favorite moments from the movies. Perhaps though this change of direction for Tarantino isn't merely a matter of choice–he may simply be burned out in terms of generating story ideas. After all, one can't be gifted in every facet. Tarantino can direct and construct involving, musical dialog–but the man may no longer be capable of originating good stories, and his best work — Pulp Fiction — may have been a fluke as far as HIS contribution to the story of the film is concerned. After all, Roger Avery wrote a third of the script, though he merely gets a "stories" co-credit. "Reservoir Dogs" lifted its most important plot and story elements from the Hong Kong film "City On Fire" from the late 80s. And "Jackie Brown" — his second best work — was an adaptation of a work by a writer who Tarantino drew a lot of inspiration from. But Tarantino has given several interviews in which he claimed that he is very distanced from "Jackie Brown," a distance that no doubt stems from the fact that when audiences see it they can't help but appreciate Elmore Leonard as much as Tarantino. In Hollywood, the writer-director is the most prestigious position. But many of the greatest directors have, of course, depended for ideas on novelists and screen-writers. Perhaps Tarantino doesn't care to stoop so low as them again.In Kill Bill, what happened to the Bride, and her subsequent quest, was largely goofy. Rather than taking a true risk and making an actual film which involved revenge, Tarantino chose a cheaper, satirical route, so that the revenge quest was treated so satirically and frivolously as to preempt any criticism of the film's plot or characters, i.e, the "it's bad on purpose!" defense. The only way to criticize the film was to take issue with the whole cold exercise and observe that Tim Roth getting shot in the stomach in "Reservoir Dogs" and the audience squirming in their seats as he bled profusely was preferable to Sofie Fatale getting her arm chopped off and the audience laughing.There is no good story in Inglourious Basterds either, and just as in Kill Bill the revenge and dealing out of justice are treated too outlandishly to be taken seriously as plots. It isn't that the lack of seriousness which undermines the story but that the lack of seriousness covers up the poor nature of the storytelling. We are asked to accept the premise of The Basterds solely on the basis of such a group of characters having been featured in World War 2 films previously. There is no reason for the "Basterds" to be comprised primarily of Jews except that Tarantino requires it to fit in with the revenge theme. And it is not required that the film be replete with overt verbal allusions to cinematic figures other that Tarantino wants to be too cute by half.The use of chapter breaks in Pulp Fiction elegantly delineated the separate plot threads. Tarantino in Inglourious Basterds (and in Kill Bill) has become dependent on chapter breaks as a way to cut into any scene without having to get there through a narrative. Why establish the details of how Shoshana came to possess her a new identity and a theater? Just cut to the exact place the character needs to be to enact her revenge! Why, indeed, bother with the details of how to get from one set piece to another? Just give each one it's own "chapter" to relieve the director/writer and the audience of the bothersome details of a smooth narrative.Gratuitousness abounds. We aren't shown the bodies of the murdered Jews, yet we're given full view of the scalping of Nazi soldiers. Did Tarantino think that the former undercut his whole "lolz<U+0085>violence!" shtick? In two instances a narrator intrudes and embellishes arbitrary details. Michael Fassbender's character is painstakingly introduced<U+0085>only to lamely die the next scene. Tarantino kills of Shoshana in an anti-climatic fashion just so he can resurrect her on the big screen. Two of the Basterds get so carried away in pummeling the Nazis at the theater with bullets that they forget the bombs they're strapped to, but just why they would be suicidal isn't made clear.But it doesn't make sense, I suppose, to get too worked up over any of its details. As said before, the only recourse is to question the whole exercise and the artistic dead-end it represents. The films of the post-Jackie Brown Tarantino will not inspire anyone. They are the products of a fearful film maker aware that, like Orson Wells, he made his greatest film too young. And rather than settling into a comfortable routine of Jackie Brown like films–i.e, substantive and effective thrillers not stylistically overdone based on novels or screenplays not by him– he has opted to produce a flow of pastiches whose failure on a storytelling and character level critics won't hold him accountable for due to the -mere exercise- nature of the films. But at least he gets sole credit.
Every movie Quentin Tarantino has made has become progressively worse. I'd like to believe that most people would agree with that statement, but seeing as "Inglourious(sic) Basterds(sic)" has an 8.5/10 from over 100,000 ratings, it doesn't seem like the general movie-going public has any sense. Even his best work, Reservoir Dogs, wasn't a 'masterpiece.' The trouble is that claiming that you like Tarantino's work has become trendy. As soon as that happens, you get boatloads of people ready and willing to hop on another bandwagon. They will ignore laughably terrible acting, and utterly self-indulgent writing just so they can be part of the exclusive club called "everyone." This movie is so terrible, that I swear it must be some sort of twisted joke by Tarantino to see how much torture his fans will tolerate and still praise him. Like another reviewer has already said: "Previous Tarantino movies were from a guy in love with other movies. This one is from a guy in love with his own writing." I couldn't agree more. This movie is nothing more than self-indulgent and in-joke riddled writing paired with acting ability taken right out of a high school play. But, thanks to the general movie going public, I'm sure it will still go down as one of the best movies ever made. Bravo, Tarantino. You've pulled-off one of the best practical jokes of all time.
I attended a showing of this movie locally at the invitation of friends. If this had not been the case I would probably have left without seeing it in it's entirety. I feel uncomfortable living under the same sky with people who would not only take this bit of fluff seriously but actually like it. I didn't appreciate the story line due to having such difficulty with the subject matter, the chauvinism etc.Believe it or not all members of the German Army were not Nazis (members of the Nazi Party) Also if you could consider the history of WW2 dispassionately you would conclude that soldiers of the Elite German Units such as Leibstandarte SS Adolph Hitler,Das Reich, Standarte Viking,Grossdeutschland, etc. Were among the best (if not the best) Soldiers of the 20th Century.You would see this in their performance and also in the making of the man. What makes a good Soldier? Equipment,Training,Leadership, and Motivation. Brad Pit in my estimation is indeed a twit for getting involved in this grotesque imitation of a film.Anyone who makes light of the German Army of the third Reich lacks knowledge and intelligence. Please don't anyone give him my regards.
"Inglourious Basterds" is supposed to be Quentin Tarantino's homage to the Spaghetti Western. And here's what is interesting: Tarantino has had 40 years to improve on Sergio Leone's 1960s masterpieces. And he's failed miserably."Basterds" is a rambling, incoherent mess of a movie. It's obvious that Tarantino desperately wants to be the ultimate "bad boy" of cinema who makes "controversial" films. But if Tarantino really wanted to be controversial in making a war film, he'd tackle the horrors of the Iraq War, instead of World War II, a long-ago war that already has been re-hashed over and over from every conceivable angle over the decades.Tarantino deeply wants to shock us, to outrage us and to create disturbing art. And he fails miserably. The fact is, Leone was infinitely more daring and controversial way back in 1968 than Tarantino ever has been. When Leone depicted the vicious cold-blooded gunning down of a child in "Once Upon a Time in the West," he created a scene that Tarantino would never, ever have the courage to film. Compared to scenes like that, everything in "Basterds" is tame and predictable (as is the case with all of Tarantino's work).Last, but not least, I really can't understand why anyone would be interested in Tarantino's take on the 1960s Spaghetti Western film genre. I mean, why not just watch the stunning originals? The original Italian directors did vastly more with their tiny budgets than Tarantino can do with his bloated $80 million budgets.If you want truly challenging and original film-making these days, I urge you to check out the best of what East Asian cinema has to offer. (Takashi Miike is infinitely more daring, dangerous and talented than Tarantino). Tarantino is a grossly overrated director and the fact that his work is praised in the U.S. shows just how utterly creatively bankrupt Hollywood is these days.
PLOT (or lack thereof): A group of Jewish American soldiers, led by Brad Pitt, go overseas to during World War 2 to terrorize and massacre Nazis while a Jewish cinema owner, the only survivor of her family, having barely escaped a German soldier known as "The Jew Hunter" played Christopher Waltz, who now plots to have her revenge when a film about a German sharp shooter is forced upon her to debut at her theater, while Waltz plans defection.The film is really nothing but another exercise on director Quentin Tarantino's part to see just how much useless dialogue he can cram into a scene and see how long he can drag a scene out before the audience gives up and turns the film off (similar to his misguided "Death Proof"). Where Tarantino's earlier films, affectionate deconstructions of the noir genre, had enough chaotic energy to keep the viewer engaged while his characters blathered nonsense, much of it pop culture and cinema laced, this time around, like Death Proof, Tarantino fails to bring any of that lost energy to the proceedings. The film is dull, inert, and lifeless. Scenes drag on pointlessly with no real tension, in no small part because the characters are cardboard cut outs. Even Christopher Waltz's much ballyhooed and frankly overrated performance as the "Jew Hunter" Nazi fails to set off any sparks. The fact that the character is more annoying than interesting doesn't help.Brad Pitt and his "Basterds" aren't even in the film that much. While the marketing campaign suggested a darkly comic take on the Magnificent Seven formula, the truth is the that Pitt and the "Basterds" are barely plot devices.Trust me, you won't miss much by skipping this inglorious mess.
This is the worse movie I have watched in a long, long, time. The Weinsteins should provide a carload of toilet paper for the viewer who paid money to sit through this.Quentin Tarantino has proved himself the equal of Just Jaeckin as a writer/director with this effort. I can honestly say I've heard my five year old nephew generate better stories and dialogue than this abortion of puerile immature unlettered lack of imagination and talent.Quentin, save your money. You'll need it to pay viewers of your films. in the future.How bad was the film, I suspect the cast and crew have carpal tunnel syndrome from writing these reviews. No one who watched the movie and is not making money off of it could possibly give it more than one star. It was like watching a 2 1/2 hr. car accident.I would rather go see a prequel to Heaven's Gate. The only saving grace was that I didn't pay money for the experience.Skip this movie, and I use the term movie very, very, loosely.
QT needs to go back to Directing School - indeed, if he ever went there in the first place. To describe this as 'art' is ludicrous; ever listen to 'The Emperor's New Clothes'?As an example - the table talk scene - how is it that the dog only barks when the people aren't speaking?Also getting a little tired of the world being saved by the American 5th Cavalry - what were we - oh that's right - THE ALLIES!Got a can of Gloss - going to paint a wall and watch it dry - marginally more interestingGet a life
