When I saw the trailers for Inglorious Basterds, I was less than impressed. I have a (very) soft spot in my heart for Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, but the movie seemed ridiculous. So I watched it with very low expectations. I sadly found out that I was correct in my assumptions. The movie manages to feel like 5 hours and still be very thin, both in plot and characterization. Tarantino tried to cram in a 12 hours long movie into 150 minutes and it failed - miserably. The Basterds storyline is by far the weakest. We are treated to a short speech about the Nazi killers, a few few short scenes and montages and then the final massacre at the theater. I feel that Tarantino would have been better off leaving them as shadowy figures in the background, as a real band of vengeful and silent assassins, instead of making them appear as unlikable cretins. Give them less screen time, but make it count. The Shosanna storyline is as thin, but at least Laurent's character's back story is given to the viewer (in parts, at least). The love story with Marcel also felt tacked on at all moments. What is even sadder is that the movie started out great. The farm scene is up there with Tarantino's best offerings. Much of that praise can be attributed to Waltz's performance as Lauda which is simply stunning and frightening. Too bad the movie started going downhill afterward, what with wooden 40 minutes dialogs (nothing new for Tarantino there, but at least the long conversations used to be funny or clever) and superfluous/masturbatory references that only served to remind the viewer that he was watching a QT flick.Still, the movie merits a viewing if only for Col. Lauda, but it certainly won't become a classic.
Wow, what a terrible movie. Slight spoilers, not that there's much to spoil.The entire movie feels like an adolescent fantasy. Actually that's too harsh - I don't think even a 5 year old could come up with such stupidity. OK, fine, caricature Nazis and make the Jews blood hungry revenge psychos, but at least do it with some intelligence and flair. Close up of the guy's face as he guns down trapped women is just not too interesting. I'm not offended, I just find it plain stupid.Tarantino, you're delving into dangerously unwatchable territory. Even Dusk Till Dawn was better that this. Please find your way back, I used to enjoy your stuff.
I'm not a film buff but I do watch films regularly and I have greatly enjoyed all of Tarantinos films to date.This film only succeeds on one level - cinematography. It fails on every other level - script, costume, storyline etc... The editing stood out as being particularly bad.The whole film lacked pace and direction which was unexpected as that is pretty much what Tarantino is know for and to date did it well.The last scenes with Brad Pitt beside the bloke from 'the office' well, I just had to remind myself that Brad Pitt wasn't being paid over 10 million to do this film and the bloke standing beside him was probably doing it for free.I also didn't quite get the NAZI Jewish thing.Everyone knows that Hitler killed millions of Jews, Poles, Gypsies, Invalids, Catholics, Communists, old people etc ... Less than Stalin though. Perhaps one of the new Russian billionaires will finance a film about stalin? And it is still true, as in the film, that Jewish people run the movie making industry in America so where is the irony? So for Tatantino as an American film director it wasn't exactly pushing the envelope to make a film about jews getting revenge on Hitler.It isn't an awful film, it's just well, not a good film and borders on being a bad film.
One good thing about waiting several years after a very well received film is released is that you can step back from it and judge it on its content without all the hype . Sometimes if you go against the grain you do feel you're in danger of being branded a blasphemous heretic who should be locked up in order to keep little children safe at night or worse still to protect film makers from unpopular views . To be honest I have real excuse for missing Tarantino's INGLOURIOUS except that it never popped up in front of my radar until now . After finally getting round to seeing the movie I can put my hand on my heart and say I didn't miss all that much It's interesting that so many professional critics agreed that the best thing about the film was Christoph Waltz performance * and that this was qualified by the critics saying stuff along the lines of " I found my interest waning when Waltz wasn't on screen " . This sums up the entire problem with the movie - the scenes go on for far too long and lack a brevity of storytelling .A character sits down at a table and talks . And talks . And talks . There's a saying that jaw jaw is better than war war . Noble sentiments indeed and one hopes in an alternative universe that Tarantino is the British prime minister while Tony Blair is a cocky Hollywood movie brat but for a film lasting almost three hours there's little incident and actually feels longer than three hours Two selling points might have been that it's a war film and that it's a post modernist film . In other words it's a film that should make intelligent fun of all those terrible B movies featuring criminals in uniform who have the choice of a hangman's noose and volunteering for a suicide mission but there's not a lot of fun to be had here . One had hoped for constant knowing cheeky winks to the audience but this doesn't happen . There's certainly very little action to the movie and most of the film is composed of characters sitting down and talking in German or French or English . Just because a film contains subtitles doesn't make it worthy and you're left feeling there's no way this film would have been produced if it wasn't for the name of Tarantino . Little of importance happens in the narrative except to illustrate the film's own underserved self importance * Strangely enough when DJANGO UNCHAINED was released the critics once again praised Waltz as being the best thing about the movie . This is obviously critics code for " Wait for this movie to appear on television because it's overlong , arrogantly self indulgent and often boring "


                
Reviewing "Inglourious Basterds" is a moral dilemma. I know it has everything to please the fans, it's entertaining, masterfully directed and edited, and features memorable characters portrayed by a big-star cast, and the whole film is carried by one of the greatest supporting and villainous performance of the last ten years. Christoph Waltz, as Hans Landa, is an unforgettable character, magnetic even in one blink or a crazy smirk. But this is a supporting performance, not enough to redeem the film."Inglourious Basterds" is the living proof that Tarantino lost his touch. The "Kill Bill" series is a masterpiece of movie homage, something that worked because you could feel that Tarantino made this film with his heart, he grew up with Asian Kung-Fu films, and made a masterpiece out of it. But now, why does he feel the need to rely all his movies on that concept? After the drive-in B-movies in "Death Proof" which beyond the action, was just an exercise of testosterone stimulation, and a tentative to resurrect Kurt Russel's character as he did for Travolta, I started thinking Tarantino was slipping. But I didn't take the movie that seriously and I thought even Tarantino is allowed to loosen up a bit, and please the fans of the genre, with a fun to watch and well-crafted action flick.But now, we have a film nominated in the Cannes' festival, in many glorious competitions, including the Oscars. It's something presented as a new "Pulp Fiction", so the movie takes itself so seriously before its release, it deserves a serious and honest critic <U+0085> and all I can say is that I will probably never get the love for "Inglourious Basterds", a film where Tarantino caricatures himself, disguising barbarity and cruelty under the fallacious legitimacy of fighting the quintessential evil enemy, the Nazis. Done intelligently, it could have been an interesting film, but in this world where violence is preached by fanatics and fantasized by lunatics, this is (despite Waltz and his hilarious Italian scene) an irresponsible film whose plot twist made it even more dangerous, as it conveyed the dangerous message that this was the way it should have been done, therefore, this is the way WE should treat our enemies.And if violence, even in the cruelest and barbaric form is legitimated when you fight evil, you've got to question yourself about the meaning of that word. Is it right to carve a swastika in a soldier's forehead to condemn him for perpetual shame when he was just doing his duty. Were we supposed to cheer during the scalping? Or the scene where an officer's head was reduced to a pulp with a baseball bat? Were we supposed to cheer when Diane Kruger's character shot the guy she had just guaranteed his safety, or the soldier who was mercilessly shot at the end and then inevitably scalped? These scenes made me nauseous and hating the movie because it just encouraged the most odious and dangerous racist fantasies, in such a patronizing way, I wonder how come no fan felt insulted.This is a dangerous film, definitely glorifying violence by making it cool, bad-ass, and legitimate just because there's something "naturally" evil in the enemy, and it's not just violence, it's the graphicness, the cold-blooded horrific way of killing, and the fact that it's supposed to make people clap and enjoy the gruesomeness ... this is an irresponsible case of glorifying violence, and the script's biggest flaw. I guess the Shoshanna's subplot was a way to inject the eternal revenge story, supposedly the heart of the film. But for some reason, the actress didn't touch me, she was playing it too cool and aggressive, and the part that definitely killed the character was the glamorous sequence that looked more like an advertisement for cosmetics than anything else. Shosanna who witnessed the killing of her family, behaves like some kind of sexy James Bond girl. Probably not bad acting, but a too coldly artificial writing to be believable.(And if a great performance can't redeem a film I guess, a bad one can also ruin it... like the guy who played the projectionist, Marcel, his delivery of lines was so laughable I wonder if Tarantino was really behind the camera when it was shot)Now, I know the fans will over-analyze the film talking about its self-referential aspect, our approach to violence, a great homage to classic war films and I must concede that when I watched the opening scene, I thought it would be a masterpiece, but this 'homage' thing must stop now, it's okay for one or two scenes, but basing the whole movie structure on that has been a little bit overused by Tarantino ... it's time now to come with something more original, and less irresponsible.I say 'irresponsible' because Tarantino became like a cinematic label, as if any of his movies would automatically please the fans, I don't mean this as an insult, Tarantino was my favorite director five years ago, I've always thought the guy defined "coolness" in films, he was for me the-coolest-director-in-the-world and whatever he made, said and touched, was cool and entertaining. That's why I think this movie is irresponsible, because Tarantino uses his undeniable talent and creativity to communicate an extremely dangerous message, and many of his younger fans will think it's cool and bad-ass to scalp the evil enemy, because Tarantino said so, and Brad Pitt did it.To conclude, "That's NOT a bingo!" and the popularity of this film is revealing of a very sad reality where movies like "Saving Private Ryan" are considered as one of the greatest war films ever, and "Inglourious Basterds" praised as a masterpiece, even by Tarantino, in his pretentious closing lines <U+0085> a movie I expected to like, and I ended up hating it with intensity.
Okay – here's the story, in a paragraph: a bunch of American soldiers terrorize German infantry for years, in France, behind enemy lines. They become infamous to the Nazis, resorting to intense cruelty to the Germans. Even der Führer wants them caught. Meanwhile, in a French town, a lovely French-Jewish femme fatale plans to blow up her cinema when a famous German action flick is shown to the German hierarchy – including Hitler, Goering, Goebbels and Borman. Coincidentally, those infamous American soldiers are sent to do the same job. Also, there's a very nasty Nazi colonel who just loves to hunt down and kill Jews – and he smells a rat in the House of Cinema. How it all turns out, I'll leave up to you to discover – that is, if you see this film.But, I don't recommend at all. Let me tell you why.First, it's billed as drama/thriller/war. Well, I guess it does contain all of those attributes, but they forgot about fantasy. Because, this story is, at core, a spoof about war and sheer fantasy, in addition.Second, in its effort to establish and develop character, it's often boring because it's way too talky for a thriller; you see character from what people do, not from what they say. Brad Pitt (as Aldo Raine) is okay as an over-the-top parody of hill-billy Americana – and he does it well. But, even his character becomes too talky. The nasty Nazi, Col. Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz) is talky also, but at least he's a detective (in his own words), so he has to ask a lot of questions. The rest of the cast do their best with a script that varies between intense dread, only occasionally, to high camp, often – especially concerning the German hierarchy.Third, the whole story is preposterous. Let's face it – any war story that purports to show the entire German hierarchy being blown up in a cinema can only be regarded as coming from another planet Earth in another universe. And the (way too long) card game scene in the café basement is screechingly contrived coincidence and just too stupid for words. So, if you do see it, leave believability (the prime requirement for good stories, especially war) at the door. You've been warned.And, finally, although Quentin Tarantino started well with his filmic revelation, Reservoir Dogs (1992), and followed up with his much better Elmore Leonard story, Jackie Brown (1997) – his best to date – this one is his nadir, in my opinion. Technically very good, especially with the editing, this basterd of a story nevertheless kills the whole experience. If he was trying to show war in the raw, look no further than the battle scenes in The Thin Red Line (1998). If he was trying to create a thriller, stay with the Bourne franchise. If he was attempting drama in war, watch From Here to Eternity (1953) or Twelve O'Clock High (1949), and too many other superior films.To be fair, it has its moments: the frenetic shootout in the café basement is editing at its best. And the opening scenes at the French farm are a tour de force in building dread. However, the cardboard cutout characters left me totally indifferent to the fate of any of them: in sum, a dead story about death at its worst. It'll be interesting to see if Christoph Waltz gets the Oscar nod for Best Supporting Actor. Miracles do happen, though.I note that Roger Ebert gave it four stars. Is that out of ten? I hope so – I give it four also.Oh, heck, see it if you must, but just keep in mind it's a fantastic spoof.


                
O.M.G. is it wrong to be BORED by this film? What has happened to my cute Brad baby? Can ya tell? I hated this movie. The two women were the only redeeming factors for me. Tarantino is a juvenile fan-boy of violence and shows it lovingly on the screen, in close up and long takes. But his fan base loves it all too, so he will keep getting funds to make these piles of dung. The opening sequence at the farm house is suspenseful and starts things off well. We dread what we know will happen to the Jews hiding under the floor boards. But by the time the young woman is running across the field, and it just ends with the officer yelling at her, things have already started to go wrong. At least to me. So much of the rest is just disjointed and makes you want to scream - get on with it! - too many long meaningful looks, too many in jokes that I for one didn't get. 4/10 only for his good actors doing their best.


                
Firstly, the film has merits, the action scenes are pretty good, the gore is around abou right and it does depict the brutality of ww2 well in places although it goes a little over the top in terms of what makes a film good or like its trying too hard to be shocking.I cant give this film a good rating simply because of how much it smacks of American arrogance. The sheer idea that a group of criminals can appear in France and kill Hitler so easily with brute force is simply ridiculous.I know tarrentino is known for his films in terms of their violence and gore, and the kill bill series was good, this simply was not. Im yet to see a film made so ridiculous that the story is so bad it ruins what would have been a pretty good film.Im told its a film to be taken with a grain of salt...but i think you need to take an entire pot of salt with it...its watchable but id certainly never watch it again.


                
Overrated. Tarantino seems to make movies just to prove he can; there is NO depth or soul. At times, we heard chuckling in the audience. Somehow I did not expect to find comedy in a movie about Nazi Germany. Add in the over-long drawn out scenes showing a strudel dessert, or a hat w/veil being put on...painfully 'artistic'. The storyline of getting even with vicious killers by viciously killing them seems contradictory in a sense. Somehow it makes a mockery of what the holocaust victims endured. I think this movie is only being applauded because it was made by Tarantino. IF anyone else had directed it, it wouldn't even be on the radar. Maybe the only ones impressed by this film needed to be Tarantino diehards. If that is true, there is no need for criticism as ANYTHING would satisfy. Sorry fans, it just didn't live up to expectations.
Firstly, I want to make one thing clear: I'm German but I don't have a problem with Germans being the bad guys in movies. The depiction of Germans in this movie didn't offend me. There were lots of other reasons for me not to like Inglourious Basterds. I didn't have high expectations, but still it was very disappointing. I was surprised how little action this had and how boring it all was. The plot is very thin and there are a lot of absolutely pointless and painfully long scenes. Some may be fooled by this into thinking the movie actually had depth. But I think Tarantino really didn't know what he was doing. Despite the huge amount of dialogue the characters remained one dimensional and boring (with maybe one or two exceptions). The violence in-between all that boredom seemed misplaced, unnecessary and therefor really disgusted me. Want an example? There's a scene where a German officer gets brutally beaten to death with a baseball bat for not providing strategic information. He was only protecting his fellow soldiers and was actually very brave. Are we supposed to think this is perfectly acceptable because he was a Nazi? Or was this even supposed to be funny? This movie also failed from an artistic point of few. The direction and camera work was underwhelming at best. The music was horrible and didn't fit at all. Overall, there wasn't any consistent style to this movie, just a lot of pieces that didn't match.I'd rate this even lower if it weren't for Christoph Waltz's great performance as Hans Landa and a few good laughs. This is a highly overrated mediocre B-movie at best. And for me it's more proof that Tarantino isn't the great writer/director everybody took him for after Pulp Fiction. 4 out of 10.
I might be one of the only people crying foul but aren't we getting diminishing returns with Tarantino since Kill Bill 2 ? I was majorly disappointed with Inglourious Basterds. I found the film weak, unsatisfying and plain long. It seems that Tarantino is writing longer and longer (and longer) conversation pieces or monologues about mundane or inane subjects with a very short (or no) payoff at the end. In his earlier filmography, those parts used to be clever, somewhat brilliant despite their outward superficiality but he did limit them, pace them better and they were nowhere near as self-indulgent as in Basterds. He relies on the quality of his actors to keep our collective interest but that can only go so far. I suppose those drawn-out conversations can build up a certain tension if you're patient enough and that Tarantino delights in doing the unexpected even with characters you think might be major. I'll give him some credit for subverting usual movie clichés, which might be due to his extensive movie knowledge.Regarding the featured Basterds commando, they were a disappointment. Besides their leader (Brad Pitt's character) who sounds and looks more like a southern redneck than a Jewish American, the other members of the commando have extremely little screen time, even less talking time and zero personality. Being angry and killing Nazis with a baseball bat is not good characterization. If you were expecting some kind of over-the-top revenge trip on Nazis by the Jews, you'll get very little satisfaction even at the end as the Jews themselves are basically superfluous. I would argue that the German characters shown here are, in general, more interesting, likable and/or multifaceted. You almost feel sorry for some of them (which perhaps was Tarentino's intention but then he should have worked more on the Jewish characters to compensate). The actions scenes are usually quick and cringe-worthy with a longer set-piece at the end that was not particularly exhilarating or well shot. I know violence in real life is probably like that but their shortness was accentuated by the very static overly long conversations.The most memorable character by far is the SS colonel Hans Landa. Beyond his amazing linguistic skills (my native language is french and his was very good), you'll enjoy his suave friendly unpredictable antics. He manages to make extremely long conversations somewhat bearable through sheer screen presence. I also liked very much Brad Pitt's enthusiastic and fun portrayal of Aldo Raine even though he's caricatured and not particularly believable. The 2 characters above are mostly responsible for the few funny bits. The cast in general was very good especially the 2 female leading roles. Certain trends (or trademarks) in Tarentino's film-making are getting worse and you should avoid this if you're looking for great action, comedy or war film unless you're really keen on overlong Tarentino-type dialogue and want to see great multilingual acting.Rating: 4 out of 10


                
I'm not a Tarantino's fan but I loved 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Pulp Fiction'. So I can't believe that Tarantino directed 'Inglorious Basterds' After the opening scene with the Nazi officer interrogating the farmer who is hiding Jews in his basement the movie goes straight to the ridiculous, place from where don't exist come back. May be as an action B-movie 'Inglorious basterds' can stand up, but please!!!! We're talking about mainstream and a top level director. Obviously Tarantino forgets that grown-up people may be in attendance and assumes that there are only teenagers watching that sad remake of 'Dirty Dozen' and another good war themed movies. Boring (and pointless) conversations accumulate totalizing 154' of wasted budget. Also I'm tired with the sequence of 'homage' after 'homage' that Tarantino include in his movies. For surrealist movies I prefer Luis Buñuel's 'El perro andaluz' or 'El angel exterminador', but surrealism melted with the hyper-realism of Hitler, the Shoa, WWII is stupid if not unmoral. The usual argument with Tarantino lovers is "<U+0085>if you can do it better...do it so" but the point is, who needs this piece of bad B movie? The crew? Seriously disappointing performance by Brad Pitt who can't hide how amused he was filming that scrap. I can't understand how this movie is actually at 8.4 in IMDb<U+0085> please!!!!!! I absolutely hated 'Inglorious Basterds' and its collection of endless, sadistic and (the last but not the least) boring scenes. The scene where three people talk for several minutes at the same table, before, they are all shot is extremely boring, Ingmar Bergman mixed with Peckinpah? No way, Quentin! I deliberately did not read any reviews of this movie on IMDb before I watched it because I really wanted to see it without external influences, it's a pity<U+0085> I wasted two and a half hours of my precious life.


                
The first half of this movie was quite good. It was interesting and suspenseful. The second half was pretty bad. The comic book revenge story came full circle and we see lots of comic Nazi characters and some badly acted "good guys" blowing them away. There's a lot of violence in this movie. I'm not squeamish about violence but I think it should at least have some purpose in a movie. There was little purpose to the violence here except to create a genre film where we see lots of people getting mowed down with rifles. We're somehow supposed to be amused by this.I watched Reservoir Dogs recently. There was a movie where violence was employed effectively. It was realistic within the world the movie created. There were never any over-the-top sound effect. It was a crime movie which played it straight. Inglorious Basterds should have played it straight but didn't. I was rolling my eyes at how the violence was exaggerated with sound effects and extra bullets to the head and face.None of the back-story of any of the Basterds is really explained either, they're simply Nazi hunters. We don't really get to like any of them either because they're too busy cutting scalps off and shooting people in the face. It's all about "revenge" and very little else.There was 2 1/2 hours to work with here but few of the Basterds were really examined in depth. This seems like it was simply a revenge flick pure and simple. We saw that in Tarantino's last flick, "Death Proof" which I didn't care for either. It suffered the same problems. The characters were almost interchangeable.The first half again, was pretty good. I wanted to see the exploits of the Inglorious Basterds across Europe. I was presented with a much lamer movie about the resistance movement plotting revenge against some comic book Nazis when they all go to one movie premiere in France.


                
The film was off to a firm start, with the whole interrogation scene acted well and believably, Setting the rest of the film up perfectly. Sadly, it all went downhill from there. The Second chapter was passable, but the third and forth are unnecessarily slow and dull. It is actually bad enough that you were relieved when chapter three ends, only to have to sit through another slow chapter straight after. This is all a shame, as the final chapter is very well executed, and a perfect finale to the film. Yes, I know it wasn't at all realistic, but come on people, this is Tarantino! However, it all comes down to the middle chapters, and I think if these had been reduced by about half, the film would be a 7-8, Yet it was not, and is therefore ultimately a disappointment.


                
The movie started out slowly to build up the foundations of the plot. I was patient, and waited it through, which was worth it. But later, the Inglorious Basterds started scalping Germans, which was quite graphic, and later, one of the I.B. beat another German to death with a baseball bat, repeatedly hitting him in the head. Is this entertainment? Is this what we watch to relax? Total crap. I stopped watching at that point. And we wonder why our kids are so violent, and why they go on killing rampages in school. Coincidence? Hardly. Quentin Tarantino may have talent as a director, but I believe this is over the top. Thank God I didn't waste money at the theater, only $1.08 at Redbox. Garbage.
It's a useless thing to post a review on a movie that already has more than a thousand reviews on IMDb. But the division between people who loved it and those who hated it is rather fascinating so I'll add my two cents.I'm a person who's of the later opinion. I just don't like Tarantino and his way of making an "homage" to me just seems like a cheap way of stealing stuff, that's not known or obscure at best for a mainstream audience but insults the true fan.I'm also a fan of 'alternate realities'-story lines (I recommend Ian McKellen in "Richard III", taking the age-old Shakespeare play into the time of WW2) and not necessarily too concerned with historic accuracy. In my mind, one could have done something with the story of "Inglorious Basterds" but what ruins it in this film is the horrible acting.Not even talking about Brad Pitt hamming it up like it really was a real grind house film but what in the heavens could have provoked any director to put Eli Roth in front of a camera? I realise that there isn't much real acting involved in a homage to exploitation flicks but at least a little charisma, a little character for an protagonist in a mainstream movie – is that too much to ask for? We now move on to the German imports: Till Schweiger, Daniel Brühl and Gedeon Burkhard. Schweiger divides the audience in Germany. He's by fans depicted as the Ben Affleck of German cinemas; by adversaries he's considered as a German version of Ben Affleck who's performance is annoying but who can produce a sellable love comedy during Summer. Brühl is another actor who leaves critics divided. 'A great talent in the making', say some; 'an actor with a steady repertoire of four facial expressions', say the others (three of which are featured in "Inglorious Basterds". And of course Burkhard, prior to "Inglorious Basterds" a regular in many-a daily soap-opera that are geared toward pensioners and the unemployed. The rest of the cast is relatively unknown to me and I'm relative grateful for that. And, adding insult to injury for hammy acting and lazy direction: the caricature of Hitler and his regime, just a few years after an audience has applauded the performances of Bruno Ganz and others in "Der Untergang".I give this film four stars <U+0085> no, I give the actor Christoph Waltz four stars. And another Oscar <U+0099> because he deserves it. Skills and a presence that rivals performances of contemporary roles like Heath Ledger as the Joker or Javier Badem in movies like "No Country for Old Men" and "The Sea Inside". That's the fascinating aspect about the movie: putting up 1st class actors against 2nd and 3rd rate: the result is "Inglorious Basterds".


                
This was definitely one of the weakest films by Tarantino. And there was a simple reason why.He chose too serious and dramatic topic for his style. Yes, it fitted perfectly for Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs but to rape World War II in that way is a bit too much. First scene was very promising when the Nazi was explaining the French man why Nazi regime hates Jews. Secondly we were introduced to Inglorious Basterds. The group of brutal Jews killing Nazis. First I thought it was a fine idea but later it got pretty tiring.Then everything started to go downwards. Too long table scene showed the Jew girl Emanuelle who had escaped in the beginning from Nazis thinking about showing the great Nazi movie in her cinema. Afterwards another very long and weak table scene came by which ended with shooting.And then the finale where Emanuelle let her lover burn down the Nazis filled cinema including Adolf. Some big mistakes were that the table scenes and empty discussions were awful. They didn't lead nowhere. History rewriting in such a way wasn't believable as well. All great Nazis including Hitler were killed in a movie theater. And finally of course Tarantino's jokes which for me have been usually fine but put in such a plot wentjust too far.Still, if you can put it up you may enjoy this film. I wouldn't say it was a complete waste of time but Tarantino crossed the line from where it got controversial for even myself. More on the plus site there was some fine acting, some laughs and overall interesting point of view. So let's just say below average, don't expect it to be Pulp Fiction.. 4/10


                
this is the worst WWII movie I've seen and I have seen most of them. the cinema errors are too many to even list, nomenclature to time line. but of course this does not take place in our universe but a parallel one inhabited by Tarantino and company. not too mention this picture is a bad and ineffective shock movie/comedy. to top it all off Block Buster Video put this in the action section... this movie was so boring I nearly fell asleep more time than I care to count. I recommend whatever drug and lifestyle habits the cast partook of they give up and do about 5 years of rehab. if you want a decent WWII drama with Nazi slaying watch one of the numerous ones made by sane people. I gave this movie a 4 because Til was actually OK as a raving psycho, and Brad was hilarious trying to be southern, tough and military.


                
I saw the trailer and thought this movie would be fun. I knew I was in trouble at the opening scene where the visiting Nazi has a long chat with the farmer. I'd say 90% of this movie is long irrelevant chats in restaurants and other rooms. I mean who cares? This was advertised as a fun action-packed war movie about crazy guys that kill Nazis. Instead you get a snooze fest. Every now and then I'd think "OK now we're going to get to the good stuff. He's been torturing us so we'll really enjoy the good stuff". But you know what? There was no good stuff. Sure there was a few war porn moments, but nothing that got me really engaged in the flick.Gratuitous violence is part of a Tarantino movie experience. So I was not surprised to see it. But somehow it just seemed adolescent. It added nothing to the story. The military does have a command structure and they don't let their soldiers carve people up like a Thanksgiving goose for fun. This was the 2nd World War where the Allies were actually good guys.I must admit after seeing numerous Hitler parodies on YouTube I'm rather spoiled. Every actor that plays Hitler must measure up to the YouTube parody version. This one does not. And the ending - f'ing retarded. Like a frustrated cinema owner could bring down the entire Third Reich. The thing is so full of holes you'd think the Nazis were complete amateurs that couldn't guard an outhouse.


                
Whenever I view a Quentin Tarantino film I expect a quirky plot, decent acting and a cool soundtrack. Unfortunately, I also expect non-existent pacing, a confusing narrative and long, drawn-out talking sequences.You get plenty of the above with his newest effort, the revenge fantasy, "Inglourious Basterds, a remake of the 1978 Italian picture, "Bastardi Senza Gloria" (literally "Bastards Without Glory"). It's "The Dirty Dozen" meets "Valkyrie" meets "Kill Bill" and tells the story of a small band of Jewish-American guerrilla soldiers who are dropped behind enemy lines in German-occupied France and strike fear in the hearts of Hitler's military.Led by Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt), the group accomplishes this by raids and ambushes in which dead German soldiers are scalped (in some very gruesome scenes) and survivors have swastikas carved into their foreheads (think younger, more Teutonic versions of Charles Manson). While there are eight of these commandos, the two most interesting are Pfc. Omar "The Bear Jew" Ulmer (Omar), who beats Nazis with baseball bats; and Sgt. Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger), an ex-Wehrmacht soldier who killed a dozen of his own troops.The trailers for the movie are really pushing this plot line, but that's a false premise. There are really only a few scenes of such carnage, instead the story revolves mostly around a lisping SS colonel, Hans "The Jew-Hunter" Landa (Christoph Waltz, a German actor appearing in a rare U.S. production) and a French Jew, Soshanna Dreyfus (Mélanie Laurent, a French actress appearing in a rare U.S. production), whose family Landa had killed.She owns a movie house in Paris and becomes acquainted with Frederick Zoller (Daniel Brühl), a war hero who supposedly killed over 100 U.S. soldiers in Italy. A film of this exploit, "A Nation's Pride," was made by Nazi Minister of Propaganda, Josef Goebbels (Sylvester Groth). Of course, the premier of this film will take place at the picture show.Also complicating matters is a British spy, Lt. Archie Hicox (Michael Fassbender) who is unintentionally hilariously briefed by Michael Myers (doing his worst Group Capt. Lionel Mandrake impersonation) and Winston Churchill (Rod Taylor, "The Time Machine," "The Birds"). Then, there's another subplot which has the Fuerher himself (Martin Wuttke) possibly attending the premier.To complete these various story lines, Tarantino falls back on his habit of filming scene after scene of people sitting around tables, talking, talking and talking (see "Grindhouse's Death Car"). Talking in taverns, talking in houses, talking in war rooms, talking in basements, talking in prisons. Mr. Tarantino, there is a person who toils on every film set that ever existed - this person called an "editor." Please make use of this person.These sequences swallow up about 80 percent of the movie's 2-hour, 30-minute running time and leave precious little time for Pitt, who does well, albeit with a bad Southern accent, and his mercenaries.There some good things about the film, however. The sets and costumes are wonderful and quite accurate as far as period detail goes; the location cinematography by Robert Richardson ("The Aviator," "Kill Bill, Vols. 1 and 2") is terrific; the movie uses authentic German, French and Italian (with subtitles); and Tarrantino knows his German cinema history, dropping names like Lili Riefenstahl, P.W. Pabst and Emil Jannings.A good surgeon could have removed about 45-minutes from this movie, though, added a few more scenes of the Basterds and toned down the David Bowie. Then, it might have been the taut, compelling film I thought it could be.


                
I was so disappointed by this Tarantino film. He is one of my favourite film makers / writers, but I must say his films are so on and off. After seeing this film I've seriously began to consider boycotting any future films he releases. I feel as though the high rating on this film reflects the idiocy of the North American demographic. I couldn't believe that people would laugh at some of the "funny" moments of this film...totally uncalled for moments that were not funny at all. I considered leaving the film about 20 minutes into it, but thought perhaps it may get better....but no, that was not the case. I gave it a 4 / 10 only because I liked the end and Tarantino's vision of how he would have liked the war to end. Brad Pitt was terrible, and I can't believe he thought this was the greatest role of his acting career...he should be ashamed of himself.The movie had so many pointless moments, offensive and just plain uneducated....I do not get the dark comedy aspect of this. If you want dark comedy don't be truly insulting. This film was terrible.


                
Quentin Tarantino's painfully over long World War Two film that started as a remake of Enzo G. Castellari's Inglorious Bastards, but which changed over time to this monster of a movie.The plot has a band of American soldiers, all Jewish, operating behind enemy lines killing Nazi's when the opportunity comes to work with a British officer who's job it is to kill a large portion of the high command at a film premiere in Paris.The film is essentially a long winded send up, you can't take anything in this film seriously so its a send up, of the Euro- war films of the 1970's and 80's. Indeed the film that the movie takes its name from is from 1978. To be certain the film has better production values than most of the films that he is sending up but it isn't all that much better than the most mediocre of the genre.What went wrong? Tarantino is what what went wrong. To be certain Tarantino knows his war films and the film very often feels like it fits very nicely in the genre, I'm currently going through a good number of Italian war films and from a feel point of view this film does get it right. His rip offs and borrows, of which there are many, mostly work (even if they frequently break the mood).The problem is Tarantino's attitude is more is more. This is all well and good, except that the films he is sending up are at least an hour shorter than this behemoth. This film drones on for two and a half hours. It never seems to end. Actually it never seems to get going. Honestly the film is well over an hour in before the film even begins to start to move, and even that it does slowly. I kept wanting to hit the remote to get to the point where it gets moving.What is the deal with this film. Its a war film with very little action. Most of this film are these long, painfully long, sequences where the characters just sit around and talk. The opening introduction of Christoph Waltz's Col Lada is twenty minutes long. Yea it plays out in essentially real time, but at the same time I screamed "get on with it" at the screen (yes I was shushed) because there really was no point. Actually there is little point to much of the dialog. This is a film that could be trimmed by at least an hour and lose nothing but inane dialog. (Your ultimate love or hate for the film will depend upon whether you like Tarantino's penchant for long rambling dialog exchanges that goes nowhere, or if not nowhere drone on way past the point of what is really required and serve no point beyond showing how well he can write).Which brings me back to the idea that this is an action film. How much action is there? Very little. The shoot out in the bar, the end, the introduction of the band at the train bridge (maybe thats an action scene) and maybe one other sequence, the rest is talk. To me the film felt mostly inert. Its not a film that slowly builds only to have the tension released in an orgy of violence, rather its rambling nonsense punctuated by an occasional scalping. If you really want to be fair you'd have to say that this film is static in away no Euro-war film- other than a concentration camp exploitation film- ever was.I'm curious what the tone of the film is suppose to be. After the too long but tense introduction of Lada and Shoshana, the film jumps to Brad Pitt talking to his men about what is expected of them (100 scalps). Its fall down funny. Its so over the top that you can't take anything that happens after that even remotely seriously. Forgive me it sinks the film since every time Aldo Raine comes on screen or is heard the film falls into silliness. You'll have a serious sequence and then Pitt comes on and spoils the mood.Its also troubling. Its troubling because I'm not sure what I'm suppose to take away from the film. Clearly the jovial attitude is suppose to make it easier to root for the good guys, but at the same time what they do, often in a joking manner, isn't funny. I don't think the Nazi's do anything other than shoot people, the good guys scalp people, cut their throats and beat their heads in with a baseball bat while their comrades cheer and dance around. These are the good guys? I don't think Tarantino was going for the same effect that James Dickey was going for with his novel To the White Sea (the film of which had Pitt attached) since there are too many jokes. I'm sorry the implications of what the heroes are bothers me.I do have to say that the performances, outside of the Basterds who are just too over the top, are for the most part very good. I was very impressed by Michael Meyers who has a solid cameo as a British general.Do I like the film? Kind of, but not really. Its better than I thought, but not as good as it should have been. Its a bloated approximation of the Euro-war film. Tarantino has beefed it up and disjointed it in the way that an over-imaginative five year old who is making up his own story would do. Unfortunately for Tarantino the plots of many of the films he's sending up, I will not say paying homage, are so close to parody already that he's pushed it all in the wrong direction. He's done better, and he's done worse.I can't really recommend it since its too long for what it is. Wait for DVD or cable
I figured since it is getting all these acclaims for Best Picture I should see it. Well, I wasted my time honestly. The only movies that are legitimate for Best Picture are Avatar and The Hurt Locker.I didn't want to see this movie to begin with because I think Tarintino make STUPID movies anyway. Then a friend told me I'd like it...FALSE. This is another one of those STUPID movies he makes. All of the funny/good stuff was in the previews, that's it, save yourself some time and watch a trailer. The movie just drags and drags and drags. Did I mention it drags? My butt fell asleep it took the movie that long to get over with. Please, Mr. Tarintino, come up with something other than blood and gore. It was OK for part of the movie, then it got old. To be honest this movie was lucky I initially gave it 6/10...it honestly is really a 4/10, but I guess I was in a good mood from watching The Hurt Locker right before this one. Do yourself a favor and don't watch this movie.


                
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.What is the purpose of this movie? A bunch of Americans enters Nazi-occupied France and starts slaughtering Germans. You see them scalping their enemies and beating them to death with baseball bats. While making jokes, of course.Some will say that this movie is a parody of a certain genre. For a parody, it is neither witty nor funny. The contents is zero. It is exceptionally brutal and disgusting. Underneath lies a subtle political message, because it is again "the good guys" killing "bad Nazis". The whole plot is unthinkable if you turn it around. Could you imagine a storyline where Nazis (while making jokes) kill everybody in the Warsaw ghetto with flamethrowers? Probably not, but this movie is exactly about that, with the exception that is satisfies the weird moral expectations of a certain audience: slaughtering people is so cool when done by the right people.This movie only works because of the hidden Nazi-ideology underneath. It does not regard the enemy as people. And if the latter is supposed to be an element of the fun, I am happy to say that this kind of fun will always remain a mystery to me.Another mystery is how such violence can fascinate the American crowd while a bit of nudity will freak them out. But if a naked body is pornography, this movie with all its brutality is pure pornography at its very worst.Inglorious Basterds is a pointless, boring and tasteless waste of time and money.


                
Inglorious Basterds is based in a 'alternate reality' wartime France. With many cameos and a long star list of A and B actors from both sides of the Atlantic. It uses the now well worn Tarantino formula of having two (usually more) main story lines converge as well as brief flashbacks to flesh out character and subplots. Whilst a lot of the reviews here would appear to be by fanboys of Mr. Tarantino the fact of the matter is that adulation, desire, wanting and hero worship will not make this film a good film and save it from critical thinking and heart-felt review...Acting. Christoph Waltz delivers a strong performance as the main protagonist. Delivers his lines with aplomb in fact and he along with Melanie Laurent save this film from complete oblivion. Unfortunately, at the other end of the acting spectrum, we have Brad Pitt who would struggle to out-act a ham sandwich judging on his effort here. He over acts along with much of the cast whilst the rest look a little confused (except the above mention Waltz and Laurent). There is very little emotional/intellectual feel about most of the acting/dialogue and it really leaves the film flat. Brad Pitt, in my mind, is a curious case to play a leader or person of any type of authority. He has always comes across as a himbo or a male model who can act a little. Not a hardened army officer. People may point to some previous roles such as in Fight Club but in the most part he is a girly man's tough guy and in this film he again doesn't look like he could inspire or lead. His accent is school play level.Pacing. The opening scene is good. The meeting in the basement pub is OK. Rest of the movie is tedious.Dialogue. Again the beginning scene is good but other than a few moments where the film appears that it might get beyond second gear it falls way short of Tarantino's first two films, Reservor Dogs and Pulp Fiction. Acting, again, impedes or ruins most of the dialogue.Believability. James Cameron once said that if you can take the ridiculous and make it believable that's movie magic. Here, Tarantino takes the ridiculous and makes it, in the most part, boring.Quentin Tarantino has succumbed once again to self-indulgent homage, harking back to the old days of VHS b-movies that lurked within the bowels of all video stores circa early-mid 1980's. What terrible thing happened to Mr. Tarantino during those days that he can't let the past stay in the past? Or was then, the zenith of his days? Do we have to endure this seemingly endless mid-life crisis that influences his movie making palate? Not since Russ Meyer has someone generated the same style in making films and at least Mr. Meyer did it for laughs and titillation.Verdict: 4 stars thanks to Mr. Waltz and Ms. Laurent.See this film if you must, but I'd suggest to wait to see it on DVD or on TV.


                
