Inglorious Basterds is a dark and violent comic fantasy, gloriously so. Built on the framework of The Dirty Dozen, Inglorious Basterds ditches the elongated training sequences of The Dirty Dozen to plunge into the action right away. In the process, Tarantino fixes one of The Dirty Dozen's major flaws by giving the bad guys screen time to remind us just how bad the Nazis were. The Nazis with the most screen time end up becoming the most completely human characters in the film, which ironically makes them even worse monsters.Bu ditching the training sequences, Tarantino is also able to give us a picture of the entire war, showing us not only British, American and German soldiers, but also giving us glimpses into the world of French and German civilians, both collaborators and Resistance.It goes without saying that any Tarantino film is going to have fantastic dialogue, but when Tarantino made the decision to have the French characters speak French and the Germans speak German, beyond adding a level of authenticity, Tarantino also somehow ensured that his dialogue in French was as sharp and funny and clever as his English dialogue.Case in point, during the opening sequence the Nazi "Jew Hunter" SS Colonel Hans Landa (Christian Waltz) is interrogating French dairy farmer Perrier LaPadite (Denis Menochet). Landa suspects that LaPadite is hiding a family of Jews. While subtly pressuring LaPadite, Landa asks for a glass of milk. After greedily gulping it down, Landa compliments LaPadite on his daughters and his cows, "à votre famille et à vos vaches, je dis bravo." The thing of it is, in French "vache" means cow, but it is also a vulgar name for the vagina. If reprimanded for this vulgar pun, Landa could quite convincingly claim not to understand French well enough to have meant it that way, but Landa does mean it that way and he means it as a threat. And LaPadite understands his meaning all too well.That is a really subtle piece of acting and word-play that many audiences would never catch, or at least they might understand the subtext without knowing the exact nature of the threat. The film is rich with that kind of detail. All of the French and English dialogue is chosen with that same attention to detail and while I can't swear to the German, I would suspect that it shows a similar level of craft.Inglorious Basterds opens with the phrase, "Once Upon a Time... in Nazi-Occupied France." Personally, this reminds me of the opening of every Asterix book and movie, another comic fantasy in a war-torn occupied France. Like Asterix, Inglorious Basterds is howlingly funny in places, although the film also turns darkly serious.In its more serious moments, Inglorious Basterds reminds us that the first casualties of war are compassion and the ability to relax, as in almost every elongated sequence of the film, Tarantino finds a new way to build cruel tension to almost unbearable levels.Tarantino also reminds us that film is dangerous, even inflammable and that its power deserves respect.If you can see this film as I did in a packed theatre filled with knowledgeable fans who get every joke, that you will see this masterful film the way that it was meant to be seen. If you are not that lucky, all that you will see is a great, great film that delivers a darkly funny punch.
Brad Pitt sticks his index finger in Diane Kruger's leg wound and keeps it there until he gets what he wants. Funny, horribly so. The invented yarn takes "The Dirty Dozen" for a ride and sometimes abandons it to pay tribute to other movies. Lots of fun. Even "Paris when it sizzles" is mentioned in a delightfully organic piece of dialog. I was thrilled by Christoph Waltzer's character and by his sensational performance. Brad Pitt creates a true original. I love the actor's lack of vanity. There's a quirk in the character that is pure Brad Pitt. Tarantino visits a new universe but. fortunately, his hand. his brain and his heart are visible all over the place.


                
I can't imagine a director whose thirst for blood and violence is greater than Quentin Tarantino's. (At least in his films) Inglourious Basterds is no different. We all know Tarantino, the guy who exploded on the scene in the early 90s with cult classics, such as Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. Since, he has been a disappointment for some. Well, I am relieved to say, Tarantino has not lost his touch. He brings us his best since Pulp Fiction and thankfully so.We know the story, a WWII tale told only as Tarantino can. (Fictional of course) A war film hasn't been done like this before. Brad Pitt as Lt. Aldo Raine leads the Basterds in Nazi occupied France. Their goal - killin' Nazi's. Christoph Waltz as Colonel Hans Landa plays a similar role on the other side. He's know as the "Jew Hunter" and goes about his business as ruthless as no other. The third sub story consists of a young Jewish refugee, Shosanna Dreyfus, who witnesses the slaughter of her family. And she, of course, wishes to plot revenge on the Germans for her devastating lose. There actually is three stories here intertwining and connecting with each other. If you know anything about Tarantino or his films, this is nothing new for him.War has never been been so fun. The Basterds, are haunting, but at the same time, very funny, at times even hilarious. The dark comedy aspect play a big aspect in this as in many other Tarantino films. The entertainment and hilarity is led by Brad Pitt. I found him extremely funny and entertaining. I couldn't wait to see him on screen again. Even with his crazy accent, he works in this type of film. Also making great impressions were Mélanie Laurent and Christoph Waltz, who were tremendous. The film was filled with noteworthy performances.The story itself, has so many historical inaccuracies to even count, but so what? It isn't meant to be a documentary. Tarantino wanted to have fun with, as should we. The cinematography department deserves big props with beautiful vibrant colors highlighting the film. You've really got to love the last line in the film... but Pulp Fiction remains his masterpiece.Quentin Tarantino among all other things, is an entertainer. WWII, is one of the most tragic events in history, but Tarantino some how manages to make it fun. Inglourious Basterds is a fun film, it's tremendously entertaining, shocking, dramatic, suspenseful, and funny at the same time. Jam packed with everything you look for in a movie, done with that certain Tarantino style, it's worth being checked out. It's time to experience for yourself what war is like through the eyes of Quentin Tarantino.


                
I have been feeling a little disappointed by Tarantino ever since death proof. But i insist it was only a little, because i can appreciate the amount of work in producing such an homage to stunts people. Inglorious Basterds has definitely propelled Tarantino to the top ranks in my universe. This movie can be summed up (albeit inadequately) in one word : "RAW". There is an intense emotion in every scene. Revenge and justice seem to be the main themes, From the start of the movie one feels compassion towards the victims of the Nazis, and is placed in Tarantino's fictional dimension of the WW2 historical context. Characters are unpredictiable, fun, scary, brutal, sexy, and other adjectives i am sure are escaping my mind that are just as fitting and positive. I won't go in to an appreciation of each character, but the other comments by fellow users sum up the appreciation of the various performances. Dialogue has evolved from the classic Tarantino "bad ass" provocative style as seen in Pulp Fiction and Death Proof. One can feel in the dialogues that Tarantino is making more open references to other movies. Indeed, many dialogues were near lessons in cinema to the audience, the setting partly takes place at a movie premiere ; a reference to a movie is close around every corner. It is nice to see that each language presented (German, French, and English) is employed rather equally and naturally. I speak both French and English very fluently, and am frequently disappointed in how English speaking characters in french movies act poorly, and how french speaking characters in English/American movies act poorly. Amazingly enough, Tarantino managed to make his actors pull off a natural and graceful performance from his actors. It helps put the audience in context of the historical context. Indeed ; soldiers, spies and civilans rarely understood soldiers/spies/civilians from other countries.The visuals/photography are beautiful, with sceneries convincingly conveying a 1940s WWII Europe. The outfits are perfect, and the violence orgasmically/realistically conveyed. No punches are held back, and the Nazis are often shown being tortured. This makes the movie not open to all audiences ; the graphic violence can shock the more sensitive demographic. volumes can be written about this movie. But the movie is so good, that during the North American Inglorious Basterds premiere at the Fantasia Festival in Montreal, i had to pee, but refused to go so as to not miss one single scene. I hope that image conveys how strongly i feel about this movie, and i'm a hard audience to please.


                
Some critics might claim to need a code key to interpret what Tarantino means by this revisionist adventure film, but I'd say it's right under their up-turned noses: There's a great little scene where Mike Meyers plays a British military man who anticipates attacking a Nazi film premiere so he brings in an a film critic as an adviser. This may or may not be necessary but it does allow for a dialogue exchange like: Meyers: What do you do? Critic: I am a film critic.Meyers: What are your accomplishments? Even though the critic goes on to list some compilation books, it may as well be a rhetorical question.Tarantino thumbs his nose at convention and that is part of the movie's appeal. His movies are often about movies as much as they are about the content at hand. Yet he still manages to sustain genuine tension. The opening Nazi interrogation of a French farmer and a later a tavern basement guessing game scene must have had whopping page counts but they play out as chapters and remain engrossing high stakes set pieces. In the same film he can introduce a character by throwing a title onto the screen as if this member of the "Basterds" was cool enough to have his own movie, or play a 1980's David Bowie song while a woman prepares to do battle in her own way while Nazi flags hang outside the window.The movie takes place in an alternate universe that could either be a dream or the unreality of the grind-house era Tarantino has celebrated in Kill Bill and, well, Grindhouse. Anyone with a brain will get that. If that sounds good, see it. I notice now there are blurbs about "how Jewish critics feel" about the movie. Well, those who go to a movie with a deliberately misspelled title knowing it is a revisionist fantasy and can't bear to see the character of Hitler as the butt of the joke don't have an opinion worthy of note. If you are an expert on NASA, your views on George Lucas' Star Wars movies are not necessarily of use to me. In fact it's a little galling that such a critic-proof designation as "Jewish critic" should be trotted out. They can say what they like about a sensitive document with the intentions of Schindler's List and God bless them. But if someone gets his boxers in a bunch over slapstick Nazis or clueless Hitler autographing the Grain Diary for Indiana Jones, then they just aren't going to be the right audience for Inglourious Basterds. In fact they shouldn't be watching fun movies at all. They should try staring at a blank wall and talking to themselves rather than type up their blather.But it's not all fun. Sad things do happen and unfortunate events occur in this movie. The tension even in dialogue does come from the danger of having a Nazi at the table or someone daring to ask him to leave. But when you get reviewers comparing the Basterds to Al Qaida I think we can excuse those critics from the table as well. Or call Eli Roth over to them and yell "Play ball!"


                
Inglourious Basterds (2009)We all know by now that Quentin Tarantino is in love with the movies, so it's no surprise that much of this film centers are around an astonishing movie theater. But his love of movies also shows in the way he works with classic ideas and great visual strategies that come from decades of the best of Hollywood. The very first scene is like a remake from some classic Western--John Ford or Sergio Leone, take your pick--with the isolated family seeing trouble coming in, ever so gradually, from the far distance.And then trouble arrives, and it unfolds here like a croissant in the morning sun, steam slowly rising into the French Provincial air. This, you'll see, or you know already, is film-making at its best, old-school or new-school, it doesn't matter. The suspense, the elegant and fluid camera-work, the astonishing writing and even more astonishing delivery by the two men at this very first juncture, playing a kind of "I know what you are thinking" kind of game, all drawn out in a breathtaking, poetic, nerve-wracking way.Then all hell breaks loose. This is the other side of Tarantino, the violent violence, where the blood is too red and too balletic to be real. I don't have the ability to step out of this kind of on screen gore and so it shocks me every time, and it seems like the movie might work just as well (or better) with implied violence, rather than splattering it in your face. But this director, I think, sees all of it from a director's point of view--that everything is artifice, including the preceding scene with the two men, where I, for one, was impressed partly by believing it, by being completely sucked in. Which makes the offputting violence that follows all the more upending.I have no doubt it is this push-pull effect that makes all of Tarantino's films have that energy few others can match. In this case, there is a lot of plain old fun built into seeing the bad guys get what they deserve (I felt a weird pleasure, which I confess and which I don't understand, in seeing one very particular bad guy shot to pieces near the end), and a lot of suspense as you root for the unlikely heroes. The archetypes, like Brad Pitt's good bad guy role with a Kentucky accent (better than your Italian, Brad), and the more original characters, like the young woman who owns the theater and is truly trapped by circumstances, equally make their scenes larger than life. In fact, Inglourious Basterds is pure Hollywood in the way it makes everything on the screen larger than life. Isn't that what the golden age of Hollywood was all about? Yes. And it is exactly what some directors like Tarantino are still bent on pulling off. A great film. Whatever the problems and the gore, this strikes me as a perfect film the way Fargo is perfect, or Reservoir Dogs. Tastes aside, you have to see it.


                
Once again we witness a masterpiece crafted from the hands of Quentin Tarantino. 'Inglorius Basterds' strikes us with an original script, superb directing and creative blood spilling scenes. This movie is a 'must watch' regardless of the very graphic bloody scenes common in the Tarantino cinema. *WARNING* - If you don't like Tarantino films stay away from this one, because this is Quentin at his best. You won't hear such a bald statement as 'this is the new Pulp Fiction' but entertainment, intrigue and 'black humor' is guaranteed.Not the best of acting by Brad Pitt by he sure does a good job and he definitely achieves Tarantino's expectations. Loyal to his cinema, Quentin shows some songs used in the Score of Kill Bill vol.1/2 and similar western music like 'From Dusk 'till Dawn'.DO NOT MISS THIS FILM or you will most likely miss one of the best movies 2009 will offer us.


                
I watched Inglorious Basterds tonight after wanting to see if for weeks, because everyone was recommending this movie to me and it was absolutely awesome! I don't know how Tarantino does it. I love the postmodern nature of his work, his imagination, his storytelling and his absolute craziness. Nobody makes movies like him. Who else would take a WWII and rewrite history? Who else would kill some of the most evil people of the 20th century; Hitler and Goebbels? Who else would give power to a bunch of Jewish soldiers to bash out the brains of the Nazi scum that was killing so many people? As I exited the cinema with my friend, we said at the same time "this is how it should have happened!". I don't think any filmmaker has ever made me say that before. If Tarantino does not get some award nominations as best director, there is no fairness in this world! Best Performances in the film: Christoph Waltz - brilliant...the reviews of his performance are spot-on. He is incredible as someone so evil he can kill people while smiling and still be somewhat charming. I can't see how he is not going to get nominated or win the Academy Award for his performance, it was stunning.Brad Pitt - he was hilarious. If anyone doubts Pitt's range as an actor, this movie should shut them up. He has fantastic comedic timing and his facial expressions in the movie were priceless.Eli Roth - I loved him as the Bear Jew! He was savage, but you can understand his anger and thirst for blood, because of what is being done to his people.Melanie Laurent - She really is a very good young actress. Her subtle emotions, due of the horrific situation she finds herself in, are beautifully expressed. Her bad-ass nature as well. I hope to see more of her in on this side of the continent.Biggest applause goes to Quentin Tarantion though, who is not afraid to take chances and tick people off with his storytelling. Bravo!
First off this is easily Tarantino's best since Pulp Fiction. I'm not going to say that it rivals Pulp Fiction yet, but I might in about a week after this movie finishes swimming through my brain. The choice to have all the characters speak the languages they actually would be speaking adds a weird sense of realism and also works into the plot, in a way that makes a lot of since. Subtleties of accent and mannerism mean a lot. Also, great performances from the entire cast, especially Christoph Waltz, who won Best Actor at Cannes. In the first scene I missed some of the subtitles because I couldn't take my eyes off him. That good.Speaking of the first scene, it was excellent, and sets up the motivations of a major character down the road. This and the bar scene are the two standouts in the movie; a slow, inevitable build, followed by a burst of violence. A-game material for all involved. I'd also like to address the criticisms this film received for "turning the Jews into Nazis". That's simply not true. You see one major Jew character's family mercilessly slaughtered by Nazis early on, and you can imagine similar backgrounds for many of the Basterds, given their willingness to do violence to Nazis. The climax can be twisted to enforce the above statement, but I refuse to believe it. It's irresponsible for those critics to dismiss Tarantino as glorifying violence, but what he's actually doing is much trickier; he forces the viewer to deal with their own morality, and where they draw the line between justice and vengeance. The climax, in particular, teeters on the edge of satisfying and nightmarish, leaning more towards the second as the screams of the Nazis and laughs of the movie screen grow louder. It raises questions, and is aware of this. Tarantino is too masterful a filmmaker to be ignorant of his movie's message. Yes, I said master filmmaker. And, I loved the way he worked film into the climax. I loved the way he worked film in this movie, period.


                
The watchwords: Killing NazisThat's a Bingo! This year 2009 we can all yell the same words used by Colonel Hans Landa to talk about Inglourious Basterds, the new blockbuster of Quentin Tarantino. The movie maker applies his genius to sign this umpteenth time World War II film; obviously unusual. Inglourious Basterds is one of the rare movies that will keep you on the edge of your seat the first scene. This film contains numerous things that success! Firstly, unconventional. Tarantino chose to use uchrony, things frowned in the cinema's world, even more when it deals with WWII. Secondly, unethically. That rules the film: the different languages. Most of the time, movie makers let their characters speak Shakespeare's language in all the ways, never mind their nationalities. But it's here that this film draws its strength. The film begins with 10 minutes of French between a French farmer and a SS colonel who discovers that a Jewish family is hiding under their feet. And all along the film the languages "intermix". The aim of the film: to stop the IIIe Reich. Many ways are employed. The most effective one is the "Basterds" one which was also renowned for its committed approach to the game.Jew American soldiers led by Lt. Aldo Raine, Brad Pitt who IS his character. With his thickest definite southern accent on earth and his large scarf on his neck which makes us think almost of a lynching. This commando plenty of spitefulness is composed of Pitt's acolytes: the actor Eli Roth plays Sergeant Donny Donowitz nicknamed "The Bear Jew" by the Nazis , some of them thought he's a golem, his favorite game consist in finishing one by one all the Nazis he meets with a baseball bat, very patriotic. Til Schweiger is Sergeant Hugo Stiglitz a German guy who rebelled against Hitler and excels in his brutal and sadistic ways of murdering Nazis. Violence scenes that Tarantino rules well, many cinema references, hilarious dialogues that pulse the film. For the German camp there is Colonel Hans Lander, who embodies the character of a detective who IS the real revelation of the film. His "Au revoir, Shosanna" proves that he's not the type to stop. The actor Christoph Waltz handles languages to achieve his goal. Suavity and virtuosity at all points and a disturbing courtesy to the point where it's puzzling. It arrived at its peak during the scene where a glass of milk drank on the opening scene in a seemingly innocuous way becomes terrorizing as hell to a young Jew survivor behind the Nazi who wants to make her realize he has unmasked her. Thanks to his performance Waltz won rave reviews from the critics and enjoyed great success with the public, remarkably in the Cannes Film Festival. Now, flash on women. The two main female characters are remarkable. Mélanie Laurent is just wonderful in her own film where she announces she is going to kill all the Nazis, her laugh resounding in our heads. Diana Kruger unveils her native language and is Bridget Von Hammersmark a German actress working as a spy in favor of Great Britain. Thereupon the British used strategies and are more diplomatic than the Americans. In the scene with Churchill smoking a huge cigar, Michael Fassbender Lt. Archie Hicox is informed of the Operation Kino, orchestrate by Von Hammersmark where the objective is simple. As "we have all our rotten eggs in the one basket" BLOW UP THE BASKET. The scene, no doubt in my mind, which would be the most imposing and thrilling, is undoubtedly the tavern's scene. This scene whole in German contains enough blood pressure to pickle and needles Hitler himself. Between the betrayal of himself with the third English of Hicox and the vicious voice of German accent. "Say Auf Wiedershen to your Nazi balls" will remain in yearbooks<U+0085>10 years to Tarantino to create this pearl of cinema and for us 153 minutes to enjoy it. Tarantino giggles about the fact that "Cinema wins against III Reich" in his film. Rewrites History, a film can afford it. But as Pitt says "A Basterd's work is never done" and in this way Tarantino suggested he would write a series. The final scene, a low angle shot of Pitt and Roth, with these finals words "I think it's my masterpiece". Tarantino should probably speaks behind this quotation.
Inglorious Basterds convinced me that Quentin Tarantino lost it. That's not to say that he is now a bad director, but his films ever since Pulp Fiction have been all style and little substance. Pulp Fiction was a wicked masterpiece and one of the greatest films of the 1990s, but what am I to make of Inglorious Basterds? This film disappointed me even more than Kill Bill. Kill Bill was, for the most part, shallow, bloody and uninspired. Still, it was entertaining and the performances were memorable. Inglorious Basterds is just like Kill Bill except there aren't any fights and only one memorable performance. I'm not saying that it's a bad film; it's actually quite good technically. Tarantino's direction is solid, but not great. The actors deliver, especially Christoph Waltz and Brad Pitt. The cinematography is good, and the film seems inspired in places. For the most part, however, I kept thinking what this is really about?The film has a historic setting (Nazi-occupied France in 1944), but it's not meant to be taken seriously. The film has style (however pointless), but Nazis like Adolf Hitler were included. The pro-German and fascist/conservative minded reviewers have already expressed their opinions here. However, I don't care for Nazi Germany at all. In this film an SS Colonel somehow comes off as the most likable character. He's a clever intellectual who speaks a few languages. Except that this is a man whose job is to find and execute as many Jews and other undesirables as possible. This is a clear case of misrepresentation I think. Violence that's hard to watch is also included. An American Lieutenant and his team of Jewish men kill Nazis in brutal ways. These killings are shown in all their detailed glory. So it seems that it's not the Germans who are the ruthless and exceptional murderers but an American team. There are other things in the film that didn't take place for real. I don't think Tarantino meant to take sides, but all this film has is several conversation scenes and several murder scenes. In parts it's entertaining but there's nothing to take away from it. In the end it feels shallow and pointless. I don't recommend Inglorious Basterds, but by popular vote this film made it into the IMDb Top 250. For my money I'd rather see films that are meant to be historically accurate and thoughtful like Schindler's List (1993) and Come And See (1985).
I do not understand the bad reviews some have put on here. They must be trolls or just dullards. This is classic Tarantino. Great dialogue. Great genre switching and great cinematography. I loved this and want to tell passers by to watch it. My only complaint is the humour that became more prevalent towards the end. I would have stuck with the level throughout. I loved the Landa scenes for their sheer menace. Almost as brilliant as the Esteban scene in Kill Bill 2. Keep making films that make me want to shout out loud!


                
yet again Mr Tarentino has come up with a great story with even better characters.there are some people out there that will say the film drags on and is too long.....but people who appreciate cinema, will understand that QT loves to develop his characters well , which tie in great to the story he tells in this great film prob one of the best character driven films you will ever see, go see this movie with an open mind and you will be blown away..this is sooooo much more than just another war film, the cast are all superb and after watching the film you cant imagine anyone else in the roles.great cinema !


                
Usually not a huge Q.T fan but this one takes the cake. It is incredible. It has everything a great movie needs.
A band of Nazi killing militia
A Jewish woman on the verge of revenge
With an alternative ending to WWII that I think everyone could love
Has great spots of humor, lots of intensity, drama, and oh yes, plenty of blood for you QT fans


                
I'm going to be honest, I haven't been a fan of Quentin Tarantino's work. Most of the time, it's just too much. Django Unchained (2012)? This movie played it nearly perfect though.Tarantino's writing captures logic, thought, and, most of all, suspense in a way that few have. It's an excellent piece of satire with some of the most expertly written scenes I have ever seen. The opening scene might be my favorite opening scene of all time. The story was great, as was the plotting. The performances are all around great. No surprise that Christopher Waltz sticks out the most in the cast. He definitely deserved his Oscar for his work done here. He plays Colnel Hans perfectly.Tarantino's direction seems more confident here. And it reflects his own writing perfectly. Props to you, Quentin!The production design is actually quite well done, surprised nobody pointed that out. It's something that seems glossed over but, for some reason, really stuck out to me.Disclaimer: Don't watch this with your kids. Very gory and mature at several points.Overall, it's a 9/10. Very well done.


                
'INGLORIOUS BASTERDS' was directed by Quentin Tarantino and stars Brad Pitt, Christoph Waltz and Melanue Laurent. <U+200B>It is the first year of Germany's occupation of France. Allied officer Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) assembles a team of Jewish soldiers to commit violent acts of retribution against the Nazis, including the taking of their scalps. He and his men join forces with Bridget von Hammersmark, a German actress and undercover agent, to bring down the leaders of the Third Reich. Their fates converge with theatre owner Shosanna Dreyfus, who seeks to avenge the Nazis' execution of her family.Inglorious Basterds is a fantastic war movie. No it is not overrated. It is rated perfectly as far as I'm concerned and is one of Tarantino's best movies. Christoph Waltz is god damn incredible in this movie and provides a truly chilling, milk obsessed villain that will go down in the greatest of cinema. I'm not exaggerating. Tarantino was at his best with this retelling of history. You know what, screw it. This IS how WW2 went down. Tarantino has convinced me of that. I defy anyone to prove me otherwise!Let me break it down how incredible this movie is. The story is a genius intertwining of two entirely separate stories that mould into one during a simple five chapter story. This movie is so well written that it changed history. Tarantino convinced me that this was exactly how WW2 went down. The ending is perfect and mirrors the entire movie as a whole. Well done Tarantino, you done did good!To top of the excellent story, we have a stellar star studded cast to pimp out Tarantino's epic war movie. Honestly, if Christoph 'The Milkman' Waltz didn't at least get NOMINATED for an Oscar in this movie, I would have started a riot. This was probably one of the best performances in modern movie history and sends shivers down your spine. If one man can make me fear him for ordering a glass of milk, he deserves the Oscar trophy to be redesigned after him. Accompanying Walkz' Hans Landa is Brad Pitt's awesome Aldo Raine who, while having a smaller role than expected, elevated the movie above it's previous pedestal and made me think of Brad Pitt whenever I think of WW2. The jury is still out on whether that's a good thing or a bad thing. Diane Kruger was also great as Bridger Von Hammersmark as was Michael Fassbender as Archie Hirox and Daniel Brühl as the creepy Frederick Zoller. Melanie Laurent was good as Shossana Dreyfus. Martin Wuttke was on steroids or something as Adolf Hitler. Despite possible drug use, he was great as the most evil man to grace this Earth; good look adding that to your resume. This movie is also nearly technically flawless. The effects were great and the inclusion of blood and gore was, while not necessary, a welcome addition that was the definition of Tarantino style. I will say, however, that some shots and scenes were overly comical and it took me out of the movie for a brief short moments. One minor, minuscule gripe is with the dialogue. Not to say it was bad, it wasn't but the movie is VERY dialogue heavy and due to the majority of it being in foreign languages, it could sometimes be difficult too keep up with the subtitles and could be sometimes frustrating to decipher what was being said. Probably not an issue for many but was certainly one for me.You can dislike this movie all you want, I don't care. But if you dare say this movie was made up and FICTIONAL(?), I will hunt you down and... I dunno... order a glass of milk... and then shoot your floor. I wholeheartedly recommend this movie, it will change your perception on history and is honestly just an amazing war movie that will stand the test of time.


                
I've always been a big fan of Tarantino films, and this was certainly a good addition to his line-up of entertaining films, even though it wasn't his best.The overall plot, in my opinion, wasn't the strongest. It didn't feel like it was well drawn up and instead felt quite disorganised, in particular, I didn't feel as if the Basterds fitted in well with the rest of the plot. Their role in the movie felt rather forced, and the scenes with the Basterds were, in my opinion, the weakest scenes in the movie.Yet, while the plot wasn't really rich, the film made up for it with its tense, memorable scenes and memorable performances. As expected with Tarantino, he builds up the tension with lengthy scenes and long periods of dialogue. Oh, and of course the comedic over-the-top violence that Tarantino is renowned for does occur in this movie don't worry, but at no point was it out of place.But really, what made the film was the acting from Christoph Waltz. Before this film, Waltz was a relatively unknown actor hailing from Vienna, yet afterwards, he was transformed into a mainstream actor who all of the film directors are chasing after, and after watching Inglourious Basterds, you can see why. Waltz played the part of SS Colonel Landa to perfection. Honestly the character is one of the best villains ever in cinema history in my opinion. It was just the sheer competence, elegance and ruthlessness the man possessed made him absolutely compelling. Tarantino himself had fears that the role simply could not be played, yet Waltz completely smashed his fear, with style.As for the rest of the acting, I have to give good mention to Melanie Laurent and Diane Kruger, and overall the general acting performances were solid, although, I am critical of Brad Pitt. I felt, especially as one of the main characters, he didn't really create any connection with the viewer, and the role was relatively pedestrian and simple, so this shouldn't be a film that Pitt is renowned for.Overall though, whilst the film wasn't Tarantino's best, it's certainly a film that was very entertaining and kept my interest the whole way through, so it's certainly worth watching, especially to witness the incredible acting from Waltz. I'd give the movie 8.3/10, which is what it currently is rated at.


                
The thing with Quentin Tarantino is that the way he incorporates so many elements in his movues like the sound mixing, the language, the food, the setup and all those tiny detail's that you see. The pace of the film would be considered slow as compared to other movies but good things come in slow packages (That's small but you get the jist).The pace really builds upon the tension and the suspence in each scene and each chapter. The chapters are masterfully drafted to tell a masterpiece storyline. Each chapter on standalone is real good.The details like the accent and the oh so sweet french that the "Jew Hunter" of this film speaks is like music to the ears. Smaller details like the way he intimidates his opposers is something that shines.Would recommend for a rewatch.Would even recommend you to find a film lunatic friend like you and binge watch all the Tarantino movies.


                
Sometimes you just have to enjoy the movie, doesn't matter how some of the characters stupid are or there was only two guards in the cinema protecting The Nazis! or ...
It is an unforgettable movie! yeah i know sometimes it makes no sense that how simple the WWII ended in the movie, But for instance you can't ignore Ingenuity of Christoph Waltz.
So i think there are two kinds of people, those who love this movie and those who hate it.
If you like to watch some good acting and entertaining movie i strongly recommend you that DON'T MISS IT!


                
I'm trying to watch more Tarantino nowadays because I want to thoroughly understand his filmmaking style and techniques and I would want to have an opinion on all of his movies. A few days ago, I picked up Inglourious Basterds at the library a few days ago, and I watched it last night by myself because I enjoy doing that and I feel like doing activities alone regain my energy. And I thought Inglourious Basterds was freaking awesome. There are so many good things about it. It is not a perfect movie, but there are so many things to love, and I provides this movie with lots of entertainment for the viewers. I think Tarantino's best skill is his interesting writing. A lot like Christopher Nolan's writing, where it is complex, gripping, and has twist and turns, but Tarantino makes these concepts funny and witty, but for this movie, Tarantino also makes the movie subtly suspenseful from his writing. The best thing about this movie is Tarantino's use of subtle suspense, and the entertaining dialogue as always. The suspense is this movie is not really in your face suspense, it's like in the back of your mind suspense. The scene itself isn't really suspenseful, but there are things happening that can give you a suspenseful vibe. A great example of this is the opening scene and the tavern scene. The dialogue is on point as always in every single Tarantino film, and in this movie, it is especially funny. The acting in this movie is also amazing, just like in every Tarantino film. Brad Pitt is awesome in this movie and his accent is so over the top, I love it. Christoph Waltz won an academy award from this movie as his performance as a german detective, and he is great as his role. The majority of this film is actually spoken in languages other than english, and I found that to be pretty accurate because this movie takes place in Europe. The things that come out of this mouth and the emotions that he shows on his face proves that he can act. There are times where he makes you laugh, and there are times where he makes you afraid of his power and might. This movie takes place during World War 2, and this isn't really a straight up war film. This movie is more like a drama that takes place during a war, but there isn't any soldiers shooting other soldiers in this movie. This movie is also very violent and there are scenes in this movie that made me cringe in disgust. During the second act, it did feel a bit boring at times, and there are scenes that didn't really need to drag as long as it should've, but other than that, I thought this film was great. 9/10


                
Inglorious Bastards is a surprisingly funny, original, and fresh take on World War II.Quentin Tarrantino has my everlasting respect as a director after he made Pulp Fiction, and no one else could've done a better job with this movie.Lt. Aldo Raine (Brad Pitt) has a mission:To kill as many Nazis as he possibly can.For this purpose, he has recruited a small group of soldiers-turned-assassins (later dubbed the Basterds by the Germans), to carry out his plan.Among this group of incredibly effective (and unlikely) warriors is Sgt. Hugo Stiglitz (Til Schweiger), murderer of thirteen members of the Gestapo Police before being imprisoned, and rescued by Raine.Also there's Sgt. Donny Donowitz (Eli Roth) known as the "Bear Jew", and Pfc. Omar Ulmer (Omar Doom) the most credible "Italian" during the reconnaissance of the premiere of "Nation's Pride.""Nation's Pride" is a film directed by none other than Joseph Goebbels, starring Germany's most prominent war hero Pvt. Frederick Zoller (Daniel Bruhl), the movie based on his military accomplishments.Frederick Zoller has become enamoured of Emmanuelle Mimieux (Melanie Laurent) owner of a small movie theater, which, Frederick has persuaded Goebbels, should be the site of the "Nation's Pride" premiere (which promises to have every major Nazi officer in attendance).What Zoller doesn't know, is that Emmanuelle Mimieux is really Shosanna Dreyfuss, a French Jew who saw her entire family executed at the hands of sadistic SS Colonel Hans Landa (Christoph Waltz), and having narrowly escaped with her life, has longed for vengeance ever since.Meanwhile Aldo Raine, and his men (learning of the premiere), have hooked up with Bridget von Hammersmark (Diane Kruger), a popular German actress who's also a spy working against the Third Reich. It is with her collaboration that they inflitrate the "Nation's Pride" opening night.Little does anyone know however, that Shosanna has a stunning revenge plan of her own.Everyone is terrific in this movie.Brad Pitt is excellent (as well as funny).Diane Kruger is everything a 30's actress should be: Beautiful and classy.And as for the men who play the Basterds (as well as the men who play the Nazis)...Everybody plays their part, everybody plays it well, and appears to be enjoying it.One of the best (and lightest) World War II movies I've ever seen.With a subtle depth of its own.Originally Review #32
Sound: Excellent mix of music styles for the soundtrack; classical contemporary pop, even silence. I also found an homage to Kurosawa of using inappropriate modern music for comedic affect. Well mixed with excellent sound effects. 
100/100 Technical: Well shot with great framing and excellent camera movement. Great costumes and settings. Hopefully the large amount of French, German, and Italian with subtitles will stimulate interest in foreign films. 
100/100 Narrative: Broken into five chapters and shown from various story lines that unite in the last chapter. The plot twists are forced by the characters. 
90/100 Character/Acting: Excellent memorable characters and portrayal of historical figures. Great dialog. 
85/100 Did I like it: Yes, a combination of quality and fun keeps interest and the twists give satisfaction. 
90/100 Artistic merit: Interesting use of alternative history, nontraditional narrative structure, quality production, excellent use of cinematic language, and homage's. 
80/100 Total score 90.8/100


                
I had decided that I would hate this movie the second I heard about it. Reluctantly I went to go see it and I was totally blown away. I like most of QTs work, even death proof, which I thought was a little weaker than his earlier movies, but this one left me speechless.I've read quite a few negative comments, and I will have to agree that this is a love it or hate it film. If you want to find historical errors and features to dislike about it, there are many, but if you allow yourself to become immersed in the amazing tension building scenes and truly spectacular depth of every character, you will love it.At first, I though that Brad Pitt would annoy me the entire film, but he turned into a splendid comical counterpoint to the incredibly human, intelligent, and sadistic Nazis, and the driven, committed, wounded Jewish girl, all of which are played with impressive skill. The performance of everyone is incredible, with suburb interaction and exquisitely tense spoken scenes. Tarantino is a master of bringing out the best possible performance in the best possible way, and weaving it into an intense delivery.I was absolutely amazed at the dignity and honor they managed to give a minor character, a German sergeant who faces his coming death with stoic calm in a tense, drawn out scene. When the "bear Jew" approaches, he asks, you get this for killing Jews? and the sergeant responds "bravery". It was breathtaking, I had the feeling, here is a man worth knowing, how did he win this medal? what is his life story? And then, in the most brutal and brilliant fashion of a QT movie, he is violently killed in a way that robs him of that dignity, and shows the cruel lack of understanding replaced by the rage of the Bear Jew, who as we all know, has his ax to grind as well. Every scene contains this type of power.I was so involved in the movie that I failed to finish my 9 dollar small popcorn, and I love popcorn.Complaints- These are minor, but one would be that QT certainly suspends the difference between Wehrmacht and SS units. I see the necessity of this action for the movie, and in the alternate reality that he creates, who knows the history he has created? My second complaint is Mike Meyers. I did not think he found his character in this movie, his scene is awkward in that he seems to be smiling too much, and remaining too serious. He also fails to pull of the commanding presence of an older general, and sounds too young and awkward holding the paperwork. What I was looking for was 'Presence', which he lacked. In my opinion, he just did not work in that role, especially with the unbelievable Winston Churchill look alike and scene stealing arrogant British captain in the same scene.I hate to say it, but I saw a bit of Dr. Evil, and Austin Powers in his performance. He was weak, but the scene is short, and gets to the point, and in any other movie would be successful. Here the rest of the movie is too powerful.It was great, I intend to see it again.
Tarantino's shot at World War II was a great one. He captured the essence of the complexities of crossing cultures. Very well written. Witty, clever dialogue as in every Tarantino film. I had read the script and thought it was better written then shot.Christoph Waltz was amazing as Col. Hans Landa. He was very charming, yet chilling. He was terrifying. He was very polite and articulate, yet undeniably frightening. Fantastic performance by Mr. Waltz. He should be a least nominated for the Academy award.Brad Pitt was somewhat an insignificant part. He played it well, and he was actually quite hilarious. I just would've liked to see him play a bigger part in the actual slaughter of the Nazi soldiers.Overall, an incredibly entertaining film. I'm happy to see Quentin back in the mix of things. I was very delighted to watch this bloody masterpiece.
"I think this just might be my masterpiece", Brad Pitt says near the end of Inglourious Basterds. The line might be a bit blunt, but it is quite clear that this is what Quentin Tarantino aimed for with his one-of-a-kind revisionist World War II spaghetti western of sorts.One element that runs through all of the chapters is the incredible tension that Tarantino squeezes out of his drawn out scenes. Many of them are based on fear of revelation or information asymmetry. Take, for instance, the brilliant opening scene where a dairy farmer is interrogated by Hans Landa about whether or not he is hiding Jews at the farm. After a while, the camera slowly descends to the basement where a family is hiding – a terrific example of trading the element of surprise for the element of suspense. Another one is where the woman (Shosanna Dreyfus) who managed to survive from that scene is meeting Landa again. A third example is the marvellous basement scene in which a group of British and American officers disguised as Germans are forced to play a tense card game with a real German officer. This is also one of the (rather few) scenes were all that tension is released in a violent climax.The film has a great cast overall, but most of the praise has rightly been given to Christoph Waltz as the cunning and almost menacingly polite colonel Hans Landa. I guess it can be equally attributed to Tarantino's writing; in almost every scene Landa seems to have an advantage over his opponent. One such hilarious instance is when he meets Brad Pitt et al. who are disguised as Italians, and it turns out that he speaks perfect Italian; another is when he offers Shosanna an ominous glass of milk.All in all, Inglourious Basterds is a wonderful condensation (actually, maybe not so much a condensation as an expansion) of the things we have come to associate with Tarantino. The film is full of great music, long, dialogue-heavy takes and is filled to the brim with movie references (Pabst is namedropped quite a few times). I am not sure if it actually is his masterpiece, but it is entertaining enough for me to want to see it over and over again.
