Your Name is just a good movie. This movie felt long, but not too long. All the way through, I was asking what would happen next. It was clever, emotional, and left me crying after the movie. The twist was done really well, and I almost wanted to pause the movie. Also, the animation is gorgeous. You get to see detailed images from many angles and perspectives, and there were hundreds of animators! The credits didn't start out with the cast like it usually would. The first thing you saw after a black screen was hundreds of names of animators and designers. I watched this movie again and I still felt my muscles ready to let tears out. I would not recommend this movie any less than the next guy, so what are you waiting for? Get a couple of friends and watch Your Name!


                
Kimi no Nawa is up there with the quality of work Studio Ghibli makes. It's a journey in a world breathing with atmosphere, mystery, and visual wonder. A journey about growth and resilience in the face of overwhelming odds. A journey about human emotion that transcends space and time, as we watch our two protagonists struggle relentlessly against fate. A journey that might just be one of the most captivating anime movie experiences I've had in years. Director Makoto Shinkai's artistry is something people tend to love or hate, but this film is solid proof to all of his disdainful critics that his movies were never "just eye candy". They explore the nature of life and relationships in quiet ways rarely seen or discussed, which is why most of them are not fast-paced or action packed...and why they are so beautiful. But even if you're not a fan of this kind of style with its major use of metaphorical imagery and mixture of subtle and explosive emotions, definitely give Kimi no Nawa a chance. This is by far his most ambitious, original movie in many ways. For instance, there's an actual mystical element to the story apart from his previous films that are set purely on realism. The pacing is a lot faster and intense. There's a surprising amount of humor in the script, making the chemistry between the characters more light-hearted and comically entertaining than expected. All of this is done through a narrative vision so emotional, so brilliantly realized, that I'm pretty sure everyone at the Anime Expo world premiere screening was tearing up, including me. Without spoiling, what mainly drives this film's story is the dynamics of our main characters' relationship. The way these two interact is just so unique and lovable. The premise itself allows them to bond on a more personal level, far more intriguing than the usual teenage love story where boy meets girl, boy likes girl, boy gets girl. Eventually, you become so invested in their strange relationship, that when all the action goes down, it's no longer just suspenseful - it's almost heartbreaking. Editing and sound design play a HUGE role in this immersion. There's rarely a single dull moment because of how gripping and emotionally driven the timing of every cut is. The sound design combined with a beautiful music score is outstanding - subtle and moving when creating atmosphere, powerful at times of dramatic conflict. In fact, the same can be said for pretty much all of the visual aesthetics - which if I haven't already mentioned, are amazing. This is a prime example of astonishingly jaw-dropping animation combined with powerful storytelling.Kimi no Nawa is not just any anime movie. It has the potential to be viewed and studied as art cinema. It's so beautifully crafted and meticulously detailed, I feel like I didn't even cover 80% of its greatness in this review. To do that, I would have to make a spoiler analysis review, and to do that, I would probably have to see the movie again, maybe a couple more times before I can fully appreciate this nearly flawless masterpiece. I know I sound like I'm fanboying, but as a film student and anime fan for many years, I'm being fully honest here - if Director Makoto Shinkai keeps this kind of quality up, he is going to be an even bigger name in the anime industry for years to come. Remember Your Name long enough until it's available in your country, if you're not seeing it in Japan theaters. Because trust me, you're not going to forget it. 10/10


                
In truth, the most competitive area of fiction is not invasions from outer space or talking dogs or impossible missions but rather the most basic narrative of all, the love story.And this is also the most overcrowded field, and the most difficult to do right.This film, this story, is extraordinary. It reminds me of MY SASSY GIRL, a love story from Asia that captured the imagination of the world and has almost become a franchise, it's been copied so many times.It also brings to mind Richard Matheson's classic BID TIME RETURN, another love story for the ages that uses time juxtaposition. (Done as the movie SOMEWHERE IN TIME, 1980).I already gave this the highest rating on the IMDb.The animation is stunning and complimentary to this one-of-a-kind tale.All things considered, I would like to avoid the ongoing arguments about which Japanese animation studio is better, or worse, than the other. I prefer to simply be grateful that Japanese anime exists at all, because I cannot imagine any other country producing something this moving, this powerful, in graphic form.


                
I went in to see Kimi no Na ha without knowing anything about the movie. I had simply been intrigued by the movie poster with the comet as a background to two high school students living in wildly different environments - and the excellent reviews on its Friday release convinced me to see it just the day after.Not knowing anything about the movie made me relish every single moment of it. The two main characters would, it seems, never have the occasion to meet each other, but through a mysterious circumstance are led to share some of their waking hours with each other. At first, the movie struck a compelling, funny and nostalgic view at high school life in Japan, love, friendship, puberty, teenage angst and some elements of mysticism. It felt like a very fresh and charming sentimental love comedy with a dash of depth and teenage angst. And it already utterly captured me at that point.Yet midway, the movie veers resolutely into dramatic, and more mystical territory, while managing to keep the lighthearted tone it had reached during the first half at just the right moments. Together with one of the main characters, I was shocked and powerless upon learning of one aspect that had eluded both protagonists, as well as the audience. At the same time, a trope often used in science-fiction got thrown into the mix and the stakes suddenly get much higher, making me look back to the first half of the movie and thinking "wwwooooowww I get it now", while following the paths of the protagonists, which, just like the Kumi Himo (thread making?) that Miyamizu Shrine makes, represent time itself. Meeting, diverging, tangling, getting cut, doubling back. The second half of the film is a perfect adventure, full of suspense, humor, hope, and yes, tears. And at some points, it gets close to tragedy (one scene in a train left a huge lump in my throat). In some respect it reminded me of Spirited Away (my long time favorite animation movie), in which both main characters grow thanks to the other, and whose paths had crossed and would cross again, beyond memory or reality.Saying more would spoil the movie, so I have been very, very vague. Suffice it to say the movie made me laugh, cry, get the goosebumps, and got me to the edge of my seat at some points. It really had great storytelling, pacing, characters, and emotions throughout. I loved it.The visuals were also gorgeous. Absolutely gorgeous. Tokyo is more real than the real Tokyo, and the director, animators, background artists, and computer artists seem to have devilish fun playing with lighting and getting some of the most beautiful scenes and moments I can recall in an animation movie.I should mention the music as well, which was very, very good. I know RADWIMPS (I went to see them live a couple of years back), but was surprised at the tone they achieved, and how well it fit with the movie - the music, along with the visuals, really help in getting a full immersion into the story.However, some of the most hilarious jokes in the movie seem to be untranslatable to English - in particular the "dialects" of the main characters, as well as a specific moment that makes use of several of the ways that Japanese people use to refer to themselves, depending on context and sex (watashi, watakushi, boku, ore). So I'm looking forward to seeing how those scenes will be handled in the translation!I have since seen the movie one more time, bought the OST, and bought and read the novelization (which is almost like the movie, but does give more insight into each character's thoughts and thought processes.). Highly recommended!


                
So the movie is named "Your name?" and its a perfect title, it doesn't reveal anything about the content and yet it caught my interest. I tend to watch animated movies because they have so much more to offer at the same time it is a tougher competition.The story line is really good, why? Well it you are open minded it will be pretty easy to follow and accept what is going on, question about how and why get answered by themselves if you believe it is possible. Regarding the animation it give you what your mainstream point of view of Japans architecture, nature, culture and society, all from how they dress to the body language etc. The music, sound effects and voice actor/actress amplifies the emotions and guides you from start till end. There are plenty of a messages and it makes me thing about me and everything living around me, where I come from and where I am going. Regarding the character development its spot on, no more information was needed then what was provided, we are limited but at the same time free to make our own thought.I wish to say thank you to everyone who have supported and/or worked with this piece of art, they should feel really proud of themselves, it is an honor that you shared it with us (the viewers). Thank you!


                
Absolutely fantastic! Recommended for everyone.Just watch it.Amazing characters, scenery, city life and town life, story. Everything is just wow. So fine! The suspension, the empathy, the scenes. The thoughts. It's playful and pleasant, but serious and funny at the same time. It makes you want to feel it and live it, while you just keep cheering for everything.This 1.5 hours was one of the most well spent time in my life. It was so good, that I actually sit down and wondered why we can't we live like that? Why can't we be in that village? In that anime Tokyo?Every minute is a time well-spent. It's a time SO well spent, that I was afraid when it's going to end. I literally just realized that this would be the end of an anime. Than this would be the end of an hour long movie.I was so afraid when it's going to end. It borough such a beautiful and marvelous utopia before my eyes, with all it's mistakes, conflicts. That I actually wanted to live there. I actually realized however, that I'm not good of a person to be worthy of such utopia.However it is very close to reality. Every time something out of order happens, you remember. This is a certain reality. People can die, be ashamed, punished. Everything can end in a tragedy. But when something wrong happens, nobody really cares.. and I was like: "Why? Why aren't you moving? Are you not afraid for your lives?" Than I remembered.. this is a certain utopia. Even for the people who live in it. Nothing bad happen to them, nothing really could. They are peaceful, good people, in a modern world. Nothing bad happened in the last 3 generation, why would anything happen now?This movie gave me a new set of feelings, viewpoints, happiness, thoughts and desires, I might have lacked or just not realized before. I'm really glad I watched it. It was a piece from my dreams.


                
'Your Name' is not just one of the best animes in recent years (and there have been some very good ones), but one of the best animes ever from personal opinion.Will go even further, saying it's one of the best animated films in recent years, one of the best animated or otherwise films of the year and that it rivals the masterworks of Miyazaki. This is a huge compliment, for any anime, animated film or even any film, and a bold claim that still stands. Much of it is to do with how 'Your Name's' stayed with me and the impact it's had, a film once seen but never forgotten.The animation in 'Your Name' is stunning, so beautifully and intricately drawn with immaculate attention to detail in the backgrounds and a simply breath-taking array of ethereal but also atmospheric colours. The music fits the film's atmosphere with no problem at all and also works wonders as a soundtrack on its own, serving superbly as music on its own.Meanwhile, the script is thought-provoking and touching, with much to say and explored expertly and neatly with no heavy-handedness. The storytelling engages throughout, sucks one into its world and never lets go of the immersing and is enormously heartfelt, really investing in the characters' chemistry and their love for each other. Pacing is deliberate, but never drags due to the emotional impact and how well realised the characters are, even when noticeably slower in the second half.Characters, and the film's themes, are brilliantly written and developed, and the voice acting is emotive and fit the characters with no qualms.In summary, a truly magnificent film all round that will be remembered for years to come. Deserves all the raves it's gotten, and deserving of even more. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I have followed Makoto Shinkai's older works and most of them really have a bad ending, though still good, but this movie's sweet. He really know how to play with our emotion, especially for his work's fans who have followed his works, i'm hoping its not a bad ending during the entire movie.But man, this work is a true masterpiece. When i looked at Makoto's older works, I suddenly think, he had the potential to beat Miyazaki's spirited away, and there he goes. I'm not saying this is better than spirited away, they had a different genre and makoto had his own stunning style.How this piece of animation would turn my emotion really hard? Even Spirited Away, When Marnie was There, and 5cm per second can't do that. This is a movie that you must watch before you die, really.


                
This was absolutely amazing... the trailer made it seem like a stereotypical "boy meets girl, etc." story... but from the beginning to the end, the movie rotated from a past and present time-line, only proving in the end that time itself was twisted the entire movie - giving us viewers an extremely well written and original plot. The chemistry between the characters, development, music, pacing, animation, everything was absolutely in chorus in the most beautiful way. I cannot even compare this to Studio Ghibli films, not because it's better or not as good, but because it is just a movie of its own caliber. Studio Ghibli films were a lot more fictional, fantasy, and imaginative - free formed and had its own flow. Kimi no Na Wa was cleverly planned out from the first minute to the last, logical, balanced, yet just as if not more breathtaking.
It's been a while since I've seen something outside of Studio Ghibli, being the most recent When Marnie Was There. I'm not familiar with Makoto Shinkai's work but this certainly encourages me to watch the rest of his catalog. I knew nothing about the film until only the day before seeing it, instantly attracted to the poster and the mini synopsis of two high school teens from opposite sides of the country, who periodically switch in their dreams. Gladly I didn't read anymore into it and just went to watch it as there's so much more to the intriguing story at face value. It's a little confusing at times bouncing between the two characters, but that doesn't deter the enjoyment and wonderment of the film. We follow quiet country school girl Mitsuha voiced by Mone Kamishiraishi, going about her daily chores and traditions in a village shrouded by folklore and superstition with mayor-elect pushing for advancement. All this while we also follow rough-and-ready city boy, Taki, voiced by Ryûnosuke Kamiki, who is no stranger to voice acting, starring in Spirited Away at the age of eight and later in Howl's Moving Castle. The two become celestially bound to one another without fully understanding how, or even knowing who each other are, which leads them both on an adventure of discovery, comical annoyance and eventual romance. It's perfectly balanced between the two even with a number of interesting side characters, each adding something to the intricacies of the plot and supplying a lot of the light-hearted comedy. The scenery and animation is stunning, vibrant and beautifully breathtaking; with blinding lens flares and gorgeous landscapes that fill the entirely screen. It's superbly paced, perfectly edited so not to make a mess of the constant jumps. The score by the Japanese rock band, Radwimps is simply amazing, perfect for the film with a mixture of teeny pop/rock and pleasant instrumentals, with surprising tracks like "Kataware Doki" using soft pianos and strings. It's a score Final Fantasy composer, Nobuo Uematsu would be proud of. There are some films that are not meant to be for live action, showcasing the stunning craftsmanship and elegant talent of the skilled animators and artists, this being one of those films. The actual anime capturing the magical essence of the heartfelt story that I don't believe can be replicated as good live. Cosmically enchanting, touching and visually beautiful. Certainly the best anime I've seen this year. Running Time: 9 The Cast: 9 Performance: 9 Direction: 10 Story: 10 Script: 10 Creativity: 10 Soundtrack: 9 Job Description: 10 The Extra Bonus Points: 10 for being such a wonderful, beautiful, romantic story, magical in every sense. Would I buy the Bluray?: Definitely 96% 10/10


                
I started watching this movie with high expectations,but somehow this movie managed to be exceed them.Movie didn't just look amazing,which is expected from Makoto Shinkai,but story is amazing as well,it manages to keep attention of viewer from start to finish,and as movie progress it just gets better and better.I think that everyone that loves movies should watch this.Even if someone doesn't like animated movies they should give this movie a try.Also i love how some little things that at first seem meaningless at the end of movie get amazing meaning. Personally i think this is best work that Makoto Shinkai made by far,its above all of his previous works,and doesn't have flaws that some of his other works had.


                
which movie includes time travel, destructive meteor shower,heart-wrenching tragedy,mesmerizing romance,wonderfully extravagant art and many more genres in 1.5 hours,none to my knowledge.'your name' is a beautiful blend of sci-fi, thriller ,romance.I watched the movie just after it's release and believe me i found no reason to blink my eye, it is yet another masterpiece by makoto shinkai.when watching Japanese anime movies, the westerners usually prefer studio ghibli's work , but after this many might reconsider this.if you want to know what I'am speaking about just watch it and you would cherish those 1.5hrs of emotions filed with love,agony,tragedy,joy.And please believe me this is no exaggeration.while watching the movie you will feel your heart racing craving for more drama,romance but still you want to know how it ends and amid-st this confusion you will be using your brains to understand what is going on.And when it ends you will be realizing that it is the one epic movie that will go on in your "the best movies i've ever watched" list. And the next moment you will be writing or telling about the movie to your friends.P.S Just consider watching it and you will never regret it.
Your Name is a journey about growth and having the ability to bounce back when thrown against overpowering hardships. It's a journey that focuses on human emotion that are larger than time and space. It's a journey of where we watch our protagonists struggle again and again against destiny. And it's one of the greatest animated journeys you will ever experience.Watch the review at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p7v32c900F4 and / or read along hereYour Name follows a girl from the country and a boy from the city who have never met that switch bodies when they dream. This movie may seem like your romantic-comedy body-swap situation. But it will surprise you how in depth the gets. The storytelling here is top notch, because you understand everything, but when you think about it, the concept gets quite confusing, but because of the brilliant direction my Shinkai, he somehow makes it understandable. The two protagonists are the driving force of the film instead of Shinkai's normal eye candy visual sell outs. Within the great writing are actually some very funny and memorable conversations. The comedy works well to add another layer to the great chemistry between the protagonists. Props to the actors.It was just so fun watching the dynamic feelings of these two and I loved how the two genders figured each other out while inhabiting the others' body. I was a little confused when a lot of the first act is dedicated to the girl, without really seeing the movie from the boy she's swapping with, his view. But the movie surprised me when something happened to the girl and we see the boy for most of the rest of the movie. So actually the screen time for both protagonists were quite similar. That blew me away.If you delve deep into his work Shinkai tends to break the forth wall often in the way he portrays emotions. He, in a way, makes you reflect upon your own life, and all his movies are really, really relatable. He makes you look back on dark times, times you don't really want to think about again and he says a different messages every movie. A big part of the film was it's editing and sound design. This all helped with the immersion. Every scene is dripping with hidden details covered in immense beauty sugar coated with an outstanding soundtrack played by Radwimps.And although the end is predictable, it did what 5 Centimetres Per Second didn't do. It left me satisfied. What seemed like a stupid idea turned into Your Name. And it's not just another Japanese animation. There are so many scenes where it feels like the Shinkai just pulls the rug from underneath you, like the movie doesn't always follow the normal routine. I felt so many emotions in this movie.It grips you in that way and shows that every second in the movie and in life is important.This movie takes every awesome element that Shinkai has ever used in his films and are all constrained into this movie. This film has jaw dropping photo-realistic visuals with beautiful Japanese voice work, great cinematography, laugh out loud comedy, gripping story, insane twists, looming soundtrack, heart racing action, unforgettable quotes.But the best part about this movie is that it has very few mistakes. Everything is in the film for a reason. Still, I don't feel like I've covered most of the points of why this movie was so good without spoiling anything. But I can say that when I watched it, it was something special. Looking around at other reviews and forums, I have a feeling, that this will be regarded as one of the best animated movies ever made.A+10 / 10Watch more reviews like this at https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfNozbWd9SJYYwLK2zYn_AA


                
I don't have much to say because I'm completely stunned after watching this movie. This movie is unbelievable. It's one of the best films I've ever seen. I just finished watching it about an hour ago, and I'm still reeling. Reader: I don't know what you want from your films. But this movie is one of the most charming, transporting, amazing movies I've ever seen. I cannot recommend more.


                
I have rated more than 1000 movie on IMDb. So, when I write that this is the best movie I have ever seen and the only movie that I wrote a review about, I mean it. I always had a deep fear that I will never meet my other half, and this movie perfect capture that feeling. There is a pain when you wake from a perfect dream and you realize that you will forget about this perfect world, that was your whole world for that few moments. I am afraid that I will cross the one without even saying hi to her. I will say this is a must watch movie for everyone. Good graphics, excellent story, and you are genuinely happy at the end of the movie.


                
Your Name is a lively combination of romance, identity, and culture. I went into the film with a very little understanding of the plot's complexities. From the trailer, I assumed Your Name would be an anime Freaky Friday love story. The framework of the narrative certainly fits into my initial assumption. Yet, there is a multitude of undercurrents in the film which make Your Name stand out. For starters, Your Name constantly changes themes and mood. Often, I found myself laughing and, a few minutes later, would suddenly be on the verge of tears. The movie's eclectic flow makes for a constantly engaging experience. The Freaky Friday element is roughly half of the film's two-hour runtime. In fact, a plot twist in the film literally took my breath away. Your Name is the rare film which combines overwhelming variety and makes everything fit organically. Through variety, the anime earns a conventional ending between protagonists, Mitsuha and Taki. While body switching is the plot's main intrigue, the film adds complexity through its exploration of Japanese culture. Japanese gender identity is explored with such a masterful hand. In subtle strokes, the viewer understands the sheer contrast in the lives of Japanese men and women. For example, a group of men have a crush on a female co-worker; Mitsuha, in Taki's body, simply initiates conversation with the desired woman and, with ease, sets up a date. When Taki is back to normal the next day, his male coworkers all line up disgusted by his act of group betrayal. The scene effectively demonstrates the strength of the herd like quality of gender in Japan. It's no surprise then when Taki, in Mitsuha's body, finds such humorous wonder in the breasts he suddenly gains. A contrast can also be noticed in the struggle between the past and present. The present is Taki's experience of Tokyo. Likewise, the past is illustrated by Mitsuha's familial duty to her small town's local shrine. In other words, the film merges Japanese spirituality with modern sensibilities. A desire to escape and return to the country define the film's ecliptic take on Japan. Mitsusha is your typical country girl with a thirst for a life in the city. Meanwhile, Taki finds beauty in Mitsuha's country town. The viewer amusingly experiences each setting (Tokyo and Itomori) through the unique lens of the protagonists. Ultimately, a comet and local god guide the distant figures into a surprising collision course. As a result, fate is sealed by the two somewhat metaphysically dissimilar sources. The forces of science and divinity augment Your Name into making the seemingly fated connection all the more plausible. The film is a testament of the "opposites attract" sentiment. In summary, the film has a real beating heart. I will end my review saying Your Name is the best looking animated film I have ever seen. The colors are always pleasingly vibrant. Additionally, all of the scenes are lovingly rendered and pulsating with life. I haven't walked out of a theatre with such a positive perspective on life in a long time. If you live in a city, you ought to take the time to experience this anime masterpiece.


                
Your Name is one of my favorite movies of all time and will always have a special place in my heart. Its animation, soundtrack, story, everything about it is just amazing and something barely seen. The Idea that the two main characters switch bodies every once in a while is something almost never seen in anime and it pulls it off perfectly. It has one of the biggest twists and a very satisfying ending that will keep you on your toes for the whole of part 2 just to get to it. You can tell that there was an immense amount of effort and passion put into this film and I beg you to watch this masterpiece.


                
No spoilers.Just made an IMDb account just to give this movie a 10. I've never reviewed any movie online before. But this movie is a perfect 10, and if you haven't watched it then you're missing out on so much.The music, the characters, the voice acting, the plot - literally all 10/10. You'll feel all sorts of emotions watching this movie. Easily one of my top 5


                
This film will leave you speechless - it is quite simply one of the most beautifully crafted films I've ever seen. The animation is breathtaking and possibly the most beautiful animation ever put to screen. There really are no words to capture exactly how it makes you feel because this is simply a film that will move you in inexplicable ways. Sit down, enter the world that Makoto Shinkai has presented to us and soak in all of the magic. Un-be-lievable experience!


                
I created an IMDB account to comment on this movie. It's amazing.


                
Let me say first that this piece of art is so impressive to me that I doubt that my words would be sufficient to describe how I feel and think about it. Therefore I will try to use an analogy, so bear with me. But beforehand let me quickly mention that the formal and technical sides of this movie are very good - nothing to complain. There should not be any doubt about that. The drawings are beautiful, the animation is fluid, the colors are well chosen, the music is composed and played gorgeous.Now regarding the content: To me personally it is nothing less than a masterpiece; no way around it. It is not merely a movie it is a piece of art like a poem, like a (metaphysical) parable. It is one of the movies that are enjoyable to think about because they are complete, because they are whole - like a an organism. If a regular narrative is a line this movie is a circle. (not circular)The experiential aspect I can only describe by means of an analogy: like the tongue distinguishes a handful of tastes the soul distinguishes a handful of emotions like joy, sadness, fear, surprise and so on. Something could feel sad like something can taste sweet but that does not say anything about the complex quality behind that sweetness. Just because chocolate and bananas are both sweet does not mean they taste the same. Are you following?Likewise not every sad movie is sad in the same way. It does not have always the sadness of the same kind, it can be of a well composed kind of sadness or of a cheap and poor kind. They taste different. So applied to the movie I can say, without exaggeration, that I have never tasted such rich and well-composed emotions, feelings and thoughts in one movie. Such an exotic taste. Partially this move has something of a myth, it gives you a glimpse of the indescribable. In this case, in "your name", time and first love plays a role but again: in an exotic way I have never encountered before. In conclusion: Any adjectives like "beautiful" or "brilliant" would only cause insufficient associations that wont do justice to that artwork. Just like you wouldn't ever be able to feel the taste of an exotic food or fruit by the mere description you got you cannot even conceptualize how this movies "tastes". My recommendation is - taste and see that your name is good!


                
I'll be honest with you, I'm not the biggest fan of anime. Not in the sense that I particularily dislike it but rather in the sense that I haven't seen that many anime shows or movies. Of course I've seen most of the Ghibli films but that's pretty standard even for a normie like me. In terms of Makoto Shinkai I hadn't seen a whiff before I saw Your Name (Kimi no na wa). However this one reached such an unsual amount of praise and attention compared to other anime films that even I got curious after some time. Could this movie be worth all the hype? Could it appeal even to someone relatively unversed in anime? And the answer was a thousand times yes! Your Name contains everything you could ask for out of any movie, not just animated ones. Romance, heart, passion, visual splendor, suspense, humour and much more. Many of these things have been lacking in most recent Hollywood movies as they seem to be getting more and more transparent in how safe they're playing it and how unpassionate their films are. I never thought to look to a whole other culture to find all these things that I've wanted more of for so long, but here we are! Your Name is beautiful in every sense of the word. Firstly from a visual standpoint. By now I've seen quite a few Shinkai movies and they all look really great, but man does he outdo himself here! Every movement looks fluent, every colour is expressive and vibrant, every expression on the faces of the characters looks natural. The whole movies is gorgeous because of all of these things, but the final act is where it really pops thanks to the grand epic scale of what is happening on screen. But perfect visuals are nothing without a good story, and thankfully Your Name has it. You've probably heard that the premise is that a boy named Taki and a girl named Mitsuha start switching bodies inexplicably. I think you should watch this movies with a clear mind, so I won't say anymore, just know that there's more to it than that, and the film takes many unexpected twists and turns. Also I need to touch on the fantastic soundtrack by RADWIMPS. I wasn't sure if their music would work well together with this rather dramatic and lofty premise, but the music is such a perfect fit for the visuals and it always seems to exactly match the emotion that is being created by the scene. I have all the songs on my playlists now and I listen to them practically every day during my spare time, it's that good!By the end of the film I felt like I had had such a complete experience. I had been laughing, I had been moved deeply by the dramatic scenes and I had been gasping at the visual spectacle. I really do not know how anybody could watch this film and end up finding nothing to like, it really does feel like there is something here for everyone. What I ask most of all out of any movie, is to entertain me and to move me, and Your Name did that better than most movies I have ever seen. It really did give me everything I could possibly want!


                
Your name is a unique screenplay with a unique story twist the film is full of drama / romance even mystery
a great story with a great fiction the graphic that is perfect, Comfortable and attractive with a great soundtrack that get you in the mood
The most interesting thing about the film is the design of characters, their behavior and their causes
And the new fiction
the plot was interesting and it was flow very well


                
I might have found it.I can only describe You Name as masterpiece a term that have only used for a small handful of films that I have watched throughout my life.I've seen Shinkai's previous films which I really enjoyed but this is his greatest work so far. Forget the comparisons to Miyazaki because although Your Name is beautifully animated, has a wonderful score and weaves a engrossing tale it has little in common with Miyazaki's work other than the media - that's not to say it's any lesser piece of work.If you have seen the trailer you'll probably think that this won't will be much different to other body swap films or anime that you might have seen, however Your Name is much more than that and deftly mixes various genres to make a very satisfying whole and everything about this film is pitch perfect.The first act sets up the body swap scenario and this section is sweet, funny and charming. It really helps the audience to get to know and care about the characters while it also mostly sidesteps many of the clichés as the body swap is less about gender and more about city vs countryside, modern vs tradition, dreams vs reality and of course distance.However as the first act comes to a close - just when you think you know where the film is going Miyazaki pulls the rug from under your feet with a twist that you won't see coming (despite some hints). Unlike most films where the 'big twist' seems tacked on or used in an attempt to make something seem clever, the twist in Your Name feels completely organic and deserved.It's here where the tone changes and that kind of shift is really hard to pull off however Miyazaki handles it brilliantly, as the tone shift never jars against the first act it actually compliments it!. The rest of Your Name has an utterly beautiful sense of melancholy and longing which most films would find hard to equal.I don't want to reveal any more about the film as you really need to experience for yourself. Needless to say that the films visuals are gorgeous but special mentions for the editing which I thought was amazing and the score and songs by Radwimps which really helped the film find it's heart.I don't often cry at films especially if it feels they are attempting to force an emotion from me. Beauty or genus tend to make me cry and for the last 15-20 minutes of Your Name tears streamed down my face.Highly recommended, a must see! You don't have to be an Anime fan to enjoy this!
Had Already watched the Japanese version and now watched the English dub version (which had average voice acting/. Still can't get over how amazing this movie is. I was under a lot of depression when I went to watch it , knowing very little about what was at offer. And boy was I entertained! Since then, I've bought the soundtrack album in Japanese, read the novel on which the movie is made and amongst all this , my depression has cured. It's unbelievable! There's nothing wrong with the movie at all! The rating <U+2049> 11/10 for me! :P PS those who still don't trust all the positive user reviews should just realize that the metascore is 78! It's not easy at all to get that high number. The bottom line being that it's a roller coaster ride of emotions that is bound to make a long lasting impact upon you. Highly recommend watching it in Japanese as that's how the director wants us to see it.


                
