THIS REVIEW IS ABOUT THE STORY. EVERYTHING ELSE (ART, SECONDARY CHARACTERS, ATMOSPHERE) IS GREAT.A boy and a girl discover that some days, their lives are swapped, which they only remember as dreams afterwards.You see the love story coming between those two ? Color me naive, but I didn't.First, it's one of the most contrived premises you could have for a love story. Second, there's like a million stories you could tell with such a premise, why take the less original ? Of all the funny, awkward, insightful etc. things that could happen to two people who exchange lives, why go for the most clichéd ?But OK, let's accept that they fall in love with each other. After all, a lot of the emotional impact of the second half of the movie hinges on their being infatuated with each other. But we're never shown that happen ! The most we're shown for Mitsuha (the girl) is that she takes an interest in Taki's (the boy) life. I guess it could count as both reason and show of her growing fondness for him. As limited as it is, at least it's a small hint that something's happening.We're not so lucky with Taki.After his date with his female coworker, she guesses that he's recently fallen for another woman. At that point I thought she guessed wrong, because nothing we see supports that idea. But I'm more and more convinced that she's conveying the message of the authors : at that moment, they're flatly informing us that Taki is falling for Mitsuha.What do they say again in storytelling school ? "Show, don't tell." Well, it's a typical example of telling, not showing.It's like the movie is trolling us : "Oh, btw, Taki's totally into Mitsuha now ! A lot of stuff happened, but we didn't think it was worth showing, even though ALL we're showing you are those 2 very characters. U mad ?"Just to be clear, I'm not saying that he has no reason for falling in love. He has plenty ! If you've seen the movie, here's a quick quiz. Taki falls in love with Mitsuha because :a) he's attracted by her looksb) he's impressed by her skillsc) he's thankful for her helpd) he remembers their first encounter in the subwaye) they're soulmatesf) any of the other bazillion possible reasons ?You don't know ? Nobody does ! Because we don't see their love bloom.As it is, this love story misses its core, its pivotal moment. It's a love story without romance.Little annoyances :Memories and messages appear and disappear so as to fit the plot's needs so perfectly that we have left the lands of Plot Convenience to enter the realm of Plot Laziness.The second part is so clichéd that at any point you can safely guess what happens in the next 15 minutes.Mitsuha convinces her father at the end in a deeply moving and insightful argument. Well, I guess, because we're TOLD, NOT SHOWN (uuuuugh)
When I first saw Your Name, I enjoyed it for the most part. I thought the pop music montages and dialogue were pretty cringey, but overall the film was visually and atmospherically impressive enough for me to fall for it.After a recent rewatch, I was actually shocked at how emotionally manipulative and utterly devoid of substance this movie really is. I'll break everything down for this:The body swapping is a fairly generic idea, but they could have done a lot with it. Unfortunately it fails on so many levels to further cement the idea of the two protagonists exploring each other's lives and personalities, and instead the movie tricks the viewer into thinking that this actually happens. The two leads never learn about each other's lives from swapping bodies on any emotional level, instead those cringey montages that I mentioned before gloss over this important aspect that should have been more properly handled. This is also extremely problematic since we're supposed to believe that Taki and Mitsuha actually fall in love with each other, but we never find out why. They don't learn anything from living as the opposite gender either, in fact the story relies on breakage of character for comical effect. For example, the normally androgynously behaved and chilled-out Taki acts like a sporty, aggressive, manly-man while in Mitsuha's body.SPOILERS: The second half of the movie is just as disastrous as the disaster it depicted. Not only does it abruptly drop the comedic tone of the first half of the movie, but it handles disaster and loss rather badly too. It relies far too heavily on the protagonists making dumb decisions, wasting time complaining about nothing, retardedly running around for no reason, and idiotically forgetting each other's names. All this is made even more unbearable by yet another wave of godawful pop music montages and cringey dialogue. In the end there's no emotional loss in Your Name. There's no sacrifice, no learning from your mistakes, because in the end the protagonists just reverse the timeline and save the day. But now they've forgotten about each other forever? Surely there's a bittersweet ending? Nope, they get reunited and live happily ever after in the end, that's what happens. That time wasting ordeal of running around and forgetting each other's names meant nothing in the end.Even though there are also many MANY plot holes that I didn't mention, Your Name's number one issue boils down to the atrocious writing and badly thought out story and characters. I still adore the film's visuals and immersive atmosphere, but it simply falls flat as a story.


                
I am very conflicted with this film. On one hand I liked the technical aspects of it: it's music, color, scenery and amazing animation. All of that is good. On the other, I didn't liked the story, for me it was too forced and melodramatic. Of course not all of it is bad, the characters were OK and some moments were entertaining. But when I look back at the film, the bad moments overshadow the good ones. I think that my main problem is that the "fantastic" aspect of it was used as a plot device. It gave the movie a good premise but it also took a lot of fun from it. For me, it felt that it didn't had rules, that the movie was just inventing something new all the time and improvising its own plot. They didn't even gave an explanation for many of the things in the film.Another think I didn't liked is that it feels like this movie is manipulating you into crying. Of course, every movie manipulates us in a certain way. But here it is very obvious, this is proved by its use of very melodramatic music and constant uses of over dramatic monologues. I didn't hated this movie, I just thought that it wasn't as good as it could have been. Kimi no na wa had an interesting premise but its story is what holds it from being good. Maybe if it was told another way, for example like a mystery, it could have been better.


                
Seeing how this movie quickly jumped to the top of MAL ratings, I just had to check it out. Last time that happened, it was with Erased and we all saw how overrated that one was. So, here I am watching the movie, wondering what could possibly be the reason it was rated so high, and why everybody calls it the best anime of all times, only to realize it's because it is exactly like Erased.The first half is a typical school comedy in the likes of Kokoro Connect. A boy and a girl occasionally switch bodies and try to adjust to their new lifestyle. What caused this weird phenomenon? We are never told; it's the power of plot convenience. How did they accept this sudden change that would normally drive them insane, and instead managed to adjust to each other's timetable and occupations in a single day? Stop thinking about it, just enjoy the occasional naughty touches, such as the boy groping the breasts while in the female body, or the girl making a woman to fall in love with her while in the male body. It made no sense in how easily they went along with it, but it was fun seeing them affecting the lives of each other. Up until the midpoint, it was a nicely animated and safe pass timer I would easily score a bit above average.And then the second half begins and everything stops making sense. They are not simply switching bodies, they are also traveling in time. Something they didn't realize for many weeks because they never attempted to communicate with each other via phones or the internet. Also, apparently nobody ever mentions the year or talks about recent events in this setting.Although they exist in different time lines, they still manage to meet with each other. First physically by complete accident inside a train, where the boy completely forgets about her, although he was constantly in her body for weeks. And then they meet again in spirit form, thanks to the power of plot convenience. Both meetings had zero purpose to the plot, other than hinting the two of them are in love, although they never exchanged a single word face to face without forgetting it a few seconds later. Because we apparently didn't have enough bull yet, we need to add amnesia to the mix.As it happens in all stories about time travel, the characters are eventually trying to change history. More specifically, to prevent the deaths of hundreds of people by a passing comet, an event that devastated the country and became the most tragic comet disaster in recorded history. But apparently that wasn't important enough for the boy to remember, since he somehow never heard about it.And none of that matter since the girl manages to convince her own father to evacuate the people in time, all of which happens out of screen since there is no way they could show it in a way that makes sense. Thus the tragedy is prevented and it somehow doesn't cause a time paradox for the boy, because plot convenience. Some years later, the two of them accidentally meet each other once again, and magically remember everything thanks to the power of bullshit. Then the movie ends and you are free to kill yourself.That was terrible. The movie is abusing every lazy plot convenience there is without ever trying to explain or excuse anything. Everything is beautifully animated in order to maximize the feels without having a speck of logic in whatever is going on. You are supposed to shut your brain because of the pretty colors, laugh while they are groping breasts, cry when the girl is running in the woods, and don't give a fart about the plot.Yet another example of why modern anime are nothing more than pretty boxes with nothing inside. Time resets, amnesia, and zero explanations, because who the hell is watching anime for quality? It's all trash entertainment for people who want to escape reality.
I am a great anime fan and bought the BluRay edition of this film on the strength of the strong reviews on this and other sites. Having been spoilt by the visual quality of the studio Ghibli films, I assumed 'Your Name' would be of the same standard.Was I disappointed! I found Your Name to be unwatchable 10 minutes in. I persevered and watched it right to the end. I ended up feeling irritated with the visual imprecision, annoyed with myself that I bought it, wondered if this was a defective copy. I don't like scene after scene with blurry, unfocussed edges and centre focus only, I don't like washed out colours, faded clarity of line, image looking like it's been filmed though gauze, use of what appear to be incomplete drafts rather than completed images. Part of the enjoyment of watching individual cell animation is the precision and colours that you simply don't get with 'real film'. Don't expect that here.Most of the reviews here are of the storyline, and comment on the visuals, if at all, in general terms. Film is a visual medium. No amount of brilliant story line can compensate for inferior visuals. And in this day and age there is no longer any excuse for poor visuals.I'm most disappointed in this film, I really expected a highly competent visual performance to justify an interesting story. I give it 4 stars of the basis of the few brief undistorted visuals which made it past the editing process. If you're not Into visuals, close your eyes and let it run as the story has interesting moments. If you are into visuals, probably give it a miss.


                
Only graphic and music in this anime are good. Storyline are good, but Meh. Not many other character had screen time, the story just focuses on Taki, Taki, Taki, Taki, Mitsuha, Mitsuha, Mitsuha. And i feel the romance is very forced. I don't know, but i prefer 5cm/s rather than Kimi No Nawa. It's just my opinion, calm down


                
