I apologise to all those captivated by the African landscapes and orchestral harmonies, but this movie is disjointed and shallow. The mass of names credited with the "Story" says it all - this movie is a bunch of disconnected scenes thrown together with absolutely no character cohesion at all. Some examples:Simba and Narla bicker and argue. They then sing "Can you feel the love tonight?" They then IMMEDIATELY continue to bicker and argue, and part ways.Simba goes from little kid to mature adult - Timon and Pumba do not age a day.After Mufasa safely brings himself and Simba up the cliff, he is then thrown to his death, and Simba never sees this as unusual or even wonder why.There are absolutely no male lions anywhere in the entire movie other than Mufasa, Scar and Simba - an entire tribe of Lions at pride rock, with no males at all.Timon and Pumba play absolutely no role in the plot, meaning or interest of the movie. They are shallow comic diversions that have no place being there. Their theme song (Hakuna Matata) contradicts the entire message of the movie, which is to live up to your responsibilities instead of ignoring them.Not one lion in Pride Rock EVER wonders what happened to Simba, and nor does the annoying bird Zazu, who was right there when it all happened - this is utterly ridiculous.Scar would never have simply admitted to killing Mufasa.After years of constant threats and derision, Mufasa is surprised when Scar turns against him, as if he never suspected a thing...I could go on for a long time. This movie makes no sense, it is too scary and murderous for young children, and it completely lacks any emotional involvement with any character. The young Simba is utterly arrogant, the old Simba completely distant, and his change of character totally unbelievable and contrived.Yes, this movie "deals" with many grand themes - it deals with them in the same way a food processor would "deal" with a 3 course meal - mash it all up into random unpalatable rubbish. Yes, the themes are there, but the movie has nothing to say about any of them, and they are presented in a completely disjointed manner. Comparisons to Hamlet is one of the greatest insults possible to Shakespeare.If you want a good kids movie, The Lion King IS NOT IT.
'The Lion King' is a Disney animation about a lion cub named Simba who runs away from his responsibility after thinking that he is to blame for his father's fate. Along the way, Simba meets Timon and Pumba, the comical sidekicks. It's a sad film, but it is a film about life, and it is realistic in that sense. However, 'The Lion King' is probably my least favourite Disney animation. Although Timon and Pumba are supposed to provide the comic relief, I found the couple very annoying. Yes, this film had huge success in the 1990s, but I was never impressed with it. Most people seem to really enjoy this film, so I am probably in the majority for giving it a low rating, but I just did not think it was that good of a film.


                
How overrated can a rubbish film like this get?! It's a mess, it's depressing, it's got dumb comedy - there's only one three good points about this movie and that is the animation, the appealing drama of the stampede scene and a few of the songs; "Can you feel the love tonight?", "I just can't wait to be King!" and "Be Prepared" the rest is simply repelling. I'm a spoilsport - I know! Because everyone else looks at "The Lion King" with awe but I DO think you need to realise the many poor points to this Carlton-film:1. Terrible voice talents 2. Timon and Pumbaa are extremely annoying, offensive to the ears and just plain stupid 3. Simba would rather spend time with Timon and Pumbaa than go to his home at the Pride-Lands where he is desperately needed 4. Scar is also madly irritating rather than a frightening villain 5. Comedy that is stupid rather than funny 6. Adult Simba, it seems to me, so sugary and sentimental 7. Scenes of death 8. Immense depression as Mufasa is killed 9. The hyenas - those annoying, moronic hyena, especially the thorn pit scene! 10. Everyone is intimidated by Scar who, like I say, isn't even slightly scary 11. IT CAME SIXTH IN CHANNEL 4's 100 GREATEST FAMILY FILMS!!!I know I don't have the power to tell people what to like and what to hate, but I hope the list that is further up (of 11 items) might have given you something to ponder on before you watch this trash of a film on either video or DVD. I am a movie-lover and people think I am an expert on this kind of thing. What's more, Christmas 2004 was absolute chaos and thoroughly aggravating because in Hereford (England) there's a horrid, obnoxious, mindless, careless and stupid school called Barrs Court School and its loud-mouthed, unfunny-when-he-tries-to-be-funny, headmaster Richard Aird had organized his own version of the "The Lion King" and it was a complete travesty, utterly poor, pathetically acted by the silly pupils of the school (I didn't bother) and just a heap of cow muck! Hugely undeserving of all the people of this town giving up their time to see it. They're nutty as a fruitcake, if you ask ME! Even though, unlike Richard Aird hopeless, brainless, pointless, pitiful pantomime, Disney's "Lion King" has a professional production, reasonable animation, good drama, and admirable songs, it simply can't stand comparison with Disney's recent animated hits like "Beauty and the Beast" and "Aladdin" - it's too obnoxious and depressing!


                
What could I say ? Disney simply copied one of the most popular japanese animated series and destructed it ! What makes me laugh is that Disney pretended to have worked hours and hours on the backgrounds (if you see a good one, phone me !)...God ! If you want to see the real one, go see "Jungle Taitei", you'll see something really different !


                
I usually enjoy Disney cartoons. However, I remember first seeing this film on the big screen in 1994 and thinking how Disney could have green lit this film with so much cartoon violence.Sure, the story is one of self discovery and finding one's place in the "circle of life". But there are many, many ways to tell the story without senseless violence. I played the film for some small children a few months back and they cried because of the death that happens during the Stampede.To be honest, I can't put my finger on it, but there's just something about this film that makes it unlike the other Disney cartoons and very, very depressing.By the way, the word SEX appears twice in this film. No, it's not the suggested "SFX" and no it's not "unitentional." I will never watch this film if I don't have to; I would rather watch the Chipmunks. 2/10.
I have always loved Disney animations with a few exceptions and this, I am afraid, is one of them. The actual animation is pretty good, though I hate the anthropomorphism of the animals and the dreadful americanisation of the young lions' voices.Rowan Atkinson and Jeremy Irons are the best things in it. The most dreadful thing about the film, though, is the music. Horrible "modern" pop does not work for me and Elton John /Tim Rice combo was a bad choice for writers. I am watching it now as I type and like it even less than I thought I did. I guess an old curmudgeon like me was never the target audience for this as I am aware of it's huge success with most of the cinema-going public. I hanker for the days of Pinocchio, Snow White and Bambi - they never seemed to be as cynical as this movie. They were made with love and commitment rather than an exercise in multimedia marketing.


                
