After seeing the previews several times, I thought I would enjoy a delightful almost-fantasy-like film. But, at age 64, after going to the movies literally hundreds of times in my lifetime, I did something today that I've only ever done 3 times previously -- I walked out of a movie halfway through the picture. I didn't blame Wes Anderson, because clearly his films have a following...but I thought it must be an acquired taste...that I had not acquired. I admitted that it was a uniquely visually pleasing film, but I wondered why so many fine actors agreed to what were rather small parts. At the time I said that this film bored me even more than "Moonrise Kingdom". The the other night it was on cable. I thought I would give it another try, but I fully expected to turn it off at home, also. Perhaps it helped that rather than watch it all in one setting, I broke it into roughly 30 minute segments with breaks in between. Guess what. This time I liked it. I'm not saying I loved it. But I did like it. What did I see this time that I didn't see before. Well, perhaps the tongue-in-cheek attitude of the film. The chance to see Ralph Finnes be downright silly instead of his typical dramatic role. The wonderful photography and special effects. The skill of young actor Tony Revolori. The pleasure of seeing F. Murray Abraham again. And, this time enjoying the many "cameo" shots.I still think it dragged on a bit too long (at 100 minutes there are still a few small bits that could have been edited more tightly or even eliminated). And, I'm still not a raving fan of it. But, this time around I did "like" it. But it won't end up on my DVD shelf, and I doubt I'll watch it again. But, bravo...good (not great) job!
Interesting sets, beautifully locations, wooden characters. Too much of the story takes places in trains, a prison and the countryside. I really wish more of the plot had taken place in the hotel. Following a confusing beginning (there is a double flashback), the story took off without any real direction or reason. When the movie ended, many people in the audience applauded. My feeling was "that's it?" All the ingredients were there but the cake didn't rise.Still, I'm not sorry I saw the movie. It was different and that's always refreshing in a time of cookie-cutter plots.At one point I noticed that the movie was no longer being shown in widescreen but more of a television aspect ratio. Once the movie returned to 1985 or the present, it was widescreen. Weird.
A writer (Jude Law) travels to the decadent Grand Budapest Hotel in the mountains of the Republic of Zubrowka and he meets the owner Mr. Zero Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham), who is a very simple man. Zero invites the author to have dinner with him and he tells his story and how he became the owner of the hotel. In 1932, in the glorious days of the Grand Budapest Hotel, Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori) is hired to work as lobby boy under the command of the legendary concierge Monsieur Gustave H (Ralph Fiennes) that becomes his friend. Gustave manages the hotel and staff and also attends the sexual needs of the old ladies lodged at the hotel. He spends one night with Madame Céline Villeneuve "Madame D" Desgoffe und Taxis (Tilda Swinton) and soon he learns that she was found dead at home. Gustave summons Zero to travel with him to the funeral and he learns that he has inherited the valuable painting Boy with Apple. Madame D's son Dimitri (Adrian Brody) and her family do not accept that a concierge may have inherited the painting and Gustave and Zero steal it and return to the Grand Budapest Hotel to hide the painting. Gustave promises Zero that he would be his heir for helping him. But Gustave is falsely accused of murdering Madame D and is arrested and imprisoned. Will his friend Zero leave him die in the prison?"The Grand Budapest Hotel" is another original and weird movie by Wes Anderson with his usual bizarre characters. The story is funny and entertaining and it is impressive the number of stellar cameos along 100 minutes running time. Tilda Swinton is unrecognizable in the role of an old lady. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "O Grande Hotel Budapeste" ("The Grand Budapest Hotel")


                
A living poster boy for the auteur theory, Wes Anderson makes movies so idiosyncratic - the surreal humor, the whimsical bittersweet tone, the distinctive visual style with pastel color palettes and quick cut-aways, an uncanny ability to marry images and music, weird but sympathetic father figures - that if you ended up 200 years in the future with a time machine and found a thirty seconds scene from an unreleased film by him, you'd recognize it at once. Of course, a deadpan Bill Murray would be in it somewhere.A choral story focused on a murder mystery and a mitteleuropean luxury hotel, the movie finds its center in the relationship between concierge Gustave (Ralph Fiennes in a phenomenal comedic performance) and his lobby boy and protegé Zero (Tony Revolory). Among the rest of the cast, Willem Dafoe as an ogre-like hit-man and Saoirse Ronan as a young baker have the most significant roles, plus Jude Law and F. Murray Abraham providing the narrative frame as a writer interviewing an adult Zero. Anderson's veterans Murray, Wilson and Schwartzman get cameos.The director crafts his tableaux with meticulous attention. See how the unstoppable determination of Dafoe's killer is conveyed through his constant movement, as he appears to be menacingly propelled towards the viewer; how the passage of time at the Grand Budapest is portrayed with a change in the dominant color palette; how mentor Gustave occupies the left side of the screen and Zero the right one in their scenes together, only for this to be reversed with older Zero and the writer.The Grand Budapest Hotel is more Anderson quirkiness. From another director it would feel like stagnation, but since nobody else at the present does what he does, it's still welcome. To quote the movie, he certainly sustains the illusion with marvellous grace.7,5/10
Another drolly twee film from Wes Anderson, better than some of his previous work ("The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou", "Rushmore") but not nearly as good as others ("The Royal Tenenbaums", "The Fantastic Mr. Fox"). Here, he assembles a mighty cast, with Ralph Fiennes starring as the fastidious and ambiguous manager of a distant eastern European hotel (located in the fictitious Republic of Zubrowka; the action takes place between world wars), whose care of his guests extends beyond the usual service and who gets involved with the nefarious family of one of his elderly lovers, led by son Adrian Brody (who, by wearing pseudo-Nazi clothing, unthinkably undermines his most famous role, the persecuted Jew of "The Pianist"). This being Anderson, it's all about cadence: he expends an awful lot of energy synchronizing his actors' responses and the rhythms of the music (a winning score by Alexandre Desplat). But really, that's all it's about--the film is completely inconsequential nonsense. Sure, it's entertaining while you're watching it but you're completely aware that what you're watching has no real substance. All the performers competently perform to Anderson's stylized, obsessive/compulsive standards but the true stars of the film are Adam Stockhausen's gorgeous production design, Anna Pinnock's intricate set decoration and the fun art direction, led by Stephan O. Gessler: it's easy to get lost in the dazzling visuals, especially when there's no real need to pay attention to what's going on in the forefront. Conceivably, it may even be better with no sound--certainly, the overall design recalls the era of silent film.


                
A Wes Anderson fanciful farce. Anderson directs, shares story writing and is in charge of the screenplay. This is a maniac fantasy that takes place between the world wars in the Republic of Zubrowka. Gustave H(Ralph Fiennes) is the eclectic concierge at the prestigious European Grand Budapest Hotel, who takes a bellboy named Zero(Tony Revolori)under his wing and preps him to become a trusted friend and protégé. Mr. H caters to his guest and even makes clandestine visits to some of the most snooty and wealthiest older ladies. And on occasion the richest of men. Gustave and Zero find themselves embroiled deeply in a heated battle for a family fortune. The meticulous concierge is accused of art theft and even murder, making for riotously and hilarious flight from the authorities. Mr. H and Zero, while on the run, contemplate a logical conclusion. Playful, witty, quirky and near impeccable story telling using a backdrop of flashbacks.Packed full of stars for sure: F. Murray Abraham, Willem Dafoe, Adrian Brody, Jude Law, Saoirse Ronan, Edward Norton, Harvey Keitel, Jeff Goldblum, Bill Murray, Jason Schwartzman, Tom Wilkinson and Tilda Swinton.
The Grand Budapest Hotel is directed by Wes Anderson and has been nominated for Best Picture Oscar. It is a story of a man sharing his life's story as he was a protégé of a famous concierge for a grand hotel. The ups and downs of life in the hospitality industry is quite an adventure. There is even a mystery involving a famous painting in the mix. A marvelous tale from an era when hotels were stately and full of wonder. This movie is a bit static at times and long winded. But the scenery is full of old school class. The shifting back and forth can be confusing at time. But the relationships are good and the characters rich.


                
Despite its title, "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is not actually set in Hungary. The film was shot in Germany, but the titular hotel is supposedly located in the fictional Central European Republic of Zubrowka. (Zubrowka? I remember drinking some when I was in Gdansk). The story, an original one but said to be inspired by the works of the Austrian writer Stefan Zweig, is told using a complex "framework technique". (A particularly Germanic literary device; even in English it is sometimes known by the German name of "Rahmentechnik"). In 1985 a character known only as The Author relates a story told to him in 1968 by the hotel's owner, one Zero Mustafa. Zero's story relates to his own experiences as a young man in the 1930s. He arrived in Zubrowka as a refugee from his own war-torn Middle Eastern homeland and found employment as a lobby boy at the Grand Budapest Hotel, where the hotel concierge, Monsieur Gustave, took him under his wing as his protégé.Their lives were changed for ever when regular guest at the hotel, Madame Céline Villeneuve Desgoffe und Taxis, died, leaving Gustave a valuable painting in her will. Her family were most unhappy with this development, especially her son Dimitri Villeneuve Desgoffe und Taxis, and did all they could to prevent Gustave from receiving his legacy. (Zubrowka seems to be an ethnically mixed society; local names are an odd mixture of French, German and Slavic). It transpired that Céline had died of poisoning, and Gustave was arrested, thrown in jail and charged with the crime. The rest of the film deals with Gustave's efforts to escape and clear his name with the assistance of Zero, Zero's girlfriend Agatha and other friends. I was pleasantly surprised by Ralph Fiennes in the key role of Gustave. I have in the past been impressed by Fiennes as a serious actor, especially in villainous or unsympathetic roles such as the Nazi Commandant in "Schindler's List", Lord Voldemort in the "Harry Potter" series and the Duke of Devonshire in "The Duchess", but I never suspected that he had the comedic skills or lightness of touch necessary for something like this. The film also stars a galaxy of big-name actors from both sides of the Atlantic, some of them such as Jude Law, Willem Dafoe and Harvey Keitel only appearing in minor roles. Although the dialogue is in English, the film struck me as having more in common with a continental European art-house movie than with a typical production of the American or British cinema. It therefore came as no surprise to discover that although it is officially an American-German- British co-production, features a number of American and British actors and was made by an American director, Wes Anderson, it was financed by German financial companies and film-funding organisations. It is an odd mixture of Sachertorte and strychnine, a Viennese operetta with a libretto by Agatha Christie and made into a film by Alfred Hitchcock. The name of Zero's girlfriend may have been a nod in the direction of the Queen of Crime, and the film's central theme, that of a man wrongly accused of a crime, is classically Hitchcockian. This theme, however, is not treated entirely seriously but rather in the manner of an archly cynical black comedy. The acting is mannered and highly stylised and the sets are both opulent, conjuring up a sense of late Victorian or Edwardian luxury, even though the action ostensibly takes place in 1932, and unrealistic, perhaps suggesting that there was something unreal about the luxury which they symbolise.This sort of thing can be a highly acquired taste, but I must admit that I enjoyed it. Anderson and his cast, especially Fiennes, do enough to ensure that a film could easily have become horribly frivolous, or horribly boring, or both, remains entertaining throughout. It may be a fantasy set in an imaginary Ruritanian country named after a brand of Polish vodka, yet it never loses touch with reality entirely. The scenes of Gustave's wrongful arrest and the scenes towards the end when Zubrowka is preparing for war forcibly remind us that real life in twentieth-century Mitteleuropa was far from being a Ruritanian idyll. 7/10
The Grand Budapest Hotel (2014)Stunning at every turn, and yet...well...it lacks something, too, that left me happy but unsatisfied.As usual with a Wes Anderson movie, the amazing sets and set design win the day. Sometimes this combines with a little magic in a movie to lift the result up beautifully, as in "Moonrise Kingdom" (which I loved). Here there are certainly moments that work but many others that simply reside. The main character played by Ralph Fiennes is wonderfully proper and funny.Plot? A forced fairy tale of a story keeps the narration moving through several distinct parts, but the main idea is that an old man is explaining to a younger patron of the dying hotel how he came to own it. And those events happened to him as a bellboy back when the hotel was truly grand. The fact this is narrated is part of the package, but it keeps everything at that distance Anderson prefers.What it lacks oddly is magic, the one thing a fairy tale like this demands. There are lots of deliberate (and good) clichés at work—a stolen painting, a mysterious patron, an unexplained death—and there is the scene itself, this glorious old hotel both in its seedy later years and in its heyday. And though there are delights, and witty lines, at every turn, there is a feeling of just watching it, never quite getting involved. Maybe that's deliberate, but if so, it still left me a bit restless at times.What about all the stars in this overpacked cast? Well, you can tell they are in it for the pleasure of it, taking on comic book kinds of roles. But there is a disappointment there, too, because too often it seems that each star appears for their own sake, and her or his fame, not for the edge it gives their character. The most obvious case is Bill Murray, who appears in a dull role for all of about 20 seconds of screen time. At the other extreme is Willem Defoe, who is delectably evil all through in his major role. Jude Law makes a decent foil (listener) to the narrator, played well enough by F. Murray Abraham, but both men never shine. They sit and talk, after all.And so it goes. Which takes us back to the sets. Wow. Unbelievable at every turn. The hotel is superb, and likewise the expansive mansion of the murdered woman, and likewise even the train car which appears more than once. It's a wonderfully made movie on all these technical levels, including some flashy, tricky photography that is playful in its wide and then close views. See it? Sure, if you are predisposed. There no hating this movie, for sure. Which is high praise.


                
I totally understand some people find this movie boring, shallow, pretentious, all style and no substance etc. I'm not a huge fan of Wes Anderson and would have felt the same if it had not for one outstanding factor: Ralph Fiennes. He is spectacular here. I never thought he had so much comedic chop in him. He carries the whole movie almost single-handed, perfectly playing the haughty and suave but hopelessly insecure and lonely concierge. Forget other stellar cast, who play more or less cardboard cliche characters. Forget cinematography and production design, which are very pretty but unrealistic. For me this film was worth watching because of the amazing performance by the lead actor. I have to add that young Tony Revolori as the lobby boy was equally great. Together, the two make one of the best "buddies" in movies I've seen in recent years.


                
A clear masterpiece of the sunrise. Most pictures are made for the nighttime ritual of popcorn o.d.'s and soda rushes. Not this. Some wink. When a masterpiece is a masterpiece, it's one watched in the dawn of the day and far from beyond enjoyed ... but entranced and deeply inspired, opening of your imaginative soul, releasing and easily creating movies of your own in such simple touch and a stare down, eye to eye, with the majestic yet petite beauty of the world. Not only sets the tone, but really plunges into you. Unnoticed when experienced. Only a whistling excitement throughout. The side-effects will carry on, and plunge to a divinely emotional realm inside the soul. A place without measure, without detection or perfections. It is a place where nothing is everything, and everything is heart-rendering. Hiccups of emotion, from burst inspirations endless. Deep down, one by one, & piece by piece, unravelling empowered moments of the movie in your head. Those are the most unforgotten days in life. Our unfortunate lack of patience and time is shameful. The feeling of inspiration is inhuman, thus unreal and sarcastic in the moment. It's in spirit. And that's what this film, The Grand Budapest Hotel, does. Bow down and surrender, for all and for everything. The journey this cinema bares to reach within us, is the journey of the divine, and is worth more than such time. "All this is true because it rhymes." ...and back again.


                
Very good, very character based, some great quirky characters and <U+200E>Ralph Fiennes really is excellent in the lead role and the film itself moves along at a nice pace with plenty of variety and overall an enjoyable film.It also touches on a bit of history as it spans a few decades and while a fictional film, you can make a few social historical references in the context as it moves along.There are a ton of big name actors in small cameos on various parts and all deliver in a film which must have been a lot of fun to act on given the strength of the quirky characters in the film and their comic opportunities. Well worth a watch.


                
The writer/director Wes Anderson seems to have translated the story directly from Stefan Zweig's German, except for a few more or less modern interpolations, like "F*** you." Really, it begins in the Grand Manner, with someone telling a story to someone else, that is then illustrated in the following scenes, much like Marlowe in "The Heart of Darkness," missing one intermediary, I think. And Henry James in "The Turn of the Screw." It must have been a powerful convention of the time, around the turn of the century.The translated prose that comes to us is phrased in elegance, very formal and dignified, like the Grand Budapest Hotel itself in its fashionable early years, a stately pleasure dome, all pink gingerbread, perched on a mountain top, accessible only by funicular railways. (No riff raff allowed.) I'm afraid I missed the middle part so I can't spell out the story. I don't think I could anyway because it's not exactly linear. There are lots of characters, all somewhat cockeyed, and many incidents, some briefly violent.But if the story of the little lobby boy who grows up to be F. Murray Abraham isn't linear, the direction certainly is. I've never in my life seen a more SYMMETRICAL movie, a more CARPENTERED movie. Forget about traditional reverse angle shots, in which two people are speaking and the camera alternates from peeping over one shoulder to peeping over the other. Everybody looks and speaks straight into the lens.The settings are equally stylized. You want to see a huge dining room? You see it framed from the entrance, each side mirroring the other. The chandeliers are equidistant. When people walk or run past the camera, or away from it, or towards it, they seem to do it on x and y axes, as if the scene were the solution to a problem in calculus. There's no other film quite like it.Yet it's funny too. Near the beginning, when there is breaking news, we see a succession of local newspapers. The names of the newspapers run along lines like "The Middle European Star" and so forth, and one of them, which gets no special treatment, is "The Continental Drift." The dialog sometimes descends from formalized and ornate into the vulgate. It doesn't happen often but when it does, it's a surprising and refreshing break from all those sumptuous phrases.I look forward to catching the part I missed.
Not quite as funny as Wes Anderson's early "Bottle Rocket," but it has its moments. The cinematography is a real stunner, especially in terms of color and set design. The acting is superb for an off-beat farce. It was refreshing to hear no lame attempts at foreign accents by any of the cast. The running gags had their moments, especially the recitations of absurdly romantic poetry at inappropriate moments. Willem Defoe was a laugh riot just to look at his appearance! He didn't even have to say lines! Anderson, Gilliam, and the Coens are all similar in their approach to surreal comedies, and if you enjoy this genre, you'll like GBH.


                
There is a major degree of uniqueness with exotic visuals in the presentation of this movie. Makeup and costumes were way too fine. Tilda's makeup as an old woman was my favorite. There are loads of black humor. The cast is rich with big names ( such as William Dafoe, Adrian Brody, Harvey Keitel, Jude Law, Murray Abby etc) and Ralph Fiennes owned the movie show. He was fine with comedy and most of the part he reminded me of Steve Martin from Pink Panther.The negatives: The major problem that any non -European (like me) would face watching the movie is the sarcasm-comedy which are traditional French or Italian mostly. Few explicit comic scenes deserved laughs but others were rotten. The music could've been better.The movie-theme reminded me of the Grand Hotel movie in 1931.


                
I watched The Grand Budapest Hotel knowing that it would be a whole new cinematographic experience. Wes Anderson is a true genius when it comes to visual aesthetic; the hotel's decor is splendid, with plenty of small details in the background that I couldn't take my eyes of.This movie clearly has the Wes Anderson's signature, the story telling, the dialogs, the story's rhythm, the costumes... everything is clearly from his unique universe. So if you are like me me a big fan of Moonrise Kingdom or The Royal Tenenbaums, the Grand Budapest Hotel is a must-seen.The originality of the plot comes from this peculiar journey you're getting into. It is a bit of a thriller, with a murder case to solve, a bit of a love story, with the young love between Zero and Agatha, friendship and loyalty are also important themes that make the movie full of humanity. All of these aspects are told through characters that are colorful and truly appealing, the ensemble's acting is right on spot. One of the best cast this year.All in all, The Grand Budapest Hotel is a poetic journey, I couldn't find anything negative about it, even the soundtrack is perfect. So, go watch it or you'll pass on something big!


                
Wes Anderson's films are immaculately planned and executed, particularly when it comes to art direction, set design and costumes. If you can relinquish yourself to the intricate worlds he creates and ask only to be entertained, you're unlikely to walk away unsatisfied. Which probably explains why I always feel slightly cheated walking out of his incredibly imaginative, flawlessly executed gems—they seem slightly hollow. To me, "Bottle Rocket," despite its flaws, captured a reality and a complexity that I don't believe Wes has delivered since. Don't get me wrong, I love the unique style and quirky cast of characters that he's generated since "Rushmore." I honestly just wish that I could care more, that I connected more with the characters. As a point of comparison, I highly recommend Aki Kaurismaki, who also creates stylised worlds with interesting characters, but with more humanity. He never fails to make you laugh or cry, but most of all, leaves you thinking about the film after it's over.


                
This great scenes make you full of joy ,colorful and intelligent , this is what i can say about this fantasy movie , of course i don't like the murderer individual.


                
Every inch in this movie looks visually perfected, every word in the script has a purpose.
Wes Anderson, inspired by the writings of Stefan Zweig, lets his fantasy blossom in 'The Grand Budapest Hotel'. He, with the help of everyone involved (costume/setting designers, the huge ensemble of legendary actors, sound department, etc.), manages very well to let the viewers be part of this colorful world.
Yet it felt like a very long 99 minutes and I expected more of the plot, else it would definitely be a cult movie and more than 7/10. Still very loveable and appreciated piece of art!


                
I'm not a bit Wes Anderson fan but this was enjoyable, with great performances from all.


                
A fantasy, comedic story of the owner of a grand hotel. Luridly coloured, and inventively shot, the story is daft but engaging, with many humorous moments (but few to me were laugh out loud) and the characters and events quirky, but not to the extent of disbelief.


                
What is it that people enjoy about Wes Anderson's films? He is a rarity in an industry determined to standardise cinema. It is impossible to duplicate the tone and the direction of an Anderson film without drawing comparisons. Since his first feature Bottle Rocket (1996) his films have developed their own cult following because of his unique stylistic choices. His films are highly formal and dictated by deadpan humour, rapid fire quips and quirky details. There is also a balance between pure charm and humanity when he focuses on his most persistent theme, the family unit. Yet he has never been known for his restraint. By writing his own scripts, he can sometimes be his own worst enemy. He overloads his films with strange details that can feel overly ambiguous and purposeless. Audiences don't seem to mind. Moonrise Kingdom (2012) was the biggest hit of the seven films that he had made. It earned more than fifty million dollars, which says people are willing to embrace films that are unique and sometimes challenging. This year the Texan- born filmmaker is forty-five, which is a crucial age for any filmmaker looking to solidify their relevancy. How do you continue to make such imagination accessible to a broadening audience? The Grand Budapest Hotel proves Anderson is still navigating between independent filmmaking and mainstream cinema and looking for a new direction. While most of his films have centred on American families, this is the first story that he has set in Europe and also in a retrospective time period. His quirkiness and the humour are still intact but it's more accessible due to conventional and sometimes safer narrative techniques.The best aspect of the film is the lead performance Anderson draws from Ralph Fiennes. The actor is most renowned for playing villains, like a Nazi in Schindler's List or Lord Voldemort in the Harry Potter films. Who would have known he could be so funny? His performance as M. Gustave, a 1932 hotel concierge, is a showcase for some hilarious comic timing and the articulations of Anderson's script. Smartly, Anderson has tapped into Fienne's theatrical roots. From the start of his acting career he has been as a Shakespearean stage performer. He knows how to control his voice, deftly fluctuating between being pompous and then shedding his sincerity. He plays Gustave straight so that he and the audience believe in every self-absorbed line and moment of vanity. There are some great one-liners in the film like when he gushes at what a masterpiece a painting called "Boy with Apple" is and then calls everything else useless junk. Yet Gustave's characterisation as a self- absorbed womaniser and his friendship with a lobby boy named Zero (Tony Revolori) leaves little doubt about how he will develop as a person throughout the narrative. Wes Anderson has resorted to using a very calculated character arc for this fascinating creation so that he inevitably becomes a much less selfish person and more caring for his young assistant too. It's surprising given how bizarre and unusual the director's writing can be. Nonetheless, Gustave's bravest gesture of friendship is equally the film's most chilling and unforgettable scene. It is darker than you might be expecting from an Anderson film.What is also surprising is how comically violent the film is. By being set in 1932, its themes purposely foreshadow the events of the Second World War. It is about the way that "greed poisons the blood streams" as Gustave says and how war and greed disintegrates institutions like the hotel itself, the Church and prisons. The Third Reich is Anderson's most obvious reference point, right down to including a murderous villain dressed in black leather. He also uses a range of technical choices to strengthen the ideas about institutions. In the contemporary scenes, the hotel is framed by a long shot to show emptiness of the building as an expression of its deterioration over the years. It is coloured with brown and orange tones to highlight its banality and the loss of its prestige. In the 30s period, the camera is fluid and unbroken, crabbing sideways as it follows Gustave through the corridors to show the organisation and briskness of the institution. The purple fabric of Gustave's jacket is equally district, reflecting prestige or royalty, which is true to the facade he upholds to his guests. The compromise one has to make about these ideas of war and greed is that Anderson resorts to set pieces that parody action film clichés to advance the story in the second half of the film. By referencing war and using a multi-tiered narrative that frames several decades of storytelling, Anderson is at the middle of point of his life, considering the uncertainty of the world. He is asking what stories he is going to pass onto others like his own family. As he is growing older, he is becoming more nostalgic, serious and melancholic, even though he still finds the hilarious and silly side of life.
Whatever this movie is, it's Wes Anderson. You'll be reminded of that every time there is a 180 degree pan or dolly instead of a normal cut, every time there is straight-facedness in the sight of ridiculousness, every time there is a theater-esque set, every time another massively A- list celebrity appears in a minor role so as to be included in the exponentially burgeoning WA troupe...The story is choppy and riddled with voice-over and voice-over within voice-over, but def hella whimsical. I'm not a hater, check out my other ratings of great films like Rushmore, RT, even LAWSZ...this one was just too much, like the Darjeeling Limited on steroids.


                
The plot in Anderson's newest movie starts in 1968, at a hotel which was once luxurious, but has few guests now. By the way, there has been a communist take-over of this fictive country, but the old owner is still tolerated as owner and tells an author his story.He was a lobby boy once, trained by the glamorous and mystical M. Gustave. He took good care of the guests in the 30s. In some ways a little too good for his own safety.OK. Lots of colors, a big cake, fantastic adventures, but it's pictures at the cost of the story line, which you lose rather fast, although it isn't that complicated.


                
In what is surely the most weird movie nominated at this year's Oscars, The Grand Budapest Hotel is a movie that feels like a painting come to life, and in that process adding a sense of quirky adventure that will feature the most random of characters. A rousing appreciation has to be given to Ralph Fiennes for giving a comedic performance for the ages. Perhaps not the most Academy Award worthy performance in the eyes of some, but definitely a stand out from the more dramatic roles that earned high praise this year.This film is yet another project from Wes Anderson that has his mark written all over it. I believe that Wes Anderson is about as close as you'll come to an American director that has a very European style to his films. His American cast counterparts in the movie bring that Hollywood vibe to an other wise independent project. Overall the production values of Grand Budapest Hotel are some of the best of the year. Beautiful cinematography, set design and a smooth directorial effort make for a beautiful movie to behold. On the writing and acting side of things, we get a throwback to the times of screwball comedies. I would say this is the modern screwball movie prototype. Once again, all of the highest praise goes to Fiennes for giving us a wonderful character that not only makes you laugh at the right times, but to a certain degree intrigues you. Throughout the extensive cast there are many good turns, yet our most inexperienced member Tony Revlori more than holds up against our leading man, making for a very believable friendship between the two in the movie.It's not every day that I watch a movie like this. In fact, this is my first Anderson movie, and I gotta say that his style can go either way with me. While I hold off for a while on seeing more of his movies, I leave The Grand Budapest Hotel with a solid score and with the memory of being thoroughly entertained by it.Rating: 7/10


                
