Can a film be absurd, funny, exciting, violent and colourful at the same time? Yes. 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' combines all those elements. And I didn't even mention the most important characteristic: it is visually wonderful. In this film, director Wes Anderson creates his own universe, full of colourful characters, old-world charm and witty one-liners. The nice thing about creating your own universe is that you can make it look perfect. Every shot, every little detail and every set is flawless. From lead character Gustave H.'s purple jacket to the title of the newspaper announcing the war (The Trans-Alpine Yodel) - Anderson has given thought and attention to everything. The story is not very important, because it is merely a vehicle for the stunning visuals, the dark humour and the rapid-fire dialogue. It's all about a hotel concierge, Gustave H., who is being chased by various villains for stealing a painting. All this is set against the backdrop of the Nazis invading Central Europe (although in Anderson's fantasy world they are not called Nazis of course). Some of the scenes are very funny, but there is always a darker tone because of the looming war. Anderson doesn't shy away from extreme violence, but he shows it in an offbeat and almost comical manner. My favourite scene, in which it all comes together, shows concierges in hotels all over Europe, calling each other to help Gustave H. Each of them is shown in his hotel (with a wonderful fantasy name off course), busy doing some important job like tasting the soup or giving first aid to an unconscious hotel guest, when he is being called away to the telephone. Each hands the job over to his assistant, and answers the phone. This fast succession of little scenes is done so perfectly, it's a great joy to watch. Ralph Fiennes steals the show as the sophisticated Gustave H., who never despairs, even in the most unfavourable circumstances. He is supported by a large number of star actors, who are sometimes almost unrecognizable. Because of the amount of support actors, some of them are a bit underused. Tilda Swinton gets rather little screen time, as does Harvey Keitel. The film moves forward at a breakneck speed. You have to be very alert in order not to miss something. The plot is not always very easy to follow, and the dialogue is fast. And there are the great camera angles and the wonderful detailed sets to pay attention to. I think by seeing the film a second time you can discover lots of things you didn't notice the first time.
The Grand Budapest Hotel is the latest from Wes Anderson, and what great fun it is. My review of Monuments Men pointed out that putting the likes of George Clooney, Matt Damon, Cate Blanchett, Jean Dujardin, Bill Murray and Hugh Bonneville in the same film was no guarantee of a good film. Following that logic, what should we make of the following turning up together: Ralph Fiennes, Bill Murray, F. Murray Abraham, Adrien Brody, Willem Defoe, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law, Edward Norton, Tom Wilkinson, Saoirse Ronan, Owen Wilson and (a wonderfully made up) Tilda Swinton? The answer is a near masterpiece of cameos that add up to a highly entertaining and memorable film.In a complex serious of flashbacks, Tom Wilkinson plays an author remembering his younger self (Jude Law) being recounted, a number of years before, the life story of The Grand Budapest's mysterious elderly guest Zero Moustafa, played by Abraham. (Are you still with me?) Featuring strongly in this life story, Ralph Fiennes plays hotel concierge and lothario Gustave H., seducer of his elderly and wealthy guests. He is supported in this role – for everything outside the bedroom that is – by trainee Bellboy, and Gustave's protégé, Zero (in the younger form of Tony Revolori).Following the murder of one such guest (Tilda Swinton), Gustave is not surprised to feature strongly in her will, awarded a priceless Renaissance painting – Boy with Apple. This is much to the displeasure of her son Dimitri (Adrien Brody) and his evil henchman Jopling (Willem Defoe). What follows is a madcap pursuit across snowy landscapes, various grisly murders, a couple of civil wars, some disconnected fingers, a prison break and a downhill ski chase.All the cast seem to enjoy themselves immensely, but it is the production design and cinematography that really shines through: every single shot of the film is just a joy to look at, from the bright pastel colours of some scenes to the oak-panelled finery of the elderly lady's mansion. Beautifully crafted, beautifully lit,beautifully costumed, beautifully filmed. Bringing a film out so early in the new Oscar-year must be risky: but one can only hope that the voting members have a long enough memory to recognise this movie in these sorts of categories.There are some interesting crossovers to recent films: both 'The Book Thief' and 'The Monuments Men' were filmed – as this was – in Studio Babelsberg in Potsdam. No coincidence then that the steam train chugging through the East European countryside looked startlingly similar to that in the opening scenes of 'The Book Thief'; and if you have Bill Murray and Bob Balaban in town for Monuments Men, then why not stick them together for this film too? Simples! Alexandre Desplat turns up AGAIN with another quirky and fitting score.All in all, if you like the quirky style of films of the likes of Moulin Rouge then you'll love this. Highly recommended.(If you enjoyed this review, please check out my archive of other reviews and while there sign up to "Follow the Fad"! Thanks!).


                
The Grand Hotel Budapest is a zany, colorful and fascinating journey through old postcard Europe, such as only Hollywood can think of. With his old, almost square picture format Wes Anderson pays tribute to recent days, but with the whole movie. In addition to his brilliant humor and endearing characters, this film captures gems with seemingly small details and meticulous compositions. For me, now one of the funniest and most original movies of 2014.The style is unique. You will either like it or you won't. There is no middle ground here.With too many great actors to mention, they all gave outstanding performance that will keep you enchanted.


                
21 March 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza Tonight - The Grand Budapest Hotel. I really had no idea what this film was about, having seen only one trailer which in the event, bore no relation to the plot whatsoever. However, my interest was piqued so this evening found me watching a splendid little film packed to the rafters with stars. This was the tale of Gustave H, the legendary and infamous Concierge of The Grand Budapest Hotel, a rather glamorous edifice perched atop a mountain and his protégé and most trusted friend Zero, The Lobby Boy. This is a tale of friendship, murder, revenge and deep dark plotting. There were some completely ridiculous moments which were quite refreshing and several, what I like to call Guffaw moments where several members of the audience emit a loud blast of laughter followed by slightly hysterical giggling that you find yourself joining in with. As I said a host of stars in this film ranging from Ralph Fiennes, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law and Bill Murray to Tilda Swinton, Owen Wilson and Harvey Keitel to name a few, but one of the outstanding performances must go to Tony Revolori, a relatively unknown young actor who plays Zero, who is In almost every scene. An entertaining film, worth watching.


                
Wes Anderson's films are really hard to describe or define. Suffice to say that he is unique in his style--very unique. This uniqueness is what makes "The Grand Budapest Hotel" worth seeing. It's an odd story where a story is told within a story--and it's filled with famous actors making lots of odd cameos. And, like Anderson's other films, it's full of odd characters, unusual dialog and brisk-paced editing. And, not surprisingly, it's NOTHING like other films by other directors.The bottom line is that all these weird factors work together to make a film that you'll probably enjoy--but, like me, you won't be exactly sure why!


                
A movie hearkening back to the days between the World Wars, to a time where properness, good manners and dignity still reigned supreme. All in good fun, of course. The Grand Budapest Hotel is the best kind of comedy because it refuses to admit it's one. The events are humorous, of course, as are the character, but those characters always act seriously, as if the bizarre things happening around them are the norm. There's no winking at the audience, except on a story level.The humour is also more intelligent than in most Hollywood comedies. It can play with your expectations and pulls its laughs not from lowbrow jokes but from absurdity, straight man routines and from developed character traits. There's no clowning around, rather adult people are made to look silly when the movie starts pulling apart their everyday routines and revealing the hilarity underneath.It's also a gorgeous movie on all levels. The camera work is superb and the whole movie has a fantastical visual style that both strengthens the jokes along with providing a plethora of its own. The talented cast also deserves a special mention. Ralph Fiennes shines as M. Gustave, a peculiar hotel owner known for his eccentricities and impeccable manners. Such a delightful character and his sheer poise is the source of most of the humour.The Grand Budapest Hotel is a must see for all Wes Anderson fans and all of those that want to see a comedy with wit, style and finesse.


                
Ridiculously detailed to every nook right down to very twirls at the end of moustache of Mr.Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL is a must watch for the fans of Wes Anderson. His rather unorthodox animation of FANTASTIC MR.FOX drew attention to quite the number of critical stinkers although personally it was enjoyable to me. Quite similarly TGBH too contains Anderson's eccentricity in the perfection of detailing which is the core pillar of the success of the blisteringly comical motion picture.TGBH isn't snarled, devious or unfathomable to the audience as grandeur as the title wants it to sound. The opulence lies in the minimalism. The ostentatious and foolish escapade of Mr.Gustave (probably the only concierge to reach the Hall of Fame for concierges if ever there was one) and his lobby boy is all what TGBH is about. Mr.Gustave if one may say so is undeniably a "Play-AH" and his type is mature, rich, blonde women (GOLD DIGGER!). As all men he knows how to handle his ladies and still be a hit at the office. Mr.Gustave sails a tight ship. Perfection is something he harps on with daily meetings with the staff which is preposterously entertaining. Although Fiennes has proved his versatility in acting it's hard to see him beyond Lord Voldermort to many in the audience. It further will astonish and amuse the audience since this is by far the best performance of Fiennes one is certain to see. OMG YOU ARE GONNA LOVE HIM!The lion-share of the credit is indeed deposited under the name of Fiennes. How can one not credit the amazing, rude and at times intentionally mental performances of Bill Murray, Jude Law, William Dafoe, Adrian Brody, Edward Norton, Tony Revolori & Owen Wilson? It is not a surprise if one can be overwhelmed with the overpowering of star- power. On many occasions directors are belittled for having an overabundance of household Hollywood names to cover the drawbacks of the script or the direction – but not this time. Most of the success is seeing the stars portray these eccentric characters. I spurted my soda out when Edward Norton got his first share of screen time; it's just too funny!Another paradigm to look at TGBH is the vision Wes Anderson may have had for this motion picture. The parallel existence in which everything comes to life is obviously not as realistic as THE BEST EXOTIC MARIGOLD HOTEL purely because of the colors, but still in hindsight it looked too real not to be true. Anderson seems to have thrown a fit with the costuming and props department. There is finesse in every aspect of every turn. One cannot describe how detailed the production is until witnessed by one's own eyes. Wes Anderson I vouch to watch every other movie you are ever to make! I am your newest fan. Superb work.Lastly before every reader is misguided, TGBH is mostly word play and isn't slapstick or rude humor as in Bachelor parties in Vegas or Thailand. If that's your game TGBH is her name!TITLE: THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL DIRECTED BY: WES ANDERSON STARRING: RALPH FIENNES, TONY REVOLORI, WILLIAM DAFOE, ADRIAN BRODY, EDWARD NORTON, OWEN Wilson & BILL MURRAY RATED: R RATING : 08/10 RUNTIME: 100 MINUTES


                
"The Grand Budapest Hotel" has a wonderful quirkiness to it that can only be felt, not explained. It is incredibly charming, as can be expected from a Wes Anderson film.-Analysis of Notable Work- *Writing/Directing: Once again, Wes Anderson directs with amazing artistry. The story is one that is both hilarious and melancholy. It is a film that refuses to be forgotten. *Editing/Cinematography: The cutting together of the film is near perfect. Every moment timed beautifully and expertly. All the ridiculousness unfolds without blemish. Director of Photography Robert Yeoman brings back the signature style of Wes Anderson films that audiences have grown to love. The color palette is vibrant and exciting. The camera moves are quirky and odd. It all falls together wonderfully. *Dialogue/Acting: Total ridiculousness is what comes out of the mouths of the characters, but that is all for the better. We feel pulled into the world of the Grand Budapest Hotel for how absurd it is and how unlike our world it is. The performances are incredible by all of the cast. Ralph Fiennes, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, and F. Murray Abraham all shine in this wonderful film. But everyone clambers for their chance in the spotlight. Jude Law, Saoirse Ronan, Jeff Goldblum, Bill Murray, Tony Revolori, and others all perform spectacularly. *Music/Sound: Once again, the music is phenomenal like in most Wes Anderson films. It has an air of innocence but also a bit of chaos and even some melancholic themes. It is the perfect accent to a beautiful film. The sound design is detailed and incredible. *Production Design/Special Effects: The costumes and set pieces are glorious and visually incredible. They are fantastic additions to the world Wes Anderson has created. The props and miniatures are all wonderfully made. The animation portions are gorgeous. All parts of the film tie together wonderfully.*Conclusion: "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is a wonderfully bizarre film that must be watched. But although it is sure to be enjoyed, one may not be able see if there was a reason for all of it. And perhaps it doesn't need one. That is what adds to the charm.


                
I went in to this movie not knowing anything about its plot or story. I only knew it was about the adventures of some hero from a Budapest Hotel. Honestly I didn't think this movie was going to be any good since its plot wasn't that much interesting but I though I'd give it a try since it was the only movie from the 2015 Oscars highlights I didn't saw. Now I can say that I was not wrong because this movie succeeds as a comedy with some absurd scenes that had me laughing very hard and with characters that are really well done. Aside from that this movie in my opinion had some issues. Mainly the story is very weird told and I was bored for most of the movie although I understood the main thing of the movie and this whole adventure Gustavo and Zero had. The movie never emphasised the characters who were important to the story... I get the movie had to be absurdly funny but you need to catch the viewer's attention with a plot that can be followed and interesting and characters that are introduced properly. I was continuously asking myself who's this? who's that? because the movie's story went on like I was supposed to know who those characters were. But putting that aside there were things I liked like the absurd humor that sometimes had me laughing very hard and the way the movie was constructed. It's been told like a multi-layered story that goes from present to the past with 4 levels of story which made it really interesting in that perspective. Apart from that there were some extremely well done scenes and the movie as a whole was very colorful with some of the best cinematography (I honestly would have given the oscar for cinematography to this movie not to Birdman) although I literally can't understand how Interstellar was not nominated that year. Overall a funny movie with some interesting characters and a multi-layered story and absurd humor. 8/10


                
I have to start by saying that this is my first Wes Anderson film. The title piqued my interest so I decided to give it a try. I am not disappointed at all. The actors performed exceptionally well and the characters in the story came out naturally. Comedy hits you in the face and it is there throughout the movie at unexpected places. Even though some jokes were slapstick, it was subtly portrayed. The background score gave life to different situations and the music was cheerful throughout the movie. It takes a genius of a writer to convert what seems to be a conventional drama into a murder mystery.The settings were lively and the landscapes and scenarios were beautiful. 10 points for Witty dialogs combined with exquisite poetry.


                
If you're already a fan of director Wes Anderson going into this film you'll enjoy it without a shadow of a doubt. The Grand Budapest Hotel lays on the usual Wes Anderson trademarks that we all love with the symmetrical shots, the old fashioned style of effects, the visually beautiful display of colour, the large A-list cast and the witty humour. This may even arguably be Anderson's BEST work to date.Ralph Fiennes' soft-toned and somewhat camp performance as Gustave is what truly takes this film into being a 'great' above all else. His character is such a well-developed personality that combined with Fiennes' acting makes seeing him such a remarkable watch. His delivery of lines, charming personality and chemistry with Tony Revolori, who plays his young and trusted friend, create for some absolutely hysterical moments constantly throughout. Overall this film is worthy as being Anderson's greatest film. With a running time of 1 hour 40 minutes the film just glides through and isn't hard to follow at all so casual film watchers shouldn't have a problem even if you're not too familiar with the director's work. One thing that may through people off is the aspect ratio of the screen. At the beginning, it starts off as widescreen but during the storytelling timeline the screen size scales down to just a box. At first sight it may look difficult to watch but it really isn't and if anything adds to the creative style the film holds. Definitely going to see this again.


                
Stylishly made fun film that is engrossing every moment.It surprises for a good part of the film and that's the best part. From the time we enter the Budapest Hotel, it is an fun ride, the characters are interesting and have their own little stories that are comical yet emotional and thoughtful.The story of lobby boy (Zero Mustafe) or that of Gustave, or of any character, they are not very great to say the least but are interesting. They all together shape up this well made set piece that is mostly confined to the setting of the Hotel. The acting by Ralph Fiennes is a treat and Tony Revolori as the lobby boy is a revelation. The interesting part of the film I found was the use of varied aspect ratio. It differentiates the time frames intelligently. Wes Anderson is a director who oozes out fun in his films. His films are more about fun and the camaraderie between the characters. The shots are slick, the art direction is generally awesome and the cinematography is superb. The film is very appealing visually and all his films thus far have been stylish. There is enough substance in this fun story There is action, chase, fight, enough drama and even suspense. It's all well stitched and made the whole film an engaging experience. Of course, the script is the hero followed by superb art direction of the hotel.I am not sure, if this was shot on location or whether they erected a set, but it was just beautiful. The hotel, interiors, the painting of the exteriors and even the locales. This film shall be a 4/5 for the acting and the art direction alone. Thanks to Wes Anderson for giving us a good time at the movies yet again.


                
Wes Anderson produces another charming adventure in The Grand Budapest Hotel that is full of interesting characters.We embark on a splendid adventure within The Grand Budapest Hotel told by Mr. Zero Moustafa, the one time lobby-boy and now lofty owner of the establishment. We travel back in time to the 1930's at the hotel's peak of grandiosity to meet the beguiling M. Gustave, Zero's one time predecessor and mentor. A battle of fortune and theft sets forward a monumental ordeal involving an insurmountable many.M. Gustave is a meticulous man with a taste for the finest comforts in life. Ralph Fiennes plays the bourgeois concierge completely straight and, yet, is the source of most laughs in this comedy and is wonderful to watch. The rest of the film is a who's who of well-known actors in fully realized idiosyncratic character performances. Expect to see Edward Norton, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law, Tilda Swinton, Adrien Brody, among others we've grown accustomed in a Wes Anderson film, though I won't ruin the surprise.When you look at the film in parts it is masterful. The visuals and sets are luxuriously stunning, beyond anything you could imagine and a dream. The acting is top notch and characters intriguing. The story is entertaining and funny and especially unique. The music by Alexandre Desplat is charming and complementary. And yet, I feel as though the film doesn't come together as Mr. Anderson wished.Wes Anderson films tend to be rife with characters and plot lines. The Grand Budapest Hotel jumps from each strand without fully completing or connecting at its conclusion, especially in regard to minor characters.While thoroughly enjoyable and charming as a film, if more time were taken to develop some subplots, remove others, and intertwine the rest, The Grand Budapest Hotel would easily have been one of Wes Anderson's finest creations.More reviews of films new and old can be found at our website!


                
You have to hand it to Wes Anderson. He certainly has his own style of film. The Grand Budapest is a screwball hybrid of action, adventure, comedy, romance and just about everything else. And after all of those elements are thrown together, its one hell of a film.It might just be the most beautiful film I've ever looked at. The production design, costumes and hair and makeup meld together to create a magical setting that I not only believed in, I wanted to be there. From the violet jacket and neat moustache of Gustave H. to the rainbow of jackets of the Society of the Crossed Keys, from Tilda Swinton's aged makeup to the glorious set design of the Hotel itself, Anderson's film is a feast for the eyes.Ralph Fiennes is without a doubt one of the most unappreciated actors in existence. This performance of his might just be one of his best. His comedic timing is so flawless, his delivery perfect and his demeanour so utterly charming, this is as much his vehicle as Anderson's. He takes traits that Adam Sandler made revolting the most endearing qualities possible, and Anderson's words roll off his tongue with ease and grace. And he is wickedly, wonderfully funny. Young Tony Revolori is the perfect foil for Fiennes, they have wonderful back-and-forth, he is sympathetic and endearing all of his own right. I hope this movie is a big breakthrough for him. As for the rest of the cast, it looks like a list of presenters at the Academy Awards, so they're all obviously talented even if many of them feel underused at times. The fact that none of them stand out says a fair bit.Wes Anderson's screenplay is another huge reason for success. The film wouldn't be able to boast the beautiful visuals or glorious performances. His writing captures Gustave H's glorious mannerisms, the film's eventful adventures and most of all, the beautiful setting of the story. The dialogue in itself is completely delightful, and even the four-tier story setting feels an integral part of the film's feeling, as it allows for F. Murray Abraham and Jude Law to narrate and keep the film's flow.Anderson's screenplay has a major hole at the film's conclusion, where all charges are dropped for no reason, Gustave is exonerated instead of being treated with more suspicion, Madame D.'s killer is never revealed, and Dmitri leaves instead of arcing up even more. One person said to me "oh I don't care about things like that" when I first mentioned it, and I have carried incredulity ever since. How is the resolution of the entire plot unimportant? Also grating on me are certain accents - some are blatantly American whereas others are distinctly European. But the film is just so charming, its just so charming. I'm glad the visual feast was recognised at the Oscars, even though Anderson and Fiennes were not. Its funny, somber and utterly delightful, watchable on any occasion.


                
I have not seen any of Wes Anderson's work, but after watching this i am keen to watch more of his films. THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL is a story about the concierge of the hotel and its lobby boy's attempt to escape from a murder framed on Ralph Fiennes(The concierge)by one of the characters in the film. I am not revealing anything to you , its just the sheer work of absolute brilliant filmmaking and the extraordinary idea of creating a mind boggling effect by putting three different screen ratios for three different era's. the screen ratios are perfect and have absolutely well blended with the different cinematography and production design used in this film. Ralph Fiennes' performance was wonderful as well as that of F. Murray Abraham's. I would recommend every one of you who is reading my review to watch this splendid movie right now, because this is a ride that you should not miss.


                
You honestly have to view the breadth of Anderson's work to understand "The Grand Budapest Hotel". It feels very much like a relatively over-the-top climax of every bit of the man's artistic desires. As if every last thing he wanted fell into place, alongside the pertinent inspiration and a willing audience. An acquired audience.Many will watch this film and, sooner or later, wonder why they're watching it. These people are not the target audience. Others, in turn, will watch the film and understand within the first ten minutes exactly why they're watching it, and will observe with keen interest Anderson's grand vision of the Grand Budapest and the many overtly and/or subtly intriguing characters surrounding it.For my money, "The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou" remains Anderson's finest moment, but I cannot take away from the merits of "The Grand Budapest Hotel". Ralph Fiennes is, in quality and quantity, the featured actor of the film, and does an outstanding job as the excessively eccentric M. Gustave. His constant companion is a young lobby boy, Zero, played with a quiet, reserved charm by Tony Revolori. The cast is rounded out by many big names, each with parts of varying significance and, despite the overall positive results, varying intrigue. I personally regret the brief time we get to spend with Bill Murray, Tom Wilkinson, Jude Law and Harvey Keitel. While most of the cast fits into their roles nicely, the occasional head-scratcher remains. Murray's role is perhaps the most obvious.So, the acting is excellent. Working with Anderson's vision, everything merges together smoothly. The cinematography, a long-standing hallmark of Anderson's films, is breathtaking, truly the heart and soul of the film. The plot is flimsy, but that is ultimately the center of the acquired taste; if you can overlook a flimsy plot to appreciate the other two-thirds of film foundation (acting, atmosphere), then you'll have no problem enjoying the Budapest.It doesn't surprise me that this movie has received so much praise. It also doesn't surprise me that it's received so much indifference, displeasure and/or disgust. As usual, Wes Anderson remains far enough outside the widest reaching circles of film making to inherently create a "love/hate" offer to viewers with each successive film. While not all of his work has been loved by myself, "The Grand Budapest Hotel" certainly is.


                
I have never been fan of Wes Anderson's films owing to their cartoonish and funny sets with weird make-up. However, I was surprised to watch The Grand Budapest Hotel with utmost sincerity in terms of performance, story telling and brilliant direction.The Grand Budapest Hotel tells the adventure of Gustave H who is a manager at the The Grand Budapest Hotel along with the lobby boy Zero.Wes Anderson had changed my mind and feeling towards his film with sheer direction and convincing screenplay. The story is well-told in the flashback mode and narration is simply superb keeping you on your toes right from the beginning till the end. The movie is a thorough entertaining and the prison break scene will add extra spice and is like an icing on the cake. Background score is superb along with beautiful cinematography and art direction. Editing is crispy. Ralph Fiennes gives a memorable performances with wonderful dialogue delivery filled with humor and expression. Tony Revolori gives in an adequate support and should go a long way.Overall, a brilliant cinema to watch out for. Excellent 4.5/5


                
Wes Anderson (The royal Tenenbaums, Moonrise Kingdom) is a name that's known to most people because the world he creates in his films are so eccentric and unique to him that no one else can do it.The Grand Budapest hotel is a Wes Anderson film down to his very core. It has all his classic techniques such as push in, whip pans, camera moves with dialogs, title cards etc. The films draws on the writing of Viennese intellectual Stefan zweig. In the Grand Budapest hotel we are transported back to 1932 by Mr. Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham) the owner of the Grand Budapest hotel. He tells writer (Jude law) how he came into possession of the hotel.Wes Anderson has not only mastered the art of auteur directing he has also made a name for himself as a story teller this is why there is a big line up of Hollywood stars begging to be in his film. He definitely uses this to his advantage as we can see The grand Budapest hotel has one of the most colorful cast list of the year.Wes Anderson has provided Ralph Fiennes with one of his most distinguished roles playing Gustav H the powerful concierge at the head of the establishment. He is a well knowledged, well dressed well-spoken and well-mannered man. He also has a dirty habit of bedding old rich ladies most notably Madame D (Tilda Swinton). She passes away and wills her priceless painting Boy with Apple to Gustav H leading to fighting frenzy with her son Dimitir (Adrien Brody) and Jopling (William Defoe).During this fight he is helped by Zero (Tony Revolori). Newcomer Tony Revolori has definitely made a name for him self as actor to watch out for. His on screen charm with Ralph Fiennes as they travel the countryside with various forces on their tail is mesmerizing. During this journey is where we see why The Grand Budapest hotel is the ultimate Wes Anderson film. The traveling with forces on their tails is similar to that of The Darjeeling limited as it mostly takes place on trains, the goofy romance that zero has with Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) is very similar to Moonrise Kingdom. All Wes Anderson fans will bow to the wonders of this film and non fans will be automatically converted.
I remember seeing a poster of this movie in my local cinema and what attracted to this movie was the cast. Most of them were my favourites so I went home and researched this movie and watched the trailer and it looked great! And when I went to see it, the film did not disappoint. I remember in the cinema it was only me and a friend that went to watch it and I left thinking that it was underrated and that it deserved so much more recognition. It was this film that got me into some of Wes Anderson's other movies and soon I became a fan of his films. I definitely would say he's one of my favourite directors. Anyway, this film, The Grand Budapest Hotel, is about Gustave H (Ralph Fiennes) who is a hotel concierge and his lobby boy, Zero (Tony Revolori) and after one of Gustave's mistresses passes away, he becomes a suspect and he and Zero are forced to run away and are lead on a very grand adventure. I definitely would say to anyone who is unsure of this to go and watch it, it might exceed your expectations. Overall, a great film with great actors.
Wes Anderson's The Grand Budapest Hotel, a tale of an old-lady womanizer (Ralph Fiennes, the reason if nothing else to see the film) who is accused of murder and up against an evil son and set in the backdrop of a fake-but-sorta-real European landscape in the mid 1930's, is at its best when it evokes a comparative feeling through its style that may or may not have anything to do with the film itself.This I mean is the passage of time for cinema, as its in three times (30s, late 60s, briefly mid 80s) and had three different aspect ratios, largely shot in 1:33 (the square, not the widescreen rectangle for you laymans) And at this, of course, the film is always a pleasure to look at. That's a given for Anderson. His work here is especially colorful, every hue pops and shines even in that few minutes where it's Black and White on the train, and Fiennes and company are game to play along...Yet, ultimately, I felt maybe a little-sorta let down following the one two punch of Fantastic Mr Fox and Moonrise Kingdom. Though a lot happens in Budapest hotel and its oozing period detail (both real Euro and made up), it's ultimately a bug-eyed cartoon and only two main males, Gustav and his bell-boy-turned-surrogate-son Zero, have two dimensions with everyone else with one. And of course Willem Dafoe looks cool in black leather on a motorcycle (unintentional homage to his debut in the Loveless mayhap crossed with a second tier bond villain ?) and the music is sweet and catchy.I just didn't see the characters having enough depth for me to care that much past the facade Anderson has made up. As with Fox and Life Aquatic to an extent, this is a world where many times you'll see this world created in the hotel and out as a diorama, and all Anderson and his cameraman shoot it impeccably. maybe, this time, TOO impeccably, for me. It gets to the point where even in its controlled pov you''ll know where the cameras going to move, who will be where, even what they'll probably say, filled with witty and sometimes very funny jargony speech.And at the end of it all it's fun to watch, has a look that is unlike anything at the movies right now, and has the sort of bittersweet ending Anderson has made a hallmark of his career. It just doesn't stick with me and prod at me like the director does when he gives characters with firmer consequences at hand. And yes I know this story is in the backdrop of a (pre) war environment and involves falsely accused murder (if one must give the highest comparative praise, think the cultural refinery in Renoirs 30s pics with a Hitchcock yarn also from the 30s). But... too many characters, all drawn with broad strokes, and just when you think you're getting a handle on one like Ronans character shell slip away from the movie so long that the motivations get mixed up.Recommended for being the work of a master stylist (And Jeff Goldblum cause he's who he is) but not recommended if you want a movie with something to say, which after Moonrise and Tenenbams and bottle rocket, I know the man's capable of. 7.5/10


                
Film is often compared to dreams, after all Hollywood us called the "dream factory", leading us into strange lands that often only exist as long as the lights are low and the projector is running. So it is only fitting that the world's largest film festival would open with an elaborate and visually overwhelming dream. Such is Wes Anderson's The Grand Budapest Hotel, telling the story of Zero, a lobby boy at a luxury hotel in a pre-war fantasy state who is mentored by the legendary concierge Monsieur Gustave and plunges into an epic adventure with him. The film is a brightly colored tour de force, hilariously funny, a crazy comic book world full of strange and enchanting creatures. A passing, temporary world in which one can, for a short time, live or at least imagine a dream life. Like a hotel. The visuals are astounding, the story-telling, fast-paced, inventive, always surprising, the characters quirky, grotesque, lovable. The Grand Budapest Hotel is a gigantic and excessively sweet candy floss kind of a movie full of a stellar cast on the edge of quirkiness, a wildly entertaining ride that fully exploits film's ability to create fantasy worlds that still manage to lay bare hints of the world we know. For despite all the colorfulness, the film also tells the story of a world threatened by war and violence, a dream long turned into nightmare. The Grand Budapest Hotel has its redundancies (such as the present day framing story) but it is a beautiful homage to the past we have lost but are encouraged to re- create and create anew with the greatest gift we have: imagination. And ultimately, it is a tribute to that wonderful dream machine we call cinema filled with hints and associations for those who want to find them (down to such a detail as the aspect ratio) – albeit one that doesn't take itself too seriously. Which might be its most charming and enchanting quality.http://stagescreen.wordpress.com/
At the same time as the Coens have hit a snag in visual imagination and the ability to roam freely, Wes Anderson soars. This has all the lithe irreverence of early Coens, the paradox of Lubitsch, with the self-reference of Greenaway back when he was still making ripples.The structure could be out of Greenaway and tuned to much the same purpose, nested fiction so that we can move to a broader view of life that includes the stage where it acts its dramas - narrators nested within narrators, a girl reading a book by an author who narrates about an encounter he had with another narrator, who narrates over dinner about his escapades with a master storyteller caught in a fiction.Deep down it's the encounter with this master storyteller that matters, a concierge in a hotel, superficially frilly at first sight, but someone we come to realize who cultivates the entire space of the hotel with a storyteller's affection for the contours of duplicitous life, who knows when to gently hover, when to anticipate and direct, when to throw himself earnestly in the creation of memorable f(r)iction for his elderly patrons.The fiction he's caught in and sends him to prison and eventually all the way up to a monastery in the Alps is where he's framed by greedy relatives for murder. Its own commentary on art and narrative that again recalls the sardonic best of Greenaway in Draughtsman - the storyteller framed by boorish patrons who can only imagine a boorish story, lecherous gigolo exploiting vulnerable old women. We know from our position as viewers that he was a character in a fiction spun for her enjoyment and thrill (and his profit of course), but spun in earnest, with genuine care.And this is what Anderson does as storyteller of the whole thing. Spinning obvious fiction shown to be artificial on all sides (one that we enter through a book), but doing it with earnest love for the snowflakes of truth he can elicit on every step. I find here a succulent love between human beings that I first admired in the teenage romance of his Moonrise - as dry and static was Life of Zissou, so much richer these last two films have been. On the whole I'm beaming after this, which I saw twice in as many days. It's such a pleasure to watch Anderson bloom in this way - this is surely his mature period and after the sublime Moonrise he's become for me one to cherish and keep an eye on.The controlled symmetries have been toned down, they're still here, but gone is the coffee shop lassitude, replaced by a dynamic asymmetry first introduced in Moonrise - between what we see and what what is narrated or what we imagine, like the image of prisoners feet dancing in air above the sleeping wardens, a poetic image that hovers for a brief second until the next one explains it. There's a magnetic pace here that comes as a result of paradoxically dismantling expectation - Lubitsch. This along with how music is melded to it merits its own viewing.


                
Well I had not seen a Wes Anderson film before and I was attracted to this by the trailer which is full of lovely looking shots.The film itself certainly does look beautiful and the way in which some of the scenes are shot is really very clever.The whole film has a cartoon quality about it and some of the scenes are indeed animated such as the introduction of the hotel itself.Three different screen ratios are used, one for each period in the film. I don't think this worked particularly well and personally I would have preferred just sticking with 2.35:1 throughout. I got a bit fed up with what looks like a narrow square for much of the film.It is a joyful romp, however nothing about it ever touches very deeply.


                
Wes Anderson has been steadfastly honing his finesse since the outset of his career starting from BOTTLE ROCKET (1996) when he was only 27, from then, this wunderkind's filmography has flourished healthily, presently he is among the most successful auteur in US indie ground and internationally his fame also balloons with his audience, his eighth feature THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL, this year Berlin International Film Festival's opening film (and Grand Jury Prize winner) and a genuine box-office triumph, indicates he is not slowing down in any aspect. Distinctively utilising 3 aspect ratios for three different time-lines, the predominant storyline in the 30s is in the standard academy ratio, Anderson marshals a bevy of distinguished actors to offer his die-hard devotees a resplendent banquet inspired by the writings of Stefan Zweig. In a fictional Republic of Zubrowska, located in middle Europe's alpine state, there is the titular hotel, on the cusp of WWII, the concierge Gustave H (Fiennes) and the lobby boy Zero (Revolori) experience a smörgåsbord of incidents fluctuate from an inheritance tumult to a painting theft and to wacky murder cases, from an off-the-wall prison break to a catch-and-chase escapade in a snowfield and finally to a vis-a-vis confrontation in the hotel, it is as kooky as one could ever anticipate in a fashion of Anderson's childlike sophistication, at the same time, the narrative unwinds with absorbing élan in the same class as in MOONRISE KINGDOM (2012, 8/10). Anderson's one-of-a-kind varicolored miniatures, opulent design and ingenious compositions again leave his audience in a state of awe and elation, although frequently his back screen projections let the cat out of the reality bag, which vastly has the hallmarks of the standard Hollywood productions, a studio setting grafts on an unconvincing outdoor background. Fiennes is superbly foppish and demonstrates a dynamic interplay with the wide-eyed neophyte Revolori. The pair's friendship is alternately self-consciously comical and heroically heartfelt, Fiennes knows perfectly the timing to deliver his sermon under diverse circumstances, as a dowager-charmer, his lovable goofiness trumps any moral judgment simply because everybody deserves to be happy. Among the massive supporting group, F. Murray Abraham deserves more credits for his compassionate hospitality as the elder Zero in the 1960s and the impassioned narrator (nevertheless how come an Indian boy has metamorphosed into an Arabian grown-up is beyond any explanation); Tilda Swinton is strikingly overshadowed by her old-age make-up although she is always a scene-stealer (even when her character is dead); Saoirse Ronan plays Agatha, the love-interest of Zero, an apprentice of the Mendel bakery who has a Mexico-shaped birthmark on her face, she a plucky girl with a sense of righteousness, a symbol of virtue which falls victim of the impending war; last but not the least, Willem Dafoe spices up his menacing goon with equally-dosed grimness and caricature. Principally Anderson underlays a tale of woe with sufficient verve and vibrant palette, more incredibly, he is perfecting his story-telling technique, as a whole, THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL is his most mature film to date and rosily beckons that the zenith of Wes Anderson school is manifestly on the horizon now.


                
You can always tell when you're watching a Wes Anderson's film with all his director motifs. Like Tim Burton, Wes Anderson's films always have a distinctive style. You just have to be a semi fan of his work to get enjoy it. If not, this movie isn't for you. Grand Budapest Hotel is just as amazing to watch like his other whimsical films. One thing, that bother me, is the direction of the narrative. The movie is told through four people, in three different time-lines. The movie couldn't figure out who should tell this movie. It was bit annoying. The first is an unnamed young girl who reads an author's (Tom Wilkinson) book in the present day, about his time at the Grand Budapest Hotel. Then it's told by the young author now played by Jude Law in the 1960s, whom meets the hotel owner, Zero Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham). Then it's told by Zero who recounts to him, how he got the hotel as a young man (Tony Revolori) in 1932, but the movie isn't really about him. You can really see, how this is frustration. The movie should only focus on the story of M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes). All of the other beginning stories wasn't needed. M. Gustave was the best part of the film, and wonderfully play by Ralph Fiennes. By far, my favorite character, he help created. Gustave is very dapper and elegant and courteous and impressively foul mouthed. What a great character. M. Gustave is a legendary concierge at a famous European hotel in the fictional Republic of Zubrowka, a European alpine state. Still, I don't know why it is call Grand Budapest Hotel, when it's nowhere near Budapest? The movie also have a fictional World War 2, as Zubrowka's "Zig-Zag" fascist and Communism movement fight for control of the country as a backdrop. With its mix of German, Hungarian and Slavic naming elements, Catholicism, fallen nobility and rising fascists Zubrowka is strongly reminiscent of the former lands of the Austro-Hungarian Empire between the wars. Anyways, when the elder Madame D. (Tilda Swinton in great make up) dies a mysterious death. M. Gustave is framed for her death and sent to prison. Mid-while, the story kinda get way more complex, involving theft and recovery of a priceless Renaissance painting and the battle for an enormous family fortune. I like how his films consistently center on the importance of and interaction between families. I found the relationship between M. Gustave and young Zero to be the greatest piece of the film. Still, the movie did had way too many characters. The movie has a lot of Wes Anderson recurring actors as side or minor characters like Bill Murray, Jason Schwartzman, Owen Wilson and others. Honestly, some of these characters were not really needed, but seem write in, so he can get some of his friends, a paycheck. Since Anderson film usually features an ensemble cast and a sprawling plot line, not every character get told. The odd telling of what happen to Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) seem lazy. Show it, don't tell it. It kinda lost the emotional impact, by just mentioning it, without showing. I didn't mind the bittersweet ending about M. Gustave, because the movie invested more into that character than Agatha, but it seem wrong, not to show, what happen to them. It seem a lot of the plot conclusion was unfinished. After all, the movie never truly tells how M. Gustave prove his innocent, or who killed him. The film was inspired by the writings of Stefan Zweig. The film has bits from 1939 novel 'Beware of Pity' and 1982 'The Post Office Girl". You see that in Anderson's films, that he truly love art. Indeed, it's an art-film about loving art. His films are full of charmingly obscure references to old music, theater, literature, paintings and photography. The locations that they use are beautiful. I love the nostalgia look of the clothes, you really get the time period. I also didn't mind the use of handmade miniature models. It was funny to see it, but fits in with the mood of the story, so well. The Deadpan comedy works so well, in this movie. I wouldn't stop, laughing. The silly dialogue is delivered in such a serious way that makes it fun to watch. I'm a sucker for smart comedies. I didn't like the lack of European accents. It was alright. The movie does have some harsh language, but unlike other modern comedies. It's works with the story, because it used to expression deep emotion depth, than a misplace adjective. The violence can be a bit too violent at times. This might be Anderson's darkest, most violent film yet. I really think some people might hate what happen to a certain cat in the film. The movie did a few scenes of nudity that could had been cut. It wasn't need. Overall: The movie takes the cake. In this case, Mendl's Courtesan au Chocolats. It's a good well-made movie with some faults
