I would consider myself a Wes Anderson fan, however in saying that, I have only seen a handful of his movies. I was very excited for The Grand Budapest Hotel, because of its excellent cast, the fact it's directed by Wes Anderson and just by how unique it looked. After watching The Grand Budapest Hotel, I can confidently say that it's my new favourite Wes Anderson film, and probably his best.As I was hoping, the story to The Grand Budapest Hotel is very original and unique, some may even say strange. And as the movie goes on, the story only gets wilder and wilder. The film is often very hilarious, with some seriously funny dark humour thrown in there as well. Characters are extremely well written, with the bond between Gustave and Zero being the backbone of the whole movie as it's so well written. The Grand Budapest Hotel features an odd narrative structure that works very well for the film, again adding to the uniqueness and freshness of it. I wasn't exactly sure how the story would play out, as I purposely avoided all promotional materiel so I would know as little as possible before watching. This was a great benefit to my viewing experience as I loved everything I saw, and felt as though nothing was spoiled from watching too many trailers.I haven't been a huge fan of most of Ralph Fiennes' work since his phenomenal performance in 1993's "Schindler's List", but this is easily his best performance since then. He proves he can do comedy just as well as he can do drama, providing a perfect balance of both. Newcomer Tony Revolori is excellent as well. I won't get into the whole supporting cast because there's so many who were all so great, but I was particularly impressed by Willem Dafoe, Adrien Brody, Harvey Keitel, Jude Law and Saoirse Ronan.The Grand Budapest Hotel is definitely a Wes Anderson film, down to its very core. If you know his style, then you known what to expect, as this movie is full of it. Thankfully though, it's not a case of style over substance, with a great story to accompany the gorgeous visuals. The colour palette is beautiful; it's nice to see lot's of bright colours when so many other films are so dark and dreary. The set design and costumes are perfect, and there's so much attention to detail within the sets. The cinematography is phenomenal, and I really like how the film was presented in different aspect ratios.You really can't go wrong with this film. It's probably Wes Anderson's best film, it has gorgeous visuals, excellent acting and a wonderful story. If you're a fan of Wes Anderson's previous work, you cannot miss this, and even if you're not a fan you should go and see it anyway.


                
A wonderfully funny fable of the adventures of world's greatest hotel concierge (a brilliant, inventive and hilarious performance by Ralph Fiennes) and the friendship he strikes up with the hotel's new lobby boy (a strong debut by newcomer Tony Revolori). The story goes in many unexpected directions, every one entertaining and eccentric, and the cast is full of first rate highly comic performances by F. Murray Abraham, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, with terrific cameos by Bill Murray, Harvey Keitel, Edward Norton, Tilda Swinton, Jason Schwartzman, Tom Wilkinson, Owen Wilson, Jude Law and others I feel bad for forgetting here. While not Anderson's most profound film, it may be his most joyful. I don't think I stopped smiling from first frame to last, and I laughed out loud quite a few times. And yet, as in any good fable, there is some real poignancy as well. A top notch marriage of a lovingly crafted art-film and a wacky human comedy, something rarely pulled off with such panache. Even my friends who don't enjoy Anderson's work in general had nothing but good things to say. The sweetest treat of the movie year so far.


                
A former lobby boy, Zero Moustafaw tells a story to a writer, who tells this tale of a hotel, it's guests and the outstanding concierge Monsieur Gustav H to us. It's about (blind) loyalty, duty beyond the required, greed, stupidity, love for women in any age ... and the power of influence when treating persons with the grace of that person's beauty. It's (black) comedy at its best. The ridiculous becomes brilliant through cleverly constructed dialog, impeccable executed timing and timbre change. Many camera shots are little art pieces like in Moonrise Kingdom, beautifully constructed with cuts that ad to the timing, visually. The production design takes you from the shabby to over-the-top kitsch to breath taking wooden interiors and mountains. The CGI reminds me of Monty Python, deliberately unrealistic which is part of the humor yet makes it at the same time oddly believable.Never thought of Ralph Fiennes as a comedic actor. He convinced me here. Tony Revolori as young Zero Saoirse Ronan as Agatha are remarkable. And then there were: F. Murray Abraham, Jude Law, Tilda Swinton, Adrien Brody, Willem Defoe, Jeff Goldblum, Edward Norton, Léa Seydoux, Harvey Keitel, Tom Wilkinson, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, (I think I saw George Cloony for 2 sec)... Just to be able to get all these heavy weights to sign up for minor roles, demands respect. To get them all set their mark in a few minutes, is awesome."He retained the illusion with remarkable grace." is one of the last lines in the movie. It describes both the main character and also the heart of the movie. This is a real 9 - beauty combined with dirt, great cinematography with dry jokes and art with silliness. If you like to be amazed, see something out of the ordinary, are able to go with a flow, you will LOVE this movie.
That it was directed by Wes Anderson (who has a unique style that really fascinates, but admittedly not everybody will like or warm to his style) and that the cast is so stellar were reasons enough to see 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' in the first place, as well as its many accolades and critical acclaim.While it isn't quite flawless, and it is easy to see why a number of people don't like or will not like it (due to a lot of the cast's roles being pretty short, only Gustave and Zero being fully fleshed out of the characters and those who have a problem with Anderson's style), 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' is a visually stunning, hugely entertaining, wonderfully weird and impeccably cast and acted film.It really stuns visually, with cinematography that is not only clever in technique but also gorgeous in aesthetic and tight, fluid editing. The costumes, production design and hair and make-up richly deserved their Oscar/Academy Award wins, the costume and production design have a lusciously colourful fairy-tale feel while also given substance by the bleakly atmospheric quality that reflects the crime drama aspect of the story brilliantly.Alexandre Desplat also received an Oscar, and with its hauntingly hypnotic and entrancing tones it richly deserved it as to me it was by far the best score of those nominated. Anderson directs superbly, the story balances darkness and quirkiness to great effect (the prison scene is unforgettable) and it's never too simplistic or convoluted (though of course the visuals, dialogue and performances make much more of an impact) and the screenplay is a sublime mixture of the dark, the quirky, the witty and the subtle delivered with rapid-fire.'The Grand Budapest Hotel' boasts an impeccable cast and pretty much everybody does a splendid job, though many of the roles are short. My only criticism of the film is that Harvey Keitel and Saoirse Ronan are underused and just get lost amongst everything else, an unrecognisable Tilda Swinton also has little to do but still gives a bat-out-of-hell performance.Bill Murray, F. Murray Abraham, Jeff Goldblum, Jason Schwartzman and Owen Wilson give very entertaining performances, while Edward Norton is delightfully droll and Adrien Brody and especially Willem Dafoe bring sinister foreboding to the film. Some may say that Tony Revolori is overshadowed by the more experienced cast members (being the only newcomer in a large cast of big names), but to me he more than holds his own and effectively plays it straight. The film belongs to Ralph Fiennes, in what is essentially the heart of the film, while he has always been a fine actor he has not given a performance this brilliant in years, never knew he could be so riotously funny.In conclusion, a wonderful film and a hotel well worth revisiting more than once if to one's taste. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
It's a fantastic Wes Anderson film.
Definitely stands up after repeate watches.
Fiennes is spectacular, so is everyone else for that matter.
The cast includes one of my top 5 most hated actresses/actors and wes made them look good.
Not much else to say except watch it.


                
Ralph Fiennes shows why he is considered a great actor! You can easily follow the story, you will understand the characters and most of all you won't feel the time passing by... Isn't this the main reason why movies exist? You will laugh, you may cry and next time you visit an hotel you will remember this staff. 9 out of 10.


                
The Grand Budapest Hotel has it all: great actors, an interesting story-line, beautiful cinematography, a dreamlike set, and of course a brilliant director. Ralph Fiennes, who played M. Gustave, was the perfect concierge. He not only embraced the intimate role of the concierge, but he somehow "completed" those words on the screenplay in a way that most actors could not. I have to say that the entire cast made a stellar performance on this film, but sadly cannot name them all as I would run out of space to write the film review. M. Gustav and Zero's relationship throughout the film was a pleasure to watch. It was funny to see them from the very beginning, when they had first met, to the point where they trusted one another with their lives. In a way, they became the family they'd always missed.If you're a fan of Wes Anderson's style, the colours, the patterns, the comedy, the symmetry, and all that jazz--you won't be disappointed. The sets are beautiful (no wonder they won an Oscar for Production Design) and the costumes are very well put together (another Oscar there).Wes Anderson has created a masterpiece--a literal piece of artwork that will be praised for decades to come.


                
In a fictional country whose name might earn 100 points on the Scrabble, one of these typical points in the map that started the century in the Austrian-Hungarian splendor and ended up in Soviet austerity, there is a hotel. In this hotel that used to be the place-to-be to all the visitors from Europe, there was a professional, no-nonsense but not without a debonair quality of his own, concierge, his name was Gustav. He had a lust for aging blonde socialites, and from the way he explains it, it's something that requires the taste of a gourmet.There's also a timid but motivated lobby boy named Zero, a baker named Mendl, a murder, a jail sentence, inheritance, family plots and many other ingredients of a real pastry of movie whose story and tone will get over the heads of those who expect something with a plot. Well, that's not what the film is about, it has the old-fashioned charm of Golden Age Hollywood movies, but with a sense of self-conscious wit that gives it a modern touch of originality. It is weird, it is old, you wouldn't believe this is a 2014 movie but like Gustav' tastes, it takes a gourmet to appreciate it.There's something delightfully refreshing in "The Grand Budapest Hotel" in the way it doesn't call for any particular analysis, and provides nothing that can encourage your mind to venture into intellectual considerations. This film is meant for pure visual and narrative entertainment and all you have to do is imagining yourself checking in a hotel where all your wishes will be granted, you don't even have to think, it's all in the 'wait and see' premise.There's also a leitmotif in the film consisting on a delicious pastry, from renowned baker Mendl, who looks and tastes good and is so appealing in any way that when it is sent to a jail pensioner, the man in charge of checking if there's no outbreak device hidden in food, doesn't even let his butcher knife spoil the visuals. This is almost a metaphor to Wes Anderson's aesthetic power, one you don't want to butcher with 'thinking'. You don't need and you shouldn't, because if you try, you're likely to find yourself in some sort of private joke you're the only one not to get.So, embrace that big joke of a film, that shaggy-dog story where each shot, looks like the vignette of a comic-book, enjoy the dry with of Ralph Fiennes in his greatest comedic performance since "In Bruges" and don't take the whole thing seriously. The only serious aspect about it is that the film is a visual masterpiece with a unique use of colors, contrasts and environment shots, Anderson is a director, who like Jeunet in "Amélie" knows how to make people move in an environment, whether a hotel lobby, a jail or a mountain. Actually, he even know how to make them static, in the middle of a frame, looking at the camera but never breaking the fourth wall, quite a stunt, really.Other moments come in mind, an exchange of punches that look like the frame never moves yet three or four guys end up on the floor, there's a suspenseful moment over a ravine where a man breaks the ice to make Gustav fall only to be thrown away and fall while spinning like in a Tex Avery cartoon. The juxtapositions between shots is another trick cherished by Anderson, a group of escaping prisoners look down over a hole they just opened, the next shot features the exact opposite with guards. I mentioned comic-books, the film's story board would have made a terrific one. The uses of costume is another aspect that immediately associates the film with the animated world, nothing is too wacky or over-the-top if it means a great-looking shot or a hilarious gag, or both.The film is also known for his ensemble star-cast and indeed, it's part of the publicity, it would take a whole paragraph to list all the actors, but the thing is that the film owes them nothing, they're giving their best shot even for a few minutes of screen-time (Bill Murray doesn't have more than a minute but he steals that minute) because they know the film is good enough to have fun with it. It was Ebert who mentioned in his show with Siskel that there was nothing better than seeing actors having fun with their characters, the film would highlight that 'fun' aspect. We know actors love rely on disguises, phony accents and go beyond their usual method acting just to make fun of their own shtick. That's how refreshing the tone of Anderson is. The film would garner 11 Oscar nominations, the most with "Birdman" but not one for acting. Fair enough.And as star-studded as it is, Anderson was wise enough to cast a relatively unknown young fellow (Tony Rivelori) for the central role of awkward lobby boy Zero (his old counterpart is played by F. Murray Abraham), Zero doesn't have any physical appeal, he's not even competent, but he's totally devoted to his Master Gustav and that is the key to their relationship, he's his eyes and ears during his absence in prison and together, they lead a heart-pounding adventure with the dawn of the War as a backdrop. Their relationship, which is one of the mentor and master can be very inspiring at time, even poignant, so maybe there are a few things to appreciate beyond the zaniness, after all.But apart from that, it's a film that can be tasted like a treat and full of tricks whose only purpose is to make you laugh, the whole thing wrapped up in a sumptuous visual package à la Anderson, a cinematic Mendl. "The Grand Budapest" is all about intellectual detachment, visual entertainment, and fun, fun and fun, tricks and treats, really.


                
I avoided this movie when it came out, since the last two films I've seen of director Wes Anderson, The Light Aquatic and the Darjeeling Limited, were utterly terrible. Only with the recent multiple Oscar nominations of this movie, I decide to give this a chance. And guess what: it is a great movie, his best since the Royal Tennenbaums. Set mostly in the 1930s in a fictional Central European state (the film was mostly shot in Southern Germany) - though with a nifty introduction from the 1960s that frames the narrative with Jude Law and F. Murray Abraham - the Grand Hotel Budapest tells the story of the said hotel - one in the classical European style - that is run by the concierge M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) helped by the bellboy Zero (Tony Revolori)Fiennes is great as Gustave, a cultured, suave womanizer specialized in wooing elderly ladies who sees himself as a beacon of civilization in an age of increasing barbarism. When one of his "customers" (Tilda Swinton) dies and decides to give part of her inheritance to Mustafa, her two psycho sons (Adrien Brody and Willem Dafoe) will left no stone unturned in trying not to give others what they think is rightfully theirs.This movie has an impressive all star cast. Along with those already named, we also have Edward Norton, Jeff Goldblum, Harvey Keitel, Saoirse Ronan, Mathieu Amalric and (in smaller roles), Bill Murray, Lea Seydoux, Owen Wilson and Jason Schwartzmann. And Anderson's mannerisms and eccentricities are not so off putting here (well, maybe with exceptions, like what does the mole with the size of Mexico in Saoirse Ronan means?). Inspired by the writings of Stefan Zweig.
This movie was one of the movies which was mysteriously interesting. Even though a bit of the focus of the story was laid upon the viewers on the early part of the movie. The movie had me "gespannt wie ein flitzebogen". This masterpiece was perfectly made with distinctive visual and narrative style. Same as Ronald Dahl's (Fantastic Mr.Fox). It isn't one of those movies which were just twisted plots. It is THAT movie that has twisted plots. After watching this movie i wished there would be more movies with this kind of style. Worth watching. Final verdict its just something you should watch to understand.Something worth spending time on because for me its just "That good". Though there were parts which made me say "ugh" or something in disgust or in reaction to violence. This movie made a mark on my mind. Made me smile. Which most of the movies in our current gen don't do. 9/10


                
The Grand Budapest Hotel is an old relic in the eastern European former republic of Zubrowka. In 1985, the author of the book Grand Budapest Hotel (Tom Wilkinson) recounts how in 1968 he (Jude Law) got the story from Mr. Zero Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham). He talks about his early life as Lobby Boy (Tony Revolori) with the original concierge M. Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes) in 1932 who was willed a priceless painting by Madame Celine Villeneuve Desgoffe und Taxis (Tilda Swinton) setting off a battle with the woman's family led by her son Dimitri (Adrien Brody) and the violent Jopling (Willem Dafoe). Gustave is arrested for Madame D's murder. Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) is the girl of purity who's in love with Zero. Kovacs (Jeff Goldblum) is the executor of the will.This is a new high for Wes Anderson. He's filled this with his usual unique visual style and his quirky characters. In addition, he has used it in an exciting thriller with a bit of mystery. There are some really dangerous bad guys. There is real tension that isn't always there for a Wes Anderson film. He always had the quirky, the fascinating and the unique. This has so much more than that. It's a pretty fun thrilling ride.


                
In 1932, M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) is a concierge at the Grand Budapest Hotel. Gustave takes a young lobby boy named Zero (Tony Revolori) under his wing and trains him to be a more professional lobby boy. Gustave has a proclivity for dating older women. One of the older women he's dating, Madame D (Tilda Swinton) ends up dead. Madame D leaves Gustave a priceless painting, Called Boy With Apple and Madame D's son, Dimitri (Adrien Brody) suspects Gustave of murder. Moreover, Dimitri produces a witness produces a witness named Serge X (Mathieu Amalric) who implicates Gustave in the murder. Gustave is imprisoned by police officer Henkels, (Edward Norton) but breaks out of prison with the help of Zero and his girlfriend, Agatha. (Saoirse Ronan) The fugitive Gustave is hunted not only by Henkels, but also by Joplin (Willem Dafoe) a hit-man hired by Dimitri.The Grand Budapest Hotel is a very intricate movie, the viewer must follow the story very closely to fully appreciate the humor and pathos of the movie. Some of the comedy is broadly absurd, some more subtle. Underneath all the humor this is a story about the relationship between Zero and Gustave which starts out as a mentor mentee relationship, and evolves into a close friendship. The dialogue is typical Wes Anderson, stilted sentences, deadpan delivery, and a new wrinkle a lot of cursing for comedic effect. I've seen a lot Wes Anderson films, some I've liked, others not, but this and Moonrise Kingdom are two of his best.Anderson is a very visual director, every frame of this movie is infused with bright, vibrant colors, which is a hallmark of all his films and make his films stand out in comparison to other films. The animated exteriors add to the whimsical, ethereal nature of the film. Anderson has done animated exteriors before in movies like the Life Aquatic, but not to this extent.The acting is superb, led by Ralph Fiennes, who is hilarious as Gustave the concierge. He often waxes poetic in the movie only to be interrupted by more urgent circumstances. Fiennes shows a lot of range in his relationship with Zero, he is almost a surrogate father to the young immigrant. Adrien Brody is as lively as I've seen him in as Dimitri, Madame D's greedy cutthroat son. Edward Norton is good too, as a Keystone Cop type trying to find the truth of what happened to Madame D. Saoirse Ronan and Tony Revolori are really convincing as young lovers, falling in love in the middle of this madness, and trying to keep their love alive. F Murray Abraham is excellent as the adult Zero, and makes a great narrator. There are also many fine actors in smaller roles, Tilda Swinton as Madame D, Harvey Keitel, Jeff Goldblum, Tom Wilkenson, and more all contribute to a very enjoyable film.For more grand movie reviews, visit my blog reviewswithatude.wordpress.com
The thing about this movie is that you can watch it without being critical about it. It puts you in a mood of comfort where you just enjoy it and not worry that you wasted 90 minutes of your life watching this film. From the start (hell! from the trailers), you know you're gonna love this movie. ---simply put, a very likable film. The story drags you deeper into the intricate and unpredictable plot. The humor is there tinged and spiced by the characters' realistic view of life. The innocent Zero interwoven with the precise and darkly humorous Monsieur Gustave creates a mischievously adorable friendship. Anderson (as what i can see from behind-the-scene videos) has complete control of the set, the casts and the story. The script writing is dark in its ways but also really fits the casts. (no wonder big time actors signed up for the roles). Viewers have the freedom to think whether or not it has a gaudy or a conservative ending. Weis Anderson created a fictional story in a fictional setting which is very easy to love and hard to let go once the credits roll.


                
Those who turn their nose up at the thought of another fussily-filmed, wildly colourful journey into the world and mind of Wes Anderson, will no doubt detest his latest, and arguably most perfect work, The Grand Budapest Hotel. His work is criticised by his haters for being too meticulously structured, his camera limited to sideways and occasionally upwards movements, festooned with bold colours, always leading to that dreaded, overused word - 'quirky'. Yet this is a world a sly wit, of characters so ridiculous and charming that you could wish they would replace the monotonous bores that litter our reality, and one in which Bill Murray is omnipresent.In the pink, mountainous haven of the picturesque, fictitious European country of Zubrowka, sits the Grand Budapest Hotel. In it's heyday, the hotel was meticulously managed by Monsieur Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes), a charismatic, perfume-wearing horndog, who knew all about what his guests wanted before they even knew they wanted it. On the day that one of his elderly conquests, Madame D. (Tilda Swinton), leaves the hotel, he meets new lobby boy Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori), and immediately begins to groom him as his possible successor. When he hears of Madame D's death, Gustave and Zero travel to her mansion to hear the reading of her will.She leaves Gustave a piece of priceless art, something heavily resented by Madame's two evil, leather-jacketed sons, Dmitri (Adrien Brody) and Jopling (Willem Dafoe), who don't wish to see this lecherous lothario receive a dime. Sensing trouble, Gustave and Zero steal the painting, replace it with some kind of grotesque lesbian erotica, and flee. This sets in motion a series of farcical events involving a prison escape, an apologetic police officer named Henckels (Edward Norton), a missing butler, and the rise of fascism. All of this is told by an ageing Zero (F. Murray Abraham) to a curious writer credited only as 'The Author' (Jude Law).What it all about, you ask? Possibly nothing. This could all be just a splurge of the director's imagination, or a hark back to the grand eccentrics of the olden days. It could be about the state of Europe between the two World Wars, with the Grand Budapest Hotel a multi- national asylum for all of the continent's misfits. But the setting simply seems too fitting for it's comedic approach for it to be labelled with any kind of 'war' or 'period' label, with bursts of slapstick and comedy-of-manners worthy of Lubitsch, punctured by ridiculous exclamations from it's hyperactive concierge. When he hears about an enemy's dastardly plan, he responds "the f*****s!".So, I don't quite know what it's all about. What I do know is that I loved every second of watching it's ludicrous story play out, anchored by an outstanding performance by Fiennes. He may seem an odd choice for an Anderson film, whose films are usually littered with the likes of Jason Schwartzman, Owen Wilson, and Bill Murray (all of whom appear here), but his Gustave is Anderson's greatest creation, brought fearlessly and completely to life by Fiennes. He's certainly no spring chicken, but he's a strange delight to spend 100 minutes with. And that's really how I felt about the entire experience, it was certainly strange, but utterly delightful.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com


                
If you like Wes Anderson, you will love this movie. Witty, entertaining and pleasant, it is a comedy in his unique style, that hits all the tones and notes that make him a unique and original director.


                
When I watch the "Grand Budapest Hotel" had not read anything about the movie. I found a work of art, full of intelligent humor that at times borders on the absurd. Visually it is an attractive product, the colors, the clothes, the time unfolds ... It has a simple story easy to follow and allows us to keep pace with rapid dialogues between the characters. The scenes pass quickly, at a rate that requires the attention of the audience. This is also why we must be careful not to lose the jokes ... some black humor. Is a beautiful hours of film and good humor. Is perceived-that behind this film is a competent technical team of post production. It's a movie not to be missed, but will not be guaranteed awarded the Academy Award for Best Film of the Year, given the good quality of the other nominees.


                
Watching this movie in theater Concordia in Enschede The Netherlands, I had to laugh, was touched by its irony and the romance of the hotel and the 'Austrian' empire. And of course all those (great) actors playing in it. The descent from the ski-piste beginning at the monastery at a model piste was great. So was the music by Alexandre Desplat.The crossed keys society was brilliant found. Does the pope know about this?Furthermore the usually aspects of a movie: love, romance, action etc, but all with a twist.Just see this movie ;)


                
The central characters in Wes Anderson's films have always had a deep and inextricable connection to the places they love: Max Fischer had Rushmore; Royal Tenenbaum had the house on Archer Avenue; Steve Zissou had his ship, the Belafonte. Despite their usually roguish natures, these connections hint at some kind of deep sadness and longing beneath their charismatic facades. For them, these places are more than houses and boats and boarding schools—they represent something friendly and welcoming. They know that the world can be a cruel, cruel place and all they can really ask for from life is somewhere to call home—a sanctuary. For M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) of Anderson's remarkable new film, the titular location of The Grand Budapest Hotel is just that.Largely set in the fictional Eastern European country of Zubrowka, the film uses four distinct time lines, each filmed in a different aspect ratio and colour palate precisely layered together. The first takes place in present day, and features a young girl walking through a garden to reach the tomb of an accomplished writer. Next is a flashback, in which the the writer talks directly to the audience about a time in the past when he visited the hotel. The third follows him in the 1960s, a young man at the time, through the hotel—a fading relic of a once vibrant and glorious past. There, he meets owner Zero Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham), who tells him of the hotel's history and the hyper- competent concierge, Gustave, who is its main attraction. The final and longest time line picks up in 1932 and follows Gustave and Zero, now an inexperienced lobby boy, as Gustave inherits a priceless renaissance-era painting after an elderly socialite with whom he was sleeping is murdered under mysterious circumstances. What follows is a deft blend of genres—caper, murder mystery, prison break, and screwball comedy being the most recognizable.At the centre of the story is M. Gustave, a typical Andersonian hero. He's witty, gregarious, and empathetic. He is also, for lack of a better word, quirky: he recites romantic poetry to his employees, wears a liberal amount of perfume, and has a near god-like ability to anticipate the needs of his guests. What sets him apart from other Anderson characters, however, is his edge: he drinks, gets into fights, and relishes in the use of well-delivered profanity. In turn, this makes his sympathetic qualities stand out much more. He, above all else, understands that the unkindness of people comes from fear or institutional obligation rather than hatred. He is portrayed brilliantly by Fiennes, who adds a human sadness to this incredibly touching role, while seeming to have the most fun of his career.Filling out the rest of the cast is the usual cavalcade of Anderson actors—Bill Murray, Jason Schwartzman, and Owen Wilson all get minor roles—and seemingly every established character actor alive, including Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Tilda Swinton—in spectacular old-age makeup —and Tom Wilkinson to name just a few. Deserving special attention is newcomer Tony Revolori as Zero. He brings a nervous energy to the film that works as a counterpoint to Gustave's ever-composed nature.The film also features some of Anderson's most experimental camera-work. He moves the camera beyond his usual whip-pans and tracking shots to create some of the most dazzling, empathetic filmmaking I've seen in recent memory. One particular standout shot features Zero's love interest, Agatha, looking directly at the camera with swirling lights around her head, representing the dizzying high of young love. He also uses his common techniques to great effect: every shot is beautifully and meticulously composed, and the script supplies a steady stream of locations for him to showcase his talent – a museum, a mansion, a prison, and especially, the hotel—all rendered in a high level of minute detail and shot in a distinct cinematographic style.The Grand Budapest Hotel is a fun romp with a complex, emotional centre and is not to be missed.


                
I'm not going to go into much detail on the storyline as I don't want to ruin anything; I will simply state the reasons why I enjoyed The Grand Budapest Hotel.Gustave H is an eccentric, colourful, well established hotel concierge who runs the Grand Budapest Hotel using his own quirky style and approach. He has a lobby boy named Zero Mustafa who he works alongside. Before long the two of them are swept into a series of events that bring them closer, turning them from concierge and lobby boy into loyal friends.The Grand Budapest Hotel is directed by Wes Anderson, meaning that it is going to have a Wes Anderson style quirky twist. People have criticised this movie for this, stating that it is trying too hard to be different, I don't agree with this at all. Yes it is different, yes it is quirky and eccentric but it is magical in its own deserved right. It sucked me into the setting and made me feel much immersed in the movie. The Cinematography is faultless, many scenes are filmed on a back drop that is designed to look like a painting, there are scenes that look gimmicky and there are scenes that feel as if you are watching it in a live play! But these are the reasons that The Grand Budapest Hotel is so enjoyable to watch! The humour is fantastic, it is incredibly witty, and the timing of the punch lines and the use of foul language is done splendidly. Ralph Fiennes who plays Gustave H, the hotel concierge is an incredibly likable and well-presented character. His lobby boy, Zero Mustafa is equally as pleasant and their on screen chemistry grows from nothing in the beginning into a real on screen treat. The supporting cast are also very well picked and they all play their character roles equally well, many of which are well- known faces such as Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Ed Norton, Bill Murray and Jude Law.If you were the split the film into three sections of beginning, middle and end, and were to compare the pace of the film I would say that it dips in the middle section. It starts off fantastically, you are introduced to the characters in a staggered routine and this keeps you hooked, waiting for who is to come next and what role they are to play. The middle does slow down a little and some of the scenes don't live up to the beginning section. It is still entertaining and kept me hooked, but because the beginning was so strong I think the middle seemed deflated because of this. In my opinion It felt slower paced, the two main characters were shown less screen time during this period and I think the film suffered a little because of this. It did however pick up in the final third and the pace was similar to that of the opening part. It ended strongly and left me very pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed this film.The Grand Budapest Hotel succeeds due to great direction, cinematography, script and humour. Its characters are fantastic and some of my favourite characters that I have seen in recent films are on display here. The film is only 90 minutes long but this doesn't stop some impressive character development. I can appreciate that this movie isn't for everyone and it has suffered some poor reviews because of this, but in my opinion it was much better than I was expecting and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It has since been nominated for Best Picture and I wouldn't argue with that one bit.8/10


                
I assumed this film must be good, cause 9 Oscar nominations and over 90% critics on Rotten Tomatoes really imply that is is. However, I like to make my own judgment, since sometimes I do find certain films overrated or underrated. In this case, I have to admit that the critics are right all the way. I absolutely fell in love with this film. From technical standpoint, it is beautiful, colorful, specially shot with an unique feel to it. It combines European art cinema, especially French and German art films with British narrative of a crime novel and with American grandeur and big scale production. The whole film actually feels like an old-fashioned European history film, mixed with Monty Python humor and great visuals. The setting is really unique, little Poirot, little Disney, little WWII. And it really works in this strange combination.The story is really interesting, and yet focused and clear. What fascinates me is how much A-list actors appear in it, and yet it doesn't feel too crowded or having pointless celebrity cameos. I is because many of the actors listed on the poster actually have really small parts, yet all of them are needed to tell the story. There are no pointless characters, and neither of them drags longer than necessary, just to have a certain person longer on screen. All of the actors did a great job and had a perfect comedic timing, yet Ralph Fiennes is the one that really steals the show. He is the main character, concierge Gustave H., whose cold, yet witty temperament carries out the humor throughout many unusual situations. Characters in the film are often both polite and rude at the same time in such a manner that it provokes sincere comedy. What I maybe love even more is the meaning of the story. Madame D gives her legacy to Gustave H., who passed it on to Zero Moustafa, who then told his story to The Author, who would subsequently pass it on to the world in his book. The main message is that our legacy lasts as long as someone remembers it. The legacy may be a valuable painting, a mansion or a hotel, but it may also be our life story, our time spent with someone, our thoughts and feelings that will outlive us if someone is willing to remember. It is such a beautiful and powerful message. And yet, so concise and clear, unlike in films whose complicated hidden message starts to overlap within itself. I really have not much else to say but to recommend everyone to see this film, and to enjoy. It will make you laugh and possibly cry. And it will remind you to enjoy time spent with people you care for and to remember them fondly when they are gone. It is a very sentimental film, yet so funny, witty and full of action that it doesn't come off as too hard or depressive, but rather lovely and unique.
I've just watched it on Netflix, several hours after the Academy Awards gave it 9 nominations. All of them are worthy. All the make-ups, costumes, design, photography, etc., is exceptional. It's beautiful, well-made and all this beauty is useful, serving the story. These craftsmen put all their talents to make this film unforgettable. We could watch it in 30 years, it'll be great forever. Besides, the film is a mix of comedy and a breathless thriller. Previous films by Wes Anderson were funnier, but the story was losing its interest after an hour or so. Here we have a story who's holding it all the way. It's impossible not to laugh even when M. Gustave is in jail. It's well written. In the end, the most interesting part of the film is the cast. Every member of it is good, and a lot of them are really great. They should have nominated Ralph Fiennes for his portrayal of the concierge of this old hotel. He's brilliant and funny and just for him, you have to see this movie. The first time I've seen him on a screen was in "Schindler's list". I've never thought I could watch a film in which he's so different and as good. He's a master.


                
Wes Anderson is really consistent with crafting extremely well-made films. His awesome attention to detail and how he shoots his movies won me over with Moonrise and now, with, GBH I'm convinced Wes Anderson is one of the best, original directors we have today. There's a lot going on in this movie: A girl is visiting a memorial and reading a book by a Nameless Author. Meanwhile, the Author narrates this book for us about a lonely hotel owner who then tells the Author a story about his start as a young Lobby Boy being trained by the then hotel concierge. There's a painting theft, a ski chase, a great and suspenseful museum foot chase. This movie is on through the entire time. When it's not giving you a scene filled with great dialog from it's wonderful cast, you're admiring the typically beautiful set design. The script does a great job of using each setting in the movie and throwing in some surprisingly intense sequences. That museum scene is my favorite and there's awesomely shot shootout at the end that kind acts as a cherry on top of the sundae. The dream team cast is near perfect, as with all Wes Anderson movies. Ralph Feinnes is brilliant and carries the movie IMO, any man that can go from the evil Dark Lord to leading a comedy and nailing it is aces in my book. There's a lot of cool smaller roles, Willem Dafoe and Jeff Goldblum stand out. Again this film is technically flawless as well. The cinematography and music fit well and direction is perfect. I easily recommend a purchase for Wes Anderson and film fans. Casual movie goers might enjoy a rental.


                
I think I've seen a few Wes Anderson movies and I know his reputation for being very eccentric and quirky in his films. Its not usually my cup of tea but after experiencing The Grand Budapest Hotel I might have to re-address the opinion and watch some more of his work. I'm not a big fan of comedy, least of all dirty, raunchy stupid comedy but this comedy was like nothing I have ever seen and it turns out was right up my alley. Make no mistake, this is a comedy. This is the sort of zany, outrageous comedy that made Monte Python an iconic group. The story makes perfect sense and is not confusing in the least and yet this incredibly bizarre cast of characters in an incredibly outrageous series of events feels completely surreal. Its just some of the most random things happening and yet you're laughing and shaking your head at the insanity of it all. In addition to that this was easily one of the most visually stunning, colourful, and outrageous set design I have ever seen. This "faux" European backdrop turns this into the ultimate fairy tale for adults. The Grand Budapest Hotel should have been an Oscar contender if not for visual style than just how incredibly unique it is. This proves that there are still some original ideas kicking around in Hollywood and Wes Anderson deserves mounds of credit.Ralph Fiennes is talented...we all know that. He's never really been a favourite of mine, I just always thought he was okay. He is comedy gold in this. Gustave H. will go down in my personal books as one of the greatest comedy characters ever. He is completely outrageously manic and ridiculous and has this air of sophistication about him. It was a brilliant, brilliant performance. "I'm afraid that's me darling." Poor Tony Revolori is hardly mentioned and is fully a main character in the film. He gets buried under the crowd of big names performing with him. But he shouldn't be ashamed because he is brilliant in this as well. He plays lobby boy "Zero." Him and Fiennes play so well off of each other and he's sort of the straight man to the story and just performs so well. You will quickly find yourself endeared by him. I honestly wish I had ten pages to talk about all the characters in this. You will recognize so many faces as amazing character actors. But some have bigger roles than others (Tilda Swinton, Willem Dafoe and Jude Law are just sort of there.) But the true magic of this supporting cast is in the small roles that make a big impact. Bill Murray, Jeff Goldblum, Edward Norton (loved his role!) and Saoirse Ronan stood out to me in a big way. Small roles but a lot of fun and very effective in their performances. The cast just jives and works so well in the confines of this amazingly unique script.I guess what I'm saying is that I am now a Wes Anderson fan. This is a feat of film making period. It is the furthest thing from mainstream and it won't even remotely be everyone's thing. I didn't think it would be mine either. Since the first moment I saw the trailer, something called out to me. This looks zany and stupid and foolish and I kind of want to see it. Its not stupid or foolish. Film critics should love it, fans of something different should adore it. This could easily sneak its way into my favourite movies category and slip its way to being a perfect ten after a few more views. It is also chock full of amazing one liners, brilliantly written slapstick comedy and I will be quoting for the rest of my life. Want something completely outside the box? Wes Anderson doesn't even use the vicinity of the box when he made this and it is all good!! 9/10
I really enjoyed The Grand Budapest Hotel. The movie tells a story(literally), and I sat back and enjoyed every bit of it. There wasn't many dull moments, it was both witty and full of action. The story is told lightheartedly, but engaging.The scenery was colorful and strange as only a Wes Anderson movie can be. With beautiful backdrops and weird physics. Full of color most of the time, but grey and dull where it needed to be.The acting was good. It really suited the style of the movie, and why wouldn't it. Wes Anderson has picked old and well-known actors from many of his previous movies. Actors that are let loose to play people with excessive characteristics, and they seem to have a lot of fun doing it. I want to especially commend Willem Dafoe, as he does his role as a brute bad-guy to near perfection.If you like other Wes Anderson movies, you'll definitely like this one.


                
I haven't really seen much of his other works (except Fantastic Mister Fox and The Royal Tenenbaums that I can't remember) so I can't judge this film compared to his previous ones. I can however judge that I had a grand old time watching Grand Budapest Hotel at the theatre. Stylistically, it was a triumph. It seemed almost every frame was filmed at right angles (90 degrees) - either facing the camera, left profile, right profile, back or from the top - with a few exceptions. I personally don't like when actors talk directly to the camera as so often happens here, but I didn't mind it this time. It even created a weird sense of intimacy. There was also a noticeable amount of rectangles and squares in the meticulously constructed frames with very little camera movement in those frames. It was like a succession of tableaux and, for lack of better expression, geometrically inspired and fascinating. The use of the bright colors, how they matched, was also stupendous, making for gorgeous scenes.So, it is a joy to look at from an artistic and technical point of view, but how about the story and the characters? It takes place in a fictional eastern-European country, probably inspired by Germany, and is mostly a very long flashback. The story revolves around Mr. Gustave, the eccentric but very competent concierge of a luxurious hotel, read general manager, and Zero, a lobby boy of foreign origin. Without going into details, a favoured customer dies, Gustave inherits something important that causes him tons of trouble. Contrary to what one might think, most of the film doesn't take place in the Grand Budapest Hotel. I usually don't like flashbacks, but I enjoyed very much how the outrageous, sometimes ridiculous story was told, even with the narration. However, the plot was mostly a backdrop to introduce a plethora of fun, colorful characters played by very famous actors clearly relishing their roles. Some were played deadly serious, others a little over the top, but what a great cast and very enjoyable acting. Of particular note were Ralph Fiennes playing the distinguished and multi-faceted Gustav, Jeff Goldblum playing an honest, very articulate lawyer, and Wilhem Dafoe as a criminal goon, but your favorites might vary. For me, the newcomer playing the lobby boy seemed a bit out of his depth acting-wise, but he was not too distracting and even good sometimes.The movie has a nostalgic feel to it and was quite funny despite being bittersweet. It has a strong energy and was never boring despite lots of mostly talking scenes. I found it particularly amusing whenever Gustave lost control of his distinguished manners and language. Most of the humor came from the clever writing, a few visual gags, and some ridiculous situations. Some might be put off by the obviously fake nature of certain decors and things (scale models), but I think it's probably a trademark of the director and I found those charming. Grand Budapest Hotel was a delight to experience and I would definitely visit it again.Rating: 8.5 out of 10 (remarquable)


                
