This movie is often compared to Shrek.  I found no comparisons but for the main character and the animated look. This movie offers a story line spread so thinly that it tore within the first 30 minutes.  I didn't laugh once in the first hour before I decided to get up and write how boring this movie is.  The little girl is cute, but offers no surprises, and has very little attitude for supposedly a scary presence.  The monsters remind me of the blue-collar characters from the row houses of Baltimore.  The viewer is not allowed any kind of reference to any of the monsters past or their future. The entire movie is predictable, boring and difficult to watch. You will not likely run across anyone that says they have watched this movie multiple times as they did with Shrek.  I give it a 2 of 10, and advise anyone that expects to see anything mythical, creative, or enchanting to avoid this movie.There's not even one good line in Monsters Inc.  Remember from Shrek.."Yes. The ginger-bread man!"..gurgle gurgle..  Shrek set the barometer for the future of animated movies with stories.


                
Contains Spoilers Excuse me for possible mistakes and incompleteness (i am writing an essay right now and this is the part of it)Monsters Inc. (M.I.) is the largest scream-processing factory in Monstropolis. The company generates energy from screams of human children. The top Scarer is James P. Sullivan, AKA Sulley, a huge monster with blue fur and purple spots on his body. His assistant - also his best friend and roommate - Mike Wazowski is a green, little one-eyed monster. Since the children are considered toxic and poisonous, it is absolutely forbidden for anything from the human world to cross into the monster world - even a stray sock alerts a task force. But one night after work, Sulley accidentally lets in a human girl. Named Boo, she is a threat for the monster race. But soon Mike and Sulley find out that she is actually very loyal and harmless to the monsters. She was supposed to be used for the experiment scream-mining machine of the most evil monster in Monstropolis, Randall. Later Mike and Sulley find out that Randall is completing the mission of Mr.Waternoose, the owner of Monsters Inc. Now Sulley and Mike are in a difficult situation because Mr. Waternoose and Randall want to kill Boo to eliminate any evidence of what happened. The Children Control Agency wants to eliminate the girl because of their confidence in the danger kids bring. But Mike and Sulley become friends with Boo so they don't want to give her to anybody. On the way to save Boo the monsters find many difficulties. After being caught Mike and Sulley are sent to the human world, from where they successfully escape. But finding Boo is not the most difficult thing for them, they must find Boo's closet's door, because the whole scaring system is based on closet doors. M.I. has millions of doors, and Mike and Sully must find the right one.
