MONSTERS, INC. / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French:When I was a kid, I imagined a world of monsters just like the one in "Monsters, Inc." I dreamed of a magical kingdom full of strange, menacing creatures. Creatures that waited anxiously for bedrooms to darken at night so they could jump out of closets and scare unsuspecting children. Alone in my darkened bedroom, surrounded by complete and utter silence, I heard lots of strange noises. When I noticed something unusual, like a sudden squeak or a shadow on the wall, it wasn't uncommon for me to pull the covers over my head. Heck, don't tell anybody, but I still do that today.  
Children will remember the characters of this film long after they see it. Expect to hear comments about monsters in the closet weeks after they see it. But their remarks will not come out of terror, but out of pure joy. The Academy Award-winning creators of "Toy Story" give us a new, pleasing insight on monsters. It turns what was once a motif for terror into an imaginative realm of entertaining delight.This computer animated production represents the most advanced technology of Disney and Pixar, the highly acclaimed team behind such family gems as "A Bug's Life," and "Toy Story 2." From its convincing depiction of monster fur, to the realistic shadowing, lighting, and movement, the filmmakers pay close attention to the even the slightest details. The story revolves around a massive corporation where all kinds of monsters reside. It's called Monsters, Inc., the biggest scream processing factory in the monster world. Set in Monstropolis, the main power source of the city is the collected screams of human children. We meet a hairy blue creature named Sully (voiced by John Goodman), and his friend, roommate, and assistant, Mike (voiced by Billy Crystal). These guys are the best scream producers ever, much to the dismay of Randall Boggs (voiced by Steve Buscemi), a creepy, lizard monster who will stop at nothing to claim their coveted standing. One day, Sully accidentally allows a human child to enter the monster world. To complicate matters, human children are said to be highly toxic to monsters and should be avoided at all costs. Sully quickly finds his career in jeopardy and his life in total chaos. When Mike enters the situation, the two uncover a scandal at Monsters, Inc. that will place their very lives in jeopardy. "Monsters, Inc." works rather well until it introduces this annoying little girl as a plot device. I know I am being excessively critical here, and I know that my personal hatred for whiny, giggly, squirmy infants seized me over. Some audiences will find this character absolutely adorable, maybe even as the film's most distinguished. Though for me, this character almost destroyed the entire movie.  I understand the need for a child to enter Monstropolis, but why couldn't the film have had fun with the idea. Perhaps it could have used a child old enough to understand his circumstances, but young enough to delight in the wonder of his newly discovered world. Instead, the movie gives us a nonsensical plot in which the infant gets herself into one problematic situation after another. This has worked before. In "Baby's Day Out" we laughed at the accidental irony of the situations. Here, the character gets herself into these situations. She becomes a nuisance even as she initially appears on screen. There is nothing innovative or creative with a young girl running in and out of rooms, yet "Monsters, Inc." insists it's funny. The film becomes a one-joke comedy. If you're old enough to cross the street by yourself, you're probably too sophisticated for this humor. Despite this parasite of a character, "Monsters, Inc." still manages to come out of the one-joke routine and display a third act of climbing excitement, surprising twists, and entertaining action that will amuse children of all ages. If not for the pesky little girl, this movie might have been one of the most colorfully creative films of the year. All though it is not, "Monsters, Inc." does contain enough imagination and colorful images to warrant a trip to the multiplex. But don't say I didn't warn you about the kids. During the screening I attended, jam-packed with children running all around and making noise, I had a little boy sitting behind me that kept kicking my seat. Now that's something I never want to see coming out of my closet.


                
"James, this company has been in my family for three generations. I would do anything to keep it from going under!" - Henry J. Waternoose ("Monster's Inc")One of Pixar's best films, "Monster's Inc" plays like a buddy comedy in which a hairy blue monster (John Goodman) and a one eyed testicle (Billy Crystal) struggle to protect a human child from corporate bad guys.The film is super cute and supremely precious, but never dips into the kind of annoying mawkishness that plagues Pixar's later films ("Up" and "Wall-E"). This is primarily thanks to the vocal talents of John Goodman and Billy Crystal, two seasoned comedians who not only lend the film real warmth, but are able to capture the kind of edgy, rapid-fire banter that Hawks and Wilder were known for. Unique in the Pixar canon, this is thus a dialogue driven film, relying on sharp exchanges, a screwball plot and lots of buddy interactions.Like most Pixar films, this is also a hypocritical message movie. Here we have a "big corporation" (Monsters Inc - they're literally comprised of "corporate monsters") who not only specialise in "exploiting" humans, but refuse to adopt better, more efficient and "environmentally friendly" practises. Thankfully such preaching is handled with subtlety (unlike "Wall-E"), though the film does end with an annoying cliché: the kind hearted and fatherly company boss is revealed to be a devious bad guy, the film reducing ideology, systems and power structures to the morality of an evil figurehead. The belief that replacing a monster's head will cause its body to magically transform - indeed, the belief that the head is itself somehow separate from the body - is a fantasy common in cinema.Visually, the film looks great. This was Pixar's big attempt to successfully render fur, wind and hair, a hurdle they had to get out of the way before conquering water, fire, metal and surface reflections with their later films. It's staggering to see how far computer animation has come in such a short space of time. This film's textures, resolutions and animations look positively archaic when compared to Pixar's later efforts. Incidentally, "Monsters Inc" is part of a longstanding battle between Pixar and DreamWorks Pictures (founded by Spielberg, Katzenberg and Geffen in the mid 90s). With the surprise success of Pixar's "Toy Story", DreamWorks set about discovering Pixar's next project. When their spies learnt of "A Bugs Life", DreamWorks therefore rushed out the similarly themed "Antz" in an attempt to steal some profits.Next from Dreamworks came "The Prince of Egypt" and "The Road to El Dorado", two animated films designed to rip off Disney's "Hercules" and "Mulan". Dreamworks' "Shrek", a monster flick designed to cash in on Pixar's "Monster's Inc", came next, followed by "Sinbad", a knock off of Disney's "Atlantis: The Lost Empire".The battle continued with "Shark Tale", Dreamworks' copy of "Finding Nemo", "Megamind" which copies "The Incredibles", and "Flushed Away", which mimics "Ratatouille". No surprise too that the hero of DreamWorks' "How to Train Your Dragon" is called HiccUP, and that the film was the studio's response to Pixar's "Up". And so on and on it goes, corporate warfare and artistry dancing their intimate ballet.The point is, "Shrek", which was released the same year as "Monster's Inc", used a tale of monsters to poke fun at Disney, Pixar and Disney fairy tales, whilst "Monster's Inc" celebrates the portals, multidimensional windows and doorways of business magnate Steve Jobs' "Apple Computers" (Jobs was chief executive of Pixar). What's interesting, though, is that "DreamWorks" is now turning the brand awareness generated by its crappy early animations into giant "cash cow sequels" ("Shrek 2 and 3", "Kung Fu Panda 2", "Madagascar 2 and 3", "How to Train your Dragon 2" etc), whilst Pixar, now fully absorbed by the Disney Machine, has sold out and become a monster of its own, milking their early projects with the planned releases of "Cars 2", "Monsters Inc 2" etc etc.8.5/10 – The takeover has already started. Pixar is turning into the very monster it rallies against in this film. Today it exemplifies what Robert Pfaller calls "interpassivity", performing our indictments for us whilst allowing us to consume with impunity.Worth three viewings.
... when it comes to producing well-rounded, realised and consistently entertaining movies.  Is it just me or have there been no REALLY awful animated films from the stables of the top studios like Pixar and Dreamworks, etc?  The movie industry as a whole should perhaps sit up and take notice of the craft that goes into these movies.  Both 'suits' and audiences are sure to benefit if that ever happens.  Long may the tradition of quality animated movies be, I say!   I actually bought a ticket for this last night after finding to my dismay that another premiere, "From Hell", was already sold out by the time I arrived.  These are certainly two distinctly different films in theme!  I was slightly grouchy, because, coupled with that minor disappointment, I'd had an argument with a friend on the way over to the theatre, and was now proceeding solo.  I wouldn't say that "Monsters Inc" made me glad I missed "From Hell", but I still got a solidly entertaining film for my money.  I just hope I don't miss "Ocean's 11" next week...   For every plus-point to the movie I can also think of a criticism, but on the whole the good points JUST outweigh the bad.  The setup may be a little too complicated for younger audiences and the supporting cast of voices is wasted.  There was definitely not enough Steve Buscemi, whose bad guy just seemed like an afterthought to all the Keystone Cops esque capers of trying to get "Boo" out of Monstropolis.  The script is pitched at a much younger level than "Toy Story" was, and so as a result adults may be bowled over by the animation, but slightly starved in the belly-laughs department.  That said, there are still a couple of moments guaranteed to have older patrons guffawing heartily, just not enough for my liking.  Even without laughter, the story is still diverting and inventive enough to fix your attention satisfactorily.  The movie really comes into its own when the kid is introduced, as thereafter the action rarely pauses for breath.   Good as the voice talents of Goodman and Crystal are, it is undoubtedly youngster Mary Gibbs who inadvertently steals the show.  Her cute gurgles and shrieks are enough to put a smile on most people's faces and warm their hearts.  The job the team did on collecting all her voice samples for the finished movie is nothing short of amazing; indeed, just like the animation achievements were as well.  Goodman excels in his voice acting, making "Sulley" a truly memorable character.   The animation is wonderful, and at times will make you unable to do anything else but gawp.  Techniques in this arena seem to be moving at lightspeed, and in just a few years will make the graphics seen in "Toy Story" seem unremarkable.  Just for this factor alone, "Monsters Inc." deserves to be seen, but the likeable (if not always best used) cast and the imaginative plot add an extra dimension that make it worth your time. Nowhere near a "Toy Story" beater for sheer polish and appeal to all ages, but a commendable effort nonetheless.  Well done!   
   Altogether now... "Put-that-thing-back-where-it-came-from-or-so-help-me..." !


                
It's such an odd premise for a movie, but yet it works so well. What if the monsters hiding in your closet are real and what if they have a society of their own, behind that door. What would that society look like and what part the scaring of little children would play in it.You can definitely build a movie around that and Pixar does so beautifully. In the process we get introduced to James P. "Sulley" Sullivan and Michael "Mike" Wazowski, the top scaring duo Monsters, Inc. has ever seen. Things go well, until a little girl child, adorably and promptly named Boo, slips through the door. Hijinks do indeed ensue.The movie has a strong idea and some topnotch characters going for it. I thoroughly enjoyed the relationship between Sully and Boo. The rest of the cast are voiced by some really talented people and all of the main cast have really great designs as well. I especially enjoyed Henry J. Waternoose III, the CEO. The side and background characters looked a bit more generic and blobbish in contrast, which is a shame, but then again they're not the focus.The only real flaw the film has is the story. It's not bad by any means, but it is not as strong as the other elements. Status quo is king, something upsets the status quo, hijinks, solution. No real surprises, no great stakes. I would have liked to explore the world a bit more or move beyond the obvious bad guy good guy setups.Still, a great animation film for all ages. Definitely worth a watch.


                
This is a really great movie premise, and very well executed. One can't help but fall in love with the characters, and thankfully the voicing was perfect. The animation was amazing and this is a film that will appeal to a young and mature demographic. The Monsters Inc corporation itself was an amazing undertaking and very well laid out. This is one of my favorite animation films.


                
Cute, funny movie. Obviously targeted for kids. The message is good and the plot is steady. It's simple, but not so dull that it loses the interest of anyone watching, children or adults. You can watch the movie as a family (as most Pixar movies). The animation is good and the dialogue is funny. The characters are cute as well as easy to relate to, even though they are monsters. Helps teach kids not to be afraid, without being too over the top. Not scary at all. Pixar may not be able to top Toy Story, but this movie is another excellent example of what they do best; sweet, relate able, family films that transcend age groups and reach out to everyone.


                
Disney and Pixar are at it again.  Inspired by their own sales figures of Toy Story action figures and lunchboxes, the two companies have collaborated once more for Monsters Inc., a film that would be flat-out charming if it wasn't so disappointing and lacking in the qualities that made Toy Story a good film AND marketing device.	The best thing about Toy Story was that the story didn't just focus on Woody and Buzz.  There were all those supporting characters, and every one, from Rex and Hamm to the aliens in the vending machine, had just as much personality and were just as funny as the main characters.  In Monsters Inc., with the exception of all-too-short scenes involving the Abominable Snowman and Mike's girlfriend Cecilia, there are no supporting monster characters at all; we're stuck with Mike and Sully the whole time.  No offense intended to Billy Crystal or John Goodman, as both are perfect matches for their characters, and put in a valiant effort, but neither of the leading monsters has any good lines (even Mike's "Sure, blame the little guy with his ONE EYE!" line from the trailer has been cut).  There really doesn't seem to be much humor at all, not even any toilet humor for the immature kiddies.	The other major problem with this film is that it reeks of unoriginality. The concept is brilliant, and the explanation of Monsters Inc.'s premise and why monsters scare is innovative and suggests what could have been; unfortunately, like many recent Disney films, the film is totally formulaic and predictable, all the way up to the obligatory "heroes in peril chase scene" that is thrilling, but will also no doubt inspire Disneyland's next attraction.  There wasn't even a trademark Pixar "bloopers reel" during the credits (although I will admit the film's opening credits were very classy, and reminiscent of the Pink Panther).	So what are Monsters Inc.'s saving graces? Well, it has the Pixar name, and a bad Pixar film is still better than the average bad family film (and really, since Pixar currently has no competition in the computer animated feature film market except Shrek, they can set their own standards for quality).  If nothing else, it's amazing to see the hypnotic realism of each individual strand of Sully's fur blowing in the wind.  There are also some slick inside references to Ray Harryhausen, California's recent power crisis and Toy Story, and a great bonus short included before the film that I actually enjoyed more than the feature film (just like in Bug's Life... am I noticing a trend here?).  On the whole, however, I guess I just expected too much from Pixar and took for granted the unique creative and critical success they had with the Toy Story films.


                
I seem to be bucking the trend, here.  I've watched the top two recent movies - this one, and "Shallow Hal" - and I liked Hal much more. Don't get me wrong; this is a fine family film, with good quality CGI, a solid, well-told story, and all the rest.  Go see it.  Your kids, 'specially those about 7 to 12, will go googly over it, and you'll have a fine time, too. But like some reviewers, I found this didn't seem to have the warmth and 'humanity' of Toy Story I and II, nor does it have the sass and splash of Shrek.  To me, its one of those efforts that is fine for what it is, I just happen to like more spunk, I guess. But by all means, take it in, especially if you have kids.  It's a sound effort (if a bit draggy in the middle), and Goodman especially does a very nice job building his character.


                
'Monsters, Inc.' is one of Pixar's best known and most widely popular movies - an endearing and highly likeable family movie bursting with ideas and imagination. Though not one of Pixar's best and not a personal favourite of mine, I did get a lot of enjoyment out of this movie, especially the characters, which are all brilliantly unique, entertaining and genuinely funny.The storyline, as enjoyable as it is, is not on the same level as the likes of 'Toy Story' and 'Up'. I always get the feeling I'm watching something special with those movies, but I think 'Monsters, Inc.', for all its creativity and likeability, lacks that special quality to put it up there with the very best animated pictures. That said, judging it on its own merits, this is a great animated family movie and one of those movies that is just impossible to dislike.


                
Monsters Inc., another fine animated movie from the folks at Pixar takes a turn from toys and bugs and goes for something most kids and adults can identify with (adults may have to reach back in time though for that one), being afraid of what's behind the closet at night.  It turns out, in this film, that monsters do lurk behind the closet, and they scare kids as a power resource to give electricity to Monstropolis where the monsters live. 2 of the scarers include Sully (John Goodman) and Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal), who have it good in their job until a mishap occurs- a little child crawls through to the other side and creates a different type of adventure for the two monsters.Incredibly imaginative and colorful computer-animated, Moster Inc. is definitely one of the best family films of the year by giving genuine entertainment to kids and adults (an added incentive for adults to see the movie: Crystal does a little of his old stand-up near the end) just like the past pixar movies.  The biggest liability: the plot seems structured in the same way as Bug's Life and the Toy Story pics and seems typical for the genre.  Otherwise, quite the see.  Other voices include James Coburn, Jennifer Tilly, Steve Buscemi, Bonnie Hunt and Frank Oz. A-


                
Whereas much of the success of films like `Toy Story' or `A Bug's Life' is a result of the fact that the phenomenon of entire computer animation was a fairly new genre, now gradually this plus gets lost. More and more frequently, computer animated movies about various cute creatures are made and audiences aren't surprised any more about the endless possibilities of computer techniques. Moreover, I believe that with `Shrek', the genre already reached its climax as well as its ironic turn. What could follow?`Monsters, Inc.' provides less laughs than `Shrek', it doesn't have the sensational character of former computer animation features. Of course the monster world and its population are nice and imaginative, but the story started off a little too complicated. It is becoming harder and harder to fulfil the task of creating `human' situations in a world of non-humans, so the basic structures are getting more and more far-fetched. However, there were some surprising features, especially towards the end, which made this (children's) film something special, also for adults: the ice sequence for instance, and that magnificent door-machine. All in all, not more than a lovely evening at the movies.


                
Whilst continuing the vein of Pixars previous releases, superb animation, wonderful characters the film has none of the more sophisticated humour for adults - kids will not enjoy as much as bugs life but certainly better than most of the dross produced by our friends over the pond


                
Really wanted to like this movie, I love Pixars' work and the standard of animation is truly wonderous. But, it can't cover up the story which is a bit flat. It starts well enough, however it soon starts to crawl along at a snails pace. 3/4 of the way through it perks up and finishs well.
You just have to think they had a good 50min script...and tried to make it fill a 100min feature. Sorry but for me it didn't work, and my children were bored and restless in the middle to confirm this. 7 out of 10 Pixar - could do better!


                
This is one of the Pixar movie. In the movie, monsters surprise many children to collect a power of city of monsters. The power is obtained by screams of children. Main characters of the movie are Sulley and Mike. They are best friends each other. In the world of monsters, monsters must not touch human being. One day, Sulley and Mike surprise many children. Then, they meet a girl. Usually, many children are surprised by monsters, but the girl doesn't surprise at them. The girl tries to be closer to them rather than to run away from them. They make friends with her. In the real world, the story is unbelievable. However, a rival of them tries to capture her. They protect her. Finally they must say good bye to her. Then, they decide to have nothing to do with human being. I think this movie is fun, but In the last, it's sad. We are reluctant to leave persons who we pride, so we should prize friends, family, boy friend, girl friend and so on.
I love this movie. It's so adorable. It's so completely different than any other children's movie from around this time. It has a great storyline, and very funny scenes. But it also has heart, and moments that are very heartfelt, and touching. I think it's a great movie for any kid, or adult.In this movie, we visit a world completely made up of monsters. Their power source is actually the screams of human children. So everyone who works at Monsters Inc., in the scare facility, use special doors to go into children's rooms whilst they sleep, and scare them. They then collect the screams. Which is actually super creepy, monsters sneaking into children's rooms whilst they're asleep. But then a human girl "escapes" into the monsters world, and Sulley and Mike, a scarer, and a scarer assistant, they have to try to hide her, and get her back into the right bedroom. Recommended for: Any child who likes comedy and heart, people who like Walt Disney and Pixar movies.Overall, I give this movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is: Great.
The events of this film, Monsters, Inc., follows that of Monsters University, even though Monsters, Inc. was released first. Here, monsters Mike Wazowski and James P. "Sulley" Sullivan work at Monsters Inc., the utility company that powers the city from the goose bumps of children they scare after entering their bedrooms at night through their closets. Sulley accidentally lets a little girl into the monster world, causing chaos for the monsters since children are actually toxic to them.Like Monsters University, it is filled with humor, adventures and funny characters. The animation was great and I enjoyed watching the interaction between the monsters in their world and what actually happens on the other side of the closet door before the monster steps out into the child's bedroom. It certainly gives the audience a new perspective and meaning of the "monster in the closet." Even for a monster-themed film, Pixar makes it both exciting and family-friendly, keeping in with the tradition of Disney. The voice actors, particularly that of Billy Crystal and John Goodman as the lead roles, were great. They give Mike and Sullivan just the right touch of love-hate friendship, though I thought Mike went just a little overboard with his over-zealousness and frustration. And, the portrayal of the little girl was cute and innocent, but I thought was too annoying as the five year-old who runs into trouble all the time and displays just about every bad quality of a misbehaving child: moaning, crying and being mischievous in every possible way. But, the overall chemistry between her and Sully is quite touching.Overall, the story was pretty intriguing with an adventurous second half. Not a bad family film.Grade B-


                
Monsters generate their city's power by scaring children, but they are terribly afraid themselves of being contaminated by children, so when one enters Monstropolis, top scarer Sulley (John Goodman) finds his world disrupted.With the additional voices of Steve Buscemi and John Ratzenberger (as the Agreeable Snowman), this is a great story of monsters in the closet... turned upside down. In this version, monsters only scare children because it generates electricity, and the monsters actually fear children, believing them to be toxic.Of Pixar's films, this is definitely one of the more iconic and memorable, right up there with "Toy Story". As of now (2015), there has been one sequel, but do not be surprised if at least one more comes along.


                
When the movie started I was happy and when it was over I was sad. The movie was extremely entertaining. It was funny, it was touching and it was all perfectly combined to make one hell of a movie. They have made a great movie for families and kids. Something that mom and dad can enjoy watching, but that the kids will find fun too.The story line has something for everyone to enjoy, there's no kind of person I can think of that would not find this film to be somewhat enjoyable! As far as the comedy goes, no other movie lately has made me laugh quite as much! It is truly a great movie, watch it, Every Body should to see this movie.


                
Monsters generate energy by scaring kids. That's what Monsters Inc is. James P. Sullivan (John Goodman) is the top scarer, and Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal) is his best friend. Together they work at Monsters Inc. One night after work, Sully opens a door by himself and a child sneaks in threatening contamination.The characters are fun. But this is Paxar. So I expect nothing less than the best. That means comparing to Toy Story. I like the Toy Story characters much better, and there are more of them. Monsters Inc basically has two big likable characters. Quite frankly, the kid is more annoying than cute and the odd monsters wear thin. We all have the toys in Toy Story but the monster aren't as nostalgic.The animation looks good for its time. It's certainly not ground breaking as Toy Story (1995) was. It's better than Toy Story by a small degree but we haven't reached a new level yet.


                
At a factory where monsters have the job to scare small children, everything is complicated when a girl reaches her room door after the work place of monsters. Now the responsible Sully with his best friend Mike have to take the girl back to her room without most feared enemy and competitor Randall to seize it. Then follows a series of adventures in which the two go to fix what should not happen. Especially when Randall is caught cheating and even now their boss is in the hands of reptile Randall. Sully and Mike eventually are found and deported in some times very icy Himalayas. Mike doesn't want to help Sully anymore for not listening but do not give up so easily. Sully manages to track down Boo and bring her back to her room. It is a beautiful animated film for everyone and it's only in witch the monsters are cute.


                
1st watched 12/29/2012 – 7 out of 10(Dir-Pete Docter & David Silverman): Funny and well made animated film from the Pixar group with a simple story, but technically well executed. The story is about an alternate world where monsters gain energy for their existence by getting screams from children by scaring them after entering their world from their closet doors. The company, "Monsters, Inc", captures this energy and Sully, voiced by John Goodman, is the highest energy producer for them. His friend Mike, voiced by Billy Crystal, is his assistant. The evil character is the runner-up color-shifting monster that is behind Sully in energy points, but is found out to be cheating by capturing kids and extracting the screams out of them with a machine. One kid, named Boo by Sully, escapes and Sully and Mike have to figure out how to get her back to her real world and expose the evil monster's doings to the company. They do a lot of retread simple "TV show"-type of humor around this story which makes the movie not as good as it could have been, but the animation is superb and unique enough to keep you interested until the end. The 3D is good and not over-bearing showing the perspective and size of some of the animated sets where the characters work in. This is not the best of the Disney animated films because of the simplistic story, but there is the usual expert craftsmanship that has definitely gone into this like so many of the others. The computer animation is very good despite it's 2001 release and I have to say that this is a worthwhile effort in the Disney cannon despite it's shortcomings in the story.


                
Not Pixar's strongest work - for me that's Wall-E - but still a great proof that the studio has the ability to turn the simplest of ideas upside down and give us something that we haven't seen before. Like in this case where the simple idea of monsters hiding in the closets of little children is given a completely new spin by making those monsters part of industry. They're just punch clock workers trying to earn a living. Ingenious idea, really.And the execution supports and strengthens that idea beautifully. The whole world full of these hideously weird creatures is laid bare in front of us, but we quickly find out that they're just like us with their mundane lives, romantic relationships and bad fur days. And therein lies the strength of this movie and Pixar movies in general. The characters are immensely identifiable and sympathetic. The moment that you see any of these characters, the moment that they open their mouth and start talking, you get them. You start living their lives from their perspective. (Though I have to say that I saw the Finnish dub of this movie, in which the voice acting, while decent, wasn't anything special, so I think that the movie had already lost part of its charm at that point, because the English version is full of talented actors, so it's probably the better version of this film.)For me the best part of this film was the relationship between Sulley (John Goodman) and Boo (Mary Gibbs). That little ninja girl is unbelievably adorable to begin with and then you add a ten feet tall blue hair monster cooing at her... It just melted my heart every time I saw it and made the ending even more precious to witness.If there's anything wrong with this film, it's that the story isn't that strong. It's your basic someone screws up and the status quo has to be restored without that someone getting into trouble, but of course something goes wrong and hilarity ensues. Nothing special there, but it was enjoyable to watch, so I wouldn't really call it a flaw as Pixar has the talent to work with simple stories. For them it's more about the characters and the details, not the story.So yeah, it's a good movie. Highly recommended for children and adults alike.


                
Pixar's third feature is good entertainment especially with a comedian like Billy Crystal voicing. Not as emotionally powerful or complex as Toy Story and certainly no classic, but for the kids and most adults willing to accept an optimistic story, a fun ride. It is full of good storytelling and good visuals, plus a talented voice cast to follow it up. There are many missteps in execution but by the time you get involved with the plight of its characters, you will latch on to it. Kids will enjoy it and adults will most likely find something to their liking within all the slapstick and humor aimed at small children in paricular.


                
i didn't find Monsters,Inc all that funny,although i did chuckle a few times.i did find it very entertaining though.it's quite fast paced,and it's certainly never boring.i liked the witty banter between the two main characters James P. "Sulley" Sullivan(voiced by John Goodman)and Mike Wazowski(voiced by Billy Crystal).i loved all the characters,but Randall Boggs(voiced by Steve Buscemi)was probably my favourite. speaking of the voices,there couldn't have been a better cast.every actor/actress fit the voice of their character perfectly.there are a few mildly frightening scenes,but generally,this is a film the whole family can enjoy.for me,Monsters, Inc. is a 7/10


                
'Monsters Inc.' is a Disney (or at least, a Pixar) film. Which means one has a corporate satire made by one of the world's most powerful corporations; and a tale where two friends (one talkative, one cute) argue but always get together in the end to ensure that everyone lives happily ever after. If the template is familiar, the film also marked a move away from the realistic animation of 'Toy Story' (the first wave of computer animation) back towards something more obviously cartoony. It also lacks 'Toy Story's bleak undercurrents, but it's generally fun and inventive, even if you can spot the end coming a long way off. As an adult, I don't quite buy the idea that Pixar's films are the greatest of all time; but there's no denying that they do what they do well.


                
