This is a very entertaining animated film. I've seen it twice and enjoyed even more the second time. Billy Crystal said he enjoyed making this film as much as any film he's ever done, so that's a good testimony that you'll get some laughs and enjoy this movie as an adult, too. Kids will love it, I am sure. The "monsters" in here are funny-looking and almost lovable, nothing that would scare your kids (or you). Crystal has a bunch of funny lines but overall I found this to be as much if not more of a human interest story than a comedy. There is a lot of sentimentality to it, even overdone a bit at the end, but that's okay. There is absolutely nothing offensive in here, either. The colors look spectacular, too.


                
This is a resubmitted comment, the original was removed by a complaint from some anonymous aggrieved party. Let's hope the edits are sufficient this time.You already know that this is the usual Pixar fare, which is to say that it is excellent, better than any non-Pixar animated film. Sure, you also know that and you probably know the usual reason given: that Pixar spends more time on basic storytelling values than anyone else.Here are two elements of this that may deepen your appreciation. The first is that Pixar recognized early that 3D animation software allowed two types of advance in the third dimension. The first is obvious, that everything has depth and reflection and shadow more or less like reality.The second is that once these objects and scenes are defined in the computer, it is no extra work to move the camera anywhere. it can loop and swoop in ways that we never could have before. Pixar decided to exploit this in their storytelling here and later in "Nemo."Nemo was set in an environment where there was no horizon so the camera could flow and the watery feel of the place could make the unfamiliar fluidity of the camera seem more natural. Here, is where they tested some of those perspectives in the three dimensional door warehouse and the extra dimensions of going in and out. Those scenes make this for me.The second interesting thing is some competitive background. In those days, there was a shooting war between Bill Gates, financier of Dreamworks Animation (and leader of Microsoft) and Steve Jobs of Pixar (and leader of Apple). This was in the heyday of Gates' dirty tricks and he was intent on burying Jobs forever. Pixar depended on the success of "A Bug's Life" their followon to "Toy Story," so Dreamworks rushed "Antz" -- a cheapy -- to open a week or so before to steal the market."Bugs" prevailed, sufficiently at least, and Pixar ramped up for their usual three year development of "Monsters." Dreamworks, getting wind of this, went all out with "Shrek," their "monster" movie that could be released six months earlier. It only took a year because the animation is less perfect. But they were overt in their attack this time: "Shrek" made literal fun of Disney, the Pixar partner. The head guy at Disney was the model for the blowhard King who reigned over a fairytale kingdom populated with -- can you guess? -- all the old Disney characters.Pixar/Jobs would never do something so spiteful. But perhaps they did subtly appreciate the use of windows and gates to the future that always seemed to go wrong. And now you can too.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
''Monsters, Inc.'' is great! Before I have watched movies from Pixar like '' The Incredibles'',''Shrek'' or even ''Finding Nemo'', ''Monsters Inc.'' was one of the first movies made by Pixar that I watched and enjoyed a lot! The monsters like Mike and Sulley are charismatic and funny,and the story is very pleasant as well: In the monster's land, the monsters generate their city's power by scaring human children.One of the biggest companies of energy is the famous 'Monsters, Inc', where Mike and James Sullivan work. James is very famous in his work, since he is one of the 'scariest'and the one who produces the bigger amount of energy to the company. One night, however, Sully uncovers a devious plot to rid Monster city of it's power problems but accidentally lets a human little girl to enter the monster world. The funny thing is that the monsters really believes that children can contaminate them, so, everybody is afraid of children, specially the little girl who entered the monster's world. Mike and James call the little girl 'Boo'and after seeing she looks harmless, they try to send her back to her world. But many things, Randall included, are trying to not let their plan come true...
First came Toy Story. It was cute, but lacked bite. The technology was new, and Pixar was still experimenting. Next came A Bug's Life. It was remarkable. Then came Toy Story 2. Even better! Now here is their fourth feature: Monsters Inc. I'm not sure that it's better than Toy Story 2, but at the very least it's equal. It doesn't compare with that film in terms of hilarity. Toy Story 2, in my opinion, is one of the funniest films of the past several years, if not the funniest. However, Monters Inc. has a couple of advantages over TS2 (and, I promise you, it is at least as funny as any other film from 2001). First, the animation is even better than TS2. What? What did you say? Shrek? Ugh, don't even mention that waste of hard-drive space. Monsters Inc. is simply gorgeous in its color schemes. And the movement of the characters is so smooth it looks almost as if it were just the best stop-motion animation ever created. In the film, there is a Japanese restaurant that the monsters go to that's named after the great stop-motion master Roy Harryhausen. I'm sure he'd be stunned at the accomplishment. Second, it has a couple of the most exciting sequences in animation history, especially the climactic sequence in the door room. That's a scene that'll go down in the books. And, third, it's perhaps the first Disney film since Dumbo to be touching, but not cloying. Although some people have told me that the one song in TS2 made them cry, I personally was cringing through that number. There's a scene in Monsters Inc. that honestly made me cry. Generally, that's not much. I'm easily moved. However, I don't fail to notice if a film is emotionally manipulative. That's not the case here. The only other Disney moment that really touched me that deeply is the "Baby Mine" song from Dumbo. I think that the only people who don't cry during that song are convicts on death row. I really loved the characters in Monsters Inc. The relationship that develops between Sully and Boo is truly touching. It's developed in a very natural way. And it certainly helps that Boo is easily the cutest kid in the universe, even if she's not real. There were a lot of "aww"s in the theater, but they were coming from college students, not maddening parents trying to get their kids to pay attention. Oh! And did I mention that the film's villain is one of Disney's best? He's a chameleon-like monster named Raymond, voiced by Steve Buscemi. Sure, his motives aren't all that interesting, but I love the way he moves. It's amazing. And his face is so expressive, but not too expressive like the characters in, say, ahem, Shrek.As much as I would love to, I can't say that Monsters Inc. is a perfect film. There are a couple of flaws. The first fifteen minutes or so, basically until Boo wanders out into the monsters' world, are pretty boring. By this point, though, I was so amazed at the beauty of the artwork that I hardly cared. Also, most of the monsters aren't very interesting looking, that is, besides the colors. Raymond and the big boss of Monsters Inc., who is a spider-like creature, are the most interesting. Also, Billy Crystal's girlfriend in the film, a Medusa-like creature, with snakes for hair that copy her emotions, is very cool. Most of the other monsters are so cute that it's a wonder that they can scare children at all! (That's how they get fuel, by the way; children's screams power the monsters' world). Sully, for instance, who is the main character, more or less (the commercials concentrate on Billy Crystal's character more, for some reason; the logic must be that Billy Crystal is a bigger box office draw than big, fat John Goodman, a pretty insulting thought). Anyhow, Boo comes into the monsters' world because she thinks he is a giant kitty! We can't blame them too much for this, though. You know Disney would never produce a film that didn't have an ability to push their line of plush toys. Some of the monsters, though, are kind of boring. This is especially true with Mike, the little green cyclops ball played by Crystal. Sully could become a classic hero, and Raymond a classic villain, but it's doubtful Mike will stick in your head for as long. Crystal is, however, very funny in the film (and that might be the only time I'll ever say that!). He'll never be as boring as Shrek, nor as painful to listen to as Eddie Murphy as the donkey in Shrek. The story of Monsters Inc. is full of cliches, which is unfortunate. As I've been trying to point out, most everything else about the film is so inventive that it's not too noticeable, but it will never be unnoticeable. You'll see the revelation that the monsters have at the end two hours before the movie starts. Your youngest child might not figure it out, but anyone over eight will know as soon as it's humanly possible. There's also the kind of betrayal that's popping up so often now in animation, well, in all movies, really, that you can almost take it for granted anymore. And, heck, I would've predicted it myself if I weren't being so enormously entertained! If it weren't for these cliches, Monsters Inc. might have ended up earning the title as one of the best movies I had ever seen. Still, I'll never forget it! Now, what can Pixar possibly do to surpass this? 9/10.


                
This was a wonderful movie, with colourful characters, a fun storyline, and a funny and sometimes touching script.(I liked Shrek as well, but I slightly preferred this) I don't think it is quite as good as Toy Story, but I found it an enormously entertaining film, it was much better than I expected. The animation was truly excellent, with colourful and engaging backgrounds, and no stiff movements as far as I could see. I wasn't hugely keen on the song playing over the end credits, but compared to the overall goodness of the film, that is such a minor criticism, and it is fair to say that people have different tastes in music. The script was very, very funny, particularly with the character Roz. The voice talents were fantastic, John Goodman and Billy Crystal were brilliant as Sulley and Mike, Steve Buschemi clearly has a lot of seedy fun as Randall, Jennifer Tilly is wonderfully innocent as Mike's girlfriend, and the late James Coburn is wholly convincing as Waternoose. And I loved the character of Boo, she was so cute, and I loved the ending, people complained it was overly-sentimental but I thought it was so sweet. The story, as is always the case with Pixar films is highly original and charming, and doesn't drag at all. Overall, a wonderful film, truly entertaining and a must-see, and if you are starting to lose faith in Disney and their countless sequels, this is perfect for you. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox.


                
MONSTERS INC - 2001Directed by <U+200B>Pete Docter, Lee Unkrich & David SilvermanStarring Billy Crystal, John Goodman and Steve BuscemiPlot Overview: <U+200B>Monsters Incorporated is the largest scare factory in the monster world, and James P. Sullivan (John Goodman) is one of its top scarers. Sullivan is a huge, intimidating monster with blue fur, large purple spots and horns. His scare assistant, best friend and roommate is Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal), a green, opinionated, feisty little one-eyed monster. Visiting from the human world is Boo (Mary Gibbs), a tiny girl who goes where no human has ever gone before.This movie is a definitive representation of Pixar Standard, back in their golden age. I am confident it will become an animated classic, and rightfully so. It is rare for a movie to come out that is so original, creative and imaginative. The voice acting is amazing, especially from Crystal and Goodman. The animation is great. My main flaw with the movie is how awful the plot is.It's a paper thin plot that features way too many 'twists and turns' to make it interesting. I don't know a SINGLE person who says they were interested by the plot of this movie. I don't. My adoration for this film stems from the colourful characters, not an overly complicated plot about power shortages. Two things that are kinda plot related that I do like, however, are are the climax and the final scene of the movie. The climax for this movie is an insanely fun ride and it is just so creative in how it is handled. Then the final scene of this movie. I mean damn it is a punch to the stomach. I'm not spoiling anything but I mean, damn Pixar. Why. Don't do this to me.As far as performances go, this movie is very strong. Billy Crystal gives one of my favourite Pixar performances as Mike Wazowski and is the standout of this film. He is consistently funny and Crystal showed some impressive range in emotion delivered. John Goodman is also excellent as Sully and provided as strong, authoritative presence to the role. Steve Buscemi is great as Randall and makes him one of my favourite Pixar villains, easily. James Coburn was alright as Waterloose but I really did not find his character interesting in the slightest. The design on him was amazing though. Boo is a cute character and serves her purpose so I can't really praise nor fault her. For the time of this film's release, the animation is exceptional. Seriously, it looks fantastic for the time. I absolutely love the character design for all the characters. Each and everyone is unique and hints at the characters personality without requiring them to speak much at all. One minor flaw with the animation is that Boo looks like a plastic doll. She doesn't look human at all. I understand there were limitations at the time but it is sill a flaw. It is a well shot and edited movie. Comedy wise, this is probably one of Pixar's funniest. The humour is genuinely good and that primarily comes down to Crystal's impressive performance and vocal talent. As far as emotional payoff goes, this movie also succeeds. The last scene is all I need to refer to because that scene is Pixar punching me in the stomach continuously. It is very well done.This movie is a prime example of what Pixar is capable of. It is funny with good emotional payoff, it has great animation, great vocal performances and a fantastic premise. It truly is an exceptional movie. I'll rate Monsters Inc 9 Googlybears out of 10!


                
Sully and Mike (voiced by John Goodman and Billy Crystal) are employees at Monsters Inc., a scream-fueled plant that provides power to Monsteropolis. Screams are generated by 'scarers' (and Sully is the best), who enter children's bedrooms via the closet and are harvested by their partners (in Sully's case, his best friend Mike). Extreme care must be taken, as children are highly toxic to monsters, so when one is accidently transported to the factory, pandemonium ensues. The film is the fourth of Pixar's full length animated features and like most of the studio's work, is excellent. The story is fun with a clever 'twist' to the ending, the animators manage to inject a tremendous amount of character and personality into the CGI characters, and the choice of voice talent is perfect (I especially liked Steve Buscemi as the chameleonic villain Randall). CGI technology has advanced considerably since the film was released but the imagery still holds up and the vast 'closet door' storage facility is great. Typical of the studio, there are a lot of amusing details in the background that are worth watching for. Good, timeless fun for all ages.


                
In a world full of monsters of all kinds, where all the power came from children's screams, a select few had the job of going into the human world to scare the little ones. Everything seems as normal as it can be for that place, until one day, a human child enters the monster world and is hidden by the two protagonists who don't actually know how to get rid of her fast enough before the authorities catches them all.It's a one of a kind story which presents the adventures of two monsters who worked at the power factory and unwillingly get a human child at their feet. Being seen as toxic for the monster world, the child must be sent back to her world as soon as possible before the two get into trouble. Thus a cavalcade of funny and suspenseful action sequences emerge in their desperate attempt to make things right. As you might expect, not everything goes according to plan as they're about to find out a big scheme which might put their lives into peril.As said before, it's full of action, thrill, emotion and comedy, managing to keep the bar raised throughout the movie. It looks great, it has a very good plot, it's very entertaining, so you'll definitely have a very good time watching it. It is also pretty unpredictable, thus being able to provide a satisfying finale. Everything is good and very good about it, but also not extraordinary, so it receives a big thumbs up and a great recommendation from my side.


                
With one of the most imaginative screenplays produced at Pixar, complete with great direction from Pete Docter and fantastic character designs. Monsters inc shines in beautiful rich emotion that makes us Laugh and cry, all wrapped up with stellar performances from John Goodman and Billy Crystal.


                
The animation speaks for itself. It showcases what can be done in the world of computer animation when it comes to feature films. The story is great and has a very nice level of depth to it.


                
We all have films we grew up with, earning a sense of nostalgia that may skew the true reflection of the film. Monsters Inc is one of those. It's a little rough around the edges, but the finished product will always be one that I will truly appreciate. Monstropolis is powered by energy garnered from children's screams. Sully and Mike go to work just like any normal day, except they accidentally let a child into the world of monsters. Normal day has now just taken a turn for the more eventful. Comedy ensues with various antagonists being revealed and a surprising touching ending that packs a punch to the heart. One of the greatest additions to the animation genre, this flick shows that pure imagination is able to extend its captivation beyond a good narrative and aesthetically pleasing visuals. It's all in the details! Explaining how the door system works, why the city needs screams, showing the partnership between the scarer and their companion. It fills in all the gaps to complete a greater picture, adding that finesse. The world doesn't feel populated for the sake of it, it naturally breathes life through the art of animation. It's what Pixar is famous for. I loved how they deconstructed the "monsters in the closet" theme, which most definitely appeals to all audiences. John Goodman and Billy Crystal were the perfect voice actors, I cannot envisage anyone else replacing them. Sully and Mike are John and Billy. It's a done deal. Irreplaceable. The dialogue between them was intuitive and felt seamless. Quick banter with boundless quotes..."put that thing back where it came from!". Randall was a memorable villain that was underplayed, not overly sinister which I appreciated. Certain scenes were rushed, like Mike coming back from the Himalayas, but it's not a major detriment. Monster's Inc just screams imagination. Its ingenuity and originality will appeal to everyone and is a stepping stone for cementing Pixar as one of the best animation studios.


                
In a world full of monsters of all kinds, where all the power came from children's screams, a select few had the job of going into the human world to scare the little ones. Everything seems as normal as it can be for that place, until one day, a human child enters the monster world and is hidden by the two protagonists who don't actually know how to get rid of her fast enough before the authorities catches them all.It's a one of a kind story which presents the adventures of two monsters who worked at the power factory and unwillingly get a human child at their feet. Being seen as toxic for the monster world, the child must be sent back to her world as soon as possible before the two get into trouble. Thus a cavalcade of funny and suspenseful action sequences emerge in their desperate attempt to make things right. As you might expect, not everything goes according to plan as they're about to find out a big scheme which might put their lives into peril.As said before, it's full of action, thrill, emotion and comedy, managing to keep the bar raised throughout the movie. It looks great, it has a very good plot, it's very entertaining, so you'll definitely have a very good time watching it. It is also pretty unpredictable, thus being able to provide a satisfying finale. Everything is good and very good about it, but also not extraordinary, so it receives a big thumbs up and a great recommendation from my side.


                
Aside from TOY STORY II (which I loved), this might just be the best film Pixar has released. It's a really close race between it and THE INCREDIBLES for second best. And considering how wonderful their movies are, this isn't a bad place to finish. Unfortunately for the good folks at Disney, MONSTERS, INC. could not have come out at a worse time. Just days after its release, the even better and more timeless SHREK was released--thereby stealing MONSTERS, INC's thunder and resulting in its just being lost in the shuffle. It's a real shame, though, as this is a wonderful film from start to finish. The voices of the characters were great, computer animation tops and the story line, though silly, worked. But for me, the biggest surprise was that as a jaded adult and very critical person, I loved the cutesy addition to Baby Boo to the film. She was, without a doubt, the cutest thing I have ever seen but also was not gratuitously cute or nauseatingly cute. She was just a perfect addition to an otherwise great film. If you haven't seen this film, get off you behind and see it--it's great stuff and kids as well as adults will love this film.


                
This family-friendly animation takes place in the world of monsters. At Monsters, Inc., the monsters enter doors, leading to the closets of children on a quest to scare as many of them as possible to fill up energy tanks that help keep their city powered. As with many companies, Monsters, Inc. keeps track of top performers, thus invoking a competitive spirit amongst the monster employees. Things change when Sullivan, also known as Sulley (voiced by John Goodman) stumbles upon a little girl named Boo (voiced by Mary Gibbs) and is forced to face and perhaps overcome his fears.Sulley is the top scarer and has been for many months. His best friend Mike (voiced by Billy Crystal) stays close by helping him stay in top performer shape, though he sometimes gets sidetracked by his romantic interest, receptionist Celia (voiced by Jennifer Tilly). Sulley's fiercest competition comes from Randall (voiced by Steve Buscemi) who will do whatever he can, with some help from his sidekick Fungus (voiced by Frank Oz), to snag the top spot from Sulley, including cheating. Humans, primarily children, are a feared species, so when Boo, who Randall has a lot of success frightening, enters Monsters, Inc., it changes Sulley's life forever. Initially, Sulley is afraid and does everything he can to get rid of Boo. As Sulley gets to know her, over the course of time, he becomes less fearful and even turns into Boo's protector. Eventually, Sulley learns that his fear, along with the other monsters, of children is misguided and over exaggerated due to lack of knowledge. This makes me think of the movie Inside Out and how our emotions can lead us astray if we don't keep them in check. Once Sulley gains some insight, his new awareness ultimately leads to a delightful change in how business is conducted at Monsters, Inc. There were shadowy effects throughout the film which added a sense of suspense. However, the lighting on Sulley is soft, which gave warmth to his character, even though he's one of the largest monsters. The transitions from scene to scene were smooth. The music effects are suspenseful, happy and playful in the right areas. The attention to detail in all sectors made the movie thrive. I really enjoyed Monsters, Inc. I would rank it as one of my favorite animated movies. The writing is funny and witty, and the props are clever. I look forward to watching it again. It was a nice spin on overcoming fears and not judging a book by its cover. Two lessons that are universal and relatable to all ages, races, and genders.


                
I really liked this film it is one of whose films you can watch over and over. This is a film for all age groups which is good when you have the family around and can't decide what to watch.The voice work of John Goodman and Billy Crystal as Sully and Mike is perfectly meshed, the two working together to make their characters come alive.The film is about good verses bad. I liked the bond that was formed between Boo and Sulley when Sulley realised that Boo was no harm to them.It is not as good as Toy story as the story line is not as strong but still very watchable. The animation in this film is wonderful, the characters are well designed and have well developed personalities, particularly the two leads.


                
I love this film. I'm not usually a fan of animated films, I find them emotionless and boring, but I think that with the relationship of Sully and Boo, mixed with the humor of Mike made this the perfect family film. I still love it today, years after it came out and will never pass up an opportunity to watch it. I think that one of my favorite parts of the film is the very end, when Mike gives Sully the present of Boo's door. It is lovely to see that Mike would do this, seeing as though he was not to keen on the child in the first place, and I have to admit that it brought me to tears. It is one of Disney Pixar's best films, in my opinion and one of the only ones I can watch the whole way through.The humor of when the monsters are describing t children, with 'lazer eyes' and 'mind powers' is truly funny and keeps the light heartiness of a child's film. And yet, the way Sully treats Boo can captivate the hearts of many people who prefer emotional films.Brilliant........just brilliant!!
"Monsters, Inc" is a lovely family film to watch. The story is basically about a Monster City, in which its power is generated by scaring children. But what's funny about this is that the people of this city, or I should say, the monsters of this city are more afraid of the children than the children are afraid of them. But when a young girl accidentally enters Monster City, the top scarer, Sullivan and his friend Mike start sharing a bond with this girl, or what Sullivan called her, Boo, after realizing that she is no harm to them.The story is somewhat weird, yet hilarious, and is full of laughs. "Monsters, Inc" is a very enjoyable film and is worth watching and owning.


                
Monster's Inc. is another part of the great Pixar movies. Pixar really is the leading company in CGI effects. If you look at it, Pixar introduced the first fully computer animated movie Toy Story to the world in 1995. Ever since then, Pixar has continued to make movies and other company's like Dreamworks have also gotten started. (possible Spoiler) Monster's Inc. follows the world in which monsters live in. Their everyday job is to go into kid's rooms at night and scare them, because their screams are useful for energy in the monster world. The two main characters are the green one eyed Mike(voiced by Billy Chrystal) and Sully(voiced by John Goodman) who are the best workers of Monsters Inc. and are competing against an evil monster named Randall(voiced by my all time favorite actor Steve Buscemi). Despite being the fearless and ferocious monsters that they are, they are never supposed to touch a child or any of its belongings, because they think children are toxic. Everything goes wrong when a child happens to come into their world and isn't afraid of the monsters, but the monsters are afraid of her. The rest is pure fun, Pixar style.Most kids should enjoy this, it is possible that kids around age three will be scared by it, but it will probably make them braver about their fear of monsters. This is a great movie, and I think anyone who wants to watch a fun movie should watch it.
Monsters, Inc. is another example of very cleverly-written and multi-levelled animation that appeals to young and old alike. The basic plot is instantly ingenious enough to appeal to even the most simple-minded of viewers, and it is a delightful satire on humankind's timeless fear of monsters. My favourite in terms of satirical tools is the two pimple-covered adolescent monsters who are so 'in awe' of Sullivan and the other 'scarers', which just puts that brilliant twist to the whole idea. The voices are excellent: Crystal, Goodman and Buscemi are all perfectly cast in their roles and they combine well with the very brilliant animation and clever scripting to produce a very likeable and entertaining film. This is not just one of those animated movies that attempt to lure adults through the use of well-beloved actors (Meg Ryan as Anastasia, one example). It really is enjoyable for the whole families. However, the basic warning that some scenes may frighten younger children I believe is well-justified and it is really the only criticism you could possibly have of this movie.


                
In my opinion, this film should have won the first Oscar for animated film. Don't get me wrong, Shrek was good, but this film had a little more passion put into it. The story and characters were more diverse and, the animation was much more complicated. Kudos to the casting agent who was able to bring in talent like Frank Oz, John Goodman, Billy Crystal, and Steve Buscemi to play the roles of some of the actors. If you haven't seen the version of this film with the out takes and company play, then you should get the DVD when it comes out.


                
This movie lived up to its expectations. With great ease, I might add. It is slightly different from previous Pixar movies, the fact that it wasn't directed by John Lasseter might have something to do with it:), because I felt that there was less of that universal humor that anyone, be it a 5 year old child or an adult can find funny. But the lack of humor was replaced with a truly touching story and one of the best movie climaxes I have seen in a long time. I also thought that the very, very ending of the movie is nothing less than perfect and I left the cinema with a desire to see the movie again. John Goodman and Billy Crystal were great choices for the main characters, but they could have done more with Steve Buscemi's character, if for anything because he has a very distinctive and likable voice. A great story, nice characters and THE perfect ending make "Monsters, Inc" a great movie experience.         Can't wait for the next one.                 9/10


                
Monsters Inc. is a good product, funny, technically well done, cheesy. In a word, Disney. By all means bring the kids, take the opportunity to be a kid yourself. The little girl is great. If you are an adult, though - well, Shrek is better. In the same way as Antz was better than Bug's Life. Disney target is obviously kids, so it lacks a bit of - um - spice? As i said, a very good PRODUCT. As in "marketing". Yeah, and merchandising too, of course. (A note: the best part of the movie is by far the short cartoon before it - who won the Oscar, as it was)


                
Monsters, Inc. is a brilliant, fun movie for everyone of all ages and definitely deserved the Oscar nomination it has received. Let's hope it wins too. The voice talents in the movie, include Billy Crystal, Steven Buscemi and John Goodman. They were all great and really funny too. You couldn't ask for anyone better and little Boo was just *so* lovely and cute. Monsters, Inc. is one of the best animated movies I've seen and I'm not surprised that it's doing so well. If you like these type of movies then there is no way you would be disappointed in Monsters, Inc. See it!


                
How do the wizards at Pixar do it? How can they?That's the only thing I could think about when I watched "Monsters, Inc." yesterday. And realized that, no, nothing I had seen there existed. It's a lot easier when watching traditional animation not to get too immersed in the scenes; after all, you are always aware "this is not here". But CGI is making tremendous advances every day.Furthermore, it's not only the realistic animation what impresses the most. It's the heart and soul Pixar embed in each and every of its films. Witness "Shreck", a very good film on its own right, for example. It was a major hit when it was running on theaters, yet it's seldom talked about nowadays. Now, think "Toy Story 2" or "Toy Story". Both were movie milestones, and definitely are destined to be classics in a couple of years (dare I say both are "instant classics"?). The secret, or reason, is in the powerful dose of humanity Pixar gives each and every one of their creations. They all have so many human traits it's very hard not to end up liking (loving?) them as if they were real. In a sense they are, being perfectly well rounded characters in perfectly recognizable situations. The fears and hopes of human beings are indelibly etched in every character (fear of death, fear of loneliness, fear of failure, etc.), which makes them even dearer to our hearts.From the animated short that's shown at the beginning of the movie (the "Birds" featurette, a very similar concept to the "Carnival of the Animals" section of Fantasia 2000... very funny) to  story development, "Monsters, Inc." works like a charm all the way, all the time. Steve Buscemi, John Goodman and Billy Crystal are always having a ball, with a tremendous sense of chemistry between them. Couple that with the prettiest, best CGI character I've ever seen (Boo), and you have a group of superb people playing their parts perfectly well, in a story that is funny, very sweet, and that will leave you filled with love and laughter.
Still... I think this movie comes *this* close to being another Toy Story 2. It's not that it is a bad movie; it's just that TS2 is a landmark; not only the best CGI movie ever, but one of the best movies ever made, period. TS2 most enduring quality is that, to a certain degree, it can soften the most hardened soul with its sweet, beautiful message, while "Monsters" is a bit less complex in its underlying theme. The fact that it managed to retain so much humanity throughout it, though, is a testament that the wizards at Pixar still have that magic touch that eludes so many famous "live actors".I want more.


                
