Ever heard of the Emperor's new clothes? Everyone praising; no one able to admit the truth? This is the fifth Kurosawa film I have seen, and once again, it disappoints on a monumental level. Boring story, Slow pacing, mediocre acting, and yes I'll say it: poor directing. Listening to endless dialoge exposition and then watching action scenes consisting of characters running around like the Keystone Cops just isn't an artistic contribution to the hallmark of great film. I really wonder if others would continue to say they like this film if no one was watching them. I enjoy foreign films and watch a few dozen every year, but I will never, EVER waste another minute of my life watching a Kurosawa film. Don't be duped -- Avoid!


                
To anyone who hasn't seen Yojimbo, A Fistful of Dollars was a great film. To anyone (honest) who has seen Yojimbo, A Fistful of Dollars is still a great film. But will anyone admit it? There only seem to be about two honest reviewers on this site. Although Fistful helped me to understand a little of what was going on, I still didn't understand most of it. I wouldn't have understood anything at all if I hadn't seen Clint and Leone. Towards the end, try as I might, I couldn't help skipping chunks, and I'm sure I didn't miss anything. Mifune had quite good presence, and he had a very healthy appetite and was very thirsty. There was at least one pretty girl. And there was a remarkable midget holding an enormous mallet. Sorry folks, that was it for me. At some future time, when I'm feeling really strong and masochistic, I'll try again, with the commentary option to explain it to me and tell me why it's so fabulous. Sayonara.


                
A movie thats best ideas have been copied to death. Watch Darth Maul wait for Obi- one behind the red energy curtain and tell me that didn't come directly from this movie. And that's the real problem. Why watch a movie that has nothing original in it which is worth watching? It's all been better done since. The dialogue sounds like a 1970s British costume drama (I speak Japanese so I know what I'm talking about) and the subtitling is simply dire. This is the 'Kind of Blue' of movies- no one has actually watched it (no one has listened to the Miles Davis album) but everyone says its the best movie they've ever seen. Avoid. 4/10


                
