Yojimbo is a timeless masterpiece; elegant, enigmatic and taut; one of the best and the most influential of the action movies, and a delectable feast to the lovers of the genre. It is the most sought-after of the Akira Kurosawa's movies, shamelessly imitated on multiple occasions – the most infamous being 'A Fistful of Dollars' by Sergio Leone. Yojimbo is a delightful addition to an unending list of avant-garde movies made by the Oriental master. It is as superior to any of the movies that it has inspired as a master is to his artless apprentice. I have had the privilege of watching five Kurosawa movies before watching Yojimbo viz. Seven Samurai, Ran, Dersu Uzala, Rashomon, and High & Low and each left me mesmerized, but in a completely different manner than the last. In my past reviews I have repeatedly committed an invidious blunder of failing to acknowledge the ginormous contribution that Toshiro Mifune made in Kurosawa's colossal success. I would be remiss again if I fail to testify the fact that Yojimbo is more synonymous with Mifune than it is with Kurosawa and anyone who has had the privilege of watching it wouldn't want me to budge even by a slightest degree. The role of 'Sanjuro', though demanding, can be any performer's dream, but a slight lack of proficiency or commitment on his part can serve as a volte-face, transforming it into his biggest nightmare. I don't think that anyone but Kurosawa is competent enough to judge Toshiro Mifune's talent as a performer and so I would like to quote an excerpt from his biography: "Mifune had a kind of talent I had never encountered before in the Japanese film world. It was, above all, the speed with which he expressed himself that was astounding. The ordinary Japanese actor might need ten feet of film to get across an impression; Mifune needed only three. He put forth everything directly and boldly with a great sense of timing. And yet with all his quickness, he also had surprisingly fine sensibilities".In Yojimbo, Toshiro Mifune incredibly outdoes himself with a portrayal that can be excruciatingly hard to be described in words. Mifune is crafty, cunning, capricious and yet seemingly nonchalant as the ingeniously disingenuous ronin, a portrayal overwhelmed with so many contrasting attributes that it revolutionized the very concept of an anti-hero in the world of cinema. Sanjuro is a cross between a wolf and a sheep, a guardian and a usurper, a misanthrope and an altruist, a demon and an angel, a libertine and an ascetic, a fiend and a beloved, a mercenary and a messiah and that's what makes this portrayal singular and incredibly magnificent. Mifune has meticulously taken care of even the slightest gestures and the subtle changes in mannerisms during the portrayal; be it Sanjuro's perpetually grinned countenance or his nonchalant disposition. Each triviality and nuance evinces certain details that are hard to be expressed even through expatiation. Despite Sanjuro's rapidly changing expressions and his frenzied demeanor, Mifune always seems to be in absolute control.Yojimbo is a well etched, taut narrative with a dark comical look that makes it one of a kind. Yojimbo neither appears to be superficial nor superfluous and not a moment of it is extraneous. Human values and emotions are ubiquitously similar irrespective of the cultural and the social divide between the peoples of the world and hence everyone can savour the thought-provoking movies of Kurosawa; even those who are daunted by the handicap of using subtitles can relish a movie like Yojimbo as a silent movie (because of it being so visually descriptive like the Charlie Chaplin movies). The plot of the movie is simple and may even appear to be commonplace owing to the countless imitations that it has inspired, but it is the rapport between Kurosawa and Mifune (undoubtedly the best director-actor pair of all time) that makes it so especial and unique. A penniless ronin (samurai without a master) enters a town rotten with schism (Akira Kurosawa challenged his assistant directors to come up with an image for the film to let Sanjuro know he was entering a bad town. Eventually, Kurosawa himself came up with the idea of the dog carrying the human hand). The two gangs are sporadically involved in sanguinary duels resulting in mass slaughter. The ronin demonstrates his skills by slaying two members of one of the gangs. After asseverating his supremacy, he joins the other group for a substantial sum, but backs out just when a decisive battle was about to begin. He then climbs the nearby bell tower as a vantage for himself and watches with rapturous glee the bravado of the pusillanimous gang members disappearing in thin air as they are overcome by trepidation. They lunge and retreat on multiple occasions without making an actual contact before getting interrupted by the news of an inspector coming for an official inspection. The duel is postponed indefinitely to everyone's delight. In the meantime, Sanjuro lets them know that his services are open to bidding, inducing a tussle to acquire his services while he continues to act as an instigator further intensifying the rabid rivalry between the two groups. But soon the tables are turned and this child's play transforms into a moment of reckoning for the ronin as he finds himself haplessly pitted against the surviving gang. He is captured and brutally assaulted, but he manages to escape from some local help. This culminates in one of the best climatic endings of all time as Sanjuro single-handedly obliterates the whole gang, emancipating the town from anarchy and barbarism. It's a must watch for film students, action movie lovers, and especially those who want to acquaint themselves with the eccentrically brilliant works of the oriental master without exposing themselves to his more recondite works like Shichinin no samurai, Rashomon, Ikiru, Akahige, Ran and countless others. An absolute gem: 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
If you ever watched Pulp Fiction and thought: movie cool was born here, or maybe you saw any single Sergio Leone movie and thought: this guy invented movie-cool (if you haven't, i thoroughly recommend it - Kill Bill is nothing to his Good, the Bad and the Ugly or Once Upon a Time in the West), then experience Yojimbo, or The Bodyguard. Kurosawa's camera sits behind Toshiro Mifune's man-with-no-name, inviting us to look up at the back of his head as he walks the earth, inviting us to be in awe of this man. And as he walks, super-cool walking-the-earth music plays. Later on, when he's taunted and asked to prove himself, he slices a guy's arm off and plays the petty, money-grabbing rival factions in the town he wanders into off each other.If you have it in your mind that a guy called Kurosawa couldn't make movies that would impress you, that the cultural gap would be too great - be assured that Kurosawa's movies are rife with Western values. Sure, they are rife with Japanese values (i am told), but Kurosawa had a great appreciation of Western culture. He based many of his movies on Western texts, like Shakespeare, Dostoyevsky, or American gangster fiction and film. Yojimbo is one of the latter - inspired by the Dashiell Hammet novel Red Harvest (Hammett's novel The Maltese Falcon was put onscreen moment for moment by John Huston in the movie of the same name which immortalised Humphrey Bogart).Actually, the history of the story of the lone wolf, the wanderer with a weapon, who rides into town to play off two warring factions against each other - is quite a story itself. Dashiell Hammett, an American, wrote a novel with an American private eye as the stranger. In 1961, Akira Kurosawa transposed this story to medieval Japan, after the fall of a dynasty, where a Samurai finds himself with no place to go (at the beginning, we see him throw a branch up in the air and walk the direction it falls), and no master to serve. A bodyguard with no-one to protect. In 1964, Sergio Leone transposed the screenplay of Yojimbo (nearly word for word) to the spanish desert, and he brought along a young television actor named Clint Eastwood, and together they revolutionised the western with Fistfull of Dollars, and created an entire genre, the Spaghetti Western, which sported among its attributes a gritty, desolate landscape, and a cynical, postmodern lack-of-values ideology (traditional American westerns had quite plush landscapes and were always black and white (good and evil) in their value system. Despite the massive influence of Fistfull of Dollars, it pales in comparison to both its predecessor Yojimbo, and its sequals, For a Few Dollars More and The Good the Bad and the Ugly. But still, both Yojimbo and Fistful are iconic movies, and very cool movies.With cool music, a cool anti-hero, a fun script, and a visually spectacular canvas of an image, painted by the eye of an artist (it is said that Kurosawa storyboarded his movies in full-scale paintings), Yojimbo is one of the coolest movies ever made.


                
Spoilers herein.We are indebted to Kurosawa for one big thing and a couple small ones. Among the small ones is the deconstruction of the western, which was transformed forever by the chain of events started by (and depicted in?) this film. I recommend Yojimbo if only because of this importance.That chain starts with the spaghetti westerns which introduced irony into most elements of the form more obviously for us, well westerners. And it finishes (probably) with `Star Wars,' which is nothing more than a slightly shifted selfaware goof on the already outed western. That this is based on a Hammett story should be a tipoff as he did the same for the mystery genre. Kurosawa did this knowingly of course. You can see his other projects marching through other notions of film and revolutionizing them.Naturally, there are other values here: perfect framing; multiplanar visual storytelling through mime; and a camera that denotes the eye of fate. But by the time one gets to this after seeing such masterpieces as `Ran' and `Rashomon' and `Seven Samurai,' especially the first, one gets used to expecting skill from Kurosawa equalling the skill of his samurai avatar.If you know what this movie is all about, it puts `Last Man Standing' in a much more intelligent and cinematically important perspective. The title of this comment refers to the fact that it is essentially impossible to see any movie today and not be in part watching a Kurosawa film.Ted's Evaluation: 3 of 4 -- worth watching
Loosely based on Dashiell Hammett's western novel Red Harvest and Glass Key. This jidaigeki (period drama film), tells the story of an unnamed ronin (Toshiro Mifune), who arrives in a small town in 1860 Japan, where competing crime lords, Seibei, the Brothel Owner (Seizaburô Kawazu) and Ushitora, the Arms Dealer (Tatsuya Nakadai) fight each other for supremacy. The two bosses each try to hire the deadly newcomer as a yojimbo AKA bodyguard, but the unnamed ronin has a secret plan to get rid of both of them, by playing both rivals against each other in the hope that they will wipe each other out, faster than ever. Without spoiling too much of it, this movie is a great Samurai film, that is worth the watch only. The movie is beautiful shot. Director Akira Kurosawa's films are notable for being stunning visually, with beautiful backgrounds, sometimes verging on Scenery Porn. This movie might not have much of the Japanese landscape in the background, but it made great use of the set, and the weather. The way, he know how to use actors in a wide screen frame is amazing. He place actors in the foreground. Middle ground in the left or right. Sharp focus. Director John Ford type of a style. He use the shutters and doors, well on the Japanese set to reset shots so dynamically. Without cutting the shutters and door, create a look of comic book panels, frame by frame. Like in most Kurosawa films, rainy weather is present in a few scenes, increasing the effect of the characters' discomfort making emotional seem real. The windy weather all throughout the film represents the chaotic life in the town. The wind blowing while Yojimbo walks inspired many Japanese Animes and films. Kurosawa originated a lot of film techniques that are still being used today. A form of cinematic punctuation very strongly identified with Kurosawa is the wipe as a transitional device. It is used as a substitute for the straight cut or the dissolve. Yojimbo had great pan-focus shots, because they were crucial to the action. Action shot with a few long shots. It's way different than how action is film, today. This is one reason this movie stands the test of time so well. One thing that the movie does so well is editing. Kurosawa was a master in that. He was so good and quick, that Yojimbo had its Japanese premiere on four days after shooting concluded. Still, the movie does have some problems, as its jump back and forth between drama and comedy. It's a bit jarring at times. Most of the humor were hits than miss. I love the look of Sanjuro AKA Yojimbo's face when he sees the dog carrying the sever hand. The violence and gore was pretty intense, at times. It's weird to see, bloody limps being chop off in an early 1960s film, seeing how strict, Japanese censors were, at the time. The cycles of violence in this film is a lot tamer than that of 1954 Seven Samurai. Yojimbo's script is pretty good, but it lacks the intellectual challenge of 1950's Rashomon, the moral resonance of 1952's Ikiru, and the sweeping grandeur of Seven Samurai. He made a couple of great samurai films, but after seeing several of them, they get to be a bit repetitive. Most of the villains are forgettable. They are two-dimensional comically idiots without a shred of redeeming humanity thought. Kurosawa told Tatsuya Nakadai that his character was a snake, so Nakadai moves very snake-like. It didn't help, as his character has little to no personality at all. I just know him, as the man with the creepy smile, snake motion and the gun. The supporting characters, he helps out aren't memorable. I was really hoping more from the old undertaker and his family. Toshiro Mifune as the main lead was great. He's not only one of the greatest Japanese actors of all-time, but is one of the greatest actors of all-time period. Toshiro Mifune is a great actor, capable of great range and subtlety of expression. A complete badass, and everybody comes to realize this very quickly. He was able to perform, the way, the director wanted to. Akira Kurosawa told Toshiro Mifune to act like a stray dog, which is why he twitches his shoulders and scratches himself a lot during the film. The character of Sanjiro can be viewed as an early example of the "Man with No Name" because he made the name up at the shot. Kurosawa was often criticized by his countrymen for perceived "arrogant" behavior, and you see that in this character. In many ways, the main lead character mirrors Kurosawa at the time. Claims of personal arrogance and harsh treatment of colleagues were often, said about the director. He could even sometimes be hard on seasoned, highly respected film professionals. During the filming of this, he lost his temper with one of Japan's preeminent cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa. He was often, very tiresome, during filming. This movie would be, one of his last best influencing films. Still, it's been years since this movie first came out, but it's still influencing how films are made today. In 1964, Yojimbo was remade as Sergio Leone's A Fistful of Dollars, a Spaghetti Western starring Clint Eastwood as the Man with No Name. Leone and his production company failed to secure the remake rights to Kurosawa's film, resulting in a lawsuit that delayed the western release for three years. The movie influenced a lot of other movies in the west over time like 1996's Walter Hill gangster film, "Last Man Standing" and others. The movie even got a sequel, 1962's Sanjuro. The music from this film by Masaru Satô is very powerful to listen to. It's often use in other films and trailers. The film is easy to find. Try to get the Criterion Collection for the best value, just note that there is no English dubbing. Overall: It's a must-watch. Will Recommended.
The famous Latin phrase "homo homini lupus" meaning "man is a wolf to (his fellow) man," could easily be the motto of Akira Kurosawa's 21st film Yojimbo (1961). It is purely a genre-film at its best: a film in which the basic realizations and contents of a genre have been internalized perfectly. In this case the genre is samurai-film which is strongly related to the genre of western. Whereas from western the American mythology exhales, from samurai-film Japanese does. Although, the history of samurai-film extends to the 1930-40's it found its dynamic form and was truly born in the early 1950's when Japanese films first came to Europe. The genre still lives on but Yojimbo is, without a doubt, among the five best samurai-films ever made. Both, ironic humor and conception of the eternal weakness of the human nature characterize this exquisite film about a mythical character.Western and samurai-film are often compared to each other, and Kurosawa has said that: "Everybody likes a good western. Because people are weak, they want to see good people and great heroes. Westerns have been made over and over again and in this process a certain grammar has developed and I have leaned something from it.". They both take place to important phases of their country's national history and in the focus there are armed heroes. The heroes are often marginal characters in the society who return order to it but are also conscious of the fact that their virtuous action doesn't take them to the new, better, ordered society. And this is exactly what happens in Yojimbo as it does in A Fistful of Dollars for example. Kurosawa had the habit of placing his stories to history, far away, so the producers and managers of film companies wouldn't get upset of his anti-feudalism. On the big screen, he was safely able to tell about his thoughts without them being directly linked to the present day — and that's why it is samurai-film that he most eagerly studied.The story of Yojimbo is, from today's perspective, classical and has been lent dozens of times in A Fistful of Dollars (1964) and Last Man Standing (1996) for instance. The Japanese word 'yôjinbô' means a bodyguard or a hit man and that is exactly what the protagonist of this film is. The film happens in a simple milieu where two selfish robber gangs work. Soon an unknown samurai — played by Toshirô Mifune — arrives to the town and offers his services to one of the gangs. He cheats the other by claiming that he would be working for them. The other gang finds out and tortures him. However, soon our hero escapes and after a few days recovery he overthrows the hostile gang of 20 bandits and leaves the town in peace. There are no good and evil; just two evils from which the protagonist has to choose. We all know this situation. An ethical dilemma that is impossible to solve. We want to end the battle between these two evil but can't because we are too weak. In this the hero of Yojimbo differs from us. He can stand in the middle and quit the fighting. For Kurosawa this kind of social action is serious business and that's why he doesn't make a big deal out of it. He hasn't placed any hidden morality behind the hero's acts.Yojimbo shows that "man is a wolf to a man," how people in reality are animals. The humor comes from the fact that we are quite ridiculous when we think that we are trying to attain morally righteous solutions. The message of Yojimbo and so many films seems to be that the world can't be observed through absolute morality. Both utilitarianism and virtue ethics collapse in the world of Kurosawa. For example, Sanjuro's only virtue is that he doesn't try to be bad, all the time. At times, he might make decisions that ostensibly are good but are actually built on selfish acts. Out of no solidarity or anything that has something to do with morality, he helps one evil to win over another. After he has performed his duty he can walk away and forget all about it. He resembles a god in Greek tragedies: he descends down, does his mission and once again disappears. In one particularly intriguing scene he climbs up and looks down at people, from the roof. He watches the lives of people as a grand comedy — a seedy anti-hero observing.Yojimbo happens in a stripped, closed and simplified landscape in which ruthless and completely selfish and unethical groups of bandits work. Their cruel attitude towards the world is relayed to us most luminously in the scene where one bandit says to his son that: "To gain respect one has to kill more." Irony and humor mean complete destruction of morality. The desolation of Kurosawa's world view is most brilliantly projected on the life of Unosuke, the gunfighter. First his sight is innocent and curious. But soon the cruel corrupted world teaches its lesson and therefore he becomes a mighty gunman who digs up his own grave: "He died like he lived."At times, Yojimbo is close to self-parody but Kurosawa brilliantly reflects the violence culture in the zone of irony and consciousness. Yojimbo is a pure genre-film. But it is also full of subjectivity and personal sights. Death instinct, life at the gates of hell, the harsh reality of heroism, life control and violence culture viewed under the samurai myth but, in addition, Yojimbo talks about war-like glory and sense of morality: the protagonist isn't a moralist. No higher moral purpose hides behind his action than cleaning up the town. He is cynical, melancholy and has a total lack of morality. Yojimbo is, at its heart, about an ethical dilemma, it's about the inevitable dialog between loyalty and glory. It is a grand story of humanity and morality.
YOJIMBO is an action drama about a ronin who finds himself at the center of a conflict between the two crime lords.A hungry and tired ronin wanders through a desolate Japanese countryside. Soon, he arrives in a small town. A local caterer advises him to leave because, two local clans fight every day on the streets. However, a stranger decides to stay. The situation in a town is very good for one ronin. This is a good chance that he earns some money. However, he does not need a bloody money. He wants to destroy local crime lords...This tense story is full of lies, doubt, turning, pranks, blackmails and excellent fights. A careless and seemingly insensitive samurai is actually a peaceful and good man. Mr. Kurosawa has, under the influence of a western and noir, made a very exciting and visually impressive film. Of course, he has not neglected the significant situations that are related to the Japanese culture and tradition.Close-ups, almost perfectly, reflect an evil, arrogance, fear, invincibility and contempt on faces of some of the protagonists. There is a large number of villains, which are quite different in character.Toshiro Mifune (Kuwabatake Sanjuro) is a resourceful, interesting and determined as a wandering ronin and master swordsman. He, apparently, enjoys in his machinations, however, his goal is extremely benevolent. He's kind of a lone hero, regardless of a tactical evil and theatrical swagger in his character.His support are Tatsuya Nakadai as Unosuke a wild and insolent gunslinger and the biggest threat to a samurai. He is interesting because he is a completely different character from Sanjuro. Kyu Sazanka (Ushitora) and Seizaburo Kawazu (Seibei) are fairly inconclusive as crime lords. However their primary relationship "of a teacher and his student", could be interesting. Isuzu Yamada as Orin is the the wife of Seibei. She is perhaps an initiator of conflicts. Daisuke Kato as Inokichi is a visually the most memorable character. A character, who is capable to commit a vicious murder, but also make the greatest stupidity.Simply, Mr. Kurosawa has managed to combine several styles in a small masterpiece.


                
Sanjuro Kuwabatake (Toshirô Mifune) is a samurai without a master, drifting without any specific destination. He arrives in a small village, dominated by two lords: Seibei, who produces silk, and Ushitora, who produces sake. Both of them explore gambling, and uses fugitive gangster for the protection of their business. They are constantly fighting against each other. Sanjuro offers his service of bodyguard for both of them and waits for the best offer. The end of the story recalls those Italian ('spaghetti') western movies, with the death of all 'bad guys'. This movie is very different from other Akira Kurosawa's masterpieces. The plot has adventure, excellent choreography in the sword fights and lots of black humor. In accordance with the information on the cover of the DVD, Sergio Leone used parts of this screenplay in his wonderful 'Fistful of Dollars'. The negative point is the DVD released in Brazil by the Brazilian distributor Continental. The subtitles have many problems in translation, synchronization and concordance in Portuguese. In some parts, it is very difficult to follow the story, since I can not understand Japanese. Further, there is a bug and the DVD freezes at 75:51 min. I tried two DVDs and both presented the same problem. The solution is to go back to the 'Menu', select the next chapter and 'rewind' back to 75:52 min. Although presenting problems on the Brazilian DVD, the movie is excellent and worthwhile. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): 'Yojimbo'05 January 2005: I have just received the following remark from an IMDb User: "Yojimbo doesn't "recall those Italian ('spaghetti') western movies, with the death of all 'bad guys'," considering that Yojimbo was released in 1961, and the entire GENRE of "Spaghetti Westerns" didn't really exist previous to Leone's Fistful of Dollars. You've made the classic mistake of mixing up cause and effect."


                
'Yojimbo' was Kurosawa's most commercially successful film in his home country of Japan. Now some critics and viewers tend to justify this commercial success by calling the film an entertaining action film without much substance. But after having watched it for the 3rd time in a matter of a year, I will have to disagree with that opinion. Yes, the film is very entertaining, but the screenplay written by Kurosawa and Ryuzo Kikushima is deceptively deep and meaningful.The first and foremost thing that has to be understood about 'Yojimbo' is that the film is a dark comedy. Kurosawa actually wants to generate some humour out of potentially gruesome and depressing moments. Thematically, the film is all about Kurosawa's wish fulfillment. The character of Sanjuro is Kurosawa's surrogate. Sanjuro executes the things that Kurosawa himself wants. This is the reason why this character is not completely realistic. He is supposed to be a mythic figure, a wandering spirit. This mysterious, rugged outsider character that becomes entangled in something that he has little vested interest in, has a very iconic place in cinema history. On one hand, this character of Sanjuro itself was inspired by some of the rugged cowboy characters in American Western films that Kurosawa was an admirer of. On the other hand, this character has further inspired some of the most iconic characters that came later like Clint Eastwood's 'Man with no name' character in Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns and the character of Mad Max in George Miller's films to name a few.Story-wise, Kurosawa is using a period setting to mirror the condition of the Japanese economy at the time the film was made. Sanjuro in the film randomly walks into a town that looks desolate, grim and depressing. The town is run by two rival gangster groups who work in close coalition with two rival business merchants. The merchants require the gangsters for the muscle and the gangsters require the merchants and their money for their existence. This greatly mirrors the social scenario in Japan during the economic boom. The businessmen and politicians brought in an age of unrestricted capitalism with extensive and undeniable help from the Yakuza. Kurosawa is clearly going back to the past to throw some light on the present. He is using Sanjuro to express his philosophies and comment against this unchecked spread of rampant consumerism. In a way Kurosawa is rewriting history. In a factual sense, the samurai class disappeared and the era of the merchants and the gangsters started in Japan. But in his fantasy version of history, Kurosawa has Sanjuro the Samurai come back from the cemetery and defeat the gangsters and thematically clean the town.The cinematography in the film to some extent makes the film for me. The telephoto lens works overtime to give us these gorgeous frames. When it comes to frame composition and expressive blocking of actors, Kurosawa is second to none. The wide angle photography of Kurosawa and cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa is awe-inspiring. The exterior shots in the street are epic in scope. Kurosawa uses wind machines to crank up the epic nature of the outdoor standoff scenes. Kurosawa's style of shooting the action scenes is actually quite simple. He doesn't use fast editing like one sees in a lot of action films. He generally uses two diagonally placed cameras to capture the shots and relies heavily on choreography. Kurosawa's use of Masaru Sato's music is also brilliant. He choreographs the movements of the characters in certain scenes to the beat of the music which adds a poetic touch to the visuals. Toshirô Mifune pretty much owns the screen in the film. He exudes gravitas and authority. He is charming, witty, suave and when required viciously aggressive. Mifune adds an immensely masculine charisma to the film. It was great watching him manipulate the rival gangs and direct the proceedings. Tatsuya Nakadai is great as the primary nemesis of Mifune. Nakadai's character carries with a long barrel pistol almost like a phallic symbol to represent this power. He too is very charismatic with the twinkle in his eye and threatening demeanour.'Yojimbo' might not have as much complexity as Kurosawa's other masterpieces like 'Rashomon' or 'Red Beard', but it still has something to say and comment upon. Kurosawa's brilliant filmmaking enhances and elevates the screenplay to the next level and makes this a must watch. This is certainly one of his best films. Highly Recommended.
It's no surprise that this has been adapted as both a western and a gangster movie since it blends elements of both genres along with the samurai genre. The setting is typically western with the town consisting of businesses lining a central road and much of the plot follows a western blueprint, leading up to a final showdown in the center of town. It's not just the plot that is transferred over to "A Fistful of Dollars", but much of the look and visual style of the film is also adopted. The characters seem to come from somewhere else though. The film is a loose adaptation of Dashiell Hammett's "Red Harvest", and that novel's gangster characters seem to have been dropped into the western/samurai setting. The cross-genre blending is brilliant, allowing for new heights of cynicism and black comedy in the samurai, and ultimately the western, genre.


                
Yojimbo is one of Akira Kurosawa's most celebrated films in his career and was remade by Sergio Leone into A Fistful of Dollars. It is considered an essential film and a classic in the samurai genre. Toshiro Mifune was excellent as the nameless ronin who sets out to protect the town, being a man of few words. Kurosawa is of course excellent at setting up the conflict in the town and how it affects the people whilst also delivering on fine samurai sword fights (a man even has his hand cut off). Kurosawa wonderfully lets his scenes play out with plenty of long shots and small camera movements. Kurosawa and his actors also inject some occasional moments of humours to help lighten the mood when need be. But for the most Yojimbo is a serious drama with some very dark elements. Out of the Kurosawa films I have seen I personally prefer Seven Samurai for its scale and Rashomon for its ambition, but Yojimbo is still a worthy film and true film buffs need to watch it.


                
This is one of the easiest Kurosawa masterpieces to watch, and like previous classics from this legendary director, the action of the story occurs in medevial Japan.  Ironically, this tale was inspired by the American Western (which is clearly evident)and inspired an important chapter of the Western genre. Later remade as Sergio Leone's "A Fistful of Dollars" (which led to "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" and "Once Upon A Time In The West"), Akira Kurosawa's medevial "western" is just as enjoyable, violent and stylish as Clint Eastwood's "spaghetti" Western that most movie fans are familair with. It is rare that a film and its subsequent re-make can be equally enjoyable and of equal quality, but such is the case.  In Kurosawa's original, Toshiro Mifune portrays "The Man With No Name" and is just as mysterious, witty and sarcastic as that tough, skinny American.  Fans of Leone's Westerns would be very wise to witness this great film.  Comparisons are pretty futile since both are of different cultural settings and the action in both are exceedingly excellent.  But it is such a great story and a great film to watch, an admirer certainly won't mind to witness two great versions of the same terrific formula."Yojimbo" was again re-made in the 90's with Bruce Willis in "Last Man Standing".


                
With Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune both in top form, "Yojimbo" is one of their most enjoyable and interesting movies. The story and the characters are both fun to watch, and there is a lot of action, which also is by no means without some substance.The intriguing setup gets things off to a great start. As Mifune's character learns what is going on in the town, you can almost see his mind at work, calculating how to play off one gang against the other. The story itself offers lots of good turns with plenty of good action sequences, and the ideas behind the story are interesting as well. Mifune's character is not just a master swordsman, but also a clever psychologist, and the various plot turns provide an interesting, cynical, and amusing look at human nature.All of that takes place against some nicely-crafted settings and scenery that have a lot of interesting detail, plus a musical score that complements the action quite well. In fact, everything about the movie is fun to watch. It all seems so effortless, and yet it is really the result of some master craftsmen at work.


                
After "Unforgiven," I'd say this is the second-best Western I've ever seen. And yeah, I'm calling it a Western.DO NOT judge this film off "A Fistful of Dollars."  In fact, if at all possible, avoid seeing "A Fistful of Dollars" first.  Leone made a very inferior version, and it will taint your enjoyment of "Yojimbo."Toshiro Mifune is one of the greatest actors I've ever seen.  His athleticism and physical presence are pure bonus, because this guy can really act too.  He plays a great anti-hero role in this film.  Even when other actors are delivering lines, I find myself watching Mifune's expressions... he's able to convey exactly what his character is thinking without having to say a word.The plot, directing, acting, cinematography, musical score, etc. are all superb.It's really close to a 10/10, but I give it a 9/10.


                
A samurai, Sanjuro Kuwabatake, finds himself in a town run by two warlords, Ushitora and Seibei. The town is a den of inequity, not only due to the warlords and their hired thugs, but due to the hordes of gamblers that inhabit it. The samurai sets out to rid the town of all these pestilences, his plan being to play the two warlords off against each other.Excellent movie by famed Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. Clever, unpredictable plot with some great twists along the way. Good character development and some great action scenes. The only blemish is that it is difficult to figure out which characters fit into the mix in what way. This is often heightened by Kurosawa introducing an important character out of the blue, with no background. They're often linked to the story via another character, a character who we also don't know much about, if anything at all. So some of the character-specific stories were a bit hard to follow.An influential movie in that Sergio Leone used this as inspiration for his spaghetti westerns - a Fistful of Dollars in particular. You can see it in some of the fight scenes: the slow, deliberate build-up, the music the Mexican standoff. A Fistful of Dollars is even regarded as a remake of Yojimbo.


                
"Yojimbo" (Bodyguard), is a wonderful drama. There isn't enough fight scenes that I would qualify it as an action movie, but it certainly doesn't fall short in style, substance and even comedy. Debatable comments have been made whether it drew influence from the classic 1929 detective novel "Red Harvest", the film shines as one of the best of the Kurosawa-Mifune collaborations, and was remade in America as the iconic "A Fistful Of Dollars" (1964).A wandering Ronin (Toshiro Mifune) comes across a town that is virtually empty at first glance. However, it doesn't take too long for him to find out that the town has two crime lords trying to dominate each other for supremacy. Realizing the possible potentials of profit, he decides to offer his services to each mob and easily flips every situation to his gain. How long can he keep this charade up?I find that our nameless protagonist "Kuwabatake Sanjuro" ("Mulberry-field Thirty-youth"), is one of Toshiro Mifune's most endearing performances. It easily captures the somewhat playful attitude that makes him such a lovable rogue, but he can also dive into an intense portrayal and scenario effortlessly. This is also the first Kurosawa movie for another eventual regular Tatsuya Nakadai, who had an extremely fleeting appearance in "Seven Samurai" (1954). He is a wonderful rival to Mifune, and he does extremely well with his character given the lack of dialogue.Finally what remains to be mentioned is the insanely wonderful musical opening score, and Kurosawa's camera-work looks as effortless as always. Clearly the image of a Samurai standoff in town hails back to any classical Western, and remains some of the most vivid imagery in all of his black and white movies. Just to note as well that Kurosawa's use of wind bellowing in some scenes really makes great and subtle emphasis.Final Verdict: I don't think I need to sell this movie to you anymore, watch it once and fall in love with it forever. 9/10.
Akira Kurosawa's film about a wayward samurai (Toshiro Mifume), who restores balance to his world by pitting two rival gangs against each other, highlights one of his great strengths: his ability to allow all his performers to give the best performances they could give. Though "Yojimbo" ostensibly showcases the wonderful Mifume, there's plenty of room for other actors, notably Tatsuya Nakadai (as the only gunslinger in a 19th-century Japanese village), Atsushi Watanabe (as a coffin-maker) and the superb Eljiro Tono (as the saloon-keeper who serves as the film's center). The film itself is beautiful to look at (there are several great compositions) and has the feel of a new paradigm, with Mifume's very human antihero up against a realistically violent, unsavory world. Despite its setting, it has a remarkably modern feel, aided by a thoroughly modern, totally cool jazz score by Masaru Sato that pays reverence to its eastern antecedents.


                
This is a story that will be familiar to anybody who has seen Sergio Leone's classic spaghetti western 'A Fistful of Dollars' as that film is a virtual remake of this classic samurai film! It opens with an unnamed samurai entering a town; he soon learns that there are two rival groups vying to run the place<U+0085> and he decides to destroy them both and get well paid in the process by working for both sides and stirring up as much conflict as he can. All appears to be going well for him until he decides to help a man whose wife was taken by one of the gang leaders<U+0085> this act of sympathy could cost the samurai his life.As a long-time fan of 'A Fistful of Dollars' I was keen to see this film; now that I have I can see why Leone decided to remake it. The story is just what you'd expect in a western except that instead of six-shooters the characters wield samurai swords. There is plenty of action as well as a surprising amount of humour. The cast does a fine job; especially Toshiro Mifune who plays the lone samurai. Director Akira Kurosawa does a fantastic job bringing the story to the screen; perfectly capturing the action and drama of the story.Overall I'd say this is a must see if you are a fan of classic films, Japanese films or even if you just want to watch a film with a good story and plenty of action!
The first "man with no name" was Toshirô Mifune, who made 16 films with writer/director Akira Kurosawa, starting with Drunken Angel in 1948, and ending with Red beard in 1965. This is one of his greatest performances. Anyone familiar with American or Italian spaghetti westerns will instantly see the story here. The loner walks into town and sees an opportunity to play both sets of bad guys against each other to make money from each. It is funny, and has lots of action as any western does. Forget any idea of foreign films when watching Mifune and Kurosawa. They are as familiar to you as films you grew up with. For great entertainment, they cannot be beat.


                
Of all the wonderful Kurosawas out there, "Yojimbo" was among the first I saw in my youth. For some reason I haven't revisited it since, so although I remember liking it a lot, it's as close as seeing it for the first time again as it just can be. This is my long, tedious thank-you note.Kurosawa's use of a wider aspect ratio is marvellous to watch. The frame is always rich in depth and motion, and often there is a rich supply of action not only in horizontal space but at the same time also either in the background or foreground. He likes to shoot intimately, shooting from afar but zooming in. I know I'm going to go to "Sanjuro" next, but I truly have to revisit the hidden fortress, his first film not shot in 4:3.And amazing use of music! It not only participates in what we see, it's sublimely ironic and truly a character of its own. This sly sense of irony permeates the whole film, and in effect there's hardly any need to justify or moralize. The action is violent, aggressive and remarkably fast-paced, and it bursts so suddenly and effectively that requires immense skill to build up to. And his escape from confinement, crawling under the roka (the corridor) creates a thrilling spatial restraint and actually manages to make the footsteps of the running enemies truly hostile. The violence of the wind takes on Sjöström's utterly bellicose "The Wind" (1928)."Yojimbo" is so expertly crafted, so alive and full of wonders it's a treasure chest of cinema to cherish. I'm sure I'll not let the next visit linger on as long as it did last time.
This is an excellent and exciting samurai movie starring Toshiro Mifune as a clever ronin, who tries to save a town from two rivaling gangs by playing them against each other.Mifuni gave a solid performance as the sword-wielding samurai, providing much action and humor in a film full of drama and twists. Each and every actor gave a very memorable performance, creating an eerie atmosphere that makes the movie unpredictable, but memorizing at the same time. It is fun to watch Mifuni's methods of operation as he deals with the two gangs, thinking what kind of cards to play to get them to defeat each other.I haven't seen much of director Akira Kurosawa's work, but he surely did a great job in directing this film. It is not too long, not too short, but just right, filmed in a pace that will keep the audience engaged. Masaru Sato's haunting music score was perfect for this movie.This surely is one of my favorite action movies; all action movie lovers will be, I believe, thoroughly entertained by this feature.Grade A


                
Yojimbo manages to do something that far too many films fail to take into consideration - it keeps things simple. The characters all have fun and larger-than-life personalities, the plot is straightforward, and it's even got the right amount of seriousness to it to maintain a sense of realism. The acting was all good and believable, and the protagonist's eccentric personality often kept me guessing what he had planned next.There isn't a lot I have to complain about with Yojimbo. I could probably criticize the movie's usage of stereotypical Japanese personalities, but this is a samurai movie after all, so if anything it helps to form the basis for traditional Japanese culture and ideals. Probably my biggest complaint would be, that there isn't much action in the movie - and that's really the only thing stopping me from giving the movie a '10'. Of course, you have to take into consideration that this isn't a movie about groups of samurai warriors fighting each other, it's a movie about a witty wondering samurai who meets someone nearly as cunning and witty as he.For anyone that's a fan of samurai films, Japanese culture, proverbs and fables...or even classic American films set in the wild west - then this movie will not disappoint.


                
Very few men are cooler than Clint Eastwood, Toshiro Mifune is one of them. And very few directors can build up scene like Akira Kurosawa, Sergio Leone is not one of them (pretty close though). 'Yojimbo' is a film that is imitated (or remade) many times, but never as cleverly. It is not simple samurai action piece, but it actually explores much philosophical themes. Toshiro Mifune is a samurai who travels around the country until he reaches into town that is ruled by two rival families. The samurai sees the situation as an easy way to make some money, as he pours more fuel into the fire with doing small deeds to both families. Although we learn that the samurai is not only greedy swordsman, but his real motivations can be interpreted many ways by the end of the film. 'Yojimbo' might not be Kurosawa's best (I guess it can be debated) or deepest, but it's definitely his most entertaining ones.


                
Considering Kurosawa's incredible filmography, the fact that Yojimbo is generally considered as one of his best is an incredible compliment, and that opinion is very well justified. It is both an extremely entertaining battle of wits with great swordsplay sequences and fantastic dialogue and it also has some moral ambiguity.Ofcourse Toshiro Mifune steals the show once again in a Kurosawa film with his 'cool' charismatic attitude and his indifference to violence, yet also being an individual of some morals even though he seems to only care about gold at the start of the film. However, due to a certain selfless act in the later part of the movie where he saves a certain person it proves he is indeed an individual of some moral value. He is Sanjuro, which is an alias he gives, but nevertheless he is a ronin ( masterless samurai ) who wanders into a town divided by two rival gangs, so he decides to play them against eachother in order to make some gold in the progress since he seems to be penniless when he can't pay for his food at the restaurant. The movie combines Japan's three greatest actors together in one film with Toshiro, Tatsuya Nakadai & Takashi Shimura. After Nakadai's breakthrough in the first two parts of the incredible 'The Human Condition' trilogy in which he plays an idealistic good guy, he decided to play the villain in Yojimbo and in this shows his incredible range as an actor. Always keeping the evil fiendish smile on his face, his screen presence after Mifune has to be one of the strongest in cinematic history. Unfortunately Shimura ( Who had his greatest role in Ikiru (1952) ) has a relatively smart role, but still a crucial one to the plot.As usual Kurosawa uses his trademark tools movement and weather extremely well this film. It uses a lot of widescreen shots and excellent camera angles in which you never seem to miss a thing, they are always set up just right. Combined with the beautiful black and white cinematography there are some of cinema's greatest and most beautiful shots in this movie, especially during the epic final standoff which is one of the greatest scene's ever made. As stated before, Kurosawa also made use of weather once again to create the film's mood. It starts off bright and sunny, and as the violence escalates it starts raining, when finally in the climax there is a very hard wind blowing loads of epic looking dust on the screen. Kurosawa was a master of making loads of things happen in one single shot, and it is also the case here. A lot of shots have interesting things happen in the background, foreground and anywhere else in between. This movie created a couple of remakes such as A Fistful of Dollars (1964) by Sergio Leone which, while being a great film, still does not quite live up to the quality of Yojimbo and Last Man Standing (1996) by Walter Hill, which is a very poor film. It goes to show how influential this movie also is to western directors since Kurosawa is also known for combining Japanese and western elements into his films, and you can see a bit of John Ford-like camera work in Yojimbo.Everything summed up this means Yojimbo is an incredibly vibrant, clever, in many cases beautiful motion picture created by the master Kurosawa himself.


                
Nobody ever talks about Kurosawa's sense of humor, it seems.  But there are scenes in this ironic samurai romp that would do Mel Brooks proud--chief among them the brilliant sequence where the two factions TRY to fight each other in the streets but keep retreating from one another out of cowardice."Yojimbo" is, in fact, a pretty well-disguised satire that's not usually discussed as such.  Though not as cynical as Leone's remake, "A Fistful of Dollars," "Yojimbo" is still a jaded reimagining of the samurai as an irreverant, self-interested mercenary.  The war between the silk and sake factions of the small town is in essence a pathetic comedy of errors, and Sanjuro's systematic annihilation of both sides, though probably largely deserved, is a sort of exaggerated, bloody prank.Of course, Kurosawa's patient, steady-as-a-rock direction helps to create an air of serious drama for the film, which serves to make the satire even more sophisticated.A special film to say the least--"Yojimbo" is fun to watch on pretty much every level.


                
This movie was really cool!! The samurai's idea of getting rid of the gamblers were excellent!! The story was very manly and also exciting. I liked the intersection of the samurai and the gamblers and fighting in the sand storm. I also liked the main character, nameless samurai.  He acts tough but inside, he fights for the justice and not greedy. If it was one of "Independence Movie" stuff, it would be laughable bnut Mifune plays it very realistically. After this movie, there are many heroic characters modeled after him, Han Solo, Indiana Jones, etc, but no one is more realistic and better than the original.


                
