As a long time fan of Glover from Community, his stand up comedy, and even to his rapping (Childish Gambino), I was of course excited to see this show.As a pale white guy from Ohio, I still found the show to be very enjoyable and with the way they did the first episode, it has a monumental chance to be successful. Darius cracks me up with how he thinks, he's exactly the type of quirky person you need in this type of show (assuming I know how it's going to continue), but he is basically the Daryl of Walking Dead. Everyone will love him and if he ever dies the show may go downhill without him.Since I've been a fan of Donald since Community I may be a tiny bit biased, but he yet again seems to be a superb actor and I already felt connected to him and wanting him to 'win'.It's no surprise Donald will turn this into an amazing series because he is a great actor and writer.Just please don't kill Darius. How will we ever have rat phones if he dies?


                
This show is extremely funny but not for everyone. It doesn't just tackle hip hop culture it also makes fun of many modern day sociopolitical issues. I would recommend for people who are open minded.


                
Atlanta, created and written by the multi-talented Donald Glover presents an intriguing, dynamic chemistry between an enigmatic Earn Marks (Donald Glover) and the stern, hostile, hood-driven city of Atlanta. A college drop out, Earn Marks seems to be living life at the bottom of a pit; a broke father, estranged by his parents and engaged with an absurd relationship with a girlfriend who mothers his daughter (unclear) - everything seems bleak. However, when news breaks out that his cousin Alfred 'Paper Boi' Miles (Brian Tyree Henry) is now the new hot rapper on the block, Earn drops everything he is doing to pursue the job of being Paper Boi's manager. Even after having watched 3 episodes of the TV show, I still find it tough to pinpoint exactly what genre this absurdly riveting series falls under. While it pushes towards the drama section, the show is ridden with comedic bits. From the cinematography, to the acting, to the script, so far I have nothing but praise for Atlanta. Moreover, I cannot understate the rounded quality of the characters, to which I cannot end this short review of Atlanta without mentioning Darius (Keith Stanfield). The eccentric nature of Darius is precisely exemplified by the first meeting between Earn and Darius in Episode One (The Big Bang): Darius holding a plate of cookies, wearing a cooking robe and a bandanna, with a knife ready to attack in case of an intruder. Even though he is consistently under the influence of cannabis, from time to time, Darius exudes of intellectual and spiritual wisdom. As in Episode Two (Streets on Lock) when speaking about the violent altercation of the previous night, Darius explains "As humans we are always close to destruction, life is (selfish) but a series of close calls<U+0085> I mean how would you know if you were alive, unless you are willing to die."The TV Show Atlanta is an avant-garde in the African-American film industry and seems to be following the same footsteps of top quality shows like Power and How to Get Away With Murder. Donald Glover has created a grabbing story which only begs for more.


                
There is a lot about this program that I shouldn't relate to. I don't live in America, I'm not black, I'm gaining a few years on the cast. But through impeccable writing, casting and acting Atlanta draws me in to a world that finds a strange yet utterly compelling way to tell a story. The comedy and tragedy mix as happens in real life. The often brutal reality of being young and black and poor in America fuses seamlessly with more existential themes of growth (personal and professional), family, race, power dynamics, legacy and much more. This work is beautiful in both a comedic and dramatic sense.


                
It's been a long time since a show has been able to suck me in with the pilot. The last show that was able to do that was Monk. Usually when I see a pilot I'm thinking, "That was okay I guess. But I don't care what happens with them to keep watching." It was very different with Atlanta. I wanted to see what happened with Earn and Paperboy. I want to keep seeing every week what happens with them. It also feels very real. Although there's a lot of humor involved and some things are exaggerated, I feel as if this material was created by someone who experienced these situations first hand. When it comes to showing the Black community on Television it usually feels fake and based on stereotypes. This doesn't feel like that at all. That's what I love the most. If you're not watching this you should be. It's funny, the acting is realistic and believable, the writing is great. It's hands down one of the best shows on television.


                
This show is quite simply fantastic and unapologetically relevant 'Atlanta' showcases the brilliance of Glover and his creative team whom deserve every accolade they get as they delve into the lives of not only industry workers and creatives but of minirities in the contemporary setting of modern America. Feeling accessible at every stage and with plenty to offer the relaxed, laidback tone of the show is amazing I highly recommend


                
I absolutely love this show. It is definitely one of the most profound, thought-provoking television series of modern time. The way that Donald Glover creates social commentary through humorous situations is reminiscent of The Boondocks' style of comedy. While I personally find this series to be phenomenal, it is an acquired taste. If you enjoy social commentary and keep an open mind, then Atlanta will definitely be the show for you.The story of Atlanta is that it is a surreal television show focused around sociopolitical issues and the lives of Earn, Alfred, Darius and Vanessa as Alfred and Earn struggle to become successful in the Atlanta rap scene. Each episode is connected through the plot line of Paperboi's rap career and how it affects the other character, but they all focus on different elements of the society that the characters inhabit.The messages that this show portrays through conflict are astounding. There are multiple conflicts that occur between characters throughout the show, and the majority of these conflicts are indicative of how violence affects the Black community. Earn is depicted to have an internal struggle as he strives to provide for his family and rectify his shortcomings. This often results in Earn having to make difficult decisions such as living inside of a storage facility and pawning his iPhone for a meager price. There are also a variety of societal conflicts depicted in this series. Everything from transphobia to racism to classism is touched upon in this show.In general, Atlanta serves as a commentary on the Black experience in modern America. Each episode deals with these characters coping in a society that places them at a disadvantage, yet expects success from them regardless of their status.


                
I am not sure if I had put in a review for the first season of the show which I why I feel necessary to start off with the fact it was absolutely brilliant and I considered a 9 out of 10 and re-binged just when season 2 started off.I would like to keep my review of Atlanta S2 very much like the season itself: short and to the point. It is crisp with humor and subtle parodic representation of the world and somehow manages to squeeze great moments like 'Alligator Man', 'Money Bag Shawty', 'Barbershop' (It was ridiculous and almost made snap and laugh simulataneously), 'Teddy Perkins' and 'FUBU'( Special episdoe of sorts where the general storytelling is shifted differently; Like it was for 'B.A.N' back in season 1). And as the season ended with 'Crabs in A Barrel', we got throwback references and a look at how far The paerboi crew have come and reaffirm their loyalties (which means stuff gon be alright for S3, at least as much as it can be in the Glover Brother & co. direction of the narrative ;p).
I really liked Hiro Murai's direction in the season, all more buoyed by the 'This Is America' official vidoe by Don Glove (Sounds like One Piece manga character; I can only hope someone drops into Eiichiro Oda's ears) which so much fun and felt like it was cut out of some Atlanta dream clip scene for Earn himself. The main cast is very good, spotlight on Zazie Beetz for landing Domino in Deadpool 2 and nailing the humor in it and Brian Tyree Henry who is actually a soulful siinger who attended Yale Drama School and sang 'We Can Always Come Back To This' in the tear-jerking TV show This Is Us. Darius is Darius is Darius (I know the actor has a name, is a succesful rapper but Darius, ya know). I would like to end with kudos to the writers for portraying so many social commentaries in an enjoyable and tactful manner and I look forward to the next season from your pens to our screens.


                
