Brits. You gotta love them. They got the best bands AND the best comedians. "The Office" is probably the best thing in comedy since Monty Python. This show is almost perfect. It's got an original concept, the writing is brilliant, and so is the acting. A group of people completely unknown outside of the U.K. has definitely made a mark in the history of television with this so-called "mockumentary".A program like this was really what we needed, but hadn't dared to hope for anymore. In a time when it seemed like T.V. would forever be ruled by sitcoms with canned laughter played over the same old jokes (let's face it, even "Coupling" was little more than an edgier version of "Friends"), Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant came along with their accurate observation of everyday life in an office as we all know it. What they did was take "This Is Spinal Tap!" and put it in the context of an everyday working place. In lesser hands, this idea could easily have turned boring all too quickly, because what we are being shown is basically just reality. It could also have gone the other way with stupid and forced jokes thrown in to keep the viewer interested. Gervais and Merchant, however, managed to pull it off just the way it needed to be done. "The Office" is tragic, funny, sad and moving all at the same time. This show is so popular, because people all around the world can identify with it. You feel for these characters. Tim, Dawn, Gareth and Brent (especially Gareth and Brent!) are far from being perfect people, but it's because of their little flaws and personality problems that we care for them. We know colleagues like them, we know those grey days at work. And like this crew a lot of us have big dreams that are moving further and further away as we're stuck in dead end jobs getting older. "The Office" doesn't comfort us, it doesn't tell us that there'll be a happy ending, but it tells us that we're not alone with our situations. The fact, that we know most of those truly horrible scenes from our own lives makes us laugh. Sometimes the laughs are bitter, but they're always cathartic.SEASON 1 is flawless. Hands down the best first series in a comedy show ever. We get to know Gareth, the annoying colleague who has no life whatsoever and makes up for that by taking himself way too seriously. We meet Dawn and Tim who are fighting their desperation and dissatisfaction by playing pranks on Gareth. The two are secretly attracted to each other with Dawn's boyfriend Lee standing the way. Most importantly, we are introduced to David Brent, the boss who somehow manages to always say the wrong things and embarrass himself and everyone around him all the time. The humour comes mainly from facial expressions, nonsense philosophies (Brent & Gareth), sarcastic comments (Tim) and incredibly awkward situations. Lots of times you'll cringe and the situation gets so uncomfortable you'll cover your eyes with your hands so you don't have to see anymore of it. It's a delightful torture.SEASON 2 is still very good, but Gervais and Merchant fall into the joke-trap too often. In season 1 they successfully avoided any jokes with punchlines or gags that seemed scripted. It was more or less a chain of uncomfortable events and funny interviews. In season 2 we already know the characters and the concept a bit too well. People expect a certain behaviour from the respective characters and Gervais and Merchant are feeding those expectations a little too often. Side character Keith gets a bigger part in these 6 episodes and sadly his wackiness is a bit overdone, too, so that sometimes you get the feeling that whole thing is getting a bit worn out by now. What I really thought was unrealistic was that everybody hated David so much. After all, he is a funny guy and if you don't laugh with him you'd be laughing about him trying so hard to be funny. People just giving him bewildered looks became a bit annoying at some point. However, the writing was still fine, especially considering how little time the makers had and under what kind of pressure they had to come up with new stuff. The final Christmas SPECIALS are a tearjerker. After the genuinely tragic ending of season 2, you hope so much that all will turn out well in the end. Let me just tell you this much: when the credits roll you'll be moved to tears. This just shows how well Gervais and Merchant have built their characters.The way this show found a balance between comedy and drama, the ideas and observations that were put into it and the glorious performances are simply adorable and unmatched to this day. Thankfully, Gervais and Merchant knew when to stop and said that the Christmas SPECIALS were going to be the definite end of "The Office". As with any good show that's sad for the viewer, but it was the right thing to do as there was really nowhere else to go with the story and the concept. Remakes have already been made ("The Office" 2005 - USA, "Stromberg" Germany), but those will always just be a poor man's rehash of the original."The Office" made me believe that even in days when Will Ferrell saying "San Diego means a whale's vagina" is considered the ultimate revelation in comedy, there are still people who will come up with clever and original ideas.


                
I hold everything I watch to a very high standard and in general I can't watch the vast majority of what is put on TV - 24, Lost, Gray's Anatomy, Heroes, essentially anything you can think of that people seem to go crazy for... and the reason is simple: they aren't driven by the writing.And to those who are already upset and ready to describe the genius of the plot of X TV show or one I named above, consider that none of those shows are driven by the characters, by pureness of emotion created, by novelty of the plot, it can all be reduced to a few things: 1) Love triangles, quadrilaterals, pentagons, etc. 2) Action (doesn't take a PhD to blow something, put a child in harm's way, etc.) 3) THE BIGGEST ONE - leaving you hanging (which makes the viewer, in between episodes, feel like they just can't stand to not be watching this show, but really, you could tell one of the worst stories ever and stop just short of an important climax and people will naturally be interested - but why not ask for more)And in general, what I like to think of as the plot skeleton (the core conflict or plot outline) in these shows is tried and cliché in all of these shows. There's nothing new.The US version of the Office is just plain unbelievable. The characters are not real people. It's very funny SOMETIMES and I do watch it (which makes it like 1 of maybe 5 shows in the last several years), but Michael Scott could never exist in real life, and he's the only decent actor in the show. Jim and Pam don't have the incredible subtle, Victorian, romance that Tim and Dawn had. Martin Freeman is also 10x more the legitimate actor, and Dawn was significantly better than Pam - Jenna Fischer just doesn't have much of an emotional range. Dwight is just always high strung - Garreth had depth and incredible subtlety and a range of moods. Stanley's humor was meant for 9 year olds. Keith was infinitely better at deadpan and numb-skull humor. Angela, Meredith, Oscar, Creed - all 1 dimensional. Ryan's not awful.AND THEN THERE WAS THE OFFICE (BBC)...Incredible realism. Incredible and subtle use of the documentary genre. A barrage of original, subtle, diverse jokes. No laugh track (which many people notice, but it's more than that - it's that the show doesn't hit high hat cymbals to cue you to laugh too, it creates genuinely funny and awkward moments). The actors are outstanding too - such an incredible repertoire each of them has of emotional capacity (even, and in fact ESPECIALLY, Garreth, whose US counterpart Dwight can't come close to the pathos and sadness Garreth can evince - or really even realism, Dwight is just always high-strung and not a real human character).I've seen lots of movies. More than anyone I know. I'm a pretty smart guy (at least on paper). Movies are my favorite thing in the world. If I put this series as a whole into my list of top movies of all time, and ignored the differences of the media, it would make the top 5. My life is better because I've seen The Office (BBC). Just don't watch season 1 and 2 and forget about the Christmas special, like I did for a year. But I do think if you give yourself at least a week after watching 1 and 2 before watching the special, you can better "simulate" the time lapse that is meant to exist before the fictional creation of the documentary.Do yourself a favor.


                
Set in the bleak, awfully-named industrial town of Slough and the fictional office of the Wernam-Hogg paper merchants, a BBC film crew documents the expressionless workers, ringing phones, copiers churning out clone after clone after clone, pointless meetings and pointless bureaucracy that exist within typical, uninspiring companies.Sadly, the majority of people in Britain work in dull, dead-end office jobs with lives that go nowhere and even the most meager of ambitions going unrealized. Maybe if they had a boss like David Brent their day would be livened up. Not because he's the 'boss/entertainer' he thinks he is, but for the morbid curiosity of watching a desperate, delusional and detestable man slowly crash and burn.The majority of laughs in The Office come from awkward and embarrassing situations. Brent constantly forces his bullheaded and bawdy humor on unwitting staff. At first they appear scared of his ruthlessly imposing presence but towards the end they all ignore him completely. But he never realizes this and resorts to even more tasteless ways of getting attention. He loves the camera and rather than acting 'normal' for the purposes of the mockumentary he exaggerates his beastly character to the point of being sickening. He gets what he deserves in the end and by this point the audience has lost all sympathy for him.His brutalized and beleaguered staff struggle to get on with their work as Brent's tyranny escalates. Among them we have Tim, an increasingly unhappy man who wishes to escape the monotony and drudgery 'ordinary life' brings him. He's long had the confidence crushed out of him but still has more humanity than anyone else.Gareth is Tim's worst enemy. A dorky, 95 pound weakling who boasts of being in the (territorial) Army and is keen to assume more and more power from Brent's failing management. Like Brent, he has no clue about social interaction and behaves strangely among potential friends.
Dawn is the receptionist. She is engaged to a controlling, unloving boyfriend who insists she spend her life doing dull work despite the fact that she has higher and happier dreams. She has feelings for Tim, and they are more than mutual. But fear of change and happiness stops her from falling for him.As soon as once branch of Wernam-Hogg incorporates the other it becomes clear how useless Brent is. The new staff are amazed at how such a horrid man has been employed at all, never mind become a boss. Complaints and unfinished work rise and the upper management are forced to take action. Sadly, Brent just won't learn.In the end, his staff have the slightest chance at happiness and escape. Brent however doesn't learn from his mistakes and will probably go on to have an endlessly miserable life.If you work in an office, get out! Among the blackest of humor there is a message; office life is fit for no human being. And Ricky Gervais' dark comedy is filled with thousands of examples of why this is so. It's absolutely classic stuff that is far ahead of dozens of canned laughter sitcoms.


                
I rented the first season almost at random--I'd only barely heard of the show--and I'm so, so glad I did.  Within the first ten seconds Ricky Gervais had me quietly snickering; within twenty I was laughing out loud; eventually a few tears welled up and my stomach began to hurt.  And I didn't quit laughing until the show was over.  Gervais is possessed of the very rare talent of being funny on several different fronts, simultaneiously; he's like a comedic juggler: he's a teller of conspicuously (but not too conspicuously) bad, often tasteless, jokes; he's a backstabbing hypocrite of Tartuffian quality; and for those who have worked in offices and have had bad (or even mediocre) bosses, he is like a balm for the lost dignity office workers experience through petty politicking.  (So the show is rather cathartic.)  That little look Gervais gives the camera at times (which seems to state, "You didn't see that, did you?") is precious.  I have to be careful to not oversell this show, but right now I would say that, as a character, David Brent (Gervais) is right up there with Reginald Perrin and Basil Fawlty, and that is sacred territory in my book.  But while writer-actor Gervais is the brightest spot in the show, the other cast members, namely Tim Freeman, Mackenzie Cook (who some will recognize as the eye-popping pirate in PIRATES OF THE CARRIBEAN), and Lucy Davis, are great too.  This show, I predict, will go down as one of the great TV comedies, up there with with FAWLTY TOWERS and SEINFELD but perhaps just below MONTY PYTHON and SCTV (at their best).  A word of warning: if you don't like (i.e., don't understand) irony, this may not be the show for you; stick with Jim Carrey and Martin Lawrence.  (Nothing against those actors; THE OFFICE, though laugh-out-loud funny, seldom hits one over the head with its comedy.) I only hope the second season approaches the quality of the first.


                
A paper selling firm is undergoing a takeover and retrenchment. 'The office' is a mocumentary about employees in that office. Ricky Gervaisand Stephen Merchant must be geniuses to write something of this sort. This series is path breaking in many ways. Narration, sets, characters, treatment. People actually look into the camera while acting. I have worked for 7 years in the worst and the best conditions which includes a gujju company in Mumbai and university in Boston. I can identify with all the characters in this film. This is again one of those films where all the characters are stretched to their maximum. A boss(David Brent) who cracks idiotic jokes to get some claps, a team leader(Gareth) who thinks he has power and uses it to its fullest, another worker(Tim) who has no idea why he is working in a paper selling organization, a receptionist (Dawn) who is acquainted to a selected few because she is not in the team.Its a black comedy. In the middle of the scene the actor would give an interview which gives away his character and position on a certain issue i.e when Dawn assists David on his motivational talk, in her interview, she talks about a girl from her school who used to eat 'chalk' but now is very successful. Tim decides to put his resignation in the middle of employer-employee meeting. Keith represents how boring a working man's life is. He talks about sitcoms he has not watched on top of it he says "Bloody repeat" :>. And of course there is David Brents 'charity' dance. Ricky Gervais walks away with the glory. He portrays the character of David Brent beautifully. This is a definite must see for all. watch it don't miss it. 10 on 10.


                
I gave it a 10 only because 20 wasn't an option. The 21st century has a real challenge if there's to be another show that comes along that can top the the brilliance of "The Office". Such a breath of fresh air in television. Actually, I came across the BBC's "The Office by mistake. I had rented it from Blockbuster video, thinking it was the US version. I started watching it thinking "Who in the world is that irritating little man?". Then I proceeded to watch the entire first season that night. Could hardly wait for the second series to come in. But that was 2 weeks ago and I've since bought the complete series. I'll be watching it over and over for awhile, I do suspect. Made me cry like a baby at the end. That's never happened in my life. Just simply Brilliant.


                
As an American and existing fan of the US version of The Office, I went into this series with low expectations. I was anticipating being disappointed with other actors playing in the roles I already loved so much. After viewing the first episode, I was not very impressed. The same exact script had been used for the first episode of the US version, so it was exactly what I was expecting from the show - a retro-rehash. However, I was curious as to whether or not the rest of the series used the same scripts, and that's literally the only reason I watched the second episode. I'm glad I did. I was drawn in enough to watch the third episode, and more so after the fourth. By the end of the first season, I absolutely loved the show. It's important to recognize that the US and UK versions of the show are different to the point where it makes no sense to compare them beyond the first episode. The US version has some brilliant characters and is a great show in its own right, but it is at heart an episodic comedy. The UK version is a tightly-knit drama with comedic elements, and both seasons of the show have very specific stories to tell. Where the US version is relatively stagnant in terms of ongoing stories, the UK version sticks closely to a narrative. The first season is about David's attempt to save his branch and the second is David's descent from a self-proclaimed clown to a pitiable but detestable worm. This overarching plot is intertwined with Tim's love story, and both come to tragic endings - Tim's for clear reasons, and David's for a more complicated one. While it's easy to be disgusted by David, it's also difficult to hate him entirely. The complexity of the character is the true triumph of the show, as none of the people we see on-screen are entirely likable - and yet we forgive them, just as we forgive the people we care about in our real lives.
The Office lasted only 14 episodes (two six-episode seasons, plus the superb Christmas specials), but as in the case of The Simpsons, Friends, Frasier and other great sitcoms, every single one of those 14 is worth watching over and over again. Why? Because The Office happens to be one of the greatest television products ever made, not to mention Britain's finest TV series after Monty Python's Flying Circus and Doctor Who.This poignant mockumentary is set in Slough, UK, where a BBC documentary crew films the everyday events that take place at Wernham Hogg, a paper company. The office in question is run by regional manager David Brent (Ricky Gervais), who thinks he is a brilliant boss, friend and entertainer; his employees, on the other hand, see him for what he really is: an over-pathetic idiot (episodes 1.4, 2.4 and 2.5 are the best proof of that) who spends his time telling bad jokes, involuntarily insulting his colleagues and drinking Lager with his mate "Finchy" (Ralph Ineson), equally stupid. When rumors start spreading about possible downsizing, he assures everyone he has things under control, which of course he doesn't, but he' so full of crap he ends up believing his own lies.The show's success is largely linked to great writing: intelligent subplots and realistic, likable characters such as Tim (Martin Freeman) and Dawn (Lucy Davis), whose "will they/won't they" romance keeps the series fresh and interesting. Even the obnoxious Gareth Keenan (MacKenzie Crook) attracts a lot of sympathy because of how Crook plays him, i.e. as a real person, not a caricature (the casting of actors who weren't famous before the show aired helped a lot). The "fake documentary" approach is another winning strategy, as it adds to the real-life feeling. Plus, it allows the writers to make some metatelevision jokes in the Christmas Specials, based on the fact that what the fictional BBC crew films is actually what we, the real audience, see. Ultimately, though, the show's apeeal is summed up in two words: Ricky Gervais. That guy is a genius! Now, his character may be the kind of person you'd never want to meet throughout your entire life, not even if you're drunk, but as long as he stays within the walls of The Office, David Brent will always remain a top class comedy creation.


                
This is the coolest show of all time, this kicks the American versions ass. With all its sex jokes and very likable characters. for example, David Brent, the most annoying, obnoxious, thinks hes cool and funny and cute, boss of all time, Gareth Keenan,my personal favorite, the geekiest most gullible employee of all time etc. basically this show revolves around the rocky relationship between dawn,the secretary, and that cool guy(i forgot his name). A comedy show which makes us laugh so hard at a particular character one almost always feels embarrassed for him... that's how awkward his persona is. Both seasons and of course the special/grand finale are masterfully constructed and couldn't be any better as far as I'm concerned.


                
An extremely rare example of a television series which not only got better with every consecutive episode, but which ended gracefully, confidently, and with a rare sort of emotional poignancy. "The Office", quite remarkably, escapes just about every single one of the many pitfalls which await your average television series, comedy or otherwise, even in the UK where TV writers are allowed to make short yet complete television seasons in sharp contrast with the American tendency for extremely drawn-out and frustrating television series.In fact, I can only give "The Office" the highest of praise, which I never thought I'd say about any other television series: it is, in terms of consistency and in terms of how gracefully and completely it ended, on par with David Simon's legendary "The Wire". That is how good this is. I first saw "The Office" in 2002, the first series of it, and found it entertaining. I think I was a little too young to fully appreciate it however, as on this second viewing of the first series (and first viewing of the second series and the specials), I found it to be an immensely rewarding experience and ultimately a far superior one to Gervais and Merchant's next project "Extras".While I found "Extras" to be flawless in its second series, the first series depends quite frequently on rather lame situational humor, and the closing special, which I found to be perfect on first viewing, is extraordinarily clunky and over-written (and over-directed) in places, though I will still defend the Big Brother speech to the death. "The Office", though none of the characters are as likable to me as Maggie on "Extras", is a far more perfect and complete achievement. The character arcs are works of understated brilliance. David Brent is one of the most extraordinarily well-written television characters ever, and one of the best-acted as well. Seriously, how good is Gervais here? Gervais and Merchant's cringe-inducing humor is a matter of taste and in all honesty there's a lot of stuff I should have been laughing at which I just smiled at. It's not that I don't find "The Office" funny, I definitely do, it just struck me as so much more than just comedy. The first few episodes I laughed uproariously during, but during the second series, though the jokes are just as good, I found myself honestly more interested in the character arcs and the story being told than the jokes. Some would consider this a bad thing. I consider it transcendent comedic and dramatic writing. Not only does the writing, from the first episode through to the end of the second series, remain remarkably consistent and, more importantly, consistently constructive in its subtle buildup to the dramatics of the latter two episodes of the second series and the two-parter special, but the acting is simply flawless. Martin Freeman, Mackenzie Crook, and Lucy Davis have extraordinary chemistry and impeccable comic timing and Gervais simply becomes David Brent.In the end "The Office" needed a great final episode to wrap things up, to put everything to rest. Unlike "Extras" there is no strain for the dramatics, no desire to resort to sappy dramatics. The special is perfectly summed up by something Tim said near the end of it: "Life isn't about endings, is it? It's just a series of moments." Perhaps the ultimate triumph for the finale special of "The Office" is that it is just another episode of "The Office", one which allows us to get a sort of open-ended closure to things, and one which is perhaps more notably well-written than what came before, but nevertheless just another collection of moments in these people's lives.Dave Eggers eat your heart out. THIS is a staggering work of heartbreaking genius for you.


                
This is my favourite series ever, especially because I love pathetic characters and "tragicomical" situations, and The Office is full of them.David Brent, the boss (played by Ricky Gervais, who also writes and directs the show) is just unbelievable. He is completely convinced he's smart, wise, entertaining, interesting, efficient, seductive, self-confident, creative, talented (even as a musician) and a great boss, loved by his subordinates and well evaluated by his bosses... but he is exactly the opposite, item by item.It's made in a "fake documentary" style, I mean, the fictional characters know they are constantly being recorded by a BBC crew, which makes everything even more pathetic, uncomfortable for them and funny for us.I've loved several TV series, but I never organize myself to watch them chapter by chapter. The Office and South Park are the only 2 series I've been able to do it, because I really enjoy every chapter, no matter how many times I see it.Other TV series I like: South Park, American Dad, Family Guy, The Simpsons, Sin Cities (TV series, not the film Sin City), Seinfeld, Sugar Rush.
This is quite simply the funniest show going for its unbelievable ability to make you laugh and cringe at the same time. If you liked Alan Partridge, you'll love this.Folowing the lives of hapless boss, David Brent and his co-workers, we are shown the petty, egotistical and pitiful nature of human life. Brent has absolutely no social skills but is convinced of his own popularity (or at the very least he's convinced he deserves it). Each character, the pathetic Gareth, the horrible Finchy and the fantastically 'nice' Dawn and Tim, as well as the brilliantly observed Brent, is wonderfully drawn and uncomfortably close to reality, despite, of course, some parody.Some reviewers have said it is not funny, but, not to put too fine a point on it, they are wrong! I was sceptical before my dad made me sit down and watch an episode, but I was laughing after thirty seconds upon hearing Gareth ask that important question: 'Will there ever be a boy born who can swim faster than a shark?' That really is good.As with the Alan Partridge series' and most stuff Chris Morris has done ('The Day Today', 'Brass Eye'), my friends and I have not stopped texting one another choice quotes from 'The Office'. It is no coincidence that my favourite film is 'This is Spinal Tap' and my favourite TV show is 'The Office'. I like slow, intelligent comedy that rewards you with wonderfully observant scripting accompanied by flawless acting performances.This is just brilliant.


                
Seriously, this is the funniest show I have ever seen. This is a documentary about a paper merchant, Wernham Hogg and all the people who work in the Office. There's the boss David Brent (Ricky Gervais - beautifully done - no one could ever outdo him. His comedic timing is just genius), Tim (likes Dawn. He wants to go to university but he's sort of stuck in a rut), Gareth (used to be in the Territorial Army) and Dawn (likes Tim but unfortunately has a fiancé, Lee). These are the main characters, however in series two more character are introduced but they aren't as major as these ones. Anyway.David Brent was based on a character made up by Ricky Gervais called "seedy boss". Brent is exactly that. He wanted to create a "laid back" environment by "having a laugh". He thinks he is the most hilarious man in the world and always cracks stupid, unfunny and sometimes racist jokes. The beauty of this is that of the awkward silence afterwards (the awkward silence seems to go wherever he goes). Not only is this painful, but is it hilariously funny to see this man humiliate himself so. Despite his seediness, the creators (Ricky Gervais and Stephan Merchant <U+0096> both the writers of the film) don't think anyone should hate Brent <U+0096> simply feel sorry for him (the only person you can really hate is Finchy <U+0096> total idiot). You feel especially sorry for Dawn, Tim and many other colleagues who have to put up with Brent's antics. He doesn't do any work at all, instead goes 'round the office annoying people, but he's just trying to 'have a laugh' and be 'a motivator'. Brent does generally mean well. He just wants to make to make people smile, laugh and feel loved.My family and I have adopted the little sayings/lines/gestures he has ('you've charmed me', 'Bunsen burner, nice little earner', 'trust people and they will true to you, treat them greatly and they will prove themselves to be great etc). In conclusion, "The Office" is my favorite comedy series of all time. It's clever, witty, and represents all the seedy bosses we've all had in our time. It reflects the office situation in reality. The Office <U+0096> bloody hilarious. It's charmed me.


                
I started watching The Office at the start of the second season three weeks ago, but already I'm scraping all my money together to buy the DVD of season one. It is magnificent, you want to stop watching out of embarrassment, yet you cannot avert your eyes.In Belgium, we had a comedy clip show called In De Gloria, where all the clips where short fake documentaries about everyday people doing or experiencing something more or less special. I felt the same with IDG as I will with The Office, I think. The first time I watched it (IDG) I rolled over the floor, but I run away every time my brother puts on a tape with recorded episodes of it. It's just too real, the pain the characters feel, their recognition that their choices were bad, but at the same time denying it to the bone, unwilling to cry to the lens and call for help. When you watch The Office, you feel the will to live shrinking fast inside you. There's no hope for humanity, we will evolve no further.I'm still a student without any real office experience, but this experience is real enough for me.Watching is still strongly recommended.


                
The world once again owes the UK a debt of thanks...not only have they produced the funniest and most original shows around, but consistently up the bar when it comes to comedy. If you have not witnessed the original Office, please do yourself a favour and watch it. If you like subtle cringe worthy jokes, and well crafted dialogue...you'll die laughing. In my mind Ricky Gervais is leading a strong resurgence of smart comedy, not relying on the easy dick and fart jokes. Witness 'the dance', a posh pair of boots, and a motivational speech that will leave you in tears. Also, check out Ricky's podcast on iTunes, as it is one of the funniest things I have ever heard...you'll will hear the shaved monkey that is Karl Pilkington on topics ranging from; toe-heads, jellyfish,freaks, how older people don't eat Twix, and monkey news. Do yourself a favour, listen, watch and laugh.


                
THE OFFICE (2001) spoiler alert((( The English TV - series comedy The Office is no huge budget series, its small, ironic and charming piece of comedy is simply brilliant. The episodes is sort of filmed in a way that it seems like just a ordinary man has taken a camera, walked into an office-building in England and started shooting his own series, cause actors look in camera and there are interviews, this makes a sort of another type of comedy too. The story changes from episode to episode, but off course the main plot is often how dumb and weird the stab is, or, well, especially the chief, David Brent who's acted genially by a not too well-known English actor. It is really hilarious to watch this program I tell you that, highly recommend it! Although it is so peculair, and so weird in the same time that probably many doesn't find it amusing or funny at all! STARS: ***** 5/5
This really is fantastic - subtle humour that may not appeal to those who don't understand it, but really sticks in your mind.  Anyone who watches it will be able to quote from it, anyone who watches TV in England can tell you in detail about the award winning episode 5 series 2 - look forward to it Americans!  I've heard people call this repetitive.  Don't you get it - this is the humour - you get to know the employees so well, that even a small comment you can relate to them.  This is the beginning of British Comedy - I haven't seen anything like this since Open All Hours.  David Brent and Stephen Mercheant are geniuses - even subtle lines such as 'don't worry I haven't got any balls'!One for everyone - there's workplace humour, rude jokes, stupid dances, emotional storylines (well almost) and you really get to know the characters.  Congratulations to anyone who has seen this!


                
THE OFFICE is one of my all-time great comedy TV shows and up there with the classic likes of FAWLTY TOWERS and MONTY PYTHON. I recently rewatched the lot - series 1 & 2 and the Christmas specials - and am pleased to report it holds up now better than ever. Even more so perhaps, given that Ricky Gervais's subsequent TV offerings - EXTRAS and LIFE'S TOO SHORT - have come across as diluted variants of this show.What makes THE OFFICE so successful? It has to be the documentary format, which makes the characters on screen feel real like never before. Anybody who's ever worked in an office will know how true-to-life the whole thing is, and the camaraderie between the main characters is what keeps this humming along. Watching the misadventures of Tim, Dawn, Gareth and Keith is just a delight. Yes, there's too much of an emphasis on lowbrow humour, but it's the character tics that make this work.Of course, Ricky Gervais's David Brent is the man who lords over it all, and he plays a surprisingly complex character. Given that his off-colour humour, desperation to be liked, and frequently humiliating situations all point towards somebody you should hate, Brent turns out to be Gervais's most likable creation ever. It says something that THE OFFICE is the only thing I truly like the comedian in. In any case, THE OFFICE is brilliant stuff and every episode is a zinger; it truly is untouchable.


                
Funny ! Sad ! Heart-warming ! Cringe worthy ! for me The Office is yet to be beaten, it's the greatest comedy series iv ever seen ! Ricky Gervais has grown to annoy me in most recent years but his eye for comedy can never be questioned. The casting is PERFECT! and their performances are exceptional, I could watch this comedy over and over and over ........ and I do ! I hope there are no more episodes of the UK office made so that it can forever be as good as it is ! Ricky Gervais has attempted to make a number of short follow up clips but for me they are no longer the David Brent we all know and love from the original two series....... the Christmas special completes the story perfectly.


                
I watched the entire series of The Office and the Christmas special exactly nine years ago, the same year I joined the corporate world. My timing could not have been better because already one year in, I had already become familiar - and annoyed - with the politics of the corporation and its more offensive personalities. Sooner or later, everyone in the corporate world ends up having a coworker like one at Wernham-Hogg, whether it be the team lead who is masculine in a way that proves he's insecure about his own masculinity and who wields what little power he has like a despotic king's scepter (Gareth), the sexist, condescending braggart who is unfairly successful with the ladies (Chris Finch) or of course the incompetent manager who would rather be popular than good and who hides his incompetence with pretension (David Brent). All of the series' situations are also genuine, especially the awkward, strained Christmas and year-end celebrations, the pointless staff appraisal sessions and the useless training class, which is the centerpiece of "Training," my favorite episode. While reliving my least favorite corporate experiences made me wince, I laughed until my sides hurt at the same time, which explains The Office's reputation for popularizing cringe comedy. Still, despite the series' damning depiction of the workplace, at its core lies a big heart. You can see it in the way the show cares for Tim and Dawn, Wernham-Hogg's lone beacons of sanity and would-be romantic couple, but you really see it in how David Brent, the source of the series' most cringe-worthy moments, becomes the man you root for in the end. By providing the perfect outlet for my frustrations with the corporate world while making me not regret my decision to join it in the truest, most funny way possible, I easily rank The Office as my favorite TV show of all time.


                
The Office is an outstanding piece of comedy genius.Ricky Gervias and Stephen Merchant clearly know what makes a great comedy,everything about this series is hilarious,the characters are brilliant and the cast playing them are outstanding.I watched every episode on Netflix for the first time,and I'm definitely going to watch this show again and again,there is only fourteen episodes so it dosen't take a long time to get through,I'm going to start watching the US series,but I know it won't be as good as this.All in all,what really makes this series is Ricky Gervias,he is clearly a fantastic writer and his performance as David Brent is one of the funniest in television history,and certainly the biggest cringe moments.If you know what a good comedy is,and your a fan of British classics such as Fawlty Towers and Only Fools and Horses,then the Office is a series that you will absolutely love.The story of a bunch of people working at a paper merchant being filmed by a documentary as they their day to day life at their workplace.


                
Ricky Gervais and Steve Merchant's rather unexpected 2001 baby in form of a mockumentary portraying an English workplace was one of the key moments of post-2000 British television. This is not another uniform situation comedy pulp with a new setting and/or accentuation, but brand new territory. And you better be ready for it as the punchlines aren't served on a plate, complete with canned laughter to give you an indicator on when something is intended to be funny. The humor lies in the format, the situation as such, generated by the mere presence of a camera team. Meant to capture the goings-on of everyday office life for a documentary this voyeuristic outside force - and thus indirectly the viewer - serves as the perfect catalyst to bring the true hierarchies, relationships and confrontations in the business life context to the forefront. Gervais himself plays David Brent, the boss of a small paper company, who sees himself not only as an unrecognized, highly talented entertainer, but is also so full of himself that he redefines comedy in the process of presenting himself in front of the camera. Actually he gives the word cringeworthy new meaning. In his office the usual stuff happens you might have witnessed in a similar environment: sucking up, skirmishes among colleagues, practical and dirty jokes, an office romance, the fear of the closing of the branch, redundancy looming. "The Office" has the look and feel of real life, and the actors, especially Martin Freeman (as Tim) and Mackenzie Crook (Garreth), complement Gervais' tour de force brilliantly. Just as in real life this small series has it all: humor in all variations, even if it's over the top, a bit of drama and even a dose of melancholy. Must-see."The Office" was remade for the US market by NBC starring Steve Carell in the lead, with Rainn Wilson in the role of the weirdo/bootlicker combination and John Krasinski and Jenna Fischer standing in for Martin Freeman and Lucy Davis' office romance. Sticking close to the original at the beginning, and highly entertaining for most parts of the early seasons, the American version however more and more forgets its origins and turns into a regular, increasingly infantile sitcom and eventually jumps the shark halfway through its nine year run. Ricky Gervais knew when to call it quits.


                
This is one of the best comedy series ever produced. This particularly so if you include the final Christmas special which is a MUST see if you've caught any of the original series.Although the characters are a little 'over the top' at times which makes their situations difficult to believe, the anthropological dynamic of the western middle class white collar worker is captured brilliantly. The situations that the characters find themselves in will leave you cringing, laughing, annoyed, shouting obscenities and reaching out in sympathy all at the same time. It's for this reason that it sometimes can be 'too much' for some people (particularly enduring David the boss can be hard work), its also why I would recommend The Office in small doses; a whole series sitting in one go could seriously damage your sensibilities and/or numb the effect the directors were trying to produce.The Christmas special caps it off though. On its own it would be OK, but put in the context of the whole series it sits brilliantly. It is a release of emotional charge that nicely sums up life. We all in our way at times are not what we would hope to be, we all project a wish for more and that sometimes leaves us so far from reality that we are made fools, but in the confusion of it all, there is still hope and redemption for all.This is a 10 out of 10 viewing experience as far as I'm concerned.


                
I'm always looking for something new and original, and for that I turned to the British. I'd heard about this show in magazines and television in America, so when I was able to finally get BBC on cable, I checked it out and this was incredible.This is possibly one the most well-written and hilarious shows I've ever seen. I was in tears when the boss signed on for the seminar and acted like he was a rock star. Ugh! So witty and hilarious.I'm definitely going to try and buy the DVD.


                
I still find it amazing that there are some out there fail to enjoy such a breath fresh of air to British comedy. The Americans seem to be divided, some dont get it and others love it, it just shows how both sides of the Atlantic differ in TV tastes.I saw the 1st series when it was originally screened, it followed Coupling on BBC2 which i was a fan of and gave it a shot, I HATED IT, but it grew and grew and grew on me and before long i had to get the DVD. Its like one of those songs you hate at first and before long you end up buying it! I just couldn't see what everyone else was raving about but it just took me a little longer to be swept away with one of the most talked about comedies in recent times. Even now when i have watched episodes time after time i still laugh and laugh which is not so much the case with Seinfeld or Friends.All in all a classic, nothing short of it, to those who never 'got it' give it time, many of you i'm sure will be won over. The xmas specials put a nice finishing touch to it and sadly we won't be seeing any more of Gervais's gem. Lets just hope the American version does not ruin it, they can't seem to pull copy's off (Red Dwarf, Coupling etc) but with Ricky having a hand in it im sure it will get past the pilot!


                
