Had this been a 'Britcom-proper' it probably wouldn't have been as funny as it is now. The tragic elements woven into it make it so much greater. Admittedly, there are a lot (and I mean A LOT) of cringeworthy moments in The Office. Moments that make you put your hand over your eyes and look through your fingers, moments that make you gasp and look away, and moments that will make you go "Aaaargh! Noooo!". Everybody (who is not David or Gareth) who has ever worked in an office setting (especially those who worked in several ..) will feel that The Office is a condensed and compressed series of events, but very true to life. Everybody knows David and Gareth, everybody wants to slap them and shut them up forever. Everybody feels for (and feels like) Tim and Dawn. And everybody knows that an office would be a downright suicidal place were it not for common foes like 'the boss' and 'the wannabe boss' to loathe.Don't watch The Office if all you want is a quick laugh .. you would feel way too uncomfortable for that. The Office is a true slice of (office) life, a bit larger, a bit darker, a bit more painful, but ultimately more humorous than anything I've ever seen. Make sure you catch the Christmas special(s) as well, as that puts the icing on the cake and makes life slightly more bearable.


                
While admitting to being a general Britcom slut (Fawlty Towers, Ab Fab, Monty Python,) with the exception of Coupling which I wasn't that big a fan of, I think The Office is quite possibly one of the greatest TV shows ever to be put on TV. The show takes a few viewings to really get all of the humor/tragedy that the brilliant Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant have built into the script of the show. The first time it seems sort of blah, but if you watch the whole 1st season, by episode 4 or 5 you pick up on the style of humor and realize that it lies mainly in the simple throwaway lines that the abhorrent David Brent and other employees of Wernham Hogg's Slough branch utter throughout the show. Also, like Gosford Park, the dialogue is very quiet and to an American not used to British accents it is tremendously helpful to put on the subtitles to understand what the characters are saying (it also makes the cringeworthy things that much more cringeworthy when you see them written out). Once you get the humor further viewing will allow you to appreciate the horror of "The Office." Watching all of Season 2 in a marathon viewing session left me so emotionally drained (even though I have never laughed harder in my life) that I was crying by the end and I couldn't tell if they were tears of sadness or laughter. At the same time I was relishing David Brent's demise, the new levels of obsequiousness and insensitivity he descends to by the end of the series is almost painful to watch. Tim and Dawn's will it happen/it won't happen relationship is one of the sweetest and most soul-crushing romances I have seen in television history ranking right up there with Sam and Diane from Cheers and Ross and Rachel from Friends. The beauty of "The Office" is it mixes some of the most hilarious sitcom humor with a level of epic tragedy that is hard to capture in any performing art form and does it so effortlessly that it is hard to tell where one begins and one ends. I cannot wait to see the special and finally finish the emotional roller coaster that was "The Office."


                
"The Office" is quite simply worth watching. I am tired of hearing people criticising it. It's not that it's not worthy of criticism, but the fact that those who label it as "overrated" and "falling short of expectations" have only ever seen one episode, or the Christmas Special, or 'The Dance'. It defies logic to make a judgment on a 14 episode programme on 2 feature-length episodes that merely act as a means of updating and rounding-off the series. I have yet to hear anyone make a solid argument as to why The Office fails in any way.If you have not yet seen it, get Series 1 and 2 and settle down on a rainy afternoon ready to emerse and commit yourself. Forget the hype, put the dance scene that you've seen a million times out of your mind, and just watch each episode in order. Then make your own judgment. If you liked it, you will want to see the Christmas Specials; if you didn't, you won't.Using a cast of unknown, yet perfectly chosen actors, The Office is a sharp, funny, painful, emotional and fabulous take on office life.


                
I wasn't go to write a comment on the programme The Office but after reading trpdean's comment, I had to. I'm not sure what office life is like in the states, but this is what office life is like in Britain.The show is perfect, it is indeed a true and honest reflection on every day working life.The Boss is played by an actor by the name of Ricky Gervais, you will cringe and laugh at the same time, you will love him and hate him at the same time. The way the programme takes him thru the 14 episodes is brilliant, George from Seinfeld gets nowhere near this guy.Then there is Gareth, a wimpy nerd, who thinks he is a big army man, but he really is just a weed of a man, we have all known someone like him.The heart and soul belongs to Tim and Dawn though, you will cry your eyes out through out the series because of their relationship that isn't one.This programme deserves all the awards that it has won, I don't want give too much away, its best if you go into the show not knowning too much about it, and to trpdean, once again this is what office life is like in England.


                
After having watched both seasons, plus the two extended Christmas episodes, I have to say that The Office is one of the most excruciatingly brilliant bits of television I've ever seen.It's like what Irreversible would be if it were a sitcom, because it's all about setting up the audience for a savage emotional beating, of sorts. The first season introduces the characters and playfully chucks them on the shoulder with some embarrassing mishaps. And it reveals them as very human fallible convincing people. They would be caricatures if they weren't so honest -- we know people like them, so we know them.But the second season is really sadistic, partly because you've come to know the characters so well in the first season. I've talked to a few friends who say they didn't like The Office because it was so hard to watch. After having seen only the first season, I thought they were just silly lightweights. But after having seen the second season, I completely understand the sentiment.Season two takes the gloves off and leaves marks. Ricky Gervais' character in particular, David Brent, is subjected to a series of painful humiliations. From his botched introduction to the Swindon crew ("...and I don't approve of that in the workplace!"), to his first and last motivational speech, to his ridiculous dance when he tries to top Neil's Saturday Night Fever riff, to his final scene pleading for his job. It's a sadistic plunge, a human trainwreck, fascinating and repulsive.
And there's not a shred of hope. Gareth takes David's job, with no sign of gratitude. He gloats that Tim is going to have to dress better. Tim has lost Dawn, who has obvious misgivings about leaving and getting married. Everyone is in a state of limbo, if not hell. It's amazing to me -- and I have enormous respect for the uncompromosing brash creativity of Gervais and Stephen Merchant -- that it would end like this. Ouch. Bravo.
The two Christmas episodes are a bit of a relief, if not something of a cop out. In fact, they let me breathe a bit easier. I wonder if they'll be on the season two DVD when it comes out next month. Because I think season two, straight with no Christmas chaser, is one hell of a slug to the gut.
"And they say she's just a giant pair of tits..."-Tom
Brits. You gotta love them. They got the best bands AND the best comedians. "The Office" is probably the best thing in comedy since Monty Python. This show is almost perfect. It's got an original concept, the writing is brilliant, and so is the acting. A group of people completely unknown outside of the U.K. has definitely made a mark in the history of television with this so-called "mockumentary".A program like this was really what we needed, but hadn't dared to hope for anymore. In a time when it seemed like T.V. would forever be ruled by sitcoms with canned laughter played over the same old jokes (let's face it, even "Coupling" was little more than an edgier version of "Friends"), Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant came along with their accurate observation of everyday life in an office as we all know it. What they did was take "This Is Spinal Tap!" and put it in the context of an everyday working place. In lesser hands, this idea could easily have turned boring all too quickly, because what we are being shown is basically just reality. It could also have gone the other way with stupid and forced jokes thrown in to keep the viewer interested. Gervais and Merchant, however, managed to pull it off just the way it needed to be done. "The Office" is tragic, funny, sad and moving all at the same time. This show is so popular, because people all around the world can identify with it. You feel for these characters. Tim, Dawn, Gareth and Brent (especially Gareth and Brent!) are far from being perfect people, but it's because of their little flaws and personality problems that we care for them. We know colleagues like them, we know those grey days at work. And like this crew a lot of us have big dreams that are moving further and further away as we're stuck in dead end jobs getting older. "The Office" doesn't comfort us, it doesn't tell us that there'll be a happy ending, but it tells us that we're not alone with our situations. The fact, that we know most of those truly horrible scenes from our own lives makes us laugh. Sometimes the laughs are bitter, but they're always cathartic.SEASON 1 is flawless. Hands down the best first series in a comedy show ever. We get to know Gareth, the annoying colleague who has no life whatsoever and makes up for that by taking himself way too seriously. We meet Dawn and Tim who are fighting their desperation and dissatisfaction by playing pranks on Gareth. The two are secretly attracted to each other with Dawn's boyfriend Lee standing the way. Most importantly, we are introduced to David Brent, the boss who somehow manages to always say the wrong things and embarrass himself and everyone around him all the time. The humour comes mainly from facial expressions, nonsense philosophies (Brent & Gareth), sarcastic comments (Tim) and incredibly awkward situations. Lots of times you'll cringe and the situation gets so uncomfortable you'll cover your eyes with your hands so you don't have to see anymore of it. It's a delightful torture.SEASON 2 is still very good, but Gervais and Merchant fall into the joke-trap too often. In season 1 they successfully avoided any jokes with punchlines or gags that seemed scripted. It was more or less a chain of uncomfortable events and funny interviews. In season 2 we already know the characters and the concept a bit too well. People expect a certain behaviour from the respective characters and Gervais and Merchant are feeding those expectations a little too often. Side character Keith gets a bigger part in these 6 episodes and sadly his wackiness is a bit overdone, too, so that sometimes you get the feeling that whole thing is getting a bit worn out by now. What I really thought was unrealistic was that everybody hated David so much. After all, he is a funny guy and if you don't laugh with him you'd be laughing about him trying so hard to be funny. People just giving him bewildered looks became a bit annoying at some point. However, the writing was still fine, especially considering how little time the makers had and under what kind of pressure they had to come up with new stuff. The final Christmas SPECIALS are a tearjerker. After the genuinely tragic ending of season 2, you hope so much that all will turn out well in the end. Let me just tell you this much: when the credits roll you'll be moved to tears. This just shows how well Gervais and Merchant have built their characters.The way this show found a balance between comedy and drama, the ideas and observations that were put into it and the glorious performances are simply adorable and unmatched to this day. Thankfully, Gervais and Merchant knew when to stop and said that the Christmas SPECIALS were going to be the definite end of "The Office". As with any good show that's sad for the viewer, but it was the right thing to do as there was really nowhere else to go with the story and the concept. Remakes have already been made ("The Office" 2005 - USA, "Stromberg" Germany), but those will always just be a poor man's rehash of the original."The Office" made me believe that even in days when Will Ferrell saying "San Diego means a whale's vagina" is considered the ultimate revelation in comedy, there are still people who will come up with clever and original ideas.


                
A TV crew move in to the Slough offices of paper wholesalers Vernom-Hogg to focus on how the ordinary British work place responds to change and business upheaval.What a surprise this series was when it first came on the TV. Given that it was on BBC2 and not given much promotion you didn't expect much, but boy is this series good. Not only is there moments of absolute comic genius, but it is also very profound. Stand assured I have met all the characters on this show in real life - I have even worked alongside a few of them!It is impossible to know what foreigners make of lead and star turn Ricky Gervais playing boss David Brent. Americans might not get the full satire of his off-centre and cliché bound management speak. Like another great British character Alf Garnett (of Till Death Us Do Part) he is not so much an invention as an acute observation of a particular type of crass over-promoted idiot that lurks among us. Incompetent and ludicrous, but full of the misplaced confidence that comes from never having to face a reality check. The office runs despite of him - not because of him.If this was not comedy it would be considered the best portrayal of a man living under self-delusion ever put on film. His belief that he is incredibly popular and has the support of the full staff is clearly false and yet nothing can shake his beliefs. He is not blind but yet he cannot see. He is living in a land of fantasy and time-wasting - for example, inventing game shows instead of writing office reports!Brent is a self-styled "chilled out comedian" that cracks rude or racist jokes to just the type of people that don't want to hear them. Wearing a fake wan smile he has the unerring ability to make difficult situations even worse. He is always aware of the camera and even plays to it - even lurking in the background to join in other people's on-camera moments as if he has nothing better to do. Brent has a mini-me in the form of Gareth Keenan played by Mackenzie Crook. A wan and skinny man-youth who is chief support to Brent in the mismanagement of the office. A weekend soldier he makes constant references to this and how it applies to office procedure, as well as trying it on with spare office female talent - with no success whatsoever. He also runs the office course on safety - which is one of the funniest pieces of business I have seen in a long time. Instructing female employees on how NOT to put cups of hot coffee on the top of monitors and how to correctly lift boxes.Only slightly more sane is Tim Canterbury (Martin Freeman) the college drop-out that is always threatening to quit and return to his books. A bored mediocrity that fills his days by winding up Gareth and flirting with receptionist Dawn (Lucy Davis) - who has less of a role, but looks on in disgust at some of the antics that the others get up to.Special support comes from Chris Finch (played by Ralph Ineson) who is chief rep and office big mouth: Perhaps the most revolting person ever to appear on TV. His recollections of drunken evenings and stupidity being listen to with wide eyed wonder by the males - with only Dawn daring to show what he really is and even then not in words. When he leads the gang down Chasers (the local small town disco) things really hot up.This show only ran two series (plus Christmas special - that was only so-so), but in the second series the nature of the Brent management style comes under pressure. Reality starts sweeping in to his little world and his bubble is finally popped, but not without some really funny moments - including the "Comic Relief" day episode that is perhaps the best of the whole lot. I have seen all the shows and most of them more than once. This series warrants repeat viewings because it is just so funny and perfectly realized. This series will put off thousands of people from working in an office and maybe some of them will go off and do something more creative and interesting with their lives. Writing something as good as this, for example.


                
I hold everything I watch to a very high standard and in general I can't watch the vast majority of what is put on TV - 24, Lost, Gray's Anatomy, Heroes, essentially anything you can think of that people seem to go crazy for... and the reason is simple: they aren't driven by the writing.And to those who are already upset and ready to describe the genius of the plot of X TV show or one I named above, consider that none of those shows are driven by the characters, by pureness of emotion created, by novelty of the plot, it can all be reduced to a few things: 1) Love triangles, quadrilaterals, pentagons, etc. 2) Action (doesn't take a PhD to blow something, put a child in harm's way, etc.) 3) THE BIGGEST ONE - leaving you hanging (which makes the viewer, in between episodes, feel like they just can't stand to not be watching this show, but really, you could tell one of the worst stories ever and stop just short of an important climax and people will naturally be interested - but why not ask for more)And in general, what I like to think of as the plot skeleton (the core conflict or plot outline) in these shows is tried and cliché in all of these shows. There's nothing new.The US version of the Office is just plain unbelievable. The characters are not real people. It's very funny SOMETIMES and I do watch it (which makes it like 1 of maybe 5 shows in the last several years), but Michael Scott could never exist in real life, and he's the only decent actor in the show. Jim and Pam don't have the incredible subtle, Victorian, romance that Tim and Dawn had. Martin Freeman is also 10x more the legitimate actor, and Dawn was significantly better than Pam - Jenna Fischer just doesn't have much of an emotional range. Dwight is just always high strung - Garreth had depth and incredible subtlety and a range of moods. Stanley's humor was meant for 9 year olds. Keith was infinitely better at deadpan and numb-skull humor. Angela, Meredith, Oscar, Creed - all 1 dimensional. Ryan's not awful.AND THEN THERE WAS THE OFFICE (BBC)...Incredible realism. Incredible and subtle use of the documentary genre. A barrage of original, subtle, diverse jokes. No laugh track (which many people notice, but it's more than that - it's that the show doesn't hit high hat cymbals to cue you to laugh too, it creates genuinely funny and awkward moments). The actors are outstanding too - such an incredible repertoire each of them has of emotional capacity (even, and in fact ESPECIALLY, Garreth, whose US counterpart Dwight can't come close to the pathos and sadness Garreth can evince - or really even realism, Dwight is just always high-strung and not a real human character).I've seen lots of movies. More than anyone I know. I'm a pretty smart guy (at least on paper). Movies are my favorite thing in the world. If I put this series as a whole into my list of top movies of all time, and ignored the differences of the media, it would make the top 5. My life is better because I've seen The Office (BBC). Just don't watch season 1 and 2 and forget about the Christmas special, like I did for a year. But I do think if you give yourself at least a week after watching 1 and 2 before watching the special, you can better "simulate" the time lapse that is meant to exist before the fictional creation of the documentary.Do yourself a favor.


                
Absolute magic! This is one of the best comedy series of recent years. It is brilliant stuff. This is a documentary about an office who make paper. What is so funny is that it is played so seriously that casual observers will believe that this is a real documentary and these characters are real. It's all larger than life in many ways and with some of the situations but it is pure genius. The cast play their characters brilliantly. Ricky Gervais is outstanding. He, as an actor, writer, and director of this show has created one of comedies great characters. He is the imbecile and arrogant boss who we all have had experience of and who we can see some of our own traits in. It's frightening how many faux pas this guy comes out with, its cringe worthy and we all know we have said things like he has. You feel sorry for him because he acts so deluded but at the same time he can make you wince and burst out in laughter at some of his actions (remember the dance?). Also superb is Mackenzie Crook as Gareth the dorky and also deluded young worker who follows the book down to every crossed T and dotted I. He plays it to perfection, like Gervais. Also good is Lucy Davis, as receptionist Dawn. The one who I think plays it really well because his character has a more emotional element in his performances is Martin Freeman, as Tim, who has a big crush on Dawn. There is a great dynamic and he plays the lovesick worker, bored with his life with a real depth which is really evident in the Christmas special and end to the Office. The Christmas episode was the best from the Office; it was hilarious, tragic and brilliantly cringe-worthy. It is no more and the American version will not hold a candle on this. All I can say is make sure that if you haven't seen the last episode of it, the Christmas special, then watch it. It's the best; it's beautifully done and will almost bring a tear to your eye.


                
Set in the bleak, awfully-named industrial town of Slough and the fictional office of the Wernam-Hogg paper merchants, a BBC film crew documents the expressionless workers, ringing phones, copiers churning out clone after clone after clone, pointless meetings and pointless bureaucracy that exist within typical, uninspiring companies.Sadly, the majority of people in Britain work in dull, dead-end office jobs with lives that go nowhere and even the most meager of ambitions going unrealized. Maybe if they had a boss like David Brent their day would be livened up. Not because he's the 'boss/entertainer' he thinks he is, but for the morbid curiosity of watching a desperate, delusional and detestable man slowly crash and burn.The majority of laughs in The Office come from awkward and embarrassing situations. Brent constantly forces his bullheaded and bawdy humor on unwitting staff. At first they appear scared of his ruthlessly imposing presence but towards the end they all ignore him completely. But he never realizes this and resorts to even more tasteless ways of getting attention. He loves the camera and rather than acting 'normal' for the purposes of the mockumentary he exaggerates his beastly character to the point of being sickening. He gets what he deserves in the end and by this point the audience has lost all sympathy for him.His brutalized and beleaguered staff struggle to get on with their work as Brent's tyranny escalates. Among them we have Tim, an increasingly unhappy man who wishes to escape the monotony and drudgery 'ordinary life' brings him. He's long had the confidence crushed out of him but still has more humanity than anyone else.Gareth is Tim's worst enemy. A dorky, 95 pound weakling who boasts of being in the (territorial) Army and is keen to assume more and more power from Brent's failing management. Like Brent, he has no clue about social interaction and behaves strangely among potential friends.
Dawn is the receptionist. She is engaged to a controlling, unloving boyfriend who insists she spend her life doing dull work despite the fact that she has higher and happier dreams. She has feelings for Tim, and they are more than mutual. But fear of change and happiness stops her from falling for him.As soon as once branch of Wernam-Hogg incorporates the other it becomes clear how useless Brent is. The new staff are amazed at how such a horrid man has been employed at all, never mind become a boss. Complaints and unfinished work rise and the upper management are forced to take action. Sadly, Brent just won't learn.In the end, his staff have the slightest chance at happiness and escape. Brent however doesn't learn from his mistakes and will probably go on to have an endlessly miserable life.If you work in an office, get out! Among the blackest of humor there is a message; office life is fit for no human being. And Ricky Gervais' dark comedy is filled with thousands of examples of why this is so. It's absolutely classic stuff that is far ahead of dozens of canned laughter sitcoms.


                
I rented the first season almost at random--I'd only barely heard of the show--and I'm so, so glad I did.  Within the first ten seconds Ricky Gervais had me quietly snickering; within twenty I was laughing out loud; eventually a few tears welled up and my stomach began to hurt.  And I didn't quit laughing until the show was over.  Gervais is possessed of the very rare talent of being funny on several different fronts, simultaneiously; he's like a comedic juggler: he's a teller of conspicuously (but not too conspicuously) bad, often tasteless, jokes; he's a backstabbing hypocrite of Tartuffian quality; and for those who have worked in offices and have had bad (or even mediocre) bosses, he is like a balm for the lost dignity office workers experience through petty politicking.  (So the show is rather cathartic.)  That little look Gervais gives the camera at times (which seems to state, "You didn't see that, did you?") is precious.  I have to be careful to not oversell this show, but right now I would say that, as a character, David Brent (Gervais) is right up there with Reginald Perrin and Basil Fawlty, and that is sacred territory in my book.  But while writer-actor Gervais is the brightest spot in the show, the other cast members, namely Tim Freeman, Mackenzie Cook (who some will recognize as the eye-popping pirate in PIRATES OF THE CARRIBEAN), and Lucy Davis, are great too.  This show, I predict, will go down as one of the great TV comedies, up there with with FAWLTY TOWERS and SEINFELD but perhaps just below MONTY PYTHON and SCTV (at their best).  A word of warning: if you don't like (i.e., don't understand) irony, this may not be the show for you; stick with Jim Carrey and Martin Lawrence.  (Nothing against those actors; THE OFFICE, though laugh-out-loud funny, seldom hits one over the head with its comedy.) I only hope the second season approaches the quality of the first.


                
Now that I've seen the Christmas specials I must say that this is some of the best material I've ever seen! Every of the 14 episodes is just great and worth watching over and over again.I'm going to miss you Dawn, Tim, Gareth, David, Keith, Jennifer, Sheila, Rachel and Monkey-Alan...


                
I have never ever seen a TV-show that has made me laugh so hard and made me look away at the same time, because it's so damn awkward.David Brent, the man who is so full of himself it's frightening, creates situations that is hilarious and extremely awkward.In a way, his own ego is the main character in this show. He thinks he is the funniest man alive, the greatest boss ever and that he isn't prejudice in any way.Watch the show and find out how much is actually true.Recommended for everyone, except anyone who has problems with embarrassing situations. 9/10. Marvelous!


                
Even people from Slough have signs on their car windows "Happiness is seeing Slough in your Rear View Mirror". During the war the enemy was invited to bomb Slough; "Come friendly bombs rain on Slough")(no joke).The Office is one of those programs which when you happen across it, for the first half-hour or so you're completely baffled, its format is so unusual, then before you know it you're hooked. It's really about the horror of passing so much time with the SAME people (more than with our families). Where any minor incident like the photocopier jamming becomes a slight relief from monotony.If you like The Office then try "Alan Partridge" like David Brent another nightmarish figure


                
Gervais and Merchant have crafted a hysterical, ridiculous, and absolutely poignant world in their show The Office. The show follows the embarrassingly pathetic David Brent, the regional manager of a paper company. The office itself is the picture of tediousness. The employees slave away mechanically, it is so painfully tedious that the office itself becomes a hysterical character within each episode. Brent is the pinnacle of horrid bosses; completely inappropriate, lacking in tact and backbone, who yearns to be the fun loving popular boss, and fails with a train-wreck like horridness. I'll give it to Ricky Gervais, the guy is a genius. His subtlety has hints of Peter Sellers. It seems that only the brits can pull off this kind of comedy. The cast that supports Gervais is fantastic, each subplot works so well and the characters are all so subtly developed that you're rivited by the mundane life these characters lead from 9 to 5. I'm not surprised that once The Office won awards, the Americans decided to jump on the bandwagon and started to make a US version. Happily it tanked completely. You must rent the DVD's of both seasons. For any fan of that wry Brit humor, The Office is a must have in your DVD collection.


                
Having watched the US version of The Office before this original version, I was shocked to see how much better it is! Ricky Gervais is absolutely hilarious and gets funnier with every episode. The show pushes the limits a little farther the the US version for sure and keeps a thrilling dryness throughout. The character development is captivating and you end up knowing them so well they become funnier and funnier. There's definitely not as many character developments as US Office but it almost helps because you become very connected to the couple that are. David Brent (Ricky Gervais) is possibly one of the the top 5 funniest personalities I've ever seen in a show. All of his insecurities and delusions are addicting and you can't wait to see what he does next. The love story throughout involving Dawn the receptionist is as sweet as it gets, building up to an epic final ending that will definitely give you chills. Loved the show, and I highly recommend it!
It's hard to imagine how this series was successfully pitched to the BBC. There is no canned laughter. It is a faux documentary set in the administrative section of a paper manufacturer. The boss is a remarkably unpleasant person and none of them lead very interesting lives. When the show was being made none of the actors or writers were even mildly famous. The Office is hilarious though, possibly because of rather than despite these points. David Brent is one of the great sitcom characters. He is extremely unpleasant to deal with, completely self-absorbed and seemingly oblivious to how much he is disliked and ridiculed. Initially it is impossible to have any sympathy for him. However by the end of the Christmas Specials, when his ego has taken enough of a battering, I was glad to see a bit of hope appearing in his life. While Brent is definitely the main character the supporting roles are integral to the series. The "will they, won't they" romance between Tim and Dawn is well done. Even these characters have an edge as we wonder why she stays with her fiancé and why Tim will neither take a promotion nor go back to college. Brent's slightly scary sidekick Gareth is also an excellent character. Most of us come have had to work with a Gareth at some point. The scripts are brilliantly written by Gervais and Merchant. The best scenes I'd pick would be - Brent breaking into song on the training day - Brent in the bird costume on Comic Relief Day - The dance (of course) Sit back and enjoy one of the best situation comedies ever made.
A paper selling firm is undergoing a takeover and retrenchment. 'The office' is a mocumentary about employees in that office. Ricky Gervaisand Stephen Merchant must be geniuses to write something of this sort. This series is path breaking in many ways. Narration, sets, characters, treatment. People actually look into the camera while acting. I have worked for 7 years in the worst and the best conditions which includes a gujju company in Mumbai and university in Boston. I can identify with all the characters in this film. This is again one of those films where all the characters are stretched to their maximum. A boss(David Brent) who cracks idiotic jokes to get some claps, a team leader(Gareth) who thinks he has power and uses it to its fullest, another worker(Tim) who has no idea why he is working in a paper selling organization, a receptionist (Dawn) who is acquainted to a selected few because she is not in the team.Its a black comedy. In the middle of the scene the actor would give an interview which gives away his character and position on a certain issue i.e when Dawn assists David on his motivational talk, in her interview, she talks about a girl from her school who used to eat 'chalk' but now is very successful. Tim decides to put his resignation in the middle of employer-employee meeting. Keith represents how boring a working man's life is. He talks about sitcoms he has not watched on top of it he says "Bloody repeat" :>. And of course there is David Brents 'charity' dance. Ricky Gervais walks away with the glory. He portrays the character of David Brent beautifully. This is a definite must see for all. watch it don't miss it. 10 on 10.


                
The success of a programme such as "The Office" is unexplainable, when you think about it: why would a programme which sets out to be embarrassing and unbearable, is filled with disagreable and monstrous personalities, (and also some truly nice people trapped in an awful environment) achieve any measure of success??  And yet - it's undisuptably brilliant!The show is filmed in a documentary style - in addition to the normal "ensemble" play of the show, each main character gets some one-to-one interviews with the camera, allowing them to express their feelings on work and life.Obviously the main "star" of this programme is David Brent, the manager of a Slough paper merchants'.  He believes he is a popular and intensely humourous man, loved by all and misunderstood only because of the revolutionary nature of his motivationary methods.  However, during the second series the truth begins to dawn on him.........in David Brent, Ricky Gervais has created one of television's most dislikeable and yet pathetic characters.  He spouts stolen philosophy, writes abonimable poetry, writes barely better songs, all the time believing that everything he does is gospel.  Furthermore, he is homophobic, never takes the blame for anything he has done, steals credit for things he hasn't done, and is a racist and a sexist.  However, it is a credit both to the writers and the acting of Gervais that in the last episode of series 2, when he is tearfully begging for his job back, the viewer does actually feel real pity for him -  a sad man, just realising that despite all his bluster and promises of not caring about redundancy, this petty job is the whole world to him.The other main characters include the cadaverous Gareth, a homophobe to the point of Nazism, but with a penchant for incestuous lesbianism, and an indescribable way with women.  He is in effect, the next David Brent of Wernham Hogg.The main compassionate character is Tim.  Tim is funny, popular, but stuck in a dead-end job.  He has a secret love for the receptionist, Dawn, (as indeed she has for him) resulting in the show's main emotional heart as first Tim and then Dawn suffer as a result of each other going out with other people.  The whole two series seem to consist of the question of whether or not these two will end up with each other, a storyline which comes to a head in the last episode of Series 2.The humour in "The Office" is like nothing you have ever seen before - as I have already mentioned, the best bits of this show are the most embarrassing ones.  These include the now legendary Comic Relief dance, David's management seminar, David's taking-over of the internal training day, and many more beyond count.  By all logical reasoning, this show should have failed after its first toe-curling episode, but it has hooked many many people, myself included, and continues to perversely delight people time after time.


                
This is really brilliant stuff.Gervais is of the unscripted comic tradition. Here he plays an executive who cares more about his image as a funnyman than his effectiveness as a boss. But the character (dis)proves his comic bones by recycling jokes and reciting pre-written routines -- the polar opposite of what Gervais himself deems the essence of pure comedy. So in fact Gervais is the consciousness of his employees and anyone who doesn't "get" the character, while the character himself represents the critics and traditionalists who don't get the real Gervais.All those hyper-sensitive viewers whose dimcomfiture prevents their enjoyment of the show should realize that Gervais is the one doing the laughing. It's hard to recall any other comedian who's put himself out on a limb with a lead role that invites such animus. Brave stuff.
"The Office" is a show based around a simple premise: life at work. I must say that had high expectations for the series, as the reviews for it in EW were phenomenal. Never in a million years would i ever expect that this series would live up to those expectations; yet it exceeded them, ten fold. If you are a fan of the American "Office" series, then the UK is right up your alley, as it never fails to blow the NBC series right out of the water. David Brent is single-handedly THE best character i have ever witnessed albeit in film or television. Not only is "The Office" the funniest show ever created, it also has more heart than any show that i have ever witnessed. I say this with complete honesty: if i were to be stranded on a desert island for the rest of my life with only a TV and DVD player, and could only choose one work of television or film to bring along, it would hands down be the complete series of BBC's "The Office".


                
I gave it a 10 only because 20 wasn't an option. The 21st century has a real challenge if there's to be another show that comes along that can top the the brilliance of "The Office". Such a breath of fresh air in television. Actually, I came across the BBC's "The Office by mistake. I had rented it from Blockbuster video, thinking it was the US version. I started watching it thinking "Who in the world is that irritating little man?". Then I proceeded to watch the entire first season that night. Could hardly wait for the second series to come in. But that was 2 weeks ago and I've since bought the complete series. I'll be watching it over and over for awhile, I do suspect. Made me cry like a baby at the end. That's never happened in my life. Just simply Brilliant.


                
As an American and existing fan of the US version of The Office, I went into this series with low expectations. I was anticipating being disappointed with other actors playing in the roles I already loved so much. After viewing the first episode, I was not very impressed. The same exact script had been used for the first episode of the US version, so it was exactly what I was expecting from the show - a retro-rehash. However, I was curious as to whether or not the rest of the series used the same scripts, and that's literally the only reason I watched the second episode. I'm glad I did. I was drawn in enough to watch the third episode, and more so after the fourth. By the end of the first season, I absolutely loved the show. It's important to recognize that the US and UK versions of the show are different to the point where it makes no sense to compare them beyond the first episode. The US version has some brilliant characters and is a great show in its own right, but it is at heart an episodic comedy. The UK version is a tightly-knit drama with comedic elements, and both seasons of the show have very specific stories to tell. Where the US version is relatively stagnant in terms of ongoing stories, the UK version sticks closely to a narrative. The first season is about David's attempt to save his branch and the second is David's descent from a self-proclaimed clown to a pitiable but detestable worm. This overarching plot is intertwined with Tim's love story, and both come to tragic endings - Tim's for clear reasons, and David's for a more complicated one. While it's easy to be disgusted by David, it's also difficult to hate him entirely. The complexity of the character is the true triumph of the show, as none of the people we see on-screen are entirely likable - and yet we forgive them, just as we forgive the people we care about in our real lives.
I used to work in an office. I may work in an office again, someday. That thought scares me, particularly after watching this show. The genius of "The Office" is that the boss character isn't a tyrant; he's a well-meaning moron, and in his efforts to do good, he screws things up far worse than a tyrant ever could. He's the most awful human on Earth, and he's trying to be your buddy - be very, very afraid!Like the "Odd Couple" film, another brilliant comedy, "The Office" is sometimes so realistic and sad that people can't find it funny, but I, for one, love comedy with a bit of verisimilitude, and so I think this show really works. The awkward pauses, hedging, repetition, and agonizing social anxieties of "The Office" seem so real...and so does the crushing boredom of working in a brain-dead environment. Yeah, it's strangely unpleasant at the same time that it's funny, but that's a good thing - it actually provokes emotion.I'm glad I wasn't still working in an office when I watched this show; I would've started a revolution the next day! It's got one of those "smash your computer and escape" types of messages, although on a grim note, the hero does not escape from the office at the end of the first season. Such realism...Note how thoroughly this trashes its American counterpart, the fun-but-silly "Office Space." The Brits beat us again...not such a surprise, to me at least!


                
I've got a confession to make. When this show first aired I absolutely refused to watch it. So many people were telling me I had to, I dug my heels in, got stubborn, and told them they were blinkered sheep following the mass media's brainwashing techniques, and they deserved to be starved of oxygen until it really, really hurt.And it pains me to concede, several years later, that I was entirely wrong.You all know the setup to this one: Ricky Gervais plays the worlds most irritating boss, self-deludedly believing that each of his employees is his best friend, and that he is witty, charismatic, and the life and soul of the workplace. Nothing could be further from the truth.One of the earliest examples of arse clenching comedy - you know, the kind of comedy that makes you squirm with embarrassment as much as laugh out loud - this really took the premise of Chris Langham's excellent 'People Like Us' and expanded it to its logical conclusion.Some great characterisation, some genuine moments of comedic inspiration, this may now appear dated or generic, but it is only because so much TV is now influenced by it.Pioneers always seem jaded upon revisiting because the impersonators saturate the genre.A must watch.
