I watched out of curiosity after having finished the complete US version. I read that Ricky Gervais found that the characters in the US version were better defined and I can´t help but agree. 
The English version was showing a great potential: it is about everyday life at work, with the appraisals, the foolish attitude that some bosses can have, love stories that can happen, and everyone can recognize themselves in one of the excentric characters that we may have as colleagues. 
I watched ´Life on the road´ recently and was happy to see David Brent as foolish as he used to be.
In short, although this series was not perfect, it is cheering up after a hard day at work.


                
Here's a modern, post-post-modern idea.The original tradition is the humor of humiliation, recently tagged cringe humor. But the stem is broader: watching a simple fellow get banged around, humiliated, each motion moving him deeper. But its a tired genre, How to make it engaging? By folding, the tricks used to blur the roles of who are the audience and who the characters.In this case, it is very cleverly done. The setup is that we are in the office because we are part of a documentary crew. The reason for the documentary is unclear and obviously so.The "performance," the show within, is an office manager who performs for the employees under his care. There is enough of a soap opera among those employees to fool us into thinking this is an ordinary story. But the focus is always on our joking manager and how incompetent and clueless his performance is. We quite literally become part of the office, with other employees looking at us and speaking directly to us.The manager is there making jokes for us and the employees, folded. The more he fails, the more we (some of us anyway) cringe but smile. I think it is because we want an excuse to be cruel and this guy is an excusable target because he's cruel in his daft way himself.Its a simple fold and the star/writer knows just what he is doing. Whether you think the effect is worth all the hours to grind through it is another thing.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
