I bought the first season DVD on a whim. I had heard good things about this show -- often referred to in connection to Fawlty Towers, Father Ted, Monty Python, etc. The first episode made me think that I had made a bad mistake.With each subsequent episode, however, it become more and more hilarious. I'm not sure if this was due to the fact that the first episode is inferior to the others, or that you need time to warm up to the characters/situation (personally, I believe it's the latter).Much of the hilarity from this series comes from the truly awful situations that arise within the office -- most of which are (unwittingly) engineered by the character of David Brent (played masterfully by Ricky Gervais). At times, this show is downright painful to watch -- due primarily to the highly embarrassing/uncomfortable antics of Mr. Brent.It's not really a reality show, or a documentary, or a sitcom. It manages to perform admirably as all three. Highly recommended to any fan of quirky comedy.Update 1/15/2015: this version buries the ersatz American knock-off.


                
Personally I preferred the British version to the US version. It's a shame it didn't go on long enough. British comedy is very different to American. I would say you will like this if you like the likes of Red Dwarf and Fawlty towers.


                
Having heard that the British version is not as good as the American it took me long time to finally watch this short TV show. I was pleasantly surprised. This show is actually really good. I can't say if American or British version are better until at least I watch the US version again. But I can surely say that this is definitely high class comedy and one should also not forget was the original idea.The show has some great characters. Especially outstanding are David and Gareth who make us laugh in every episode. The humor is clever, with greatly written dialogues and also some nice physical comedy.Besides humor we also have a nice office romance of Tim and Dawn. It is really well portrayed by very realistic looks and moments that show us exactly what the characters are feeling.The Christmas special added a great ending to this wonderful show and gave us the closure that we were lacking after the second season was over.It was planned to be that short but it is a good idea. They put everything important into the episodes and gave us a good picture of this office comedy and people in it.


                
Brilliant, British comedy is always the best and this does not disappoint with the best ending to a series that I've ever seen. This is a show to watch. The characters are so real that you have bonds with them and feel sympathy and happiness for them. Tim and Dawn's relationship with her leaving coming back then about to leave again with no chance of return and then suddenly turning around after seeing Tim's secret Santa gift for her (A art set(because she wanted to be an artist) With a note saying, Keep dreaming, Don't give up.)to then going into the party and having a passionate kiss with Tim. With all of these good points there are some bad. Unfortunately the series starts off slow then speeds up. All in all it is a really good series and one that is appropriate for some of the family.
An original and uniquely funny exploration of office dynamics that is both creative and yet instantly recognizable to all students of the human condition. And much better done than its American imitation! The first season of the series is a delight. The second season is a letdown. Why the sea change? Perhaps the forces of political correctness, even stronger at the BBC than at most other media venues, felt it necessary to blunt this roguishly non-p.c. gem and thereby discourage imitation. Whatever the actual reason, the direction taken in the second season marked the on-screen demise of the lead character and his comic genius in a way that brought tears (well, almost!) to this viewer's eyes. My recommendation: rent solely the first season disk -- and savor its memory!


                
If you've watched the US show The Office(which is an American adaptation of the UK version) you might think this show is all the same story, etc. And while there are things you'll recognize as similar(documentary crew, paper company) there are plenty of things that are different. Some stuff I think I missed the joke, because I'm not living in the UK. But its funny in its own way, and if you watch it without trying to compare to the US adaptation, its amusing. After a couple of episodes, I stopped trying to figure out who was who vs a vs the US adaptation, and just enjoyed the show. The acting is decent and you find some people who are likable, some who make you cringe and some you'd rather go find a new job than work with every day. Just like any other office in the world.


                
The Office is a clever, low-key, in some ways typical UK comedy series with a solid cast and fun dialogue. The bulk of the humour revolves around Gervaise's incredibly pathetic character; I've always liked central characters in comedies that are nasty, selfish, narcissistic morons, rather than having sly, charming Cary Grant types. The mockumentary approach certainly helps, too. Another major plus is the very pleasant LACK OF A LAGH-TRACK, annoying noise we can all do without. After all, do you really need a bunch of hysterically giggling idiots letting you know when (and what) you're supposed find something funny?A minor drawback is the bland visual style which, although it makes sense in the context of dull/dreary working days and weeks in a company such as this, makes for an unpleasant atmosphere. After all, "The Larry Sanders Show" also takes place in various stuffy offices, but the visual look is far more pleasing to the eye. The other drawback is that "The Office", though both witty and clever as mentioned, isn't truly belly-laugh inducing. There is nothing to go crazy about here. Nevertheless, right after Steve Coogan and Sascha Cohen, Ricky Gervaise offers some of the next-to-best TV comedy material in the last ten years.


                
I have postponed the watching of this series so far - as I was working in a similar environment for a long time plus the impressions I got were different from the other British sitcoms I definitely liked, e.g. The Thin Blue Line, The IT Crowd, Father Ted... True, the atmosphere in The Office is much more realistic (sometimes too much, boosted by documentary approach), and first episodes caused more unpleasantness and shame than gags or smiles... But then things started to move and Season 2 had more fun/gags than embarrassing moments, although last episodes brought along certain sorry feeling. As for the cast, I knew/remembered (and still admire) Martin Freeman, but I had no aware knowledge of Ricky Gervais, and he irritated me at first, but then I began to comprehend his talent beyond his character (not so rare boss-type at all!) and I liked the result. The whole cast is strong - male ones slightly more visible than females - and the 3rd distinctive character I liked a lot is Gareth Keenan played by Mackenzie Crook.All in all, this mockumentary gets 8 strong points from me.


                
