I have never ever seen a TV-show that has made me laugh so hard and made me look away at the same time, because it's so damn awkward.David Brent, the man who is so full of himself it's frightening, creates situations that is hilarious and extremely awkward.In a way, his own ego is the main character in this show. He thinks he is the funniest man alive, the greatest boss ever and that he isn't prejudice in any way.Watch the show and find out how much is actually true.Recommended for everyone, except anyone who has problems with embarrassing situations. 9/10. Marvelous!


                
Having watched the US version of The Office before this original version, I was shocked to see how much better it is! Ricky Gervais is absolutely hilarious and gets funnier with every episode. The show pushes the limits a little farther the the US version for sure and keeps a thrilling dryness throughout. The character development is captivating and you end up knowing them so well they become funnier and funnier. There's definitely not as many character developments as US Office but it almost helps because you become very connected to the couple that are. David Brent (Ricky Gervais) is possibly one of the the top 5 funniest personalities I've ever seen in a show. All of his insecurities and delusions are addicting and you can't wait to see what he does next. The love story throughout involving Dawn the receptionist is as sweet as it gets, building up to an epic final ending that will definitely give you chills. Loved the show, and I highly recommend it!
It's hard to imagine how this series was successfully pitched to the BBC. There is no canned laughter. It is a faux documentary set in the administrative section of a paper manufacturer. The boss is a remarkably unpleasant person and none of them lead very interesting lives. When the show was being made none of the actors or writers were even mildly famous. The Office is hilarious though, possibly because of rather than despite these points. David Brent is one of the great sitcom characters. He is extremely unpleasant to deal with, completely self-absorbed and seemingly oblivious to how much he is disliked and ridiculed. Initially it is impossible to have any sympathy for him. However by the end of the Christmas Specials, when his ego has taken enough of a battering, I was glad to see a bit of hope appearing in his life. While Brent is definitely the main character the supporting roles are integral to the series. The "will they, won't they" romance between Tim and Dawn is well done. Even these characters have an edge as we wonder why she stays with her fiancé and why Tim will neither take a promotion nor go back to college. Brent's slightly scary sidekick Gareth is also an excellent character. Most of us come have had to work with a Gareth at some point. The scripts are brilliantly written by Gervais and Merchant. The best scenes I'd pick would be - Brent breaking into song on the training day - Brent in the bird costume on Comic Relief Day - The dance (of course) Sit back and enjoy one of the best situation comedies ever made.
This is really brilliant stuff.Gervais is of the unscripted comic tradition. Here he plays an executive who cares more about his image as a funnyman than his effectiveness as a boss. But the character (dis)proves his comic bones by recycling jokes and reciting pre-written routines -- the polar opposite of what Gervais himself deems the essence of pure comedy. So in fact Gervais is the consciousness of his employees and anyone who doesn't "get" the character, while the character himself represents the critics and traditionalists who don't get the real Gervais.All those hyper-sensitive viewers whose dimcomfiture prevents their enjoyment of the show should realize that Gervais is the one doing the laughing. It's hard to recall any other comedian who's put himself out on a limb with a lead role that invites such animus. Brave stuff.
I've got a confession to make. When this show first aired I absolutely refused to watch it. So many people were telling me I had to, I dug my heels in, got stubborn, and told them they were blinkered sheep following the mass media's brainwashing techniques, and they deserved to be starved of oxygen until it really, really hurt.And it pains me to concede, several years later, that I was entirely wrong.You all know the setup to this one: Ricky Gervais plays the worlds most irritating boss, self-deludedly believing that each of his employees is his best friend, and that he is witty, charismatic, and the life and soul of the workplace. Nothing could be further from the truth.One of the earliest examples of arse clenching comedy - you know, the kind of comedy that makes you squirm with embarrassment as much as laugh out loud - this really took the premise of Chris Langham's excellent 'People Like Us' and expanded it to its logical conclusion.Some great characterisation, some genuine moments of comedic inspiration, this may now appear dated or generic, but it is only because so much TV is now influenced by it.Pioneers always seem jaded upon revisiting because the impersonators saturate the genre.A must watch.
Hail to Ricky Gervais- A truly hilarious series about the office from hell, with an assured cult following and endlessly quotable dialog. Yes, the realization that this is a mockumentary/comedy series was quite baffling after watching the first episode (the lack of laugh-ins was equally welcome) and I was instantly hooked. The next realization was that it's utterly and painfully tragic as well- there truly can't be so many sad people gathered in one place in real life, can there? Ooohh yes, is my answer, after relating to my own previous office-jobs... it's human nature almost at its lowest... and funniest!Watching the most embarrassing situation or line after another, the ingenious mockumentary narration technique of "The office" made me cringe with laughter. And, regardlessly of how perfectly cast with memorable characters; inevitably, we cannot escape the completely unreal presence of Gervais' David Brent. If you thought Basil Fawlty of "Fawlty Towers" was despicable, think again! Man, how can anyone revel so much in his own childish narcissism? How can anyone thrive so much on insidious insult, degradation of other people, and yet still honestly believe he's god's gift to office life? Yet, the episode where Brent begs to get his job back really grabbed me emotionally, as we realize that this job is really all he has in life.Favourite episode: The pub trivia night with the equally despicable Chris Finch!9 out of 10 from Ozjeppe
After reading a lot of the comments here, it's interesting to me to see the huge difference - on the whole - between the American and the British and other European commentators. Europeans tend to like the show, Americans don't. I think the reason is that - and please excuse the generalization! - Americans like everything to be very obvious and clear. The facial expressions of the actors have to be very open, 'larger than life', and everything should be basically positive. The Office isn't like that. Its brilliance lies in its subtlety. The glances between Tim and Dawn, the pained and fleeting expression on David's face when he realizes - and he does realize it! - what a jerk he really is at times, the embarrassing and hurtful remarks people make to each other... It's all subtle and very, very human. If you don't see this, you're not going to like The Office - with apologies to all the Americans who do.


                
The Office, often also referred to as "The Office UK", is a British Mockumentary that focuses on the day to day lives of the people who work at the fictional Wernham Hogg Paper Company in Slough. This show arguably made a lot of the main actors/people who worked on the show famous.David Brent (Ricky Gervais) is the disillusioned General Manager of the branch, and the main character in the show. Although he is generally disliked and viewed as unfunny amongst his employees, he believes he is well liked, and is found hysterical by the employees, even claiming that the staff are "cracking up" at one point, although they are shown to have very neutral facial expressions.Tim Canterberry (Martin Freeman) is a sales rep in the company. He is generally well liked, although is shown to be very lonely character, fancying someone he can't be with, still living with his mother at 30, and even admitting that he has no friends in one episode.Dawn Tinsley (Lucy Davis) is the receptionist and wannabe illustrator. For the majority of the series, she is engaged to a character called Lee, although is clearly unhappy in this relationship. He is often shown to deride Dawn, not supporting her ambitions to become a Children's illustrator, often advising her to give up on this dream. She seems to stay in the relationship through fear of being lonely, with her engagement to Lee having lasted 3 years by the beginning of the show.Gareth Keenan (Mackenzie Crook) is the Assistant to the Regional Manager. He is shown to be very loyal to David, perhaps the only person in the office who genuinely wants to help him, or even be around him. He is obsessed with the army, having been in the territorial army before. His colleagues also show little respect for him, with Tim and Dawn pranking him on many occasions.The comedy often comes from the character's awkwardness. I think people can relate to Brent's feelings of being wanted and loved by others, and a lot of people have probably been in awkward situations like the ones involved in the show.Overall I would highly recommend you watch every episode of this 14 episode, 2 series and 2 part Christmas special show. You won't be disappointed at any point of watching it. Fans of Extras, An Idiot Abroad, Shaun of the Dead and Sherlock will notice some familiar faces.
The OfficeDavid Brent is considered to be one of the most iconic character on television history and the best work of Ricky Gervais and unlike other things this hype is totally deserved and if anything it is underrated. Ricky Gervais defines smart comedy and offers some of his best work to this underappreciated genre something to look forward to by escalating the bar of itself in each and every episode only to come up with one of the best climax ever to be witnessed on television encircling the whole life of it in a short period. Ricky does his homework on his character thoroughly and makes sure he gets proper surrounding and palpable environment for the tone he aspires it to be with a great supporting cast like Martin Freeman and Mackenzie Crook. The Office sets out to introduce petty and practical behaviours among the most genuinely thought out characters written on screen and comes out more mature and human than ever witnessed.


                
It doesn't spoon feed you the jokes, but, if you are paying attention there is some super funny stuff here. If the people who made this never made anything else it would already be enough. I love David Brent as a character, he may say and do dumb things sometimes, but, he is a nice person who just wants to be liked. Tim and Dawn are more normal and Gareth is the perfect right hand man for Brent. You can see the influence of Larry Sanders. It is a great show and it deserves all the hype.


                
