The basic premise of ERASED is not totally unique - Time Travel. There has been a lot of movies and shows based on this concept but ERASED stands apart for several reasons. 1) Pace:: The anime moves at a soothing pace. It's neither too fast nor too slow, but ideal and so, it never gets boring or too hard to follow.2) Character Development:: There are a lot of anime in which even after watching 100-200 episodes, one would never feel empathetic with the characters. But in ERASED, even from episode 1, all the characters seem so real and you would really feel connected with at least one of them.3) Narration:: This is one of the few anime which shows the lead character thinking out his strategy. Like Code Geass and Death Note, you will get a clear picture about the insights.4) Animation Quality:: It has one of the best screenplays! There is also a lot of attention to details and colors are used very effectively to convey the message / emotions of the characters. It is definitely worth a watch, especially given that it is a short series.


                
Anime is simply amazing...In less words.It has a great plot and the in very first episode you will love the main character and his uniqueness.While watching anime you will be getting the feeling of watching a movie this the first i've seen which delivers that.There are scenes which will make at the edge of the seat before you know it.The voice actor of the protagonist (Shinnosuke Mitsushima) was his debut and he nailed it and he deserves a special applause.This anime will keep your mind in the story till the end of the episode and that's a big thing.It has great opening and ending song even though i don't understand Japanese the songs are good to hear.Their are no negatives i can point out in the anime.Art is great and it has nice background music.Anime overall is a must watch anime if you are looking for something good!! there hasn't been anime like this in a while..Must watch! :-)


                
Everything about this anime has a unique atmosphere which you can feel from the first episode.Story: Some people like to compare this anime to Stein's Gate because it involves some time traveling. Other people wondered about the mystery and crime genre and compared it to Death Note. This anime is neither of them. It doesn't revolve around time traveling as the main idea or the plot of the story. Also, it doesn't involve that much darkness and crime twist as Death Note. It is about loneliness and friendship, courage and hesitation, evil and good, family and abuse; It is about a lot.Art: The art in the anime is much better than the manga. It is also somehow unique than other animes I 've watched. You will unlikely to find mistakes while watching that may disturb you. The art is very well done.Sound: It just got me in the story. I didn't feel that there is a SOUND being played. I just felt the story going before my eyes while I am feeling it.Characters: I felt the characters as they're real. Actually, I think the characters are taken from real persons. The characters, their backgrounds, feelings and complications are very well put. You can watch the character grow up and evolve as you march through the anime.Enjoyment: YOU WILL NEVER GET BORED WATCHING THIS ANIME.Overall: I gave this anime 10/10


                
up till this point i have not bothered having an account on IMDb, but after seeing this anime i just had to make make a review, its just that good!the plot keeps you on the edge of your toes the whole time while the protagonist tries to change the unfortunate events from the past and present. the character development is amazing and you grow more and more attached to the characters as the time moves toward the darker and terrible events. There are moment in the anime which are utterly heartwrenching and other which make you feel happily warm inside. The music is just fantastic and sets the mood where it needs to be while also using silence to great effect.The similar themed anime called steins gate was a damn near perfect series, but Boku dake ga Inai Machi is just THAT much better.i give it 10 out of 10 a must watch for every anime fan with a taste for mature and thoughtprovoking plots.


                
ERASED also known as Boku dake gai Inai Machi is the breakout winter hit for 2016 based on the manga by the same name. Going into this series I was largely skeptical, between Aniplex as a business souring me on shows produced by them, the show's director being the same who did Sword Art Online adding to that a time travel plot I was set up for this to be a failure. The only thing this had going for me was hopefully a passable Yuki Kajiura score. From episode one I was already hooked and as the series continued on I was immensely pulled in by the strong atmosphere and strongly woven mystery.Time travel usually falls along one of two plot lines, set-right-what-once-went-wrong or change the future sometimes with overlap of both. In the case of Erased we have an overlap as our main character Satoru goes back to his past to rewrite the wrongs of history to solve a kidnapping he feels partly responsible for, for not doing enough to possibly prevent it in the first place and help a friend who was set up to take the fall for such a crime. Through the course of several episodes we see him craftily work out tactics as a grown man occupying the body of his 10-year-old-self. Slowly but surely he has to make a connection with Kayo, a seemingly cold and distant person but finding out she's a girl hiding incredible amount of pain in her life.As the episodes progress the series really is less about the time travel and more about a kid trying to do the right thing, even if that kid is really an adult. If not for the clever visual reminders and the ongoing mystery of the future which propels Satoru back in time, it would be easy to forget this is supposed to be a time traveling mystery.If the show has a few shortcomings it does unfortunately suffer slightly by it's short length. With a 12 episode count a good chunk of the story is focused on Satoru's efforts to save his classmate, Kayo Hinazuki from a grim fate and terrible home life while the other victims of the story largely come in and are quickly resolved. The who-done-it aspect of the mystery might not hold you for long thanks to some fairly obvious clues and hints but then again plenty of red herrings can keep you guessing all the same.The finale does bring some good emotional closure but as it is but felt rather rushed and anti-climactic as a culmination of 11 episodes worth of suspense and buildup. In spite of the flaw the dramatic pathos and tight scripting of the series as a whole should keep you engaged consistently.The animation by A-1 Pictures is quality with many good uses of symbolism in its art, color design and cinematography. The art of the manga is evolved to fluid and dynamic looking animation with clean looking character designs making them adaptable and distinguishable.Yuki Kajiura's music shapes up to make a good atmospheric score using her usual blend of synth and real instruments to mix and match mood of the series highs and lows. The opening theme provided by Asian-Kung-Fu Generation feels like a standard rock song but with a few listens manages to mesh decently into the series as a whole. The ending by Sayuri is a song bolstered by a good melody written by the accomplished Kajiura but hampered by a poor arrangement by Ryou Eguchi.ERASED in the end proves to be a gripping thriller filled with many emotional twits and turns and will leave you consistently on the edge of your seat. A few shortcomings aside I can't deny it had me biting my nails through most of it and I highly recommend it.


                
I've just recently started watching animes and after watching this one, I don't think I'll be able to enjoy the others as much. This is truly a masterpiece. The first episode alone will keep you hooked for the rest of the series. It's such an interesting and psychologically provocative story that will play with your feels, making you experience all sorts of emotions and keeping you on the edge of your seat while you watch as the narrative unfolds. It has beautiful animations, deep and really lovable characters and it touches on the subject of "Time Travel", which is almost always done wrong, but done perfectly well in this one. I don't want to spoil anything, I just think everyone should watch this and enjoy their well spent time whilst doing it.


                
So right from the description I knew this was going to be good, and as predicted I was dead on(at least for my tastes). This is one of the best titles I've seen yet. In ever aspect, the story is just spectacular, artwork & character designs are appealing, music is great. I have no real flaws with this as a person who has only seen the anime that is, apparently the manga has much more detail towards the later of the show but from what it shows I think it does just fine. This show gave me a feeling of Steins;Gate & Death Note. It was very well thought out & makes you think, every single episode leaves you with suspense that could kill. For me there's nothing else to even say. Don't look up any details about this, just watch it & you will not be disappointed.4.8/5 Why? Its spectacular, the story is so good. Every episode leaves you dying to watch the next. Artwork & animation is great. Music is awesome, the OP & ED are so catchy you can listen to them for days without tiring. All the characters are great. Its so close to perfection for me, my only wish (not a complaint) is that they would have just given it another 1-2 episodes & included the details that were missing from the manga. But even with that being said its perfectly fine the way it was done. I can almost guarantee anyone that watches this will enjoy it very much, & go on to add this to one of there all time favorites.


                
This anime? Man Is there a perfect definition of word "Awesome" available on the internet? I am sure it wont be enough to describe this Anime "Boku Dake Ga Inai Machi" aka "Erased".I am not gonna describe everything of it! Just gonna say some words- "If you liked Death Note, then you'll love this".Now move your lazy as* and go watch that series!But beware!!! After the latest episode you wont be able to resist the temptation of watching the whole series or reading the whole manga in one go!Lets see how much suspense you can handle!


                
Predominantly thriller it is a multi genre anime (supernatural,time- travel,psychological,love,crime and school). The plot is phenomenal very unique and well encapsulated. The characters are all intelligent(typical Japanese) and have different personalities,aura and kindness level the story is told from the perspective of a 29 year old Satouro Fujinama He is a struggling Manga artist and works past time in a pizza store. He develops a friendly relationship with 17 year old high school co worker there. He has a supernatural ability which he calls revival in which he relives his past and his actions can change/prevent the outcome/disaster. It gets pretty interesting when his mother discovers that the case about the mass abductions from when Satouro was a 5th grader had a totally different story than concluded by police, but Satouro had forgotten most of that. Same day she gets murdered and Satouro gets framed for that. Running from the police Satouro gets a rather long revival where he is now living as a grade schooler. It is now up to him to save his mother and do the justice.Another major character is Hinazuki about whom I will be mysterious so as not to spoil it for you. MUST WATCH <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+0097> THIS IS AN IDEAL THRILLER. Warning it is a little sad but no ideal thriller is possible without that *sigh
It is a great anime for those who are searching for something to see , actually. I dare say it is the best anime I've ever seen , the drama, the characters, the mystery involving the whole context , and develop the story, give a unique feature that leaves you stuck to discover WHAT happened and WHAT can happen , few anime new seasons bring this particularity personally recommend ! you will be amazed at the powers and dejavus that happen and how the story goes quickly and with a lot of content , and for those who are already watching , we have some theories? let your ideas of what is happening in this amazing work !!! do not forget to rate! this anime deserves pass too !
This anime opens in 2006 where protagonist Satoru Fujinuma has a strange power; if he witnesses something bad happening he travels back in time to just before it happens so he can prevent it happening. Typically he goes back a couple of minutes but after his mother is murdered, shortly after reminding him of a crime that happened when he was a child, and he is accused of killing her he finds himself back in 1988 when he is still in elementary school. The date seems relevant; a few days before Kayo Hinazuki, a girl in his class, had been kidnapped and murdered; he is determined that he will befriend and save her and in doing so hopefully have his mother as well. As the series progresses he will have to relive painful moments before learning who the killer is and in doing so he will but himself in real danger.This is a contender for the best anime of the season; the central idea works surprisingly well and one can't help but feel for Satoru as he struggles to save his mother, Kayo Hinazuki and other potential victims. The story is told in a gripping way and the fact that he occasionally jumps back in time means that he has to see them die again before he can save them. As the end approaches there is a feeling that the price of saving others could ultimately be his own life. The end isn't this bleak; some may even find it a bit of a cop out, but I felt it worked well enough. The characters are mostly likable, there are however some deliberately unpleasant characters; most notably Kayo's mother who routinely mistreats her. The series looks really good; beautifully capturing the downbeat nature of much of the story. I'd definitely recommend this to all anime fans as it is one of the best series I've seen in a while.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
Absolutely amazing and heartfelt show! Would recommend.


                
At this time most of shows are just run for next season but that not here this is a straight story that impress. Time jump to thriller and suspense. And even I watch this one time it is too cute story I watch this again. Live adaptation also happen but that does not touch this masterpiece.It gives you almost 3 different live of same person and a suspense that wait for you. You just see it yourself.Look I m Indian and watch this series in Japanese with English sub and watch this again and it stun me every and I understand everything in first time also now I looking for this kind of anime but never found one. I never gives a review expect if it is too good or too bad this is too bad may be after raid 2 this is only one which I like to said some thing about.


                
The anmie is magnificent in every thing The plot, the characters and the emotions. Everything that entertains anyone in this anmie.


                
A very well thought series. The character and story development is very compelling. I loved the ending, it goes full circle and makes you feel that the time investment was worth your while.


                
Great story, relatable characters, good voice acting, enough depth in background stories (except for the villain maybe, but ok). I watched it in one go. It could've had more eps if you ask me :)


                
Kept me interested since episode 1 and never stopped hitting me with emotions! The idea might not be the most original but damn did they do an amazing job with it. The raw emotions from all the characters were incredible. The animation was fantastic, writing was on point, suspense was killer and some of the most likable characters ever. Mom is best mom and who could ask for a better friend then Kenya and Satoru?The killer was definitely predictable but they wrote the ending perfectly. Amazing anime with great symbolism and morals. Anybody can be a hero by just making friends with somebody who seems lonely. You never know how that can change somebody's life.A must watch for anybody really. 10/10


                
This isn't something you'd experience, in fact, this isn't a usual anime. This is something else, a heartfelt, deeply emotional anime. I'm lonely in real life, this anime had my back in my lonely time, I'm grateful for everyone who worked on this masterpiece. Everything is 10/10. Please, don't ever miss this.


                
Animated TV Series at it's finest with perfect flow of narrative and storytelling.I have to say i have never been engaged to animated nor anime series ever like this one masterpiece here, i couldn't stop watching in one set. All the characters are well developed and all the moments are necessary to understand the plot and narration.Perfect storytelling, better than my previous favorite time travel anime : Steins;GateYou have to see it to understand, i can't spoil it for you. I have laughed, almost cried, shocked, appalled and disgusted many times through the 12 episodes. Everything you want from the perfect story telling, sci-fi, characters and much more. Watch it now!
This story revolves around a guy named satoru fujinuma who has ability of leaping back in time . A series of murder happens and he blames it on himself . to make these things right he leaps back in his early life and from here on suspense thrill begins . This has more thrill than death note , at least I think so. there hasn't been a this good suspense thrill in a while . The background music supports the plot and it really gives chills and goosebumps at a times . If you can hold back then watch the complete anime in one shot. I guarantee you , you will be glued to your bed and will forget to even move.I always save time for opening and ending songs but the songs of this anime are so awesome that I here it almost every time .so go ahead and enjoy it .


                
Very few anime-series I've watched with such as enthusiasm. Honestly, I do not recall when it was last time. Perhaps it was the original television series 'Neon Genesis Evangelion'. But it was in a long-gone era, when I was different and the anime were different as well. Now I'm hardly going to force myself to look through at least one series of 'NGE'.Surprisingly the "Erased", at first causing scepticism and rejection, eventually captured and did not let go my attention until the very last series. The mentioned scepticism and rejection were caused by elements of fantasy and detective, but they turned out to be only elements of entertainment, behind which there was a real story of the comprehension and regret of an grown up man about the mistakes of the past.And then a fantastic assumption, or "superpower", comes into play - what if it were possible to return to the past and to fix everything? To help children suffering from loneliness, to help the girl from a dysfunctional family who became a victim of domestic violence, to keep childhood friends? For the "fascination" authors added a thriller (the threat of arrest and trial) and a detective (a serial killer hunting for schoolchildren). It is vulgar and dubiously "interesting", but, alas, these are the conventions of popular mass culture. However, these conventions, if desired, can be successfully ignored, enjoying an imaginary journey into the past - into a world of corrected mistakes.After all, all these curtsey before the mass culture, indulging the bad taste of the public - the "butterfly effect," the detective, thriller - in the "Erased" are not at all important. The main character has plenty opportunities to do heroic things without those embellishments. He has to stop watching and to start doing something, to inspire his friends with his example. He has to take the risk by helping an unhappy, helpless girl, a victim of home violence and of ostracism in school, to help a friend to find the courage to act, to save other children from loneliness ... And to consider in a frivolous young colleague a deep, faithful and brave soul. To find love.Did he need super-powers, serial killers, thriller and detective for that? Of course not. But he needed a lot of moral effort, kindness, courage, mindfulness and strength of spirit. These are the qualities that make a superhero out of a boy.


                
This is an amazing anime. I started watching it, and I was blown away throughout all twelve of the episodes. The story is both incredibly intense and heart warming bittersweet at the same time, and it mixes those two moods PERFECTLY. The pacing is fantastic, it leaves plenty of room for character development and an in-depth story that keeps you watching from beginning to end. The music is fantastic, the opening song was okay, but the ending song was fantastic, and the music throughout was very well done and fit the tone for each of it's scenes beautifully. The animation is really good and detailed.The only downside I can point out is that it begins and ends a little too quickly. I watched the whole series in just one day, and thought there could have been more. There were eight volumes of the manga, but the manga was kind of losing it's charm, so even that might be a plus, but I would KILL for at least a few more episodes of this fantastic show.All in all, it's definitely worth watching, and every minute is amazing. It's inspirational, it's in-depth, it's got great messages, it's got a well-balanced story, It's incredibly intense, and many other reasons to watch. It's quite possibly one of the best shows I've ever watched.


                
wow okay i watched this as it were coming out on cruchyroll weekly and mate a got ta tell ya its one of the best not just anime but shows I've seen in a long time interesting characters twist at ever turn like when it turned out it was the teacher who killed the kids are when Satoru doesn't end up with the girl because he was in a coma 10 out of 10
This is my first review here in IMDb, so I chose "Boku dake ga Inai Machi" (known also as ERASED) because it's a masterpiece in the anime world. I won't talk too much, that's why I will make it a straight one for lazy ones can read it :3<U+2727> STORY: A really well-written and thrilling story that leave you wanting for more, especially the four first episodes. However, it becomes a little monotonous and rushed in the second half of the show. (because, obviously, the studio wanted to finish it in only 12 episodes)<U+2727> CHARACTERS: The main characters are realistic and interesting. Satoru, the protagonist of ERASED, is very boring as an adult, though he's so kind. His character, however, as a kid seems more interesting. You can't help but like him, with his great determination, willpower and cool side. There're also his mother, his co-worker Airi...<U+2727> ART: The animation is greatly well done. Also it's very suitable for a mystery anime. (In view of art, The anime is way better than the manga)<U+2727> SOUND: The OSTs, ED, OP are amazing! Also, Nice voice acting.<U+2727> ENJOYMENT: Don't worry, You WON'T GET BORED watching this show!<U+2727> CONCLUSION: ERASED is a must watch series for those interested in psychological mystery anime! <U+2727>


                
Starting the year of 2016 strong was this gem called Erased or in Japanese Boku dake Ga Inai Machi,this anme is about our main character Satoru which in the first episode is a striggling manag artist with something from the past holding him back but also some kind of power within him called "Revival". The first episode ends with a profacative shot overlooking the shock of satoru as he is sent back in time to stop a triple murder case of 3 kids in his hometown, the first 10 episodes is absolutely riveting with great pacing amazing writing and a awesome opening called RE;RE. In the final episode though when the killer comes back it is sort of predictable what happens, the killer is s jailed but it is a great ending, recommend this anime a lot.
