Ah, the Usual Suspects. My personal favorite movie of all time. Don't let my bias be a fool. Perhaps it's not THE best movie ever, but it's one that I never get tired of.If you like flash and bikinis and breath-taking camera angles, you won't find them here. Usual Suspects is not an "epic," and it doesn't pretend to be. It's a modestly-budgeted piece by a fresh director (who later went on to do the X-Men movies, a FAR departure).A great, gritty script, beautifully-acted characters, and what many have called the greatest movie ending of all time, are some of the shining qualities that make the Usual Suspects an object worthy of praise above its humble-looking shell.The casting is very unusual but somehow fits perfectly. Gabriel Byrne is convincing as the ex-con trying to build a new life when he gets drawn back into his old life. Stephen Baldwin has the role of his career as the smart-mouthed and cocky professional. Kevin Pollak takes a big departure from his usual good comedy self to take a more dramatic role. Benicio del Toro literally takes a one-dimensional character with absolutely nothing in the script to give him character, and he fleshes it out with brilliant mannerisms and memorable mumbling to show incredible acting creativity. Kevin Spacey as we know him was born from this movie. His manners and fast-talking yet shy gimp nature are a treat to listen to throughout the flick.Without giving away the plot, the best and most genius parts of the movie are the subtleties. After you see the ending, and the truth hits you like a ton of bricks, you have to watch it again. On the second time through, you'll jump up and point at the screen whenever you spot a clue you missed the first time. It's even possible to watch the movie multiple times and see something new with every viewing. It's that attention to detail that make the deceptively innocent-looking Usual Suspects one of the greatest movies of all time.


                
One day in a bookshop, I flipped through a book entitled: "the movies of the nineties" and this movie wasn't included! How can a book specialized in cinema skip such a milestone of the last decade? Any movie buff, any cinema critic must have considered the nineties a fruitful era for the American thriller. According to one's tastes, some will say that the best thriller of the nineties is "Silence of the Lambs" (1991). For others it will be "Pulp Fiction" (1994) while others will praise to the skies "Se7en" (1995). For me, the pinnacle is this present movie, "the Usual Suspects" (1995) with its staggering story (to put it mildly). It's a sensational debut for Bryan Singer which enabled to put him on the map. With a little help from his accomplice Christopher McQuarrie, he signed an unparalleled gem in the landscape of the American thriller, even the whole cinema.The average viewer who watches "the Usual Suspects" for the first time might think that the whole crew concocted him a meandering story with as a leading thread, Spacey's convoluted story. At the end of the projection, he may feel puzzled and will probably wish to watch the movie a second time. He won't regret it and Singer and McQuarrie will rejoice at it. Their masterwork gains by several repeated viewings to appreciate the subtleties of a rich movie with a convoluted construction which will take its seemingly definitive form in the five last minutes. To watch "the Usual Suspects" is like gathering the pieces of an intriguing puzzle, a little like any other suspenseful movie but in the case of Singer's flick, one will never really be able to completely end it. So many things happen in less than two hours that we are never really sure of what we watch and this is reinforced by a breathtaking unexpected twist at the end which makes our assumptions falter. Singer and McQuarrie take a mischievous delight in taking the viewer in their nebulous scenario and to follow it according to Spacey's declarations and it's obvious that they raise more questions than answers. It's up to the viewer to make his imagination work and to bring his thoughts on the film. This is what inspires its pernicious charm.From Spacey's story, the authors developed a top quality script, set with clockwork precision. Singer's directorial style virtually evolutes on the razor's edge and conveys an increasing tension. It is filled with ingenious visual ideas and served by fluid camera movements. Singer was in his early thirties when he shot his film but it presents the signs of a seasoned author. There's also a tight editing and a unsettling score which cement the movie in its place of winner. More remarkable, the authors pull off with gusto to increase the audience's curiosity throughout the film in spite of a somewhat deliberate confusion and the interest won't weaken until the end which constitute the apex: an unexpected twist which will leave the audience speechless once they understood it. In Singer's flick, it doesn't disappoint because there are little but noticeable visual and verbal clues which justify it. However, it has something unsettling. We believe that we are at the end of the maze but there's more to the picture than meets the eye. Maybe this "coup de theatre" veils one more truth. Maybe also the shrewdest ones will have guessed it but the result is the same for any viewer: Singer puts a baffled spectator in his pocket.Singer and Quarrie show a perfect master in the domain of the film noir: an ominous atmosphere, nocturnal scenes which stay rooted in the mind and a deep psychology of certain characters which give more substance to the film. Considering the last point, the character of Gabriel Byrne is the most interesting one: a former crooked cop who seemingly redeemed himself in catering but caught up by his past and forced to come back to work. I personally think that Byrne is the stand-out of the topflight cast the movie boasts. But don't neglect the other members. Kevin Spacey pocketed a deservedly Oscar in 1996 and the rest of the cast doesn't stay on the bench. Maybe Singer grants a little shallow attention to the three others baddies in the gang but in a way it's necessary to underscore the fact that they're lousy gangsters embroiled in a infernal spiral and unable to perceive what lies beneath all this. Pete Postlewhaite and Chazz Palminteri make their scenes count too.A riveting storytelling, a painstaking flash-back, a tight and first-class directing, a thoughtful twist, a topnotch cast, "the Usual Suspects" includes almost everything a director would sell his soul for. Everything contributes to make it a stalwart model in the suspenseful movie and the whole cinema. After the first vision, be prepared for mental gymnastics and for a second screening...


                
Such films like this should be enshrined in museums, simply due to the fact it destroyed the entire genre of mystery films. While this film was unique and captivating, no other mystery will ever accomplish this sort of cult status, single handedly shaping a genre. While most mysteries try to shock you too often with twists and even more twists, it turns out to be overkill. This film encompassed such ideas with flair and originality, which is probably the reason Brian Singer is sticking to sci-fi action films. Only Memento and The Game are the only recent mystery movies worthy enough to stand beside this film. Sadly, Singer has somewhat sold out by doing the X-Men movies, but I guess trying to make films like this would be too taxing. This film will always bring a smile to my face when I watch it with someone who hasn't seen this movie. A good viewing every time I watch it, the new special edition DVD is awesome.


                
Although the film is perhaps a little slow in fully developing, the consequent results are astounding. Spacey's performance is captivating and will only be fully appreciated once the viewing is complete. The supporting cast, including Gabriel Byrne, provide the basis for a convincing drama which will change the way you perceive crime thrillers in the future.One is required to discover the identity of the elusive Keyser Soze throughout the film and if it were not for the well thought-out script and professional dramatic acting then the viewer would feel a sense of anti-climax. However, this is not the case; you shall be left speechless and wondering how the film achieved its goal.
I have seen this movie many times and yet it still astonishes me every time I watch it.  Even though I know the ending I still feel myself being caught up in the plot.  It is possibly one of the greatest scripts of all time.  I can't remember another movie in which I was completely astonished at the finale.  The cast gives a tremendous performance.  Kevin Spacey gives one of his two best performances (the other being as John Doe in Se7en) in my opinion.  That is probably why he was awarded Best Actor for this role.  It was truly deserved.  Gabriel Byrne also gives a great performance.  It may be the best character Stephen Baldwin has ever played.  In all, this is a must for any movie collector or enthusiast.
If plagiarism were a crime in film techniques, director Bryan Singer would be imprisoned for life. Screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie would be serving a similar sentence. However, since it is not, Singer and MacQuarrie (who have joined forces again after the not-so-successful PUBLIC ACCESS) took advantage and duplicated nothing but the best. From CASABLANCA to PULP FICTION, and even a version of a line (intentionally or otherwise) from BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID.Many people oppose watching a film with a twist a second time. I disagree. By watching it again you can observe how the director and the screenwriter have hidden and revealed clues, how they have tried to steer the audience away from the ending. First time is for entertainment. Second time is for art. This film is certainly worthwhile to see again. To date, I have watched it five times. (Two of those five times I thought, 'well, I'll just watch about half-an-hour,' but ended up watching the entire film because it is so entertaining.) I'm not exactly a noir fan, so it is assured that this particular crime film appeals to a wider audience.THE USUAL SUSPECTS has a skilled director, an engrossing screenplay, and ten praiseworthy performances. The film runs a fast 105 minutes. Don't miss a minute of it.


                
Kaiser Soze is a super-criminal of almost comic-book stature. Legendary among an underground of testosterone and nicotine-driven low-life 'usual suspects' of this film - Soze - remains unseen, fantastic, just outside of the camera's view, and detached from any reality we might call familiar or real. Nevertheless, he is the central character in the film, and the single force of will driving the entire film. The viewer, like the characters portrayed, must constantly ask 'Who is Kaiser Soze, does he even exist?", and - as silly as it might seem - "is he the devil himself?". Soze's irresistible will is represented and enforced by an emissary (the stone-faced Pete Postlethwaite) who is just as cold-hearted as any of the hardened criminals who comprise 'The Usual Suspects'.The narrative begins and almost ends as a retrospective with just a bit of very necessary voice-over narrative by Spacey. His character - Verbal Kint - is interrogated by Palmintieri concerning the murder of several hardened criminals in a single night aboard Russian ship. Most of the major plot points are highlighted wonderfully by the changes of pace and camera work afforded by the shift between one plot - the events leading to Kint's interrogation - and another - the interrogation itself.Kint, physically disabled and emotionally disturbed, is himself a desperate, down-on-his luck, petty criminal whose chief talent seems to be getting mixed up with and attaching himself to more talented criminals. His latest 'friend' - Keating (Byrne) is a brilliant but depressive thief who is trying to straighten his life out for a woman lawyer he has fallen for. But along with the other 'usual suspects' - expert safe crackers, con men and sociopaths (possibly the best performance of Stephen Baldwin's career thus far) all - Keating is swept up into agreeing to do 'one final job'. In a fine piece of character interpetation, Byrne plays denial to the hilt telling himself that this job, if successful, could end his life in crime permanently. These expert thieves, con men and killers meet in a bogus police line-up one night and from that point on, they are bound together under the control of Soze until they either succeed or fail in the crime he has laid before them.Soze has been betrayed, whether directly or indirectly, by each of these men, and he leaves them all no choice. Accept the crime plan or die. They accept, knowing that their odds of success are, to say the least, very limited.The entire feeling of this film shifts radically from the action of the main plot (described in Kint's narrative) and the narrative itself (Kint's interrogation). While this may look simply like a clever piece of film work, it is actually a very brilliant plot device, as both story lines are finally united in the stunning and brilliant finish.While I am not usually a ready fan of mysteries, and even less interested in thrillers, this film was pure entertainment from start to finish.Director Singer has established himself as a pioneer in ensemble cast direction, and this film alone (his third) should have awarded him that title.The performances are, without exception, flawless. While flawlessness or some approximation of it is something I generally expect from people like Spacey, Byrne, and Del Toro, many of the folks in this film very much surprised me. I now watch out for folks like Kevin Pollak, for example. Without detracting from the performers whatsoever, some credit for the stunning quality of the performances must go to the director, editor, script and cinematography team. This film makes them all look positively great.I was bitterly disappointed by the fact that this film did not take many Academy Awards in its release year. While I realize that the academy's choices do not always reflect quality or achievement, I prefer to maintain at least a superficial guise of hopefulness. The fact that Usual Suspects did not win for editing was the biggest shock. I can not think of a better piece of editing.
Usual Suspects is one of the Best Mystery Thrillers in the world. It contains one of the greatest endings ever seen in any film. When i first saw this film, i understood 85% of the film. I had to watch it again, to recap on what happened earlier. After the second time i watched it, i realised this is a Superb movie with a fabulous twist. I have now seen this film about 20 times and seems to get better every time i watch it. Kevin Spacey delivers the greatest performance in his career. Gabriel is great, Benecio delivers a great performance with humour. Stephen is quite good in his best film. Pollak was impressive, Chazz Palminteri is a Superb underrated actor. Chazz looks ultimately smart and supposingly is a intelligent investigator. But Spacey turns out to be 10 steps ahead. Superb, brilliant and any other great ways to describe this film.
The Usual Suspects, is, in my mind, one of the most fantastic pieces of film-making ever to grace our screens. That a group of people can come up with a piece of fiction that is so excellent in every way, from start to finish, is frightening. Who knows, maybe this film has no superior.A lot is made of the film's ending. Not for a moment am I going to let slip what exactly that is. I would never deny another film lover the sheer sense of amazement that ran through my body when the film reached its climax. While not the film's only strong point; this is a masterpiece ALL the way through, the ending will blow you away.The cast is, in a word, flawless. Kevin Spacey has, as far as I am concerned, never been better. He turns in a performance that is so moving and outstanding that he should have got three Oscars. But he is not alone. Byrne is fantastic, Del Toro adds continental flair, and Postlethwaite is disturbingly dark, yet calculated.By all means watch this film, and observe its strong points, from Bryan Singer's masterful direction to the equally pleasing musical score. Prepare yourself for a rollercoaster ride and the best ending EVER in a film made anywhere in the world. I mean that.Oh, and when you have finished; by all means, watch it again!9.7/10Nothing in life is 100% perfect now is it?
Boasting petty criminal characters conceived so brilliantly they achieve near-mythological status, The Usual Suspects is known for riveting suspense and action, an intriguing plot line and a jaw- dropping twist at the end. It also features some of the most memorable lines of the 1990s: "How do you shoot the devil in the back--what if you miss?" The characters, Roger "Verbal" Kint (Kevin Spacey), Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne), Michael McManus (Stephen Baldwin), Fred Fenster (Benicio Del Toro), Todd Hockney (Kevin Pollak), Dave Kujan (Chazz Palminteri) and Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite) have real character details and cues.The film is set in the aftermath of a ship fire that totally burns the cargo and crew. Though meek and disabled, Verbal is the only survivor to walk away from the incident unscathed. He is taken into custody and grilled by the police. Brilliantly played in a characteristic, understated style that earned Spacey an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, Verbal is cleared and allowed to leave. But before he can go, agent Kujan from US Customs shows up to interrogate him. Kujan is trying to build a case against Keaton and he wants Verbal to testify in exchange for immunity. Verbal refuses, but Kujan still bullies Verbal into recounting his story of Keaton, McManus, Fenster and Hockney, leading up to the explosion on the ship. What follows is a fantastic yarn of lies and half-truths sprinkled within the facts of the case. It is all masterfully portrayed as a series of flashbacks while Verbal and Kujan sip coffee and talk in the LA police station. The story begins six weeks earlier in New York City as Verbal and the other four criminals are brought in to stand side-by-side in a police lineup. None of them are formally charged with a crime, and there are indications Keaton has actually gone straight prior to the roundup. But before they are released, the five hatch a plan to get revenge on the corrupt NYPD and make a large sum of money in the process by robbing a police-protected jewel smuggler and leaking news of the police involvement to the press. Keaton is reluctant and must be coaxed into it with the promise that no one will be killed in the heist. He agrees and the quintet pulls off the robbery to perfection. The acting and writing take chances that pay off, with each actor fully immersing himself in his role. Del Toro creates a uniquely colorful persona in his portrayal of Fenster, Baldwin conveys a reckless abandon and lust for violence, Pollak shows steely courage and resolve, Byrne is a complex mesh of toughness with motives pulling him in all directions. Each actor is at the top of his game. The five criminals go to Los Angeles to lay low in the aftermath of the New York heist. There, they are enticed into another robbery that is also supposed to involve no killing. Unfortunately, this LA heist goes horribly wrong. As Verbal recounts this carnage, its aftermath and the growing problems and hostility in the crew, agent Kujan receives a tip from one of his colleagues who has a survivor pulled from the water near the charred wreckage of the ship. The witness is badly burned and cannot speak English, but insists that the man responsible for the destruction of life and property on the ship is named Kaiser Soze. Whether it is attributable to lies in Verbal's yarn or odd casting decisions, several characters in The Usual Suspects add to the film's mystique. Chief among these is the Irish Postlethwaite cast as the Japanese Kobayashi. There is a strong clue at the end that the name Kobayashi is used solely to mislead Kujan. But Kobayashi is not the only instance of a character's name failing to match his appearance. Another example is McManus' contact in LA, Redfoot, which one would expect to be the name of a Native American. But Redfoot appears to be caucasian. Again, at the end there is an indication that Verbal used Redfoot to avoid giving Kujan a real name. Strange ethnic inconsistencies crop up constantly. Kaiser Soze is said to be Turkish, possibly with a German father. These mixed-up character portraits add a layer of complexity to the plot, but one must always consider the source, Verbal Kint, and his motives. The dynamic between Kujan and Verbal itself is pure entertainment. A kind of cat-and-mouse game, nuances are thrown into the proceedings that make it more interesting and add depth to the characters. Even the way the interrogation is filmed is unique. Verbal didn't achieve his nickname for no reason. He knows how to run his mouth and Kujan has a difficult challenge in corralling him. Underlying the interrogation is Kujan's suspicion of Keaton and his belief that Keaton manipulated Verbal. But Verbal is hard to pin down and Kujan occasionally resorts to bully tactics. But who is Kaiser Soze? Did he orchestrate the police lineup in New York, and pull all the strings ever since? Is the cargo of the ship drugs or only human cargo? Why did Verbal survive unharmed while so many others did not? Did Keaton really die, as Verbal insists, or did he slip away, as Kujan believes? Is Verbal telling the truth? Much is revealed in the final moments of the film, which wash over the viewer like an enormous wave of recognition. Snippets of dialogue from earlier in the film are montaged over the complex score, providing spine-tingling clues about exactly what part of Verbal's yarn was fact and what was fiction. The final snippet of dialogue, followed by a fortissimo string finale is especially powerful: "and like that...he was gone."


                
This film has got to be one of the greatest in recent history. The ending superb, the acting of the highest caliber, this film shines as the most memorable, clever, and re-watchable of this decade. I personally have seen The Usual Suspects over fifty times, and each time I learn something new. Last year I watched the movie every day for a month, twice a day on weekends. It doesn't matter that I know what happens to each character, it doesn't matter that the end is already placed in the back of my mind, just waiting to explode onto the screen before my eyes in a visual and psychological masterpiece.When I call the film memorable, I would cite the acting of Kevin Spacey as a prime example. His performance almost makes the end forgetable (even after I've spent so long spouting how memorable the film is. Bare with me, it all makes sense when you take a step back). As I watch from start to finish, I get so wrapped up in the story, and in searching for minor details that I definitely missed the first fifty times (the first six or seven times you are too busy grinning at the obvious facial gestures and body language that you missed the first time around that almost guide you to the logical, yet completely loopey climax), that it never gets boring to me. I will probably continue to watch this incredible movie for the rest of my life.The supporting cast each lends a little to the overall high quality of this film, in their own way. Postlethwaite is a tall, dark, mysterious enigma; Baldwin is a loud, comedic psychopath; Del Toro adds a quirky accent and sex appeal; Pollack comes through with spunk and charm; Palminteri shines as the arm of the law with pizazz; Byrne is the wistful dreamer, searching for the straight life, caught in a snare between the law that holds him down and the unrelenting crime world that calls him deeper into the criminal fold; and Spacey, well my dear Kevin Spacey is the highlight of the film, innocent and true to his feelings, observant, worthy of sympathy, and admiration towards the end, and the Oscar is well deserved for this stellar performance.The movie is action packed and well rounded, leaving the viewing audience stunned, baffled, bewildered, and ready to watch again. After the last line is uttered I feel like I did the first time I watched the film, completely in awe for the master deception. I recommend this movie to everyone I know (and don't know for that matter), for it is truly what a movie should be: entertaining and thought provoking. It is my favorite movie of all time (slyly beating out Gone with the Wind).
1995's beautifully structured "The Usual Suspects" is really a very simple story. One of only two survivors of a ship explosion (Kevin Spacey) tells a story to the police detective (Chazz Palminteri) in charge of the case about how five career criminals - the "usual suspects" - met in a lineup and wound up working for the man whose very name strikes terror into the hearts of men - Keyser Soze.As a result, two names were on everybody's lips for some months to come: Kevin Spacey and Keyser Soze.With a crackerjack script by Christopher Quarrie, great direction by Bryan Singer and terrific performances, The Usual Suspects couldn't miss. And it doesn't. Thirteen years later, I remember it as vividly as the day I saw it. I just saw it again, and it's as good as ever.Its other stars are the handsome Gabriel Byrne as Keaton, a bad cop who at one point faked his death to avoid criminal charges; and Stephen Baldwin, Benicio del Toro, still a distance from stardom, Kevin Pollak, and Giancarlo Esposito as Kobayashi, Keyser Soze's persuasive assistant.As a scared, not very bright gimpy man, Kevin Spacey is a knockout and well-deserving of his Oscar, his Golden Globe, his SAG Award, his New York Film Critics Award and all his other honors. The writer, Christopher McQuarrie, justly won the Oscar and several other awards. The film and director Singer probably deserved more awards than they received, but it doesn't matter. The Usual Suspects is a modern classic.The greatest trick the devil ever played was convincing the world he didn't exist...and then he's gone.


                
Subtlety is a very important thing in any good thriller. Not only does subtlety reduce the ridiculous amount of "in-your-face-quality" that today's thrillers seem to love, which effectively makes then just plain old action movies, subtlety shows that a film has respect for its audience. It doesn't feel like it has to explain everything at every step of the way since it knows that an interested audience will be on the lookout for hints as to what is going on. That's what makes films like this enjoyable. In fact, that what makes any film enjoyable. It isn't just a barrage of images, but rather an engaging sequence of them. This sequence can be unchronologically organized or in any number of ways obscured to create suspense, but as long as it is engaging, the audience will be happy."The Usual Suspects" is such a thriller. It can be enjoyed with the eyes as much as the brain. There are numerous hints as to what is really going on and the final climatic twist is really a great one. Even then, upon seeing the whole film, the second viewing only gets better as that is when a keen viewer will pick up on all those subtleties that hint at the result which they are now familiar with. These subtleties are not just obscurely placed props but are woven into the film's montage with clever camera angles along with certain key objects seen on screen. It is a thriller worthy of Hitchcock or the best of DePalma. Nothing is in needless excess and even the profanity is well written and there are no pointless macho wisecracks. Simply put, everything works in this movie. And it works very well. Even upon multiple viewings the film captivates with its clever composition and that can only be a good sign. --- 10/10Rated R for violence and profanity. Ages 13+


                
.......................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FLSUSPECTS larger-than-life allure results from a seamless blending of elements: Psychodrama, Action, Suspense and Mystery, all built on intricate storytelling, a dynamic screenplay and taut direction, by Bryan Singer. The aforementioned are all bolstered by credible in-depth character development, brought to life by an outstanding cast, who flesh out each role to chilling near perfection. (Kevin Spacey, seen here before most people would have recognized his name, received an Oscar for his "supporting" role!) But let's not get sidetracked. More than anything else,"SUSPECTS" is about the unparalleled unsettling reaction you get from viewing it! From the first scene to the end credits, it gets a headlock on your psyche, while sending the pit of your stomach into endless free fall! The only way to illustrate this, without giving away any key elements of the film, is a detailed look at the opening scene....a peerless example of instant timeless classic film noir.On a boat, docked in San Pedro Harbor, the dying sole-survivor of an apparently devastating bloodbath shootout painfully ignites a thin trail of gasoline. His obvious intention: Destroy EVERYTHING...himself included! From a deck higher up, an unseen someone pisses out the trail of flames. The shadowy figure walks down the stairs with an unhurried deliberation and saunters over to the agonizing man he has just saved. They exchange somewhat forced greetings and a few disjointed words of banter.Without warning, the intruder firmly raises a pistol, his unblinking gaze reflected in eyes locked in contact with his own. Unhesitatingly, he fires two consecutive shots. A brief pause of contemplation ends when he casually lights a cigarette, strategically dropping his lighter to rekindle the liquid fuse, and then beats a hasty off-board retreat. What better way to introduce a character whose twisted iron resolve is so perverse, so deranged, that he saves a doomed man seconds before certain death, solely for the unmitigated pleasure derived from looking him squarely in the eye, his victim looking right back, while pulling the trigger himself.Without uttering a syllable, his actions shout out, "I p**s on you and your puny existence!" His victim's final moments are thusly converted into a living/dying testimony, clearly demonstrating who it is that decides the particulars of when and how he will die! "SUSPECTS" has been severely critiqued by a vocal minority (to paraphrase another reviewer) for not knowing the difference between a plot twist and a non sequitur. With all due respect to the reviewer, who painstakingly highlighted the difference for us, perhaps a careful second viewing would shed some light on the source of this common confusion. After watching "SUSPECTS" four times making every effort to employ my most discerning eye, I am convinced the true genius of the movie hinges on this particular point! Let me underscore my unequivocal recommendation of this film with a special note to those of you who avoid the Action or Suspense genre because of your distaste of the excessive violence that generally characterizes them. Well, THIS IS NO Robert Rodriguez FILM! A lot of the scenes are done in the "Old School" style, where the violence is kept off-screen. Although there is considerable TALK in "SUSPECTS" about some of the most dastardly deeds imaginable, virtually none of this is graphically portrayed. So, PLEASE, if you have not seen it yet, because of this reason, I urge you to make an exception in this case...10* STARS*! GET IT AND SEE IT!......ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome!


                
This is a great movie, lots of twists and turns. Kept you guessing till the end. I saw this movie years after it came out and was surprised that the ending was never leaked out I was very surprised to find out at the end of the movie Verbal's true identity. A lot of well known actors were in this movie. Kevin Spacey did a wonderful performance. Kevin Pollack had a few one liners that were funny- his stand up act is very good. I thought it was hilarious when Pollack called Spacey peg leg. I really enjoyed the interaction between Stephen and Benico. They have good chemistry with one another. Chazz did a great job as the detective.
One month ago, I was at work finishing some boring reports. After finishing them, I surfed the web in order to find really good movies I haven't watched yet; more precisely on IMDb, when I checked the IMDb Top 250 list out . I knew most of the movies, at least I've watched the plot, nevertheless this didn't happen with Usual Suspects, I have never watched a trailer or read some synopsis<U+0085>Nothing. Therefore I rented the movie which from my point of view started kind of slowly. Afterwards, I honestly felt confused about the combination of scenes in different timeline; you need to pay close attention to the unexpected and subtle movements on the storyline. Suspense, tension and psychological terror might be the exact words to describe this masterpiece, tangled story with several important characters whom cannot be ignored, with the masterly performance of Kevin Spacey who totally deserved the Oscar for best actor. You must stay hooked up to the screen because this film has in my opinion the best movie ending of all time. Only thing that sucks about this movie is that you can only watch it for the first time once.


                
From the witty title to the execution of the plot, I am amazed and truly bewildered by this story's beautiful bait. After watching this, you will realize the value of thinking out-of-the box.I love each character, they all gave justice to their roles as 'felons'; Each surprised me with their wits and their weaknesses, too.If you want a beautiful bait, a forward-thinking suspense and thriller, count this movie in. The plot is brilliant so as the script, I had to re-watch it and see where did I miss. It is fast, it is witty and it will need a nanosecond speed-of-light mind to solve this puzzle. You will never get bored with this one I swear.


                
No really, I have no words. I watched this for the first time a couple of weeks ago and I stayed glue until the last second...which by the way is crucial in this movie. Even writing this now I don't even know where to begin about how much I loved it. It was just such a good story with, as far as my standards go, the best plot twist I have seen so far in film. I don't think anyone could have played Verbal better than Kevin Spacey, he just dominates this film to the point that at the end I actually clapped for him...and I was watching this home alone at 2am. There was no performance left half-assed, everything just fell into place. Watch it...just please watch it.


                
One of the best crime/thrillers out there,The Usual Suspects has one of the best plot twist endings ever for a movie.Five criminals are lined up and really have nothing in common.The film is told using flashback and narration as it tells the story of Roger "Verbal" Kint (two time Academy Award winner Kevin Spacey who won his first Oscar for this film-Best Supporting Actor)who is a small time con-man being interrogated by U.S Customs Agent Dave Kujan(Academy Award nominee Chazz Palminteri) over an incident that takes place near a shipping yard in Los Angeles.The film has a great ensemble cast to it with the likes of ,Stephen Baldwin,future Academy Award winner Benicio Del Toro,Kevin Pollak,Gabriel Byrne and Academy Award nominee Pete Postlethwaite.It also won the Best Original Screenplay(Christopher McQuarrie) and was directed by Bryan Singer(X-Men)Bravo to all those involved in a spectacular crime classic like The Usual Suspects!


                
The film "the usual suspects" is brilliant by means of many different facets of film making; and brought together perfectly to comprise one of the most historic and critically acclaimed films of all time. To start, the plot alone is intelligent and baffling, so much that the general public is challenged to piece together a seemingly surrealistic account of mystery and murder. However, there's more to this movie than just the mere genius behind the plot. For starters, the cinematography, editing, and acting are captured perfectly to not only portray a story, but involve the audience as though they were to experience the story themselves. Additionally, the actors are brilliant and capture each character as precise as necessary to accurately forshadow the climactic point of the movie that leaves audiences breathless.However, behind the brilliance of the film, the editing, the acting, the storyline, the script, and the cinematography; are the ingenious facts hidden within the movie's composition. The antagonist himself was based off of a real-life serial murderer, whose actions are depicted in the film under alternative pretenses.In all, this movie portrays the perfection of cinematography and should be the precedent that movie-makers strive to achieve.


                
A good suspense film generally requires the following: A strong plot that is both believable and understandable A misdirection deliberately made to distract the audience Good acting skills Good sequencing of scenes Good use of camera angles and ambiguous shots to confuse the audience Superb twist at the end of the movieWell this movie has got it all. First, there is this wonderfully crafted plot that holds everything the audience wants to know and reveals them bit by bit. Then, just when seemingly the last bit of clue is revealed and the puzzle is solved, we realise this puzzle is completely wrong. Truth is, the last 10 minutes of this film displays passive excitement to the limit, and i do not think any other film can create this sort of excitement in such a non aggressive way.The way the flashbacks are used is definitely novel, and pretty much adds to the suspense creating potential of this film. Character development is top notch, not one character is boring or not worth remembering. In fact, everyone in this movie is refreshing. There's a crippled conman, a person who can't really speak English, and of course vulgarity exemplified Macmanus. Keaton, though, was the soul of this film.Then there is this twist towards the end of the movie that is so wonderfully directed and so wonderfully hidden from the audience. This movie is one of those rare films that can be watched twice in a row without force, or without much force, for it is simply intriguing and well crafted.Excellent, 10 out of 10
The first and best reason to remember The Usual Suspects is one single line, spoken by low-level crook Verbal Kint (Kevin Spacey): "The greatest trick the Devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist". The cult phrase refers to Keyser Soze, a legendary criminal mastermind who, while unseen (or not, depending on the point of view), dominates the events of Bryan Singer's small yet massive masterpiece, the most accomplished entry in the thriller genre made during the '90s.Christopher McQuarrie's complex, intelligent and Oscar-winning script (lots of flashbacks in this one) kicks off with the final stage of a massacre, culminating in the execution of a certain Dean Keaton (Gabriel Byrne) and the explosion of the boat on which 27 people were brutally murdered. The sole survivor, the aforementioned Verbal, tells Detective Dave Kujan (Chazz Palminteri) how it all started: six weeks earlier, someone stole a truck, and five "usual suspects" were lined up and arrested. These included Verbal and Keaton, plus the arrogant Todd Hockney (Kevin Pollak), the dim-witted McManus (Stephen Baldwin) and the latter's lover, the hard-to-understand Fenster (Benicio Del Toro, who apparently really had problems when it came to making his lines intelligible).Now, as Keaton pointed out then and Verbal points out now, the usual strategy is putting one real criminal alongside four random buffoons who practically participate in line-ups for a living. Why were those five sharing a cell, then? The answer pops up after their release: the five suspects are contacted by a sinister attorney who goes by the name Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite) and told that they have to fulfil an assignment for Keyser Soze, otherwise they will all die. As the story proceeds, the incredulous police come to realize they're not dealing with the usual crime, or the usual perpetrators for that matter.The film is clearly an independent production (all scenes were filmed in a limited number of locations, mostly indoors, and the director himself famously appeared in front of the camera in some of the close-ups), but it certainly thinks big, like most smaller films from the late '80s and early '90s. The title is of course an explicit homage to Casablanca, one of Singer's favorite movies, and the intricate plotting is blockbuster-worthy (if only most blockbusters were written this well). What it lacks in size it makes up for in mood and tension, both of which are provided largely through John Ottman's editing and music.The other key attraction, sort of inevitably with such a cast, is the acting: Del Toro's performance promised a very bright future (and Traffic and 21 Grams have done nothing to prove him wrong), Byrne, Baldwin and Pollak delivered the last truly memorable silver-screen work of their careers (not that Baldwin had that much to speak of in the first place), and in the crippled, verbose Kint Spacey found the perfect role to impose himself as one of the fundamental screen presences of our time. And that's without mentioning the elusive figure of Keyser Soze: whether he's physically portrayed by someone or not, he is rightfully remembered as one of the most enduring cinema villains ever created. Not bad for a guy who hardly has any screen-time at all (or does he?).Alongside The Silence of the Lambs and Se7en, The Usual Suspects qualifies as the most intelligent and enjoyable thriller of the '90s. The extra points it scores are all due to the particular nature of its "central" villain: even more than Hannibal Lecter, Keyser Soze and his tricks won't leave your mind very easily.


                
A lot can be said about the Usual Suspects that makes you wonder just what kind of film it is: epic twists, killer dialogue, excellent performances, hardcore action and much more. All of these beg the modern question... who did the director steal his best ideas from? Well that's just it. Although Suspects does owe a debt of gratitude to many films, Casablanca being one example, it was made a long time before the recent crop of films created by directors nicking their best ideas of other people.This is no Tarantino-esquire film because it was made before he hit the full heights of his popularity. It has no Shyamalan style twist because old M. Night probably got the idea from Suspects. In short, this was the film that provided the catalyst for an awful lot of what we now regard as standard in our noirish, modern films.For anyone who has yet to see this movie any talk of the plot would spoil the surprise, not just the one at the end but the genuine thrill of seeing every actor involved create an ensemble piece of such exquisite pace, tension and thrill. Whether it's Benicio Del Toro's bizarre Fenster, Kevin Pollack's bitter-sweet Hockney or even Stephen Baldwin's characteristic McManus, this film has a bunch of actors doing perhaps their best work to date, even beyond the five in the line up.There are a few minor quibbles. Continuity provides a problem in places as does the explanations for some characters' motives. The film jumps around different time-lines fairly unpredictably and you can be forgiven for wondering whether the whole thing is just a big shaggy dog story. On the other hand, as twisty turny thrillers go this one can't be beat.If you have yet to do so buy, not see or rent but buy, this film, watch it all the way through with no one (as they'll be hopping up and down on their seat desperately trying to explain the clever bits and pieces that Singer and co have strewn throughout) and enjoy one of the best examples of modern film making. You must be warned though, when I saw it for the first time I had to start it again right from the beginning just to get to grips with the ending!


                
Wait a minute... five criminals in one lineup? There's something wrong here, right? Right... In "The Usual Suspects," not only every line but every gesture, every facial expression and every camera cut counts. Even if you distrust the story being told, you can't exactly pin down everything that's wrong with it. The plot unfolds through the tale extracted from Kint, one of two survivors of a massacre and subsequent explosion on a boat docked in San Pedro Harbor, by U.S. Customs agent David Kujan (Chazz Palminteri). And at the same time as Kint is spinning his yarn, in a nearby hospital the other survivor (badly injured and fresh out of a coma) helps a police sketch artist draw a picture of the mastermind behind the scheme - "the devil," Keyser Söze. You can watch this movie countless times, and you will still discover new subtleties every single time. Not only will you find that it still makes sense after the story line has been unraveled at the end (which therefore is a plot twist, not a non-sequitur). You'll also discover nuance upon nuance in Kevin Spacey's incredible performance. You'll see that tiny apologetic grin on Todd Hockney's face as attorney Kobayashi (Pete Postlethwaite) lists a weapons truck heist - the very act which brought them together in the initial lineup, and which they have all come to believe to have been a trumped-up charge - as Hockney's latest sin against Keyser Söze, now forming part of the debt to be repaid by participating in the suicide mission in San Pedro Harbor. And at some point you'll also have figured out all of Fenster's lines (not being a native English speaker, I am relieved to find that I wasn't the only one struggling with them at first)... although the mumbling is of course part of his character, and is as excellently delivered as every other aspect of Benicio del Toro's acting, his lines are so funny and to the point you almost wish he'd speak more clearly so you wouldn't miss half his punch lines the first time around. This masterpiece of cinema deservedly won the best screenplay Oscar and best supporting actor Oscar for the wonderful Kevin Spacey in 1995. The film is a modern day classic with all the elements of great film making coming together. A fantastic script combined with brilliant direction and a cast that seemed to be thoroughly enjoying itself, this is 1940's film noir at its very best, brought thoroughly up to date for the 1990's, combining clever little references to the past with very modern settings at that time. Action, suspense, plotting, double crossing - the whole kit and kaboodle.Overall rating: 10 out of 10.


                
Forget M. Night Shyamalan with his plot holes and fall-apart final acts, this film has, unarguably, the most well-executed finale of this sort, at least of the 90s! Great writing, shuffling time frame to keep you on your feet, details and full scenes that see completely different the second time you see it, and brilliantly played from top to bottom, this is Film Noir at its best! The fact Bryan Singer was a young first-time director makes the whole thing all the more incredible to watch; you simply can't believe this is the product of a crew healmed by somebody so supposedly inexperienced. In his own words, perhaps if he tried to make this now, he wouldn't be able to......so I say, thanks goodness it came to him when it did! To say anything else would be to spoil the experience....just see it!


                
