I first viewed The Usual Suspects a decade ago, lulled into the cinema by a plethora of pretentious critics and knowing smart alecs who claimed this was the most intelligent piece of film making in a generation. I left the cinema confused and devoid of any experience which could be mistaken for entertainment.THe Usual suspects starkly demonstrates all that is wrong with modern film making and their all too gullible audiences. I won't even begin to summarise the confusing plot if that is what you would care to call it. Fellow reviewers who try to do so are simply wasting their energy. Why bother to do so when it clearly makes no sense, has no structure,and is meaningless.Or perhaps writer and director McQuarrie and Singer have the guile of the tailors of the apocryphal emperors non existent clothes. They are probably laughing themselves senseless at the army of critics who hail this as great film making and the sheep like audience who teemed into movie theatres at their behest.


                
The Usual Suspects is a movie regarded by many as one of the best crime dramas of all time. As any crime drama it opens with a puzzle: a scene unfolds and the viewer watches tentatively, every detail potentially being the one that blows the mystery wide open. Soon we find ourselves a fly on the wall, watching an interrogation between a slimy character named "Verbal" and a rather generic law enforcer. The conversation twists and turns from hostility, to bargaining, to mutuality as angles are played on both sides to try and outsmart the other.Verbal begins to replay his story, and we immediately mistake a point of view for objectivity. Before long a daring plan for a heist arises, as does the name "Keyser Soze", a legendary villain unphased even by murdering his own family to proclaim to the world just how much of a big bad wolf he really is. The story itself becomes harder and harder to follow, as motivations and means twist more and more. The mind strains trying to follow it all, blissfully unaware of whats to come. The film presents itself as something to be solved, and we all race to try and beat the movie at its own game. The conclusion, argued by many as brilliant, is nothing more than a Deus Ex Machina. Its the film equivalent of "and it was all a dream", with just a little more window dressing. We discover Verbal has used his surroundings to manufacture the entire story, and even more importantly, is in fact Keyser Soze.A stunning realization, no doubt. The more I thought about the shocking final minutes, the more I came to reason that I hadn't been fooled, I had been cheated. A plot twist makes new sense of something you've seen before, but in The Usual Suspects there's nothing to indicate we are seeing Verbals description, and not simply the past.Think of all the movies where a person begins describing a scene, and it cuts back to that scene happening. Are we looking at what actually happened, or what the character is describing? Its difficult to say for certain, but it is hardly unreasonable to expect the former. Playing on such a fickle element of cinematography is risky business, and I was hardly sold.So much rides on the final minutes, and many are impressed because it dares to do what few other movies consider: to make an hour long turn of events completely irrelevant. We don't see it coming, but whilst the writers were wondering if they could, they never stopped to wonder if they should.
right, so this movie is really clever?... at no point are we given any clues regarding the twist... so it could have been anything... how bout i write a movie where a guy tells a story about a heist and all the things that happen, and then everyone gets killed by aliens that appear out of the blue in the last minute of the movie?... what a twist!... you never would have seen that coming! despite that, the ending is very predictable... the fact that kint is the only one left is a dead giveaway... i'm usually terrible at spotting the ending of even the most predictable Hollywood fare, and i had this one pegged 20 minutes from the start...so is the script any good WITHOUT the twist?... i think quentin Tarantino has got the funny banter between tough guys down pat, but this movie?... total snoozefest... just a bunch of one dimensional hoods engaged in a boring, pointless quest (i couldn't even be bothered to follow the story as without the twist, it's very dull)...you know, they accuse shyamalam of being a one trick pony, but at least the sixth sense has some good acting, atmospherics, a creepy story and a script... some type of silent fascination...this movie is unbelievably overrated... i might have given it a 4 or a 5 but it really deserves to be taken down a peg or two, as i cannot see ANY justification for this being in the IMDb top 250, flawed list or not...and if i have one more person with a joint tell me it's genius, i'm going to puke... i hear that expression the emperor's clothes bandied around a lot on the IMDb, and if there's any movie on these boards that does deserve that over-used put down... well you know where to find the usual suspects...
The only best thing about The Usual Suspects is that there were possibilities of better story deriving from the concept which the writers brought up with.Five strangers meet & work together for their criminal career till some super-don known as "Keyser Soze" blackmails them to rob a ship with valuable drugs and to kill the on board drug dealers. The ship don't have any drugs and four out of the five-some are killed by the Don himself, just to know in the end that the fifth survivor himself was Keyser Soze who plans the whole thing by conning his short-time partners. The Con was made up actually to kill a person who was about to disclose the identity of Keyser Soze to his rivals.Again, the fifth survivor (Verbal Kint played by Kevin Spacey) when gets caught after the Ship is destructed, is offered immunity and when interrogated bluffs the whole story as he being insane and part of the con.So the first question arises is IF AT ALL "KEYSER SOZE" WAS THAT Powerful, why he needed some filthy criminals to get the work done for him ? IF he was that intelligent, didn't he knew the possibilities ? Keyser Soze imitating as Verbal kint is projected as a much clever approach but still at the end he is recognized by the Customs & Police.This film is overrated and at the end it does not become a lavish outcome, primarily because, it projected the whole plot very simple-to-happen. The script is shabby and was kept concentrating more on flash backs & uniqueness in story-telling editing patterns. The direction never planted intensity & realistic approach. The dialogs are over spoken to relate the cleverness of the plot which was not necessary. The Custom officers are shown dull and organizations effort for detailed investigation was too loose to believe.Secondly, this is not an ad wherein if you cant convince then better confuse. Even the confusion given to the audience is not worth thinking on it. The fatal flaw is just the loss of sensibility that a Mafia Gangster just need not do all these efforts to finish a Job which was easy to handle for them !
I shall be crucified by so many other people, but I must state my opinion on this movie.  There is so much plot in this movie(which is a good thing), but never once was it backed up by characters that were believable or likeable. There was no character development, and I thought the acting was so bad that it deserved to be in stupid comedy movie.  Therefor, I thought it was very boring.*spoiler*I would also like to add that this is another one of those movies that had a twist ending I could see long before it got to the end of the movie.  I just had this feeling Kevin Spacey was going to be the mastermind behind everything, and low and behold, I was correct.  I just thought that he could have been making up some of the story as it was all being told from his point of view.  I thought his acting seemed so obvious, and it seemed like he wasn't telling the truth, as he seemed to be purposely acting.  Then, we find out that nothing in the story could have necessarily been true, and that he was most likely making up every detail in the story.  I'm sure if you put enough interest into it, you could have separated what actually happened from what he read off the wall, but I'm not sure why anyone would want to. Rating: 5/10
I only rented this movie because it was rated so high on IMDB and usually the ratings are pretty accurate.I have to confess that I couldn't get past the first 30 minutes, so perhaps I'm not entitled to post a comment. Although the fact itself that I did not have patience to watch more than 1/4 of the movie should say something...The movie was very, but very stupid. I have read over and over again that it's very good, but I saw nothing good about it. I was expecting an extraordinary psychological movie, but there was nothing of this. I couldn't follow the plot at all, I couldn't identify between the characters, nothing ever happened in the movie... and I don't mean fights or car races, I mean NOTHING AT ALL happened. I didn't understand anything at all.And if I was supposed to wait until the end to get the clue, well that's too bad. I wasn't willing to loose that much time.Well, I guess that given the ratings, lots of people (most of them) will disagree. This is just a warning to those of you who haven't seen it yet: you may not like it at all, just as I didn't.I give it 2/10 just because I didn't see the whole of it and because 1 is reserved for movies which are stupid beyond any logic (like Mars Attacks).


                
THE USUAL SUSPECTS, with its surprise ending, is nothing more than a gimmick film.I once heard it said that a good test for a gimmick film is whether you would find the film memorable if the gimmick was removed.  One would forget this sub-par crime film completely if not for the surprise twist at the film's conclusion.And the post-PULP FICTION vision of the underworld presented here is not very credible.  I mean, Kevin Pollack as a hardened criminal?  Give me a break.


                
Since I enjoy praising a great film considerably more than slamming one that I didn't like then I'll try to make it as short as possible.When I seen this the first time I was already aware of a central character named Kaiser Sose so the question was "who"?Kevin Spacey enters a police station and the story begins to unfold. In the first 15 minutes or so I, without concentrating hardly at all, said something out loud....."I'll bet Kevin is Kaiser". Of course I turned out to be right. The reason I said it so quickly was.....1.Kevin Spacey's performance as a handicap was truthfully completely unconvincing. 2.Nobody would ever carry on about things like Barber Shop Quartets, big time fat people etc., etc. in a police questioning.These two ridiculously obvious issues automatically makes the finger point directly at Kevin Spacey.This entire film reminded me of (and this is not a put down because it was legitimately brilliant) a scene in The Sixth Sense that was perfectly executed comedy relief.....when Bruce Willis does the magic shake scene with a Penney to Haley Joel Osment. Later Haley passes on the routine to another kid and that kid responds respectively with "That's stupid, I want my Penney back".This whole movie was one long and dragged out bad joke that was seemingly supposed to be serious. That's dumb, I wanted my money back. Every Penney.A truly genius handicap performance was John Hurt in The Elephant Man. John should have received an Oscar but didn't. Kevin received one for this?!Not to mention, would anyone really be terrified of Kevin Spacey? No, they simply would not. Even if you didn't figure out that he was Sose until the poorly constructed "twist" ending, I ask again....."Would you honestly be terrified of Kevin Spacey?"Tell the truth?
The summary says it all.  It's ok to see if you didn't pay for it maybe - and you are wide awake, 'cuz believe me if you aren't it will drop you to sleep like a rock.  The endless office room interrogation filler is transparent and boring as hell, and just drags and drags and drags - interspersed with fantasy-like 'stuff blowing up' and 'intrigue' moments thrown in cut-and-paste retrospective style.  MY GOD THIS MOVIE IS BORING!!! It's like a bad 'made for TV' thing.  I can't believe people are duped into paying hard cash to watch this stuff at theaters.The names of 'suspects' are repeated ad-nauseum until you are just screaming at the screen SHUT UP!!!!  Also, they give this ABSURD god-like build up to a petty gangster character who goes around killing other crooks - I mean WHO CARES! :P  Overall this is a VERY bad film.  It is absolutely nothing special in any way whatsoever no matter how you slice it.  It's a total hack job.  I can't believe a writer can stay awake writing crap like this.  I was barely able to stay awake just watching it in the video - and I cannot imagine how boring it would have been to be an actor in this movie :o) Terrible film - really.


                
A convoluted and cryptic plot does not always amount to a good movie in my book. The classic scenario of, "Oh....you didn't get it?", "Well you must not be on the same level as me then" seems to apply here. There are a couple things in this movie that never really added up. Even Ebert mentioned how he couldn't follow the same missing links I was struggling with (not that we're on the same level, but just trying to make a point). I really liked Kevin Spacey, however. This just fell under the "too cryptic of a plot" category with maybe only two other movies I can think of. Maybe I'm just too much of a simpleton for this one.


                
i don't review many films however i felt i needed to for this one because it is seen as one of the all time greats. (#17 IMDb) i saw this for the first time when i was much younger and loved it,WOW i said, the twist was completely unexpected, the characters were so cocky and cool and the plot was compelling all of the way through. but after two more viewings since buying it recently and i have to admit that it annoys me how poor it really is. it lacks any realism (the action scenes are farcical) the characters look like they have all come out of a Hollywood massage parlour and not from the streets of NYC. plus the dialogue is so immature and smart-assy for its own good, especially from pollack and baldwin. you feel these characters wouldn't last two seconds against any real purse snatcher with a baseball bat. it just doesn't convince me. and as you are trying to link each scene with the ending spacey doesn't look like he could ever kill a fly completely over-doing the sad, spastic, loser routine. thats why you never expect it! but its also the main reason i disliked it with repeat viewings. absurd. its how naive Hollywood really is in its portrayal of crime-land as this glossy universe were all the cops are dumb, all drug dealers are fat and carry large suitcases of cocaine or money, good guys never miss a shot, everyone smokes (especially if they have nothing better to do with their hands) oh and everyone looks sooooo damn gooood! its a stereotypical nightmare and lacks any style or wit of Tarintino. please be more judgemental when rating this or any garbage like it.recommended (for the brain): PITHE SEVEN SAMURAI AKIRA BEING JOHN MALKOVICH FARGO TAXI DRIVER
I just saw this movie and all I can really say is that it's just a big con-job on anybody who tries to actually think about what is going on.  I took the time to note what was occurring, trying to keep track of faces and names as best I could so that I could try to get at the core of this film, and then in the last five minutes am informed that the entire preceding portion of the film was of absolutely no relevance!And a side note to all the admirers of the film who keep re-watching it, how can there possibly be any foreshadowing clues buried in the film (as you claim) when you-know-who was making it up as he was going along? How can you plant a clue to something you haven't even made up yet? One of many glaring errors.
Hands up everyone who thought that the solution to `Murder on the Orient Express' was clever, fair and satisfying.  I see.  Two of you.  Hands up everyone who thought it was an outrageous cheat.  (The author raises his hand.)  Well, people in the first camp MIGHT think that `The Usual Suspects' is clever, fair and satisfying, even though it's even more of an outrageous cheat.  If you want a good twist, stick to old Agatha, or to those of her works that play fair - `Witness for the Prosecution' (1957) and `Endless Night' (1971) are particularly good screen versions - or try ... I don't know, any number of things.  `The Spanish Prisoner' (1997), for instance. It not only plays fair: it also paces itself correctly.  For that's the other problem with `The Usual Suspects' - we are fed no intriguing information whatever as we go along.  Even referring to the few surprises as `twists' is generous.  The film opens with a confrontation, followed by an explosion, on a boat, and from then on we listen to one of the characters narrating events leading up to this explosion - and he takes FOREVER.  It feels as if he's saying, `And then we had to kill a bit more time before we got to the boat exploding, so we robbed a bank.  Then we went to the beach.' If we weren't so busy glancing at our watches while waiting for the denouement, we'd be bored stiff.The ending had BETTER be worth it, we think - and it turns out to be one of the weakest (and did I mention it's a cheat?) in the history of cinema. Usually, after the killer revelation, our minds are abuzz.  `Of course!' we think.  `THAT'S why the ring was on her left hand - because if she hadn't been to France, where else could they hide the microfilm?'  But `The Usual Suspects' leaves one feeling flat.  There's nothing to think about.  While it's impossible to work out what happened, it's all too easy to come up with consistent theories about what happened, and any one of these theories is about as good as the rest of them.Damn it - I really want to play the Grinch who stole Christmas and TELL you what happens at the end, just so that you'll know I'm right.One final point - the title is an allusion to a line from `Casblanca'.  We can spot the allusion pretty early on.  Pay no attention to it.  It is NOT, as you might expect, a subtle hint to the audience; nor is it cunning misdirection.  It's just an attempt to be smart.


                
I watched it some time ago and I was going in blind. I found it very predictable and boring most of the time. I guess that's because the film is over 10 years old and now there are similar films out there that I watched before this. For example Identity and Fight Club. From Se7en I was also familiar with Kevin Spacey being the bad guy. Another thing that bothered me a lot was when Kevin Spacey was shown every time right after one of his friends was shot. Maybe to show that he can't be the murderer but for me it was like "Eh look I couldn't have done it". The repeating of the limping and the "Oh I'm just a cripple"-thing was also very obvious. So I really think I already would have figured it out in 1995. In 2006 I find it extremely obvious. Another problem with this kind of movies is that it's not too much fun to watch them a few times. I definitely won't watch this one again. 2/10
After hearing so much about this film from friends who had seen it in a movie theatre, words like brilliant, fantastic, greatest twist of all time spring to mine. So when it was released on DVD I was down to my local video store straight away to rent it. My wife & I sat down with great anticipation with our goody bag between us. When the film was over I looked at her she looked at me as if to say to each other what the hell was all the fuss over. I am no intellectual but I had Kaiser sose sussed after about 5 mins of the film, a 9yr old could have figured out the so called twist.I am Irish & I think Gabriel Byrne is a total ham his attempts at American accents (espeicially Millers Crossing are laughable) Colin Farrell puts Byrne to shame, and his American accents are very believable.


                
I don't remember anything from the movie and for a good reason. I fell asleep 5 times as I was watching this and I was sitting in an uncomfortable chair. I can't believe the good reviews I read about this movie! I can't believe it's rating either.I gave it 2 starts for the humiliating moment when that guy puts out the fire that Keaton started with his urine and for the ending. Now the ending is another thing. It is considered one of the best endings ever! Why? I simply don't get it. So what if the crippled was the murderer? Big surprise, the movie was lying to you all along so how could you have even think about him? Anyway I don't recommend it but it's your choice.2/10
Overrated in my opinion, The Usual Suspects, stands as an above average crime/investigation movie wish relies too much on its final scene.i do recommend seeing this movie but it´s just too forgettable to be as remarkable as most people would lead you to believe.Rating: 8/10


                
I have seen this film twice which was just to do it justice as it is so highly rated.This film is just not very good with a twist that when it finally arrives you no longer care.Why it is so well regarded is a mystery.


                
