Lets see. There's a kaiser who is considered a real bad ass because he gunned down his wife and little kids. Real macho, yes? He doesn't exist, but he does? He can't be killed (like we haven't seen this before). His imagination and creativity are so bad he can't even come up with names or stories, but has to take them off of coffee cups and posters. Add to this, the entire story. He orders a police line up, but the police don't know who ordered the line up. Now, we all know most police departments are incompetent, but this belongs on the NAKED GUN series. Then there are the characters. According to the narrator, they can't be broken, because they are hoodlums. Talk about your street myth that people in power would love to have you believe! But it doesn't wash. It isn't even remotely credible. And no one cares. I happen to be watching it while working on something else, and was in a public place where they showed it twice. I naturally assumed it was some sort of "Worst films" festival, which it might have been. I was stunned to see it ranked so high on any critic's list. Now, for the reality. That was the surface appearance on first viewing. The writers claim it's just fluff, but it doesn't make a bit of sense as noir.It makes complete sense as a supernatural thriller, though. It will take a few viewings to realize that the original line up of suspects had a replacement, just as Wargrave replaced one of his victims in Ten Little Indians. The fifth "suspect" is actually Keaton's girl friend, and we get clues from the clandestine meetings they have. The ending tells us that they actually played with the devil, and tried to make a contract to outwit him. The "five suspects" are the five who dared to challenge the devil's turf, and the clues are there, but so subtle that the entire team of writers, director, everyone, failed to see them.
I have read many, many enthusiastic reviews. The movie is so complex. To understand the plot you have to see it at least three times. Etcetera, etcetera. Alas, already after 45 minutes I exactly knew how the movie would end and who Kayser Soze was. Probably I have read too many mystery crimes. You see, the very first one to use this idea was Agatha Christie back in 1926. Her novel "Who killed Roger Ackroyd" caused a scandal in England. Her readers felt betrayed. The second one was a crime novel (forgotten the title and author) woven around the characters of Punch and Judy. Well, I did not feel betrayed while watching The usual suspects. I only felt a deja vu. So the tension completely fell away. Not much was left: decent, but not extraordinary acting, flat characters and artificial twists and turns. As the script remains ingenious of course and the direction skillful, 7 out of 10.
This might be one of those films where all your buddies talking it up turns what would've been a solid experience into something of a let-down. A good enough crime saga with some great one- liners and several sharp twists and turns, it's not something I'd revere alongside the all-timers. I felt like there was too much reliance on name dropping and intentional complications, which I guess fits in with the big twist at the very end, but that doesn't suddenly make it excusable. Tough to follow at many times, with some interesting storytelling experiments along the way; it's a good-to-very good story that often gets too caught up in itself.


                
For some reason, I didn't get round to seeing this film until quite recently (just one of those weird things). I was excited to finally see it since I'd heard so many people rave about it, but I have to say I was somewhat disappointed. Without question it is an entertaining, surprising, and well-acted film, but I can't see why it gets quite such high ratings on here.Kevin Spacey does a fine job of playing the part of Verbal, and Gabriel Byrne is okay too, but otherwise there were no outstanding performances. Similarly, while the plot was clever, it was nothing that amazing, and I saw the twists coming a mile off. Unlike something like Reservoir Dogs, which gave the gangster film a much-needed injection of not taking itself seriously, the crims in The Usual Suspects are just the typical bad-boys-who-fancy-themselves. Also, maybe Americans can accept Pete Postlethwaite's bizarre accent and make-up, but for me it really detracted from the film - what WAS he supposed to be? Indian??? If so, why on earth didn't they get an Asian actor? Sorry, I don't mean to slag off a film that I know a lot of people really like, I'm just giving my honest opinions. I suspect if I'd seen it when it came out, I too would have found it an amazing groundbreaking piece of cinema, but IMHO it hasn't really stood the test of time.Still, it was a decent way to pass a couple of hours, so I've given it 7/10.


                
I thought it was a good move, but not a great movie. The surprise ending wasn't a surprise to me. I suspected it all along. I guess that's the main reason I didn't view this as one of the greatest movies ever made. I gave it 7 stars.I honestly don't see why many view this as a classic. I think it was worth watching, but I have no inclination to see it again. I guess if you were taken by surprise by the ending and you're a big fan of mobster or mobster like movies this would make this a great movie, but I don't fall into this category. Maybe many of you like Kevin Spacey more than I do. I think the Godfather I and II were much better.


                
******SPOILERS****** Highly overdone movie about a mass killing in a shoot-out and explosion of a ship docked at San Pedro Harbor with connections to a notorious Hungarian drug gang. As well as a crew of hoods recruited out of NYC who tried to rip the gang off of the 91 million dollars of coke on the ship. Added to that a mysterious mob kingpin who set up the whole operation, for very personal reasons, to use as cover for him to knock off a witness on the ship that was to be turned over by the gang to the FBI as a witness against him that could land the mob kingpin behind bars for life. All this is seen in flashback, at the San Pedro Police Station, with Special US Customs Agent Dave Kujan, Chazz Palmintri, interviewing Roger Verbal (Kevin Spacey),the only survivor of this holocaust, for what seems like the time you would have sat through an old movie triple-feature with cartoons newsreels and coming attractions added on. We're bombarded by Verbal's story that goes on endlessly about how he and his fellow hoods were recruited by Mr. Kobayashi, Pete Postiethwaite, back in New York City some six weeks earlier to do a job for the mysterious Kayser Soze (?) ,whom they are told by Kobayashi that they are in debt to. Verbal goes on endlessly talking about this very strange and confusing plan that the Kayser concocted which in the end turns out to be an elaborate hit, by himself, of a protected government witness. You would think if this Kayser Soze was as smart as the movie makes him out to be why didn't he or his mouthpiece, Kabayashi, tell these hoods just to knock off the witness instead of having all this killing going on at the San Pedro Harbor as well as all over the country with all of them ending up dead except Verbal? And even more important why did he, The Kayser, have to kill the witness himself leaving himself open to being killed or captured by the Hungarian drug gang as well as the recruited hoods themselves if they ever found out who he was, and what he was planing for them, or the police? Another thing that doesn't make sense about the movie "The Usual Suspects" is that this Kayser Soze who is so unknown and secretive even to his fellow mobsters, it seemed that only Mr. Kobayashi knew just who he was, would be that well known by the FBI or local police to be identified and arrested? And who would their protected witness know who to finger if this Kayser Soze was so unidentifiable? What was so important about this person that the Kayser was dealing with, and wanted to knock off, that he would reveal his real identity and place of residents to him where he would blow the cover that he so painstakingly built up over the years? Was this individual involved in preparing the Kysers Federal and State Income Tax returns? Even at the end of the film when it was finally revealed just who the Kyser was you still didn't really know who he was since he was using an allies just like the name Kayser Soze itself obviously was. And even if the FBI and local police really knew who he was and where he was and went to arrest him would the murderous and cunning Kayser Soze just stay there and let himself be taken into custody? With all the avenues of escape and control with his mob's vast resources available to him? The ending of the movie shocked you only because it seemed to make sense at the time that you were exposed to it but after getting over the shock and realizing just how irrational it was, as well as the whole film, you began to see that's all it really was: An end to the movie.


                
Well, I waited a long time to see this...and I'm left shrugging my shoulders. On the plus side, it's fast-paced, wonderfully acted (Kevin Spacey doing something that little bit different and oh so well), with exceptional camera work and lighting. But, but, but. The twist is a classic, sending you back to the rest of the movie with all kinds of questions. I just wish those questions extended beyond the details of the plot or the nature of the plotting. As an enquiry into the nature of telling a story, it languishes in the remedial class, opting for a cute but rather cheap revelation rather than any serious interrogation into the nature of a thriller, which is what it seems to want to be.A good watch and never dull or dragging, but a movie which leaves me with a rather hollow feeling. Disappointing, particularly for something which came heaped with so much critical praise.


                
Based on the high IMDB user rating, I rented The Usual Suspects and looked forward to enjoying an intelligent and entertaining movie.  Unfortunately I found the film to be grossly over-rated. I attribute the failings of this movie equally to both the director and writer. The direction was slow and even confusing at times. The dialogue was solid, but the story was completely unbelievable and, upon reflection, the plot has more holes in it than Bonnie and Clyde's death car.  No blame to the excellent cast of actors, but next time I plan to watch such a highly IMDB rated film, I'll try to keep my expectations grounded.


                
C'mon, one of the top twenty movies of all time? give me a break. Not quite as overrated a Boondock Saints though, you nerds. I need ten lines of stuff to say, so I'm going to continue. Steven Baldwin is a douche in this and every other movie he's ever been in. Yeah, this is a good movie, but I don't see how it separates itself so distinctly from every other movie like it. Don't say there aren't movies like it because there are every year and there were every year before it for the previous 20 years. By the way, Kevin Pollack is a hack comedian who has relied on three impressions to make a career. It seems I'm of that generation that thinks every decent movie of the 1990's is an all time great, but I really think time will show that there are many, many better movies than this.


                
Holy moly! Oh My God! This movie has to be the smartest movie ever and has the biggest twist ever. Keyser Soze? Who is Keyser Soze? Is it Kevin Spacey, is it Gabriel Byrne? Is it Stephen Baldwin? Who is Keyser Soze? Thats the question Bryan Singer poses in this wonderful film. It's a puzzle that in my opinion is solved. Verbal Kint is Keyser Soze. He made up everything from things he'd seen during the interrogation!! Smart bugger! Kevin Spacey puts out another wonderfully good performance and i was in awe of this film. Bloody Brilliant and always will be for ever and must be viewed by everyone! Everyone! Please see this film10/10
The statistics don't lie - people seem to love this film. I guess they like to be tricked. As for me, I was intrigued the first time around, but the second time (a healthy six years later) I was thoroughly disappointed. Now that this whodunit-thing was out of the way, I discovered the amazing flatness of the characters, existing solely to make the payoff work. The idiotic twists the screenwriter invented to make it look even more complex. Wow. Duh. It reminded me of my advanced math classes: why go through all this stuff when I don't understand how it applies to real life?Don't get me wrong, I still gave it a 7 - because the concept is good, some of the acting was good, and as an experience it works the first time around. But don't try to analyze it - the triviality of it all will drive you nuts.


                
Bryan Singer directed this twist-laden story about Verbal Kint, a suspect(Kevin Spacy, excellent) found at a massive boat explosion being interrogated by a detective(Chazz Palminteri) about his involvement. He claims to be innocent, and the real mastermind named Keyser Soze was behind it, a man he is deathly afraid of. He then tells the story of how this began, when he was in the police lockup with other con men(played by Gabriel Byrne, Kevin Pollock, Stephen Baldwin, and Benicio Del Toro) who become involved in a revenge scheme that goes wrong...Quite original and unpredictable film is well acted and written, leading to a supremely well crafted finale...only negative is that, when all is said and done, you're not quite sure what to believe, and there is hardly anyone to care about. Still, an engrossing film noir experience.


                
Yes I said it and can careless if you disagree. It's called an opinion and reflects my beliefs and not yours. The film has a bunch of interesting characters who do a good job in filling the role they were assigned to but still not enough to call the film a masterpiece. Or maybe it was the "twist" ending that made the masses officially fall in love with the film. Reading various reviews from different websites only further confirmed why people loved the film. The film involves a man named Verbal Kint telling a story to an interrogator about events that led him and four other men to a Los Angeles port where a massive fire and deaths had taken place. As well as the mysterious man Keyser Soza who is the man who commissioned their work. Maybe the ending did not catch me off guard or changed the way I felt about the movie which is why I can't call it a masterpiece or the greatest movie ever made. The film is a 7/10
The Usual Suspects your typical let's twist the tale around to keep you from guessing who's doing what. You get criminals who catch criminals in a bind to get them to do a coup for them. Nothing new.The story is interesting and keeps you attentive. The action is nice, but tame by today's standard. The plot is not too complicated, if confusing at first.However, the lines the characters feed us are a little too slick, and some of the acting is a bit over done, especially on the part of Chazz Palminteri and Stephen Baldwin. Benicio Del Toro is unfortunately not at his best, while Kevin Spacey presents the top performance of the lot, and the rest of the cast gives only an acceptable one, but not much better.If you like criminal intrigue, you probably will like it.


                
A group of criminals are brought in for questioning about a crime, but from the manner in which they are thrown together it is clear - even to the criminals themselves - that something is a-foot.A classic example of how different the world of film is to the world of literature. If this was a book the publisher would ask "how drunk were you when you wrote this?" Thankfully film has music, acting (the best thing here) and special effects to distract the viewer. And this film does a fair-to-middling job. Here we have a film that doesn't so much contain holes, but is more one giant hole. However in this big hole we have various smaller holes! At an early stage one of the characters smells-a-rat, but carries on regardless! Excuse me, but if you want to present someone as a "master criminal" this hardly helps your case!Credit other reviewers for going through the nonsense and holes on a blow-by-blow basis (although technically a spoiler); but achieving what is intended here, through the method employed, is as silly as anything I have seen in a serious film. Even if you think this film is great - and plenty do - you have to agree that it somewhat lacks real-world credibility. It may have a twist ending, but when you have confused the living daylights out of any sensible and logical person (and yes I do know flashbacks are not always the truth!) then a song and dance finale wouldn't have made any less sense.
Bryan Singer's The Usual Suspects is easily one of the most original and most talked-about films of the 1990s with a notorious ending-twist. Because of this and the fact that it was being advertised as a run-of-the-mill crime thriller back in 1995, I can only imagine what a shocker it was when no one knew about its surprising turn when walking into the threatre. You bet a lot of people must have spilled out their popcorn. Today, however, some of its riveting effect has subsided as the twist is so well-known and anticipated for new viewers. It becomes the whole film. It's setting itself up to be anti-climactic with such hype, and it just about makes it.However, The Usual Suspects is, first and foremost, a heist film about five men working together to pull of amazing jobs involving narcotics, money and hits. The story of these heists is told in flashbacks from one of these five men's perspective as he retells it in a police office, the day after they've been caught and killed. Kevin Spacey is this one man and he is definitely an eccentric character, and the way he tells the story is a real thrill -- the tiniest details have been meticulously crafted into the script, crammed with fast dialogue, sprinkled with equal doses of humour and suspense, featuring several story lines and a multitude of characters and names to remember, and it becomes a big mess that you can impossibly keep track of, even with a notepad. Just ask Roger Ebert.The Usual Suspects gets points for being uniquely constructed, and for sending shivers en masse down your spine at the end. But other than this, is it a greatly enjoyable movie? No, not really. It is actually borderline tedious and exhausting at times, and relies solely on its twist to be a good film. Like I say, it just about makes it but this is nothing I'd call the 15th greatest film of all time. 7/10


                
sorry, I might seem to go against the flow here...but to me, at least, the plot seemed slightly predictable...and towards the last 40-30 minutes of the movie I was just waiting for "them" to reveal us the "unexpected" twist ending... don't get me wrong. maybe I've seen too many movies lately. and for sure I've seen this movie too late. but I cannot see it at all now as a breakthrough. more like a more-than-average- suspense-cops-and robbers-movie. yes, the acting is fine. and Kevin Spacey is good in this role. he got some well-deserved awards in 1996, for his role in this movie as well as for that in Seven. no doubts about that, none so ever. but I'm really surprised that it got so many awards for the script. The Academy Award, I won't comment. The academy's got a mind of its own...a profane like me won't even attempt to understand its reasons. But the Independent Spirit Award for best script...original script...come on...could it be that 1995 was such a bad year for movies ??? OK, maybe I'm looking at this from the wrong perspective...


                
Last week in a comparative literature class, we watched and discussed The Usual Suspects.  After listening to many perspectives on the film, I've arrived at this conclusion:  It's not challenging or difficult, it's impossible (or at least seems that way).I'm going to assume that anyone who reads this is at least familiar with the plot, so I won't summarize too much hear.  I also won't reveal the details of the ending, as not to spoil it for anyone.The Usual Suspects does have quite a bit going for it:  A clever and often funny screenplay, first rate acting, and direction that is generally very riveting.  Even though the characters are well acted, they are presented in relatively superficial manner; we never really know them accept on a surface level.  There isn't anything intrinsically wrong with that, but for this film it is a crucial flaw because it renders the conclusion unsatisfying.The story and plot are extremely complicated and the details are mind-numbingly intricate:  We get multiple perspectives and interpretations from at least two characters (sometimes simultaneously) of what happened during different times.  It is difficult to determine what flashbacks actually did happen and which are fallacies.  The plot is almost impossible to follow, even before the conclusion.  The conclusion is genuinely surprising (for MOST people, including me), but later doesn't seem to make sense.Throughout the film, it is suggested that Keyser Soce is the devil.  It is not clear if he literally is the devil, or just a PERSON so evil as to be like the devil.  Regardless of which assumption you make, the ending of the film isn't satisfying.  If Soce isn't the devil (and has no supernatural powers), the film does not work:  The pieces of the plot simply don't fit together (from what I can tell).  If you accept that Soce literally is the devil, then this premise gives the filmmakers license to do almost anything, regardless of whether it unfolds in a plausible manner.  This isn't satisfying either because it seems to render much of the plot irrelevant.If the viewer completely disregards all plot holes and only observes the surface, The Usual Suspects is an entertaining movie.  In that sense it is worth seeing.  The pleasure does seem to be entirely superficial.  It is clear that a great deal of thought went in to making this film, and it certainly isn't mindless.  However, the film is void of any depth of human element and any real meaning.  The plot may fit together if the film is closely and repeatedly examined, but it's shallow nature doesn't motivate the viewer to do so.  This makes The Usual Suspects a good, but not great film, and certainly not one of the best films of the 1990's.Note:  If anyone would like to e-mail me to agree, disagree, or make any other criticism, I'd be happy to hear from you (not petty complaints please).


                
The movie was good but what I think makes this film even better is the performance of Kevin spacey he is really good in this film.


                
This is supposed to be one of the best mystery films around, and it's sort of hard to disagree with that. The Usual Suspects is one of these movies you would have to see more than once in order to properly enjoy it, and it does get better and better every time you watch it. Also, this is one of these rare films where you have to pay special attention to, so you don't miss anything out as the movie progresses, especially later on, so that's why you may have to watch it repeatedly. The Usual Suspects is a really fine movie to have come out in the 90s, and it's a really good one to own on video too. It's more than just a mystery movie if you ask me.


                
The storybis hard to follow at first but once the viewer gets a firm grasp on the plot another monumental plot twist in all of film occurs like a slap in the face.
The Year was 1995, I was stuck on a cruise ship "the sea was angry that night my friend" The TV in our cabin had 1 channel and was playing 1 movie on a loop; "The Usual Suspects" I grew impatient as the movie was slow to develop, but was soon rewarded with the Best ending to a Movie Ever! 
-Keyser Söze Lives!!2 Oscars


                
Now, before you crucify me (and the apologists are out there), I just want to preface this by saying I went into this movie knowing nothing about it but the title. I'd never even heard of it, save for my dad suggesting we watch it.(Beyond are spoilers, but it's likely something you already know - is it even possible to view this IMDb page without being spoiled?)The "twist at the end" - who Verbal ends up being - is not a twist at all. Perhaps to some, it might have been a spoiler or a surprise, but for me at least, I had called it from the moment Kint says his iconic line. That being said, that sole fact should not deter you from seeing this movie. It is a very good movie. Well put-together, well acted. It just seems to me that this movie is rather overrated. That's all. Sort of like Dark Knight, which I find to be a very overrated film, simply because its star died.


                
The Usual Suspects is that genre of cinema in which everything is cleverly woven throughout the film in seamlessness, with the famous phrase of nothing is what it seems. Ironically, Bryan Singer scoffs of the spectators in the broadest sense of the word, convincing them to believe what is vividly visualized before them while keeping up the brilliant final outcome to the very last minute. Up until today, this dense and overwhelming intrigues throughout the film remain timeless, making it one of the most interesting and refreshing nineties thriller. Furthermore, we can easily list down the strengths behind this classic goody starting from the simple but robust camera work, the casts' unsurpassed acting work, the intrigue, suspense and also the remarkable complex structured framework.To be honest, in my first viewing, I tried to find out the 'culprit' responsible for whatever happened along the way; however, I failed for I went with the flow who were led to believe by my so-called careful viewing. This film turned out to be much clever than how it looked at the beginning. It contained a tension, intrigue and uncertainty that all filled within the mind of the audience so absolutely it's a delight for all senses. Personally, I felt cheated. I found this film superb, extremely intelligent, perfectly developed from all points of view and sustained by characters. A very solid film from the beginning to the end. If you haven't seen it then I advise you go see it. Get immersed in the magic of this movie, waste no time and get ready to have some fun. In short, this is a pure entertainment at the highest level.


                
I guess you don't get the same effect when you first watch a movie like THE USUAL SUSPECTS more than fifteen years after it was first released. Any chance of being "surprised" at the ending is ruined because spoilers have long since become common knowledge. I knew who Keyser Söze was way before I ever bothered to hunt down the movie. Of course, if you're reading this there's a possibility you haven't seen the film and, on the off chance you've somehow managed to avoid exposure to the oft-spoiled ending, I won't mention it here. I'm just here to explain if I enjoyed it, which I did for the most part. The movie is your conventional crime drama with a strong cast and some sharp writing that prevent it from fading into obscurity. It begins in the aftermath of a boat explosion where three career criminals were killed and evidence of a rumored multimillion dollar drug deal is no where to be found. What brought these criminals together and what went wrong on that boat? Only one man might hold the answers: Verbal Kint, a smalltime criminal with cerebral palsy and one of only two survivors from the botched operation. In an interrogation with Agent Kujan of US Customs, Kint will explain how it all came together: how five con-men with their own agendas were brought together with the help of a police lineup and eventually found themselves employed by the mysterious Keyser Söze. But the question remains, who is Keyser Söze?Having seen this movie so long after it originally hit, I've got to say: wow, it feels dated. When I was watching it, it consistently screamed 90's. The editing, the cinematography, just the overall style is firmly planted in the decade. In a sense, it kind of sucks. As much as I've heard and read about the movies over the years, I guess I expected something with a little more of it's own style. It doesn't detract overwhelmingly from the movie. It's still a solid story with a great cast of characters, but it's just visually unimpressive. It's a pretty basic premise for a movie and I think it was the "twist" ending that grabbed a lot of people's attentions. Really, it's not so much a twist because it didn't really have that much of a bearing on the story. Looking back, the big revelation could've involved any character and it wouldn't really have been any different. It makes the ending memorable, sure, especially the means in which it was accomplished during the interrogation. That much was cool, no doubt. Christopher McQuarrie has since gone on to prove himself a capable enough screenwriter and his nonlinear storytelling keeps the movie intriguing (even when, in my case, you know how it ends beforehand). I suppose the best thing to come from this movie was director Bryan Singer's first major success. I can't imagine he would've been able to bring his vision of X-MEN to life if he hadn't knocked this one out of the park with audiences.Going in, I knew Kevin Spacey was in the film and, as anyone who's even seen Kevin Spacey in a film can attest, he's guaranteed to be awesome. And he was. He brings his best in every role he adopts, and Verbal Kint is no different. Kint is a strange man, seemingly small time compared to the situation he's found himself in but you can't help but feel there's more to his character. Speaking of characters, let's go back to how I mentioned the overwhelming 90's vibe and take a moment to bring up the cast. If this cast doesn't feel ripped right out of the decade, I don't know what does: Gabriel Byrne, Chazz Palminteri, comedian (with a penchant for dramatic roles) Kevin Pollack, Benicio Del Toro, and (I kid you not) Stephen Baldwin. To be fair, Del Toro has gone on to continuing success in his career and I love his character, Fenster. Del Toro has admitted that Fenster only serves the movie as a plot device about halfway through and took the opportunity to have a little fun with it, giving him near indecipherable speech that steals scenes from the heavyweight performances going on around him. These guys make for an interesting, if eclectic, bunch. Byrne is great as the movie's "hero". His character, Dean Keaton, is a formerly crooked cop who's gone straight but finds himself reeled back into the world of crime. Even Baldwin does well here. All of the elements are here for a fun crime drama and new viewers are sure to find something here to enjoy.


                
