I used to watch this program with anticipation of the sly humor and whimsical sense to it then along came Trevor Noah. The Noah must mean no talent in some foreign language. He is not funny it is like the producers decided to go affirmative action yet could not get any real talented performer to be the host so they hired this awful host. He is not funny, not clever and trying to hard to be funny which makes the show unwatchable. In the hands of a gifted performer this show is wonderful but with Noah it is a must not see. It is a shame because I would like to see the ratings for this show since the change and I feel that viewership is plummeting. They had a Ferrari of a show but gave it to a person who has no idea what he is doing and that is the real shame.
You may like this show if you are a raging SJW that has a tendency to spit while you scream at anyone that disagrees with you. Jon Stewart was left leaning but he did the research and approached from both sides of the story. I liked his show. The new show has a heavy slant to the left and lies a lot. Look at the women's FIFA story. What a crock.Totally turned off and not watching anymore. Please bring back Jon or get a decent host. They lost a lot of the truly funny support reporters. Samantha Bee and John Oliver. They must have changed producers also. The leftist diatribe is thick and offensive. It is too one sided and has no balance. If you are a radical leftist you may like the new show. OTOH, those types of people don't seem to like anything. Repulsive and disgusting.


                
***Attention IMDb admin, current daily show fans, and former daily show fans:The good ratings and reviews of the daily show are dated and inaccurate now since there is a new host---a host that in mine and many others' opinions has tanked a formerly amazing funny and insightful and informative show.Trevor Noah shouldn't be getting the benefit of high IMDb ratings for the daily show since it was Stewart and kilborn that most people have given high ratings for in the last two decades, not in the last 5 months since Noah began.Noah would likely only be at 4 or 5 stars with less than 1000 votes, rather than 8 or 9 stars out of 35000 voters. Doing this is tantamount to reviewing a new bond film well because you liked Connery bond films in the 1960s just because it is the bond franchise. You don't review things purely based on franchise, you base it on the work and people coming next in a newer version of things.For a better comparison, this is how IMDb differentiates the tonight show from host to host in its various carnations---with Carson, with Leno, and with Fallon are adages for separate pages of "the tonight show'. The tonight show isn't rated and reviewed in general, its generational and person to person as hosts, which is what the daily show should be as well since kilborn, Stewart, and Noah are all different hosts of different generational styles and humour and fans. You don't go to the tonight show with jimmy Fallon page and see reviews dated back to when Carson or Leno were hosting because thats absurd, right? Well, why is Trevor Noah not being treated so special this way, why is he for no reason riding the coattails of fans and respectability he hasn't earned at all. Its false advertising, and false review system, and makes IMDb seem completely useless.Furthermore, since it is highly unlikely that IMDb would change this--- why it wouldn't i have no clue since its common sense as applied to everything else on the website in terms of franchises being differentiated by newer versions---i think the only measure to counter this would be to recast your votes to downgrade the current daily show, and to remove any reviews made prior to Noah, and to post more recent reviews lambasting him.There should be honesty and merit and up to date ratings of things, otherwise what is the point of even having this website and people turning to it to get a good measure of what is good or bad? Rigging ratings in favor of someone defeats the whole purpose of the website. It needs to be updated and more accurate, and the different versions need to be on separate pages.


                
Does Trevor Noah talk about anything else besides Trump? He's not funny. It's just hard to understand why the chose Trevor to replace a legend like John Stewart.


                
IMDb should make a new entry for the Trevor Noah version of the show. It is doubtful that it has more than a 4.5 rating. In Jon's day this show was better news than the news AND the funniest show on TV.


                
Jon Stuart's had-picked successor, Trevor Noah, is a complete flop. That is not a topic for debate; it's a stone cold fact. Google it. Whether Stuart chose a surefire loser intentionally to "protect" his legacy is a question only he can answer, but whatever the excuse, I'm disgusted with Jon Stuart for forcing Noah on us. His (Noah's) "stellar ratings" are pure BS. IMDb is using a rating system that artificially inflates the show's ratings by leveraging Stuart's justifiably fantastic ratings; i.e., Pre-Noah when the show was a smashing success hosted by none other than, yes, Jon Stewart. Noah is out of his depth, has zero charisma, and should NEVER have had the opportunity to host a venue as important as the Daily Show. Comedy Central is/was HOPING that the lower echelon of the left-wing demographic (read: well intentioned, smart but inexperienced and under-paid 14-22 year olds) would "grow" with Noah and remain loyal for the next 18-20 years. Well, forget about it. They will out-grow him and find diversion elsewhere. This may prove to be the most obtuse and misguided programming decision Comedy Central has ever made. Like Stuart, Sam Bee, Cobert, and Conan are authentic geniuses; Noah is not.


                
This show is a crumbling shell of what it use to be. Now, mere propaganda for weak minds with nowhere near the talent it once had. I've tried several times to watch since Jon Stewart left and I just don't get it. The writing is horrible, no one is funny, the interviews are moronic. Noah simply says whatever will get the left wing audience to cheer over any guest he has that disagrees with him and almost every time they have a much more informed opinion and point to make.


                
Why is this popular? It's just a bunch of people virtue signaling about how they know better than everyone else. Too political for my taste, especially when it's just a bunch of lies.


                
What a garbage show. How is Comedy Central allowing this trash? We want Stewart back!!!!!!!! And this dude can get deported for all we care.


                
I always knew the main idea behind this show. However, Jon Stewart and others could at least pull it off and be amusing at times. Now, they have handed it over to this new Noah guy. He comes across as the self-righteous, complaining losers you new on the college campus, that take themselves too seriously, and would have no platform if not whining about social justice spookiness hidden behind every bush.All of these shows are nothing but communist and left-wing extensions for the Democratic Party. They often start out tolerable, but like SNL and the late night shows, these "entertainment" or "comedy" shows have quickly devolved into an all-out political, social, and religious assault on those they hate.In dominating most of the cable and regular mainstream networks, these people are able to indoctrinate teens and young adults who get most of their news from Facebook and comedy shows. I am just sick of all this drivel, as are many Americans. I lean more libertarian and conservative, but I can see where FOX is annoying and skews everything to their own view. Now, picture the complete opposite of that view dominating nearly EVERY other pop culture outlet. The result is terrible, from both sides. I am sick of watching "comedy" shows that make me feel like I am in a congregation at a Marxist, progressive, PC, etc. church service, being condemned and browbeat every second by some young twit like Noah about how stupid and ignorant everyone is that doesn't follow his exceptional moral/political code.These hosts don't even use the slightest tact in 2017. You can bash Christ or non-leftists with any obscene and ridiculous clips/words you wish. However, they are all scared to death of offending Muslims, who would attempt to kill them. They can't offend Jews too much, as the writers are all Jewish and Hollywood and Music are owned by them(Their own words in newspapers, not mine). They can't make fun of LGBT people or crossdressers, lest they harm themselves and sue everyone. They don't want to offend anyone, except regular white people, Christians(I am not even into organized religion, but see this for what it is), and Constitutional conservatives. Everyone is a mean dirtbag that doesn't agree with their cultural and political viewpoints. Plus, this young doofus isn't even funny and comes across as a pompous douchebag. At least Stewart had some charisma and objectivity. All these new morons seem intent on forcing a racial, social, sexual, or political showdown on every mundane topic, or arguing with Trump(who is also childish). It just gets annoying, and you can tell that all the shows are designed to beat you into submission to the host's and producer's worldview, and to follow the pack or you just aren't "cool".
If you like incessant race baiting from a foreigner who has less time in the USA than your average preschooler, check out the Daily Show with Trevor Noah. If you think white people are the source of all the world's problems, then this is the show for you. And then there's the Trump bashing. If you hate Donald trump because he fairly won a democratic election in spite of the entirety of the main stream media telling you that the Hildebeast had a 99.99% lock, you and Trevor will get along great! He's not very funny, but he tows the liberal line and, did we mention that his birth was illegal? He likes to remind you of that often. Worst ratings in late night talk show host ratings, but who cares about polls? Amirite?


                
The mods need to fix the reviews for this show. Jon Stewart was the reason this show was great now it's just ideological garbage.


                
We all know why this show went down hill but we're not aloud to say it


                
Just not funny anymore - all about how trump and his policies are bad - obviously we need a foreigner to tell us about american politics bc we're too dumb to figure it out on our own, and obviously trevor knows better than we do (/sarcasm)


                
Every time I turn on that show, sometimes weeks in between viewings, I hear
the same jokes.
It's the same tired formula...
-Opening rant
-anti republican propaganda
-bad trump impressions
...lather, rinse, repeat.Every show, same thing. They have a template and just
change out the words.USELESS


                
Taking things to a personal level make this show much less funny than it was, though it was not exactly super funny with previous hosts.


                
Trevor noah is just pathetic and unfunny, he wouldn't know what comedy was if it smacked him in the face.


                
This guys is a huge Democrat. Not something I hate, but to make it prevalent is so annoying. Everything he does is about bashing Trump and Republicans. Cringeworthy.


                
One of the most predictable, tasteless shows you will ever see!!!!!!!!!!! There are plenty of good comedy shows out there, but this is certainly not one of them! Still can't figure out how this rated high? Jon Stewart tries to hard to be funny, everything he talks about Is controversial one sided garbage!!!! He should try to take lessons from other comedians, for one he Is to repetitive with the same material. He's too much like Bill Maher, tries way to hard to be funny, and to me just does not pull It off! He also can turn someone off with his obvious Intent on his normal subject matters. I would say to try another show, there are plenty of other good comedy shows out there to watch!


                
This show would be slightly funny, if it weren't one-sided propaganda. Shows are funny if they can make fun of everyone equally. But shows that are entirely about targeting only certain groups, get old fast. In this era of "political-correctness", it seems that the only groups you can make fun of are Conservatives and Christians. And I suppose that the Daily Show does this well, as that seems to be it's mission.When the audience of the Daily Show eventually grows up, and discovers the way the world really works, they will realize the blatant dishonesty of the Daily Show. Editing clips together to make Republicans look foolish, is one trick used.


                
Though Stewart has often claimed he does a "fake news show," "The Daily Show" isn't that. It's a real news show punctuated with puns, jokes, asides and the occasional moment of staged sanctimony.It contains real, unstaged sound bites about the day's events and interviews about important policy matters.Stewart is a journalist: an irresponsible and unprofessional one.He is especially beloved by others in the journo game. (For every 100 viewers, he generated about 10 fawning profiles in the slicks, all of them saying the same thing: The jester tells the truth!) Any standard liberal publication was as likely to contain an unflattering thought about Stewart as L'Osservatore Romano is to run a hit piece on the pope.The hacks have a special love for Stewart because he's their id. They don't just think he's funny, they thrill to his every sarcastic quip. They wish they could get away with being so one-sided, snarky and dismissive.They wish they could skip over all the boring phone calls and the due diligence and the pretend fairness and just blurt out to their ideological enemies in Stewart style, "What the f–k is wrong with you?" Most other journalists aren't allowed to swear or to slam powerful figures (lest they be denied chances to interview them in future). Their editors make them tone down their opinions and cloak them behind weasel words like "critics say." Journalists have to dress up in neutrality drag every day, and it's a bore. Yet Stewart uses his funnyman status as a license to dispense with even the most minimal journalistic standards. Get both sides of the story? Hey, I'm just a comedian, man. Try to be responsible about what the real issues are? Dude, that's too heavy, we just want to set up the next d- -k joke.To a key audience, he was a strong influence. Longtime Cooper Union history professor Fred Siegel says his students constantly came to him repeating Stewart's talking points.College students, of course, are both little acquainted with realities of adult existence and walled off from conservative views, so they're the perfect audience for Stewart's shtick, which depends on assumptions that are as unquestioned as they are false.This week's "Daily Show" segment in which Stewart defended Williams was distilled, Everclear-strength Stewart. It was as amazing as watching Barbra Streisand run through a medley of her greatest hits in only seven minutes: In this little chunk of error, cliché, preening and deception, Stewart managed to pack an example of just about everything that is unbearable about his style. It bears close study. Stewart slipped in a line of blatant editorializing: "Being caught is punishment enough, no?" Really? Why? If so, argue it, don't just point the sheep in the direction you want.Williams is a news anchor. A guy whose three main skills are being good-looking, an ability to read the English language out loud and seeming credible. To put his case in Stewart-ese: "If you want to be considered a trustworthy source of facts, maybe try NOT LYING!!!" Declaring that media coverage of Williams' lies was "overkill," Stewart then built a wedding cake of bullcrap, layer after layer of untruth.His first move was to change the subject. He used a variant of the rhetorical fallacy known as the "tu quoque" argument, or calling out alleged hypocrisy. Taken to its endpoint, tu quoque ("you, too") reasoning means no one would ever slam anyone for anything because, hey, we're all imperfect.Tu quoque-ism is a generally meaningless gotcha game that can, of course, be turned right around on Stewart: Hey, Jon, you really think you're the guy to call foul on nuking media personalities who have made misstatements? In high dudgeon, as though the thought weren't already a cliché we'd all seen many times on Twitter and Facebook, Stewart declared sarcastically, "Finally, someone is being held to account for misleading America about the Iraq War." Then came the inevitable gotcha sound bites: News figures discussing intelligence on Saddam Hussein's WMD program. Why such a bizarre tangent into an unrelated matter? Because in Stewart's mind, and those of his viewers, everything has to be the fault of an evil Republican, preferably George W. Bush.Near the end of the segment, Stewart, with the prototypical combination of blustering self-righteousness and sarcasm that crystallizes his appeal to the college mentality, wondered whether the news shows will now start examining the "media malfeasance that led our country into the most catastrophic foreign policy decision in decades." Then (using comic bathos) Stewart cut to more newscasters making apparently trivial points about Williams' lying. Stewart's logic is this: The media can't report negatively on anything anymore, because they dropped the ball on Iraq.Stewart doesn't actually believe that: It's just a cheap gambit meant to get his buddy Williams off the hook by minimizing his serial lying. If Stewart were a public defender, he'd be even funnier than he is as a comic.Kyle Smith, NYP


                
Comedy works best when it relates to stuff that's true. But even as such, some effort is required to make jokes that everyone likes and even the most grumpy of viewers can crack a smile. When I look at the Daily Show, I see the whole "it's funny because it's true" thing, but I don't, however, see the effort and often times I don't if they're being funny or just trying to make a point(I notice this mostly in the interview segments). The Daily Show started off as a news parody, by definition they poke fun at how the media plays it's own news by pretending to be inept and dumb news reporters and anchormen and they tackled tons of subjects from science to movies and sometimes politics, then Jon Stewart came along...and it all went to Hell. Thr first years of Jon Stewart's reign were arguably golden, I though he was so funny, but then 2004 came along and it's where you start to notice a huge chance in the show from there on. The show's humor has gone stale, Colbert left, Steve Carell left, many of the show's best anchors left and now it's mostly about Jon Stewart and the show's gone from a parody to a semi-serious news show, essentially Evening News but with some gags here and there. For those who haven't seen the show and are having trouble finding out what to watch on cable, I'll give you a brief description of what the show's about(at least until 2009): -Bush, Cheney and all Republicans(unless they happen to embrace an opinion shared by Democrats as well) are stupid, evil, corrupt and hypocrites, anyone who stands by conservative beliefs is also evil, corrupt and a hypocrite; -people who doubt the man-made global warming theory are evil and stupid; -vote Democrat; There, I saved you 25 minutes of your time, go watch something else. At first, I though that the producers hijacked the show for their own personal political agenda, but when I actually see the interviews, it becomes crystal clear what this show's about(what I mentioned above), but I'll get to that in a moment. Frist off, the humor in The Daily Show according to Jon Stewart expects you to find a random filmed quote said by either Bush, Cheney or a random republican humorous because well, because. Jon sets up the joke, setting it in writers specific context and expects that the random quote somehow delivers the punchline. So, unless you «get» the context, it's entirely useless as bankable humor. Also the Daily Show expects you to laugh when they show a montage of one politician talking and in another separate video saying another thing, again putting into a context that the writers expect you to understand, thus making it funny,why? Well, because Jon said so. Now imagine The Daily Show using that formula countless times for years every week, and you'll start to understand of what used to be a laugh-fest that is now 25 minutes of just silent stares(yes, even in the Lewis Black segments). At first, some decent amount of effort was put into these jokes, but now much less of that is apparent. And the interview have the most odd sense of bias that I've ever seen. Jon Stewart calls Bill O'Reilly a bully, but what does that make him, when he sucks up to every single actor and democrat(John Kerry before, Obama today) that appears on the show and looks down upon respected republicans and accomplished conservative newsmen such as Weekly Standard's own Bill Kristol? He puts them in some sort of people's tribunal as if they're being charged with a crime, often times any person on the show who stands up for Bush is portrayed as delusional, as if that person's out of touch with reality and assumes he speaks for the majority of America, that's the de facto treatment for anybody conservative, unless they happen to share a similar point of view with Democrats, if so then's it's an endless love fest. But still, it doesn't matter, in the eyes of Jon you are already wrong before you walked into the show and are still wrong afterwords. That's the kind of treatment you get if you are anything remotely right-wing. Now you have to wonder what that could possibly have anything to do with humor. One wonders what'll happen if Democrats win the White House...
The Major Thing I liked about Jon Stewart, was that he was comedic and didn't act like a partisan. If Republicans did something wrong, he teased at them, if the Democrats did something wrong, he teased at them. But Trevor Noah...he is biased and one sided, and completely ignorant of certain controversies. Not only this, he isn't even comedic. People in the audience are laughing when the stuff he says isn't funny. I grew up in a Republican family and they had great respect for Jon Stewart. But Trevor Noah, he's a black nationalist and only helps to divide our nation on race; just like how South Africa is divided on race. An ugly country with ugly people, Trevor. I have seen your country's history, seen what people say and the way they all think (Black and White) is completely disgusting both ways. Your response to the French Ambassador proved that much, you are unwilling to see people beyond their race.


                
I'm so glad this show is representing the great continent of Africa!


                
Same old tired garbage, obsession with trump is not comedy... stinks. Trevor Noah is just plain not funny....
