Jon Stewart's timing and delivery is incredibly good. The writing is fantastic. Of course, with material provided fresh daily by the US Congress and Administration, writing humor probably isn't all that challenging. It must be frustrating that they don't have enough time to cover more "news" in each half-hour segment.I'd give anything to buy a "Best of the Daily Show" on DVD (especially the one with "the Congress condemning sex with a turtle" episode).


                
The Daily Show has evolved into a cult status and it's popular especially since Jon Stewart took over the helm some years ago. I remember Jon Stewart and Lisa Edelstein (Dr. Cuddy of House) being the video jockeys on MTV in the Morning which only seems like yesterday. Anyway the Daily Show has evolved into an exciting half-hour of fun, entertainment, and even enlightenment. You can't help but notice that Jon's guests are no longer celebrities but mostly authors, educators, and politicians. He seems to be at ease with them than at the Oscars. How many times can you interview somebody about a movie or television show? As Stephen Colbert would say, Stewart has the balls and makes this show a success but he doesn't maintain that standard fare that would make us tune out. The short features from his correspondents are always worth watching as well. I love Samantha Bee and the ever changing titles of his correspondents as well. I remember Nancy Walls and Steve Carrell (now of "The Office) doing their reports. Lewis Black is always welcome on the show. Chris Rock doing the Republican conventions is always a scream.


                
It's really too bad that the truth can only be spoken these days by comedians. News ain't what it used to be, thanks to corporate interests. If you disagree, it's got nothing to do with opinion; you're just blind to the fact that corporate interests decide the news, which help wealthy tax cuts for the rich, and profit the war profiteers (who own the news networks and press, dummies). Show me I'm wrong. Liberal press, indeed.Hopefully this show will continue to speak the truth to power, those that abuse power, and anyone profiting off the misery of others, particularly the military and the poor. Go Jon! You rock buddy!


                
I am updating my initial negative review I made only just a few weeks after Trevor started. I realize now that i was supremely influenced by my own feelings of grief and anger at Jon Stewart's departure. The ONLY reason I kept watching Trevor was because I knew Jon had chose him for a reason and I was loyally determined to discover the hidden gem that he must have seen in Trevor in order to choose him as a successor. I'm happy for not giving up on this show, because I finally do see it now and it's so good that I feel guilty for being too quick to judge. Seriously, as if I could have done better. Hats off to Trevor for the courage it took to step up to the plate and for finding his voice. Its obvious to me now that he just needed a bit more time to feel that confidence to be himself that only comes with time and practice and experience. Because right now he's there, in the zone. I love his content and his delivery. He's genuine, lovable and as smart as he is funny and that's pretty much what loved about Jon. The spirit of the daily show lives on! It cuts through the bullshit with the perfect balance of humor and enlightenment. If your not watching it you're missing out. Seriously. I would be miserable without the daily show and John Oliver's "Last week tonight" on HBO or the pirate bay ;-) Thanks IMDb


                
This is the only show that is capable of making me laugh 'til I cry. 'Friends' used to. Occasionally. But this show does it on a regular basis. Forget everything else that purports to be comedy. This is the real deal. There is, of course, the occasional unfunny segment. But that's to be expected. It's not easy coming up with burning satire four days a week. And people's tastes vary. (A weekly format would probably suit the content better.) But in general, I can't see how anyone could have a bad word to say about it. (Except, of course, O'Reilly, Hannity and all the other GOP/Murdoch stooges at Fox News. And anyone else who doesn't have an open mind and the ability to laugh at themselves.)


                
"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" combines intelligent, often brilliantly insightful political satire with an almost childish sense of joy, and occasional devolution to the immature which generally juxtaposes well, embodied by the incredible Jon Stewart, whose multi-faceted hosting style is too much for this review, has been the wellspring of contemporary knowledge for the younger generation for nearly a decade.On Jon Stewart himself I must say is probably (though I leave room for personal opinions) the funniest man in the states, and one of the funniest in the world. His combines seriousness and childishness, modesty with insight.The show itself is formatted well, the opening segment, normally Jon Stewart alone, is in my opinion the funniest part of the show; it deal with the big news. The second part is where the show's variety of correspondents do their stuff. Most people consider John Oliver the funniest, with good cause, but the less used Lewis Black, John Hodgeman and Demetri Martin are also excellent. Jason Jones and Aasif Mandvi always struck me as somewhat more generic, and Samantha Bee a bit annoying.However it is in the interview where Jon Stewart really shows his stuff. Rarely directly engaging in debate (Though he made exceptions for Mike Huckabee, Billy Crystal and Crossfire) he is nevertheless quite capable of making his point while never appearing to be a jackass. On the contrary he is remarkably humble and upfront about his alleged ignorance. Occasional an interview takes up two segments is the guest is important (Such as General Musharraf, Tony Blair, Jimmy Carter etc...). All in all the interview can be the funniest part of the show, the most interesting or the dullest, it depends largely on the guest.Lastly a few general comments. Though often criticized for misinforming or merely distracting youths (see Bill O'Reilly on 'stoned slackers') recent studies have shown that people who cite The Daily Show/ Colbert Report as their primary source of news are the best informed (FOX news was last one year as I recall). Oh and as a response to those who accuse it of having a liberal bias... you're right, sort of. The writers may be left-leaning in general, but they are more concerned about whats funny, and in fact will target anyone, as evidenced by their recent, surprisingly critical, coverage of the Obama administration.Lastly, a lot of people see this as a fake news show, but I think it's more News Satire. If you watch it closely, you find that most jokes, and certainly the funniest, come not from mocking or in some way misrepresenting events, but from satirizing the coverage of these events. Especially in recent years it has grown incredibly critical of mainstream news's sensationalism.Overall, a fantastic show, one of the best on television, the only reason I didn't give it a 10/10 was because it's only on 4 nights a week (And because of Sam Bee).


                
As a newer viewer, I love the Daily Show. I've been watching for only a couple of years but I've never missed an episode. I love the show and I think that it could be considered thought provoking as well as funny. I love Trevor Noah and after reading his memoir, I feel like I understand his style better. My only concern is that it hasn't aired any new episodes this week. Is the staff on holiday? I sincerely hope this isn't a bad sign dor the future of the Daily Show.


                
Choosing Trevor Noah to replace Stewart......what a tough call/high bar in the hiring of the torch-bearer for this show.And, as far as I'm concerned the choice of Noah reflects both the toughness of that call and the height of that bar: Noah is an amazing person.He has much of the spirit of Stewart, and then some.Stewart did a great job, and he's a national treasure. But it's instructive to make a reasoned comparison; what does Noah bring that Stewart may have (somewhat) lacked?Here's the deal: A comedian/comic can acquire skills from years working in front of crowds in stand-up... and that's what Stewart did.But... Noah HAS THEATRE CHOPS. Noah has, really, everything that Stewart did, PLUS theatre chops. And that's an amazing thing to see.So, the way I see this transition is that Noah has *everything* Stewart had (not forgetting top staff!), and then toss in very mature theatre chops, and you've only improved the product.There is one other thing: One senses that the Daily Show producers used this transition as a cover to make some changes in content programming: That is, The *new* Daily Show (with Noah) both bumped up the produced content quality AND nudged over a bit in the direction of including more global perspective... which the old show did rather lack. These are *great* decisions!So: If'n yuz asks me, the new Daily Show took an amazing show and only made it better.


                
Jon Stewert is a kickin' show but it has lost most of it's funniest people(Steve Carell and Stephen Colbert were the funniest). Though it has gotten a little bit worse I still think it deserves it's Emmy's. Ecpecially since he and Stephen Colbert have Gorge Bush and other politics to laugh at(but Stephen Colbert makes fun of more then politics which is why i like him better)The Daily Show and The Colbert Report are slowly becoming T.V comedy classics such as The Simpsons. WARNING: If whoever is reading EVER becomes famous for whatever reason, be careful that you never do anything stupid because Jon Stewert and Stephen Colbert WILL BE ON YOU IF THEY DISAGREE!


                
As Comedy Central's longest running show, it is impossible for me to say bad things about this...except when Jon Stewart left. I remember first watching the show back in 2003. I was first becoming a teenager and wanting to look into more adult shows and this fit the bill perfectly. The reason this show has been going on so long is the same reason "South Park" has been going on so long. They are the most topical shows of their entire genre. It's simply hard to specify any single episode of "The Daily Show" because they have a seemingly infinite number of them. Jon Stewart has hosted the show for 95% of the entire run and it's strange to see even the consideration of someone filling his shoes. Trevor Noah seems nice enough, but is obviously not as good.I realize how much this show has grown. It's not just the show, it's that there are so many correspondents on this show who come and go. The best of them all was of course Stephen Colbert and I was quite disappointed to see HIS show end as well. I guess this has shown that change is good, just not with the host. It is true that I do not watch the show as often as before. It is still on all the time and I still watch a lot of Comedy Central so it's simply hard for me to simply avoid it altogether. I would be lying if I said I didn't get a lot of my news from this show.You could argue that the show is too massive and that younger people are getting misinformed about the most important news stories. This is still the most entertaining (fake) news show ever made. To be able to observe how the world always has new crazy things going on is something everyone should be aware of. It shows that are always new things to talk about. I guess I'm not really a fan of talk shows that much, but I will make an exception for this great series. I mean, look at how it has a higher rating on the IMDb than so many other talk shows! It's even hard to think of a single joke from "The Daily Show".Okay, I can think of one. One episode talked about the show "Tomorrow's Pioneers" featuring an evil knockoff of Mickey Mouse telling children to kill Jews. Jon said, "He looks like Mickey Mouse, but he sounds like Walt Disney". Lewis Black is always hilarious and I am so glad this show introduced me to him even though he's not really a full time correspondent. This stuff isn't stupid. It's stuff that's more relevant to you than any other comedy on TV. I always preferred this show over Bill Maher. Bill Maher's show can definitely be witty and insightful, but he's a lot meaner than the people on this show.For whatever the future may hold and whoever the host may be, please watch this wonderful and unique show that's a big part of a lot of our lives. I guess "The Colbert Report" is technically a better (talk) show, but this is at least going on. Perfect ****.


                
I really love this show, it has the politically fierce half of bill Maher yet politically correct at the same timeI really hope john oliver gets his own show, he did an excellent job during the summer of 2013but Jon Stewart is a great, hilarious guy as well, I like how he brings the news and tops it with humor I'm 11 so whenever there is a cuss or adult joke I would laugh or giggle :) the reason I think john oliver needs his own show is because Stephen Colbert from the Colbert report, his show is so successful and before the daily show he was not popular and the Colbert report has run half the time of TDS but has won half the awards and already has an 8.4 rating just like TDS


                
This the show the daily show has been around for quite some time. The show basically tells you about the news that is currently happening while making fun of it. This show unlike most comedian shows actually has character, it has started the comedian genre ( even though I know that Saturday night live did that) Many people have left the daily show and started their own careers in the same space, and you can see in their style and set and jokes they are much like John Stewart. Just look at John Oliver's set up, it's almost exactly like John Stewart's.I also love how in every chance he gets John Stewart makes fun of Arby's which I find hilarious because there are many places like Arby's but he chooses to make fun of that particular brand. The last thing is that John also really inter acts with his guests when they are on the show, you also might see guests like that on other newer shows that pick up on it. It's really sad that he is retiring though. If you want a good laugh then you should watch this show, it's great.


                
Jon was ok but Trevor is really funny. I see all the stuck up Republicans giving low reviews..smh... ridiculous


                
Trevor have you thought about doing a special in South Africa. One of the best shows on TV. I don't watch these days because of my work schedule. Great show.


                
