With Jon Stewart this show was amazing, but the new guy is just plain awful. I actually kind of like him as a person if that makes sense, he seems like a nice guy and everything, but just something about his delivery and sense of humor or something just is not very good. I don't think he ever made me laugh. All the jokes he delivers he just ruins with bad delivery. Still it used to be great.


                
The Daily Show has been on Comedy Central for more then 20 years! The show has had a lot of talented comedians and writers. That being said, the show has increasingly pushed a smug,Liberal agenda. I have watched the show for years. I remember Craig Kilborn's tenure (1996–98) and of course Jon Stewart's tenure (1999–2015). During that time, I slowly realized that the show became more and more about political ideology and less about being a comedic take on the news. They "super-cut" actual news to fit a narrative that allows them to make fun and crack jokes about events and people. Sounds fun! Unfortunately, It is always with a Liberal "We are right,We are victims, We are so hip and cool,We so much smarter then anyone that disagrees with us!" slant. I would never go to The Daily Show for "News". Unfortunately I have met many younger people who have. -Back in 2008, a girlfriend of mine voted for Obama, Simply, because Jon Stewart's NEGATIVE jokes about MCain. She was 18 and impressionable. This is what they want. They use comedy and skew actual events, in order to camouflage their actual motives and beliefs. It is a network propaganda machine.


                
I loved John Stewart and literally everyone else that has received a spin off show is amazing. Samantha Bee, Stephen Colbert, and John Oliver are among my favorites. But Trevor Noah has the comedic sensibilities of a preteen. He has awful timing, is too drab, boring, his delivery sucks more than any comedian I have ever seen make it to TV. Literally anyone from the cast of 30 Rock would've made a better host than him.Trevor Noah sucks. He is not funny at all and I cannot believe or understand Comedy Central's willingness to double-down on several years of destroying an institution that we loved so much under John Stewart's.... Stewartship? <- See what I did there? That unfunny awful garbage would be good enough to make it onto the Daily Show with Trevor Noah. God I miss John Stewart. I guess we should all just stick with John Oliver and wait for Comedy Central to grow a pair.


                
I miss John Stewart! I watched when he was around, now I don't bother.


                
I just do not get how Trevor Noah is still the host. His timing and energy is way off for this type of show. I hated him from the start but thought maybe it was just going to take some time to get used to someone replacing John Stewart so i have been watching the show here and there while trying to truly just try and get over the crappy host because the writing is still solid but i just cannot take it anymore.


                
I used to love this show. It was witty really made me laugh. I don't know who decided to pick Trevor Noah, but they should be fired along with Noah. He is one of the least funny people on TV. The only reason I didn't give 1 Star is because I loved Stewart so much. Noah tries too hard. And with little success. I will not be watching again till Noah is gone.


                
The Daily Show with Jon Stewart was a great show, focusing on culture and politics through an unbiased humanist approach (which of course usually tends to be towards leftist politics). When Trevor Noah took over it became dull and clearly developed a painful neoliberal bias. It's like watching MSNBC, shilling for Hillary Clinton, no longer focusing on the multiple injustices of both Republicans and Democrats but primarily becoming a show to just mock Donald Trump, and that honestly doesn't take much effort or much humor.


                
First of all, the title "DAILY" is a LIE. Every "Daily Show" program opens with an on-screen visual of the date it was made, followed by a pause and the opening announce. On the many days when they are RE-RUNNING a Daily Show, they slip-cue the tape and OMIT the date and begin with the opening announce giving the false impression that the show is a new one. That's a lie. There is no mention of it being a rebroadcast. And that kind of crap is just a small indicator of how sneaky and deceptive this show is. Furthermore, it's only on 4 nights a week. That's not quite "daily" - meaning Monday through Friday - another shortcoming but one I am grateful for.It's sad to think that many clueless young people use this fake news program as their main, often only, news source. This leaves them woefully ignorant and much worse - badly misinformed.Although it leans liberal-left, politically, this show can be amusing at times. However, its veracity is low. Facts and information are often cleverly twisted to fit the writers' agendas. It's often hard to tell where the facts leave off and the fiction and comedy writing begin. The result is pre-digested, reinterpreted information designed to persuade and influence. This is called "PROPAGANDA".The remote interviews are heavily kluged in editing.It really loses me when it bashes God and Christians - which it does all too often. However, you'll never hear anything vaguely anti-Semitic.If Jon Stewart and company attacked anyone but Christians, it would be considered an offensive outrage. The names in the credits explain the source.


                
