I WAS a Daily Show fan for years, but am completely confused at the decision to place Trevor Noah in the anchor seat. As with all nightly talk shows, it seems The Daily Show wants to be more frat party than talk show. Obviously, anyone who replaced John Stewart was going to be facing great scrutiny, but Trevor just is not a good fit. Gone is the sly wit, emotional connection, and light banter that The Daily Show excelled at. It was a struggle for me to stay up so late the watch this show (because I get up so early in the morning), but I always thought it was worth the effort. I guess now, I get an hour more sleep every night. Healthy for me, but it feels like something is missing now.


                
May contain one spoiler if it is even classified as one:Over watching many episodes of this show I have come to a conclusion. In the beginning the Daily Show started off with it's intended purpose fully visible. Have a satirical news show that reports silly stories or makes fun of some people here and there. But in the present it has become nothing more than just another mainstream outlet that particularly enjoys slandering the right. As an Independent I always enjoy it when people can poke fun at political situations with unbiased comedy but the almighty daily show is just a political newsroom under the disguise as a comedy show. I would see the host take things Republicans say and take them out of context and either make a joke of nothing or just make it sound awful when in context when it's not. If two republicans are not getting along they have a field day with it but if a Leftist radical calls conservatives terrorists than they are silent. If I was uninformed than the impression I get from them is that all conservatives are the devil in disguise and liberals are absolute angels with a flawlessly working government that is plagued by the right. The funniest parts of the shows were when they would talk about ridiculous stories that were actually funny like with Anthony Weiner's sex scandal. I found their segment on it funny because it was pure comedy and not a political rant. If they want to earn even more respect they have to have and Independent take on everything so one side won't feel scrutinized. This television show belongs on NBC since their tone is no different. If you are a Left winger looking for a show that paints Right wingers as morons, this show is perfect for you. If you are someone looking for satirical news show that contains raw and hilarious comedy, looks somewhere else or make one yourself.


                
Trevor Noah doesn't seem to have any understanding that it's not a "moment of Zen" when you edit it to suit yourself.


                
