I read Joss Whedon and his brother's were bored during the Writer's Strike last season and came up with the idea for Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog. All I can say is at least one phenomenal thing came out of that strike! This three part comedy/drama with music is the most entertaining thing I've seen all summer. Neil Patrick Harris is absolutely inspired as the not so horrible, Dr. Horrible. Nathan Fillion is as adorable as ever as Captain Hammer, but he gets to reach in and find some shallowness too. This is fifty minutes, when you put all three parts together, of silliness, twists and turns, all with a soundtrack. It's only free online until July 20th, then you have to buy it. But the season pass at iTunes is only $3.99 and it is well worth the money. I highly recommend this for anyone who loved Buffy the Vampire Slayer's musical episode, who loves Joss Whedon or Neil Patrick Harris.


                
Exceptional dialog, music, humor, pathos...yes, one of those again! Whedon and crew are reshaping "television" into the 21st Century and hopefully will carry the "industry" along with them in their wake (I know...I'm mixing metaphors but what the hell!). I can't wait for the next episode (I pray one will follow)! Each of the main actors brings with them a unique "graphic novel" ambiance to the three-part episode. Nathan Fillion delivers just the right balance of likability and swarminess. Neil Patrick Harris brings an exquisite mix of illusion and reality - enough that we can touch his human side (and connect with it), while still laughing along with his illusory attempts at superhero-ness. And Felecia Day provides a perfect target of the two male leads' affections. The songwriting is catchy and endearing and the songs delivered with clarity and feeling.For the past three days I have found myself unintentionally singing lines from the show as I drive, shop for groceries, shower, walk the dogs, cook dinner . . . you name it! They are that catchy!You won't regret downloading and sitting through the 40 minutes of exceptional film-making!


                
I honestly didn't know what I was getting myself into when I first sat down at my computer to watch this. I had heard that Joss Whedon had created it, and I was a fan of the Buffy the Vampire Slayer series, but I didn't know what it was about or anything.Forty Five minutes later, I was completely blown away. The songs, writing, and acting are just amazing. It made me laugh, and nearly cry. It's so creative, and has superheroes in it, which I love.If you're someone who isn't sure about it, just watch Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog anyway. I promise you will not be disappointed.Dr. Horrible has a P.h.D. in horribleness, and awesomeness.


                
If you simply enjoy being entertained, this enchantingly short trio of episodes sheer is perfection itself.Congratulations to Joss Wheedon for giving his planet such a very sweet little gift.i'm not much of a fan of musicals as a rule, but this one plays so cheekily on all things geeky it's hard to resist.Too often these days, performances rarely reveal that the cast absolutely enjoyed their rolls so much. Knowing that these people all performed for free and for friendship makes this one all the more enjoyable to watch.So many Directors with so much money & talent at their disposal really do miss the point, and the point is to put your heart into it.So obviously made with love, and the help of friends, Dr Horrible will make you smile over & over!


                
... I say this though as a quasi-Whedon ignorant; I've only seen about two seasons worth of Buffy, no Angel, and all of Firefly and Serenity. Joss Whedon's sense of humor is playful, crude, warped, and everything one might love from a skewering of superheroes. Hancock, take note, this is how it's done with consistency! The premise of Dr. Horrible can be summed up in one sentence: Boy (Dr. Horrible) with nerdy powers finds and wants girl, boy loses girl to arch nemesis boy Captain Hammer, boy plots revenge, boy finds things end on a pretty bitter and sad note. Or, to put it another way, it's about the nerdy guy wanting the girl and the beefy upstart with an ego the size of a blimp is hogging her for himself.That's the gist of it, anyway, but to say this is all Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog is about is to do a total disservice to Whedon and his large fan-base. This is a musical not quite unlike the Buffy classic "Once More, with Feeling" only without that pesky 'you have to know a and b and c are going on in the series and season' logic. One is thrust into that sharp, laconic, and joyously obvious sense of humor that reveals Whedon as someone who is a kind of curious master of musical comedy with those appropriate doses of barbed satire.At the same time, as one who may have watched their share of Buffy and even Firefly knows, Whedon is also a hopeless romantic (hopeless in that he can't seem to put people together without *something* going wrong, which is the point of all drama one supposes), and his tale of Dr. Horrible, done through songs that reveal the characters' souls, heartfelt and adorable and totally meat-headed (the Captain's final song at the podium with his award is next to Godliness), and at the same time a cheap joke (random cowboys singing along from the sides of the frame) or a catchy number (the "Man's gotta do" song is far more wondrous than about 99.9% of stuff on the radio now) isn't sacrificed for the sake of what little plot there is.And lest not forget the acting, or at least the awesome musical prowess. Neal Patrick Harris and Nathan Filion are just about perfect in their roles, as is the woman who plays Penny (the red-headed girl Dr. Horrible meets at the Coin Mart), with Filion especially juicy in a somewhat campy turn where he takes all those heroic qualities of his Firefly character and reveals the dark side ("And yes, we had sex"). Dr. Horrible's Sing-along Blog is about as close to romantic-comedy-musical-satire amazement as one could hope for, or maybe not expect, from Whedon, particularly as a free web-series running just about the length of a full short film (or an extremely short feature).


                
I am not a fan of musicals, nor a fan of Joss Whedon's earlier work. I never watch Firefly, Buffy, or anything. In fact, the only reason I watched this was Neil Patrick Harris' involvement. Thank God I did! It is truly a one of a kind, and there isn't anything I could suggest to watch otherwise. It really is just fantastic, in terms of originality, writing, acting, the whole shebang. I do hate one thing about this thought. I hate having stupid friends, so I cannot just let them watch it on their own. I must watch it, then explain it's awesomeness, then force them to watch it again. So, if your friends aren't as retarded as mine are, please share this gem.


                
A friend of mine who sat next to me in computer class quoted Dr. Horrible left and right for nearly a week after watching it. Lo and behold, he told me that I too must watch this web creation. My friend is an avid Joss Whedon fan. I had never heard of the guy until that moment. He liked musicals, I was pretty impartial to them. After being bugged for long enough, I finally decided to watch it, merely to calm him down.I certainly judged this too soon. I was captivated right from the evil laugh "you know... coming along". It was very interesting the way Whedon made the protagonist the villain, and the antagonist the hero. The songs are very addicting and humorous, as well as portrayed with talent. I enjoyed the subtle humor. The ending was sad, but well thought out. I almost hope for a sequel, but I also worry that it might lessen the effect this movie had.What's left to say? You were right and I was wrong, Tyler.


                
This little musical by Joss Whedon is clever and well written yet could be easily financed by a college freshman. The music is catchy, the lyrics are entertaining and fuel the story, the characters are memorable and quirky and the ending will disappoint people who want a schmoopy lovey-dovey ending. Those of us who are fans of Firefly will watch because we love Whedon's writing and Nathan Fillion's acting. Fillion's "Captain Hammer" is the shallow superhero nemesis of Neil Patrick Harris's Dr. Horrible, the latest in a long line of villains who have somehow had time to get their doctorate. While the video only adds up to just under 45 minutes, there are several story lines within the story that are very entertaining. The singing is by no means operatic, but is always pleasant and enjoyable.Neil Patrick Harris is great in this. Felicia Day is beautiful and Nathan Fillion is memorably ridiculous.This is a fun little sweet from Joss Whedon's bag of candy.
My sister has been telling me to watch this and I didn't have much interest but I finally caved today and watch all three episodes. I loved this show a lot. It's one of the funniest things I've seen in a while and I am glad that I finally decided to sit down and enjoy it. It was truly hilarious and you gots to check it out! I thought Neil Patrick Harris' performance in the Harold and Kumar films was epic, but his performance in this is either just as good or better. I loved the story and all the acting and singing, and of course, the internet and nerd jokes. It's definitely worth seeing. Give it a chance!
In Joss Whedon's "Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog," you will find a lovable antagonist (Neil Patrick Harris as Dr. Horrible) trying to make his way into the "company of Evil" as a villain that is unwilling to actually harm people, yet wants to be viewed as dangerous. His love interest, Penny (Felicia Day, head-writer of "The Guild"), is a benevolent free spirit that wishes to help the homeless people of America, while "Captain Hammer" (Nathan Fillion, the captain in "Firefly") manages to woo her as a "Corporate tool" superhero that supposedly saves lives.This comedy web-series/musical/drama, which has been stated by Joss Whedon as being inspired by "The Guild," another popular web-show, is full of wonderful songs that can make you laugh or almost move you to tears despite the obvious satirical influences. The general concept: a villain (Dr. Horrible) tainted by human corruption, battles a superhero (Captain Hammer), inspired by douchebags across the nation that are seemingly "sweet" but really just want to get into girls' pants. Surprisingly, this series is reminiscent of Star Wars: Epidodes 1-3, in which Anikan becomes a villain in order to save the one he loves... (that analogy makes more sense after watching the series)...Regardless, this is a fantastic web-sensation that proves the internet is becoming a more powerful outlet for entertainment. It shows that you do not need money or backing, but merely superb acting and imagination to create something spectacular and moving. I would hands-down give this series at least a 9/10 because it is hilarious, innovative, beautiful, and made by true writers/actors/directors who believe in their work in spite of monetary profit.


                
Any internet-installment that starts with Doogie Howser practicing his Evil Laugh is worth a watch for this fact alone, but Dr. Horrible goes on to be even more hilarious from there. Add to this a whole bunch of catchy songs (justifying the "sing-a-long" in the title), a sweet heroine, a Hero who is Evil, a nemesis who is Good, Nathan Fillion who is pee-your-pants funny and hey presto: Whedon magic. Although crafted as a "we're so bored during this writers strike"- in between, it would be a shame if this did not go on (and on, and on) for at least a few more episodes (by which I mean to say: seasons). PLEASE MR. WHEDON?
This is a weird series that most people have never seen. However, for the internet savvy (meaning most everyone below the age of 25 and a few old geezers like myself), it's a very popular mini-series of three episodes. While producing a direct to the internet series can't be an expensive endeavor, Joss Whedon and the rest of the cast and crew have managed to make shows that look expensive and well-produced. All this despite only taking six hours to film the episodes! I am sure, however, it took a very long time to write the wonderful songs and create the great jokes and generate such love by its fans. Too bad they haven't brought this wonderful idea to television so that a wider audience could enjoy it.Neil Patrick Harris stars as Dr. Horrible--strange casting, to say the least. Yet despite him being a would-be super-villain, there is something very vulnerable and likable about the guy--you want to see his wicked plans prevail. As for his nemesis, Captain Hammer (wonderfully played by Nathan Fillion), he's the hero...but also an idiot and a jerk to boot. Because of these unusual characters that break the usual molds of heroes and villains, it's an exciting show.So far, there have only been three episodes (as well as soundtracks and over-priced t-shirts) but word is out on IMDb that more are in the near future. Let's just hope...Brilliantly written--this is far better than 98% of the crap you can see now on television.


                
I absolutely love Dr Horrible's Sing Along Blog! The songs are catchy, and the actors are fantastic! I love Neil Patrick Harris and everything he brings to his multi dimensional character! Nathan Fillion is absolutely hilarious, and Felicia Day plays the perfect Penny! Not only is this show funny and delightful, it has a deeper meaning that hits home at the end. Even if you're not sure what it is, the show's message is able to come across and hit you right in the face. Many of my friends won't give this a chance because of the title and how "weird" it may sound, but please do not write this show off before giving it a chance. I thoroughly enjoy watching Dr. Horrible and have seen it multiple times without growing tired of it. I can't say enough good things about Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog!


                
Honestly, I had no idea what this was going in. I knew there was singing, but I didn't know much else. I was incredibly surprised and delighted by what I found in this!Neil Patrick Harris. According to director Joss Whedon, "If Neil said no then I don't think we would've made this." I see why. He's the perfect choice! Watch his facial expressions closely, especially in Act 1. Not many actors anymore realize how key their performance still is even when they aren't talking. Neil reacts to what others are saying; he keeps himself from becoming someone just standing there (Hard to explain, makes more sense if you just see for yourself) and puts himself in the environment. From his first evil laugh to his final line I found myself cheering for Dr. Horrible. Kudos to NPH, he fought past so many people making tacky comments on how he's reprising Doogie Howser and became the heroic villain.Nathan Fillion was... interesting. He's cheesy, but he's supposed to be cheesy. He made himself into a hero you'd really like to punch in the throat! I love the way this movie reversed roles- I viewed Captain Hammer as a villain. The hair flips, the exaggerated singing, the way he delivers his lines... Captain Hammer is the worst hero Los Angeles has ever had!Felicia Day was such an awesome choice for Penny. She reminds me a lot of a deer; she comes off as naive and innocent. Penny is such an honest character. When you look deep down, Penny and Dr. Horrible are both trying to do good, but Penny has chosen a more conventional way of doing good. Felicia Day's vocals in 'Penny's Song' were all too perfect.Combine these 3 elements and you see this movie is one in a million. From the beginning of Act 2 onwards, Dr. Horrible sings mostly depressing songs, Penny sings of hope and Captain Hammer sings of himself. I kept humming 'My Eyes' a week after I finished watching this for the first time. There is not one part of this movie that is not utterly perfect. This is definitely one of those movies you have to see before you die!


                
When I checked out the DVD at the library, I wasn't close to sure that I would like it. When I watched it, I was surprised at how much I liked it. I like the music and all of the characters except for Captain Hammer because he was very annoying. The special features are great also. I would have liked this to be longer, but I'm not against films that are short. My favorite scene was when Dr. Horrible was walking up the aisle where Captain Hammer was giving a speech and sang about what he would do with power. My least favorite scene is when Penny dies. I would have liked it if Dr. Horrible killed Captain Hammer. This is my second favorite independent film after Expiration Date.
Dr. Horrible (Neil Patrick Harris) has two goals: get inducted into the Evil League of Evil, and win the heart of his laundromat crush, Penny (Felicia Day). This already daunting task becomes even more improbable when we factor in Captain Hammer (Nathan Fillion), who not only hopes to crush Horrible but steals his girl out from underneath him. All this, and music! Of all the good that came from the Writers Guild Strike, and that may be debatable, the best outcome was this three-part adventure. We already knew about Joss Whedon's excellence in song-writing from the Buffy episode "Once More With Feeling" -- this might be even better. Certainly, it has the advantage of being self-contained. You need not know the characters ahead of time to appreciate their songs.Nathan Fillion and Joss Whedon go back a while (allegedly he agreed to this project before even knowing what it was), as does Whedon and Felicia Day. The NPH, to my knowledge, is a new addition. I don't think they could have found anyone better -- charismatic, self-deprecating, and a decent singer. His best role since "Harold and Kumar", or perhaps ever.Anyone who hasn't seen this should -- rent it ,buy it, do what you have to do. I can't think of a good reason not to, and so far I have yet to come across anyone who didn't love it. This is the next big thing, and I look forward to any sequels Whedon plans on making for either television or the big screen.


                
...Ok so my title for this review sucks.But Dr Horrible doesn't and doesn't even come close to sucking or blowing, it rules with and iron hoof. From humble beginnings as a script written during the writers strike (Or just afterwards, Joss ain't no scab) by the writer with arguably the biggest fan base of all the writers in Hollywood to a full fledged 40 and a bit minute musical with that Firefly guy, Barney and... oh god that potential girl, god I know this, no coaching please.From the moment the opening tune starts we know we're in on what has to be one of the biggest entertainment events of the year, way way bigger than the I know Who Killed Me singalong. All around the world on the 15th of July the nerds united as we brought down the servers watching this brilliant piece of television on our computer screens because this is and internet thing and not a TV thing.The writing is so snappy and witty that if you're not quoting it for days afterward then the speakers on your computers must be malfunctioning, I suggest getting them looked at. The songs are toe tappingly good, at least the happy energetic ones are, I don't know anyone who was tapping their toes during 'Slipping' but then again you and I might know different people.Broken up into three act's with some of the most incredible cliffhangers ever (What does "Ball's" mean?) and every single act looks better than the last if arranged in alphanumerical order. There's subtle sight gags, cameos that were obviously put there for us Buffy nerds (Suck it you non-Buffy nerds you) and of course genius acting and emotional writing... or something similar.Easily the best thing to come on the internet since porn, winner of the peoples choice award and 5 time winner of Witch weekly's most charming smile award this is far and away the BEST MUSICAL EVER (And if IMDb didn't have this strange 10 lines or more rule when it came to reviews that part in capitals would have been the entire review instead of my poor attempt at wittiness)
First off, I am a big Joss Whedon fan, but not a check-the-blogs and go-to-the-conventions kind of fan.The music and singing in this is superior to the fun (but kind of terrible) singing episode of Buffy, so that's good.Joss Whedon usually has a smartest-kid-in-high-school kind of vibe, so you have to be up for that when you watch this.I also think it makes for a much better experience if you know nothing about all the hype before you see it. When I saw it, it was some little web-thing that Whedon fans were excited about, but no one else knew about. I saw it on my computer - not on a DVD.SPOILERS: But the reason I'm writing, and the reason I give it a 10, is because of the ending. For all Whedon's silliness, he has a few serious themes that come up again and again. One is that you can not be happy, nor truly love, if you are not right with God. You don't reform because of loving another person. You aren't forgiven if your plans get derailed and are unable to complete your evil plan. You must make a decision to be a moral person. Without your soul, your love is selfish, destructive and possessive.
I found out about this when youtube recommended me to watch a song from this online video after i was watching Neil Patrick Harris clips. i listened to a song expecting it to be some rubbish that couldn't make it onto TV. since then i have fallen in love with this masterpiece of quirky sarcastic humour and a brilliant soundtrack. if you have doubts over watching this then don't, it may seem a little weird and you may be a bit inclined to turn it off in the first few moments but don't, because this is one of Whedon's best pieces of work and it gets better and better and leaves you wondering what he will do next with this great creationwatch this no matter what, especially if you love NPH or the awkward and quirky type of humour 10/10 just magnificent


                
I absolutely love this series.With Felicia Day, NPH, and Nathan Fillion starring in this how could it go wrong?Led by the fantastic Duo of Jed and Joss Whedon this series tugs at your heart strings is strewn with comedy and most of all makes you side with the bad guys.Definitely check this one out.


                
This is a pretty great piece of work by Joss Whedon. I definitely recommend watching it. You can find the full three part series on YouTube for free. This series is an interesting exploration of what makes us good or evil, with shades of gray permutating both sides of the story's conflict. Neither side can be considered truly blameless or truly wrong in their actions or their intentions, with the title character simply wanting, at first, to win the girl of his dreams. This is an interesting deconstruction of the superhero genre that results in a sort of broken pedestal for much of the works it shares a genre with. All in all, I really recommend this work, for entertainment if nothing else.


                
"Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog" was a three part internet series created by Joss Whedon during the Writer's Strike. Neil Patrick Harris stars as Dr. Horrible, a villain who is desperate to become part of the Evil League of Evil. He struggles with fulfilling his villainous duties while also trying to win over the girl of his dreams, who is dating his nemesis Captain Hammer. This is a brilliantly written musical. Not only are the songs catchy and fun, but they make you think as well. Even people who are not fans of the musical genre can enjoy the quirkiness and humor of "Dr. Horrible's Sing- Along Blog" I'm a huge fan of Neil Patrick Harris, and he certainly did not disappoint. All of the actors in this small cast did a great job of pulling you in and making you care in such a short time.


                
This was partly inspired by Felica Day's great web show "The Guild" and for that reason and many others she stars as Penny.The main plot is Dr Horrible (Neil Patrick Harris) is trying to get into the League of Evil, as well as win over his crush Penny. However this being a comedy of sort means there are twists and turns that constantly keep people guessing. The antagonist from our point of view is Captain Hammer and he stops Dr. H and gets Penny. In the end the Dr gets into the league but at the cost of his crush.Joss Wheadon created this show, and among his followers he is known for killing of main characters. There is a edge to this that makes it so memorable, its a musical and that makes this show great.There is a rumour that this is going to be made into a movie, and I am on edge about it as what made the Sing along blog special was the fact it was in short parts and an independent show.Anyone who doesn't like this in my opinion is bonkers.
Going into this I knew 2 things. Joss Whedon is brilliant, and web series usually suck big time. So it was with mild trepidation that I streamed this with Netflix. Somehow Whedon (and Whedon and Whedon) managed to turn a goofy musical web series into an incredible example of exactly how to hit all the right notes (get it?).Because the show is only 42 minutes (including credits), Whedon opted for fairly obvious, well-worn characters that we are already familiar with so that he could concentrate on story and music to get them right. And get them right he did.The music is very very good. My favorite is My Eyes. A duet between Horrible and Penny with his heart breaking and hers soaring with wonderful words and harmonies. The dichotomy is wonderful and heartbreaking at the same time. Also watch for songs you'll find yourself singing in the shower like My Freeze Ray, A Man's Gotta Do and Brand New Day.The story is nothing special at a first (nerd trying to conquer the jock and win the girl) but is clever enough to keep the show going until the freaking brilliant ending. No Hollywood ending here my friends, no sir. You'll love it.See this. See it now. See it often.


                
Starting out in a dreary apartment, you see menacing looking fellow, dressed in a creepy landau long lab coat and a pair of welder's goggles. Similar to all of the generic comic book stories, there is the one main character that falls for the girl, a super hero and the evil villain. In this specific cinema, this well-known evil villain, Dr. Horrible, has fallen deeply in love with this girl. In his pursuit for Penny's love and for happiness, he succeeds at certain goals, but at a very dear cost. Billy, the hidden identity of Dr. Horrible, had forever fantasized and itched after becoming an official member of the Evil League of Evil, or E.L.E. He was performing renowned and adept heists and starting to finally make his call to the spotlight. His whole story is narrated through his animated and realistic adventures told by himself through both video and written post. Dr. Horrible is on the verge of a very enormous heist, stealing the final piece needed for his freeze-ray. With his freeze-ray successfully built, he will be able impress Bad Horse, the leader of the E.L.E., and impress the love of his life! Just after Dr. Horrible fails hard with his public attempt at use of the freeze-ray, he received another letter from Bad Horse saying that "assassination is just the only way" to gain entry into the E.L.E. Then the horrible mishap of events continues to continue, Dr. Horrible introduced the love of his life to his nemesis, the "super hero" that turns out to be a total jerk, Captain Hammer. Penny and Captain Hammer go out on dates and "French kiss and stuff" and the news of this devastated Billy and had turned his heart black with hatred. With Dr. Horrible's plan for revenge plotted, he was aiming for success: death to the Hammer. Dr. Horrible had engineered his freeze-ray into a death-ray. He designed the method in which he'd use to execute Captain. Hammer. He then just had to be patient and wait until the time was right. In the end, in the ultimate showdown, Dr. Horrible is mere seconds away from exterminating Captain Hammer when his death-ray wares off due too internal electrical faults. Captain Hammer winds up equipped with the faulty death-ray. When he tries to blast Dr. Horrible to smithereens, the gun recoils and splinters shoot all around. The scene was a city council meeting, and one of those spectators just happened to be Penny. Penny was also one of the casualties in this "explosion." This event was what got Dr. Horrible into the E.L.E. and a successful career, yet on the other side, it's also what killed the love of his life and completely broke his heart. Dr. Horrible's dream finally came true; becoming an official member of the E.L.E., yet he still felt so empty. With the loss of his love, he loses his drive in life. The thing that makes this movie unique is the point of view that it was shot from and how the story was told; through Dr. Horrible's posts. Through his video responses and text posts, the story of how he successfully got in to the E.L.E. and "inadvertently introduced his nemesis to the girl of his dreams." An online post is a frequently updated web page, typically consisting of fairly brief posts presented and archived in reverse-chronological order. Many people are able to express themselves, their thoughts and information, through posting online. Dr. Horrible's posts specifically are formatted to display "the natural progression of feelings" as his story progresses. Part of the success of online posting is due to the ease and accessibility of "superior editing and management tools" along with the aspect of posts being a compilation of all their posts, an online diary of sorts. Just like Dr. Horrible, "sharing the ongoing story of one's life with others is a primary use of many posts." There are four main divisions along two dimensions, as Krishnamurthy researched, "personal vs. topical, and individual vs. community." Dr. Horrible's posts would be defined as a personal and individual. In another study, McCrae and Costa came up with five dimensions. They're research helps to define Dr. Horrible as a person. Because he posts, it shows signs of insecurity and anxiety issues, an introvert, strict to routines and almost weak willed. Billy has always been too afraid to talk to Penny – an example of an introvert. Afraid of rejection from Penny, because of his anxiety and insecurity issues, he could barely muster up the courage to talk to her, "I'm just a few short weeks away from a reel audible connection." Dr. Horrible might be an evil villain, but he does have a good heart, caused by his weak will.There is one specific scene that demonstrates all of the proper uses and dimensions of posting by Dr. Horrible. He rants, in a sarcastic manner, about how awesome the new love interest between his nemesis and his dream girl is. You see Dr. Horrible clearly upset when he puts emphasis on specific words and stretches them out. With his facial expressions, you can also tell just how unsatisfied he is. He discusses his plans on how he will get into the E.L.E. by using his newly invented freeze-ray at the mayor's dedication for the super hero memorial bridge. Then the scene flashes black to show a skip in time between his two video posts and a text post. He refers to the text post to give background knowledge in a easier manner than to act out the scene. As Dr. Horrible receives a call from Bad Horse, the leader of the E.L.E., his face turns pale with fear as he is relayed the message of "assassination is just the only way" to make it into the league.
