For 'Buffy' fans, "Doctor Horrible's Sing-Along Blog" is similar to the famous 'Once More With Feeling' musical episode, exploring familiar Whedon territory with some favourite Whedon stars: Nathon Fillion from 'Firefly', Felicia Day also from the last series of 'Buffy', plus Neil Patrick Harris and cameos galore: is the good guy good, is the hero the heroine with a day-job, and does the bad guy *want* to be horrible? Lots of fun, with some good music and clever, thoughtful lyrics and some surprising performances; you start believing! I lol'd at the groupies and the baddies, and stay around for the credits. Available on I-tunes for purchase.And yes, I know what a hammer is.


                
I was told by my friend to check this out while we were waiting for a game to load. Needless the game was put on hold and i had to finish. The story is a super hero/super villain twist with the villain actually being the good guy of the story. The thing to really watch this for is the music, the plot is good, but not exceptional and the dialogue that isn't a joke or part of a song is a bit shallow. However, with a musical I guess you would make all the plot points into a song.The only downside however is with the pace of story. Things go from bad to worse very quickly and I don't think the story was drawn out enough to make you truly connect with the events happening. It however was long enough to make you care.It's a very good 50 minutes that aren't wasted. The more you watch it, the better it becomes. Again the only downside is the pace of the character development. However, the musical numbers are more then enough to keep attention.
Poor Dr. Horrible. All he wants is to rule the world. Not merely for the sake of being in charge mind you. He thinks he can do a better job. Poor Dr. Horrible. And you will sympathize for him. When he's not working on his freeze ray he's pining after Penny, the girl of his dreams, and avoiding beat downs from his arch-nemesis Captain Hammer (who is dickish enough to make us hate him too).The backstory of this three act mini movie is really just as interesting as the movie itself. Created during the 2008 WGA strike, writer/director Joss Whedon set out to create a short, yet professional, film that wouldn't cross any strike regulations. The result is a great little musical about a D list villain named Dr. Horrible trying to gain respect and his way into the Evil League of Evil. Reportedly the film was made of a very limited budget with none of the actors (Neil Patrick Harris, Nathan Fillion, and Felicia Day) paid at the time. It's a great project and source of hope for any aspiring filmmaker out there who ever complained of a lack of budget. The same could be said for life in general I suppose. We shouldn't place our happiness externally ("I'd be happy if I just had that car/job/girl/etc").Whatever larger messages one takes from Dr. Horrible and his sing-along blog it's a great little work. Like any good musical the songs are catchy and will stay with you long after you've finished watching. Watch Dr. Horrible. Sing along. Laugh. Rule the world.


                
Joss Wheldon's "Dr. Horrible's Sing Along Blog" was exceedingly interesting to watch. The movie was about an evil scientist who falls madly for a girl he hardly knows. They finally start talking and a perfect, strong, handsome super hero comes along and sweeps her off her feet. Throughout the entire movie Dr. Horrible longs to be considered a "super villain" and be recognized as a threat by the other villains'' of the world and more specifically the "Evil League of Evil". He also longs to be desired by the girl he fell for. He sees that the superhero isn't good for her, but is just trying to find a way to get the girl to see this. I think the whole concept of this movie is great! It might seem silly to some people but the "cheesiness" of it makes it all the more better. The singing in the movie actually helped to make clear what each character was feeling/thinking at each specific part in the movie. The diverse attitudes of the characters added an interesting flare to the movie as well. For example Captain Hammer (played by Nathan Fillian) was clearly used to getting everything he wants, and for Dr. Horrible (played by Neil Patrick Harris) things never turn out the way they are supposed to. Overall I think that this movie was fantastic! I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a little comedy once and a while!
Combining two seemingly discordant movie themes such as a theatrical, offbeat musical and a superhero flick may seem like cinematic suicide to some, but Joss Whedon's low-budget production Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog meshes the two genres seamlessly, creating something new and enjoyable for both musical and superhero fans, alike.Dr. Horrible, played by Neil Patrick Harris, is portrayed as a sad excuse for a villain, as his values are genuine and his attempts at badness are mostly foiled. Despite his poor attempts at being a super villain, Horrible's ultimate dream is being initiated into a clan of notorious villains called the Evil League of Evil, headed by the most terrible villain of all, Bad Horse, who is quite literally a terrible flesh and blood steed. Dr. Horrible records his feeble evil efforts on an online blog where he reveals his latest evil attempts and his unwavering love for a girl named Penny, portrayed by Felicia Day, who he has quietly adored from afar at the local Laundromat. Amidst one of Dr. Horrible's "evil" heists, he is surprised to find himself face-to-face with Penny, but is consumed by his need to conquer the evil feat at hand. When Horrible's heist goes awry, he accidentally introduces Penny to his longtime cocky, ridiculous hero nemesis, Captain Hammer, played by Nathan Fallion. When pretentious love ensues between Penny and Captain Hammer, Dr. Horrible holds back his bitter contempt for Captain Hammer, and grows close to Penny. Horrible then learns that in order to secure his spot in the Evil League of Evil, he must do the unthinkable – he must kill someone. Will his attempt go terribly amiss, per usual? Every step of the way we're presented with catchy, simplistic and clever songs dotted with awkward and effective humor with lines such as, "So I thank my girlfriend Penny. Yea, we totally had sex. She showed me there's so many different muscles I can flex. There's the deltoids of compassion, there's the abs of being kind!" Anyone who appreciates quirky, comedic music such as the melodies created by Flight of the Conchords will surely enjoy the songs of Dr. Horrible's Sing-along Blog. While the music is contagious and fun, the singing is a little cacophonous at times. Neil Patrick Harris can surely carry a tune, but he is wise to not quite his day job. The musical imperfections accompanied by poor lighting, unsteady camera shots, and poor special effects may ruffle the feathers of a conventional box office hit- loving movie goer. However, both the musical and technical impurities greatly compliment the other aspects of the movie, giving it a realistic spin. Joss Whedon succeeded in kicking up the dust over the conventional, serious, overly computer generated superhero genre with the creation of Dr. Horrible's Sing-along Blog. It's a delightful movie which I predict, in time, will easily take a seat between Clerks and Mystery Men in the great collection of cult classic films.


                
Dr. Horrible Sing Along Blog was an innovative take of the traditional good vs. evil movies. This movie was written and produced by Joss Whedon. Dr. Horrible Sing Along Blog is a low budget film so the effects are not outstanding, but there are many other aspects that more than make up for anything that the movie may be lacking. My first take on the movie was that it was corny but as I watched I found myself hardly able to contain my laughter. There was a lot of subtle connotations in the movie which I enjoy interrupting. Neil Patrick Harris plays Billy also known as Dr. Horrible who is a wannabe villain that has a need to be esteemed by Penny and Bad Horse. Penny is played by Felicia Day; she has captured Billy's heart. Bad Horse is considered the "thoroughbred of sin" and is the leader of the evil league of evil. On the quest to enter in to the evil league of evil Dr. Horrible has to make choices between Penny or his evil plans. Through his evil plans we meet Captain Hammer who is considered Dr. Horrible's nemesis. Captain Hammer wins the affections of Penny; so there is an interesting love triangle that in tangles it's self in the movie. Dr. Horrible's evil plans don't always turn out the way he expects them to, but he desperately wants to be associated with the evil league of evil. The songs were meaningful and had comic flares to them. The movie is simply a terrific story that is unusual, but funny with the elements of love and passion. I disliked the ending at first but I did like what it stood for. You can interpret it in many different ways but I took it to mean every path has it's puddle, and what we want can come with a great price.
At first hearing the title, Dr. Horrible's Sing-A-Long Blog, I was a little skeptical. It seemed like it was going to be a second rate children's musical. As soon as it opens with Dr. Horrible, played by Neil Patrick Harris, practicing his evil laugh, funny to say the least, I was immediately proved wrong. After the first few seconds I was enlightened to see Neil Patrick Harris cracking jokes as he read emails sent to him about his video blog and acting as a "horrible" doctor of evil. As the film continued I was overjoyed to see funny musical numbers sung by Dr. Horrible.In the first upbeat musical number we find that he is love with a girl, Penny, played by Felicia day. The song was sung in a surprisingly light and bouncy tone. One might think that a musical number sung by someone named Dr. Horrible, a super villain, would be dark and sinister but this movie is refreshingly contradictory in that way. As such it doesn't take long to figure out that the protagonist of this movie is actually the villain, Dr. Horrible who is trying to get into the Evil League of Evil. That means that the antagonist must be a super hero. Yes, that is right Captain Hammer, Dr. Horrible's arch nemesis played by Nathan Fillion, is the antagonist. Upon his entrance to the movie you can tell by his demeanor and the way he sings his part in the musical number that he is a womanizing, arrogant, self-absorbed super hero who, in this is movie, is actually the bad guy. His main purpose is to stop Dr. Horrible from achieving his evil goals and to keep him from getting the girl of his dreams, Penny. Penny is a sweet philanthropic girl who wants to help the homeless and no surprise Dr. Horrible is in love with her. His arch nemesis Captain Hammer rescues her and pursues her giving Dr. Horrible one more reason to want to destroy him.The ending is not as perfect as one might hope and it almost leaves something to be desired but it has a strong yet subtle message that everything comes at a cost. There are subtle messages strategically placed throughout the movie making it fun to watch over and over again because every time you watch it you find something new that you hadn't seen previously. If you add the hidden messages and girl drama to a superhero-villain dynamic plus a catchy musical score you have a show that is funny, refreshing and well worth watching. This show is a perfect example of why you should never judge a book by its cover or, in this case, a movie by its title.
