If you are a Whedon fan, you'll enjoy this little gem. If you don't know who Joss Whedon is, you need to get out more.This short, internet film was made on a very limited budget-namely, Joss Whedon's own money-using friends and family to help him complete it. It was written and largely produced during the WGA strike. Why? Well, a man's gotta do, what a man's gotta do.The vid is fun and funny, yes. It also has wonderfully appropriate, cleverly written songs. So, singing, jokes, and fun. Well, yes, and then again, Mr. Whedon can't leave anything as simply fun. It also contains tragedy combined with sufficient pathos and a touch of probing insight into the human condition. This qualifies "Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along-Blog a bit more than a simple, goofball musical comedy exercise.Of course, it works just fine on that level, too. Be sure you watch it more than once.


                
This little project packs quite a punch. Really beautiful songs sung by three very talented performers. Neil Patrick Harris is really wonderful in the lead role - showing the angst, insecurity and loneliness of a evil villain who "wants to rule the world" - and has a crush on a lovely girl in the laundromat he frequents. Has fun with the super hero genre but some real catchy pretty songs - pop, ballads and love duets - and it all holds together. Clever, funny and dark work from Whedon and his brother and his usual gang of cohorts. Fillion has a field day as the clueless hero who is in love with his own reflection. And Felicia Day's heartbreakingly beautiful song in the laundry is so poignant and powerful.


                
The writers strike of 2008 saw many great shows like Scrubs and 30 rock have shorter seasons and lower quality to the point that the year saw many of the worst seasons of some of the best shows. However, all this was worth it as the strike allowed Joss Whedon to have the time needed to make this 45 minute masterpiece, Dr Horrible's Sing Along Blog. Obviously everyone knows Joss Whedons name. If you don't, then where have you been for the past 20 years? If he's not creating some of the most memorable TV characters like Captain Reynolds or Buffy, he's masterminding the entire Marvel Universe and directing blockbusters like The Avengers. But within this great body of work Dr Horrible is one of his most overlooked masterpieces with it's great soundtrack and story putting it not only amongst my favourite web series but also my favourite musicals. It's also a great piece showing Whedon's love of filmmaking as it is a labour of love done not for profit or critical acclaim, but rather for the sheer joy of filmmaking. It doesn't need a big 200 million dollar budget. It's just a great idea that has a lot of effort put in to it, making it all the more memorable. Part of the reason that Horrible is such a hit for those of us who watch it, is because of its brilliant range of songs. Whilst most musicals will probably have about 3-4 great memorable songs, every song in Dr Horrible is a pleasure to listen to. Each song has a great mixture of memorable lyrics and distinct styles that not only work effectively within the story by demonstrating the characters emotions but also are great to sing along to. But whilst they are all memorable, the stand out song in Dr Horrible is definitely it's finale "Everything You Ever". If you've already seen it you'll know why I picked this as my favourite. It's a song that really shows how great Joss Whedon is as a writer as it shows both how complex his characters are and demonstrates how he can switch between comedy and drama so easily within his stories. At the same time the song is great to just listen to due to it's distinct sound helping it to stand out on an already great soundtrack. But with any great song there must also be a great singer. And I would say that Neil Patrick Harris was probably the best choice for the role. Not only does he have the much needed vocal range to do all the songs justice, but also he has the needed likability. It's just impossible to hate Harris and because of this he makes the premise work by being a likable villain who we do feel sympathy for and even support once we see how much of a fool Captain Hammer is. Better yet, just like Whedon and the rest of the cast, Harris seems to love making every minute of this movie, making the characters both more believable and more likable. This is definitely a must see by any who have yet to watch it. You can enjoy watching it alone by keeping up with its emotional story and memorable characters or with others by singing along to those great songs and having a shoulder to cry on when things get emotional. It's funny, tragic and has just about everything you could possibly want from a musical.


                
This is a 45-minute, three-act musical/comedy done by writing genius Joss Whedon (The Avengers, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Firefly) during the 2008 writer's strike. He was bored and wanted to create something; while Dr. Horrible is low-budget, it is high-quality in terms of both comedy and music. Entertainment Weekley says: "The songs are kinda perfect<U+0085>the thing is dam*ed funny."The film Stars Neil Patrick Harris (Doogie Howser, How I Met Your Mother) as a lovestruck wannabe supervillain, with Nathan Fillion (Serenity, Castle) as the self-absorbed superhero smitten with the same girl. Be patient for the first few minutes; it really kicks in when the first song starts (though the opening is quite funny). By the end, you may be surprised at its emotional punch.


                
The moment which I started watching Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog I didn't know what to expect, but right from the start with Dr. Horrible's introduction and the first song "My Freeze Ray", I knew that this short film would have something unique. With such a pleasant story and characters who create a link with audience very quickly as they're so amusing and funny, along with charming musical videos during the entire movie, it's very hard to not like the show. Neil Patrick Harris as Dr. Horrible is fantastic, his character easily gains the public's sympathy even though he's the villain. Captain Hammer is played by Nathan Fillion, he's the nemesis of Dr. Horrible, the hero of the story, but who has ideals not so heroics. Felicia Day plays Penny, an innocent girl, who in somehow will be part of the world of these two men. Beneath Dr. Horrible's costume, there's a guy madly in love that when his passion is near he turns out to be very shy and clumsy, despite being a villain, it's hard to not root for him. Captain Hammer is the so- called hero, from the outside he might be, but from inside he's selfish, arrogant. This exchange of personalities between hero and villain was so interesting as we're so used to the opposite.
Doctor Horrible's singalong blog is a fun and interesting miniseries, with a good plot, but I think the most impressing part about it is the music. All the songs are creative, with good lyrics and tune. I also think the show was extremely well cast. Neil Patrick Harris is probably the best choice possible for the title roll, and I cant think of anybody better for Captain Hammer than Nathan Fillion. I have just one problem with the show. It is a bit too depressing and intense at the end. They build up to the last episode, but I think that the finale is probably the most disappointing of all of the episodes. Thinking that it is a light, fun comedy, I don't think there should have been such an intense ending. Don't get me wrong, though. I think Doctor Horrible is definitely a fun show that nobody should miss.
The odd humor is an unusual mixture of childish and dry, I can see where a lot of people wouldn't find this entertaining. But for me and apparently many, many others out there, this is a winning combination.It's campy and fun, silly and packed with one-liners that somehow work their way into your regular vocabulary. The music is addictive and the lyrics are, in many cases, comedy gold. If you enjoy things that are a little "off", a little strange, then this is well worth a look.Strangely, though, while this little movie is witty and hilarious all the way through, it somehow makes you unwittingly care about the characters so that the very last moment of the movie, the words "a thing" being sung, will crush all the laughter out of you and leave you with a bleak, confused sort of sensation. How can something that offered nothing but giggles and bouncing music make you so sad at the end? I love it! That feeling is so rare, that actual emotion that it gives you, it takes skill to write and perform something like that.Cannot wait for the sequel!!


                
"Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog" created by Joss Whedon is an action- packed musical with lots of humor. The main character, "Dr. Horrible" is a super villain who acts like a normal person but has a plan to "rule the world" with Penny, a woman he loves at the local laundromat. He plans to do this by freezing time with his freeze ray. And his other goal as a villain is to join The Evil League of Evil led by their infamous leader "Bad Horse." His arch nemesis named Captain Hammer is the only true threat in completing his crime in order to join the Evil League of Evil. Dr. Horrible's dilemma is that he loves Penny and wants to join the Evil League of Evil at the same time. When he makes an attempt to rob the delivery van with "Wonderflonium" in it for his freeze ray, Penny unexpectedly asks him to sign a petition to help the homeless. The act of Horrible doing something evil like robbing a van grabbed my attention and made me want to know what happens next. When people help the homeless like Penny does, it makes you care for them. I enjoyed the scene where Horrible tries to commit a crime. The acting of being evil was done well. I also found Horrible's blogs to be hilarious. The name "Wonderflonium" is silly and comical. Back at his lair, The Evil League of Evil calls Horrible and tells him that the only way he can join is to kill someone. At the laundromat, Billy asks Penny some questions, and she tells him that she is dating his nemesis Hammer. Then Penny introduces her boyfriend to Horrible. Hammer teases Horrible about not getting Penny. I found it funny when Hammer acts like Horrible is not a big threat to him and beats him up. Compared to the Sound of Music musical, I found this musical to be more entertaining. I think this musical is better than the Sound of Music because it not as serious. This movie was full of action and comedy. The acting was good because they made the stunts seem real especially in the scene where Horrible gets beat up by Hammer. Also, the characters make you want to care for them like Penny. And a twist on the usual good guy versus bad guy movie, I wanted to root for the bad guy. Dr. Horrible says that he has "A PhD in Horribleness!" Who wouldn't want their catchphrase to be like that? This movie is really enjoyable to watch and I would highly recommend this to all of my friends.


                
Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog has an interesting story line that can be enjoyed by all people. Don't let the title scare you off, it might not seem the most entertaining but you'll be in for a treat. The movie has many different aspects to it that make it very entertaining. There are also a few elements that could be broken down in this film; they would be colors, the characters, and the setting. Pathos was also a big element of this film that can't be ignored. The film Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog can be enjoyed by all ages because of its interesting storyline and appealing characters. The setting for this movie revolves around the main character, Dr. Horrible. He is either filming a blog for his views, acting as an evil villain, or doing his laundry with Penny. Penny is a woman that Dr. Horrible has a huge crush on but doesn't know how to talk to her. The catchy tunes that they sing throughout the movie will get stuck in your head but you won't mind, they are very enjoyable. There is also another interesting character, Captain Hammer. He takes the place of a hero since Dr. Horrible is presumably the villain even though you don't view him that way. You probably won't view Captain Hammer has the hero but as a villain. This is because of pathos, the appeal using emotion. The audience is more emotionally attached to Dr. Horrible than Captain Hammer because Hammer can be seen as a woman stealer since he took Penny away from Dr. Horrible. Colors are also an interesting aspect in this film. Dr. Horrible wears a white lab coat for most of the movie while Captain Hammer wears predominately black clothing. White signifies the innocence of Dr. Horrible and the black expresses the evil in which Hammer possesses. Then after something catastrophic and unpredictable happens Horrible wears a red lab coat instead of the white one. Red is the color that expresses love and passion so I believe he's wearing a red coat to show he lost something that he loved. Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog will take you on an eventful ride and captivate you from the very beginning. It has romance, comedy, and action which will peak the interest of any viewer. This film also won't disappoint if you enjoy watching the characters use different technology throughout the film. It establishes pathos which will appeal to your emotions more and more as you get further into the movie. The storyline and setting are very interesting along with the characters and very good acting. I'd recommend this film to anyone who is looking for a good laugh, a romance, or an action packed movie.


                
Dr. Horrible: Cheesy and I like it When I first heard Joss Whedon had directed a sing-along blog, my first reaction was, no way! The mastermind behind Firefly and Serenity had fallen to internet movie making. OK, so it's not a blockbuster and there isn't a big movie premiere. What it offers is forty two minutes of fun and laughter with a different slant on The Villain Superhero storyline. The singing maybe horrible, the acting maybe cheesy, but put it all together and it is awesome.First we have Dr. Horrible played by Neil Patrick Harris; he's trying to earn his way into the "Evil League of Evil". To do this, Dr. Horrible must commit an evil act that is worthy of Bad Horse's approval. Dr. Horrible is on the precipice of legendary evil status (if he can get his freeze-ray gun to work) or if he can commit the heinous act of killing. The superhero Captain Hammer (Nathan Fillion) always seems to foil Dr. Horrible and his dim-witted plans (thanks to the doctor's blog). Dr. Horrible is in love with Penny (Felicia Day) and is desperate for her affections. Unfortunately, Captain Hammer has captured Penny's attention and a little more than that<U+0085>just ask Captain Hammer, he'll be more than happy to share. As the layers of Dr. Horrible and Captain Hammer are peeled away, you ask yourself, who is the good guy? Who is the bad guy? The ancillary characters, Moist (because he sweats like a copper pipe) played by Simon Helberg and the "Captain Hammer groupies", add an ingenious (and not so subtle) hilarity. If you're looking for fun and goofy, then this is it. Take 42 minutes, put away the stress, anxiety and seriousness of everyday life, and you may find yourself singing along with Dr. Horrible. The songs will get stuck in your head. All I have to do is sing the" Laundry Song" or hum "A Man's Gotta Do" and my mood is transformed. Not all movies are made to inform or enlighten, some just provide you with laughter and a welcome freshness. Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog is subtle, witty and catchy. It ranks up there with Anchorman: The legend of Ron Burgundy or the iconic Blazing Saddles. Take the time to watch this film. It won't make you a better person but<U+0085>you'll laugh your ass off.


                
PlotWhile trying to take over the world, Dr Horrible (Neil Patrick Harris) finds out that not everything goes according to plain. He believes that if he can find a way to fulfill his dreams of gaining access to the Evil League of Evil and finding a way to win the attention of his secret crush, Penny (Felicia Day), that maybe people will take him more serious as a Super Villain. However, his nemesis, Captain Hammer (Nathan Fillion) keeps spoiling his brilliant ideas and making him foolish. Throughout the whole film, Dr. Horrible uses his Internet blog as a way to boast about his super brilliant evil ideas. When reading mail sent in by his viewers, he is asked about whom he is referring to when he says "she". This causes the story to switch back and forth between action adventures and a computer set-up, which appears to be in Dr. Horrible's garage, along with his numerous collections of villainous guns and inventions. During these action adventures and Internet blogs, Dr Horrible and Captain Hammer, compete for Penny's affections. As we watch more of the film we begin to see the differences between the two and their attempts to win over Penny. Doctor Horrible appears to be more of a nice guy than an evil one, while Captain Hammer comes off as conceded and arrogant, making him a poor excuse of a hero. As the film comes to an end, the two face off in a duel for power and the affection of Penny, which ends badly for one of the two.ReactionAs I sat in class, watching Doctor Horrible's Sing Along Blog, I couldn't help but enjoy myself. While I didn't really find myself rolling on the floor laughing, I found the whole thing fun and entertaining to watch. I thought Neil Patrick Harris' singing was outstanding, as well as that of all of the actors in the movie. Each person played his or her role perfectly; with Neil Patrick Harris playing the love stricken Villain, Nathan Fillion playing the conceded, poor excuse for a Super hero, and Felicia Day playing the secret lover fought over by both characters. The film does have some sexual references as well as mild swearing, however, it is a great watch for the whole family. I believe that after watching the film, it should be given a rating of four and a half stars out of five.


                
Dr. Horrible's sing along Blog is an amazing web series/short for many reasons, the acting performances are wonderful as well as the vocals, the songs are great (my personal favourite is on the rise), good directing, and most of all for me, the writing. The characters are really well written, especially billy,(doctor horrible)who I can relate to even thought he's a quote on quote villain. The only reason Dr Horrible was a villain was because of the way he saw the political system. He saw that the system was corrupt and that the rich were just getting richer while the poor stayed the same or got poorer. and the political system wouldn't help because the political system is compiled of those rich people and the system makes them richer. So if that system was good and he wanted to change it to he way that he saw fit and fair, he would be considered evil. Also, the movies antagonist Captain Hammer(although portrayed as the protagonist in the films plot) really makes you hate him. The ending really made the a lot stronger it was unexpected, Ironic (Dr horrible had to kill someone to get into the evil league of evil so was gong to kill captain hammer but killed penny by accident) and really depressing. it's a great movie and if you haven't seen it I strongly suggest watching it.
