Having won the PR war, there is now no means by which a viewer can allow himself to judge a Pixar product as wanting or in this case, horrid. A movie so underscripted (and over messaged) that if you wasted five words describing the plot you'd give everything away. Audiences still don't know when they're being narratively cheated, or when a slightly promising idea has gone off the rails, or become a bloated, maddening mess. I never ever imagined when I rented this that I would be swearing at the screen as the unbearable latter two thirds of this movie wore out their welcome.So here we are (AGAIN) with the unpromising clichés of a robot who wants to feel love, a ships computer issuing a self-destruct countdown, a crowd that requires one person to save them.Wall-e himself makes sad eyes over and over. The movie milks this in every scene - Put "robot" and "love" into the big Hollywood script writing machine and you always get something like this. The movie becomes bloated with surface activity whose conception calls for dragging out tired computer animation, and the familiar set of unnecessary/lookalike obstacles to be overcome. It devolves into the usual thought (and time) wasters. In the end, things have reached the same frantic, overproduced excess that execs have been pushing for 50 years. Wall-E is exactly as bloated as Hello Dolly was in 1969. (& I challenge you to sit through that forgotten dud.)In the 1968 movie Oliver, at an emotional bottom, the title moppet sings a song called "Where is love?" Lionel Bart was criticized for writing a song with sentiments too developed for a child to voice. While a child may seek the love a missing parent, they don't seek love in general as a disembodied ideal. Likewise for Wall-e. Here, barely three minutes after Wall-E is introduced, he's dreary little headcase pining for love, which is a limp idea dramatically for a kids film, and forces half the problems that ensue. The other half come from the wearying agenda, and this is coming from someone who is relieved we are finally in the green era.Vain, high-concept viewers have taken pride in their ignorance of a device here, which is old news; large stretches of silence are novel only to audiences who are unfamiliar with Jaques Tati, the 28 silent minutes that open 2001, enormous silent stretches of the ingenious Blow-Up (& countless other examples) and who can't fathom the silent era.The movie asks two tiny things of an audience; to nod in agreement with its simpleton moral pronouncements, and to pass the time distracted by a bunch of surface activity. Right in the middle, between those two things, is where any good movies soul resides, what the movie ask you to cogitate over; ideas! Sorry no ideas here, just an abundance of messages: Towers of garbage taller than the skyscrapers we built (check, message delivered) An indictment of bignesss and Wal-mart (check, message delivered) Headed by a craven CEO (check, message delivered) A single remaining plant (check, messaged delivered) A space-ark filled with helpless fatties (check, message delivered) etc. etc. etc. etc. (message delivered).A glimpse into the future has never been so hopelessly stuck in the narrative past, and never looked so much like Victorian corn. The movie just cannot rest until a parade of morals has been pounded home. There is little sense of wonder in it. It ain't surprising that it was directed by the guy who made Little Nemo.The movie becomes exactly as dreary, tiring and preachy as the premise of a largely wordless movie about ecology sounds. It does not overcome its major decisions. Regardless of it's popularity now, no one will be watching this in ten years because no one will be able to trudge through it. It is grotesquely unsubtle<U+0085> hideously preachy.Wall-E is is as insufferable as a dinner guest who explains the correct moral stance on every topic that comes up. Message delivered.
Wow. What a stinker. And 90 minutes I will never get back. Why so harsh? So let me get the technical out of the way. OK, yes, the film looks good. You forget it's animated, blah-di-de-blah. I get it. The Animators and VFX Artists, Modelers and Surfacers, Lighters, et al should all be lauded for a beautiful film.Story. What the ???? I sat watching most of this film with my mouth agape and disdain in my heart. The first 20 minutes were just uncomfortable and unpleasant. Wall-E is neither charming nor endearing. The post-apocalyptic vision of Earth was more pleasant in Mad Max. This mish-mosh of clichés was unbearable, making the Battlestar Galactica TV Series (and I mean the 1979 Series!) appear to be Shakespearean in its depth. By 55 minutes in, I was so aghast at the mess on screen, I couldn't wait to start writing this. Exactly what audiences find appealing about this film has totally escaped me. Is it truly that in the mind of the public, Pixar can do no wrong? (That would put them in league with Microsoft, Coca Cola, McDonald's, etc. - companies that have consistently inferior product, but just enough good PR that the public is blinded to their failings.)Best Picture? Please... you cannot even put this next to Casablanca, Godfather II or even Mary Poppins. Best Animated? Well, if you discount the dreadful story, I guess on the Artistic Merit alone, you can put this against Kung Fu Panda and others from this past year (although, I think Blue Skies' over-looked "Robots" from a few years back looked better than this).I just don't get this film or why it was popular.


                
I can't believe wall e's on the IMDb top 250 list, and that too at no. 29 when i write this.The film is strictly average. Agreed, that the theme is a little unconventional, and a little refreshing at first, but it soon becomes run-of-the-mill. The way the romance between the two robots has been depicted is contrived and plain irritating. All the two robots can say, are their names, and that too, in highly pitched, irritating sounds. Wall e's urge to grab eve's hand is just unnatural for a robot, and very awkward.The first half of the movie, when the interactions between wall e and the cockroach are shown, is interesting, but the second half of the film is cheesy, clichéd, and boring. As usual, you have the good robots, and the bad robots, and wall e defies all odds and emerges the hero. I mean, how unexpected is that.The only thing about this movie that stays with you after you've left the theater, is a headache from the incessant cries of 'wall e!' and 'eve!' from the two robots.6/10, that too because of the brilliant animation.
Not a great movie. Just OK. If you go to the movie with the wide eyed imagination of a child to fill in the gaps, you will be fine. Don't over think the movie. It bills itself as "scifi", but it throws basic science out the window to move the story along. The artist (well computers) have animated the first part of the film in spectacular fashion. The computers took it to a whole different level. However, the computer animation is a big let down in the second part of the movie. Can computers get lazy? Many of the actors seem to be phoning it in. And the script is not much better with cheesy lines such as, "John, get ready to have some kids" and "I don't want to survive, I want to live!" Leave your brain at the door and just take in the movie for what it is....a good animated motion picture. Not Oscar worthy, not even as good as Kung Fu Panda. Pixar has definitely borrowed heavily from the non-dialog of great cartoons such as Mickey Mouse and Tom and Jerry Cartoons of the 1930's/1940's. If you want to kill a couple hours see Wall-E, It will be fine. If you want to enjoy yourself, go see another movie. I don't want to give the plot a way, but the Jetsons did a episode about robots in love back in 1962.
Some say this is artistic masterpiece, a beautiful film, unique and brilliant. I for one disagree WHOLEHEARTEDLY! I thought the narrative lacked direction and the same joke repeated over and over. If you're going to make a film wiith very little dialogue the story has to capture the imagination. OK it is original but originality doesn't make a film brilliant, and that is why this film was hyped its originality.In my view it lacks substance and the message of saving the world was lost by the ridiculous characters. It also seemed that the message was thought up on the spur of the moment as Pixar probably agreed that it lacked substamce. It is a SHOCKINGLY BAD FILM. A one out of 10 is generous.


                
I liked Toy Story, Cars, and Finding Nemo. Ratatouille was OK. I didn't care much for A Bug's Life or The Incredibles, but that's just me. But Wall-e was an endurance test. It was to see if a person can really watch an annoying film for an hour and a half without falling asleep. You won't fall asleep though. The film is just a loud montage of sound effects, so that will keep your eyes open.The Wall-e character saves this film. It's one of the cutest things I've seen. He's a little trash collecting robot who roams an abandoned Earth collecting trash and collectibles left behind by the humans, who have disappeared into space and have become fat and lazy. The first 20 minutes of the film were basically I Am Legend with a robot instead of Will Smith and sandstorms instead of vampires. Then a robot named Eve comes to gather a plant on Earth so the humans can go home. Wall-e falls in love with this robot. This good and everything, but their "conversations" are unbearable. After a five minute conversation between these two, I had a migraine. The film then moves to space, where it just goes downhill from there.Wall-e could have been another Pixar classic, but instead goes down the drain. The human cast is given little, if nothing to do. The usually funny Jeff Garlin acts like a moron in his few minutes on screen. Fred Willard is given a pointless role as a CEO of a company. But I must give props to Sigourney Weaver. Hearing her voice as the ship's computer brought back memories of the Alien films.So, to all you amateur film makers out there, I say this. If you ever feel like your latest film is going nowhere, take a badly tuned radio and place it next to techno music video. Film that for an hour and a half. Who knows? People sure liked it in Wall-e. Maybe they'll like it when you do it, too.


                
I have to give Pixar credit for being faithful to their green theme - by applying the concept of recycling and conservation to their own movie. I can think of not one original idea offered in Wall-E - but could trot out a laundry list of earlier movies it has borrowed from, paid homage to...or just plain ripped off. The hero himself is nothing more than an amalgam of ET, Short Circuit, Silent Running and a few other robotic movie characters, and what voice he has is that nasal/adolescent whine that movie makers seem to have en masse declared to embody the essence of innocent or cute. Actually, it's just a nasal/adolescent whine.I'm not going to echo those who bash the movie for its preachy environmental theme. After all, name a kid's movie or animated feature that isn't preachy. That's nothing more or less than I expected. But I will give Pixar a tarnished star for its cynicism. The film's Buy N Large mega-corporation is the villain as it entertains humanity into oblivion, while Pixar itself rakes in billions not only from the movie but from every tie-in, placement, and merchandising deal it can get its hands on...while doing its level best to become the mega-corporation of its cautionary tale and entertain humanity into oblivion.We went to the movie because our ten year old granddaughter is spending a chunk of the summer with us, so we caught it at a drive-in (yes, we still have some - thank heavens!) where it was double billed with Get Smart. All of us enjoyed Get Smart much more than Wall-E. Knowing that our granddaughter was coming, we loaded up on rented kid's movies, most of them animated. We've seen much better than this in the past few weeks. As a matter of fact, just a few days after the drive-in, Robots arrived - and we felt it was far superior to Wall-E. It's preachiness was more direct and more easily absorbed by a ten year old - "You Can Shine No Matter What you're Made Of" - and "Find a Need and Fill It". And it displayed far more imagination, character development and humor than Wall-E. I realize that Pixar took a big gamble in choosing to do much of this movie without dialogue, but there is just so much you can accomplish by repeating "Wall-E!" and "Eve!" with different inflections. In other words, the gamble didn't pay off - at least for the audience.If you're looking for state of the art CGI you probably won't find anything better...yet. But if you're looking for humor there are tons of better choices and if you're looking for something heart-warming you can also do much, much better. Actually, the funniest part of the movie happened when my wife and our granddaughter took a restroom break. They returned to report that the feet of the woman in the stall beside them looked exactly like the feet of the Axiom's passengers. Sad - but still funny.
The movie was totally boring and no fun. WALL-E doesn't look beautiful and good. The story was not good at all. There is no talking also. In other animated movies, I laugh and have fun but not in this movie. This movie was the worst movies in my life.I think Pixar the best and they every time do great movies but this was very disappointment movie. This movie should not win any Oscar and it should be the pucca flop movies of the year.I think Pixar will do the upcoming movies well. When, other people gave comments and ratings good, I thought the movie will be super and it is awesome, but after I saw the movie, I realized that they were wrong. Even, the graphics was not good and beautiful. When, I was watching other pixar movies I was not yawning but this one made my yawn the whole movie. So, the movie was totally boring and no fun.


                
OK... This is a good movie. Pixar is definitely the best when it comes to animation. The animation is impeccable. I was most impressed by the sound: Ben Burtt and whoever else...awesome. But, seriously, what is all the buzz about? The plot has a message... Great. But it's way too slow! I went into the film expecting it to be slow, knowing there were few characters and still found myself looking for ways to amuse myself. What's even worse is that it was so unbelievingly boring. Every Pixar/Disney movie until this one infused a brilliant blend of great animation with comedy appropriate for all ages. Oh and by the way, what the 'bad word' is up with the animation of the humans? It was like the movie makers spent up all their good graphics and stuff on the incredible space sequences and intricate trash-laden landscapes.READ THIS: However, in all fairness, this is a movie worthy of watching. It is not the best animated film ever (and though that's only an opinion I can't even see how someone could think that). It is not worth the #19 spot on the IMDb Top 250. But go see it. The graphics and sound are good enough to make up for the other aspects. I would give this a 7/10 stars but I can't get over how everyone is so 'oh my gosh it's Best Picture' worthy. Just bear in mind what I've said.


                
I cannot think of a worse waste of money then seeing this movie. I went with family (kids and such) hoping for a Toy Story...Monster's Inc perhaps? And all I got was a depressing global warming "Let's make fun of the fat Americans!" movie.The movie is based around the world being abandoned because all of trash covering the landscape (first off where does this much trash come from? Way beyond impossible amounts of trash and crap) So the people of earth leave on some space cruise to wait for the "Wall-es" to clean everything up...Life is dead on the planet, everyone on the ship is fat and only watches TV...can we find trees anymore? I've forgotten what trees are! And things like these are said by the "people of earth" aka Americans. Apparently no can even stand anymore, they only sit...make it stop...The movie is ruined by the global warming propaganda...and the go outside some time fat Americans propaganda. The plot is CRAP as it is (almost nothing happens). The politics are annoying. And the special effects are great. Go watch some pretty colors if you must. Bu that's about the amount of substance there is in this movie.
This film starts well, as it is righteous about global warming and trashing the planet.But as soon as it gets into space, righteousness turns to self-righteousness. According to this film, fat people are stupid, weak, passive, infantile, helpless and self-absorbed, and they represent all that's bad about our contemporary culture.As Daniel Engber points out in Slate.com in his article on this film, 80% of variations in body weight are determined by your DNA, not your eating patterns; you might as well blame environmental ills on tall or short people. And 97% of diets fail, so there's not much to hope from there.Pixar's stern lecture on the sedentary life style doesn't prevent them from offering a video game of the film to keep you firmly planted in one place, nor are their action figures biodegradable. So they don't set much of an example.If you or someone you love is heavy, do not see this film and don't let them see it either. It can be emotionally devastating.The movie reflects no great insight into our world. It is merely a reflection of California's stupid body-consciousness, intolerant of natural human variations in size and shape.


                
Personally I thought it was so bad that I walked out of the theater. The first 45 minutes of the movie there were no words just background music. This portion consisted of WALL-E packaging garbage together and looking through garbage. Then the robots meet and finally tell each other their names and make beeping sounds. Waste of my time and money. I left after the 1st 1/2 of the movie so I have no idea what happens during the 2nd 1/2. Others may enjoy this, but I could not take the boredom. There were some good previews (Madagascar 2, Journey to the center of the earth). I couldn't believe Pixar released this, nothing compares to their other great movies like Monsters Inc, Finding Nemo - we could watch those over and over again.
Perhaps out of sheer recognition for this films technical presentation I could rate it 4/10 but I feel I have a duty counterbalance the sheep-like masses who are voting 10/10.WALL-E takes place in an imagined futuristic setting which is a magnification of the clichéd problems in society today. The movie sets out by asking a clichéd sci-fi question "what if robots could love?" and by that point the herds of sheep are already entranced nodding in approval with every tired sentimental comment the movie makes about society. This movie is therapeutic in that it allows the audience to project their personal problems onto the humans in the film who are an exaggerated embodiment of present day society and thus negate themselves as the problem itself.I have read a dozen 10/10 and 9/10 reviews for this movie and I can tell you that a 10/10 says more about the person rating this movie than it does about the movie itself.Go to this movie if you have absolutely no standards for plot complexity, subtlety, or art and want to be lulled into a sort of self-denying comma that apparently won't go away until you rush home to rate it 10/10.


                
Pixar has a reputation of not making bad movies, until Wall-E (in my opinion.) After all the amazing reviews, I saw it expecting a spectacular fun Disney flick but instead got an annoying robot loving another robot with a message about the environment. Disney is supposed to cater to little kids, they do not know about the environment, so kinda threw me off. The only thing I knew the kids would love was seeing Wall-e make a mess out of his clumsy self. Also, I don't know if it's just me, but all of Pixar's humans are always fat. Yes, this one's plot line makes them that way but still, didn't seem any different than the humans in any other film. I loved the short before the movie, and honestly I wish that was the movie and this wasn't. If anyone can explain why this movie is so highly acclaimed, inform me (But not really, I know i'm going to be hated for saying all this, it's just my opinion.)


                
I wonder what film all those who raved about this piece cinematic trash saw.Do they really believe & accept that our future will be so ugly,filthy & sad.I did not & could not even give a smile at any of the non funny goings on.We had repeated images over & over again.There were two songs played over again. If these were songs from a Disney film it might have been acceptable. These were 2 song from Hello Dolly, from 20th Century Fox.Hello Dolly was a fine stage musical,but just a so-so film.There is no dialogue in this wasted effort for nearly 40 minutes, what there is is plain idiotic.The film cost about $ 180 Million.It is a wasteof money, time & talent.I also find this trashy film not fit material children even.Ratings: * (out of 4) 25 points (out of 100) IMDb 1 (out of 10)_
I sensed I was cheated by the makers of Wall-e. I should have been warned that this movie is intended for the hearing impaired, or the illiterates. For the first 5 minutes no spoken words!!! Aferwards we are granted some blurbs about mundane things on Earth interpreted for the ignorants of the 28th century. Boring is the motto of this movie, and although the animation is superb as usual with the Pixar company, no amount of it can compensate on the lack of intelligent script composing. Bolt and Finding Nemo are masterpieces. Wall-e lags miles behind. I was sure that the Pixar fellows cannot fail, but they can and they did with Wall-e.


                
I don't have a whole lot to say about this movie other than I just don't get the quality reviews. This movie was out and out horrible. I understand there was an underlying message, but how does this movie expect to captivate a child? It is easily the worst PIXAR movie I have ever seen and I am disappointed with the studio in general. I thought the plot between Wall-E and Eva (Eve?) was incredibly boring and nothing special at all. The only saving grace of the movie was that Fred Willard was a part of it. However, even he could not save this movie from putting me and many others in the theater to sleep. I'm sure this won't be a popular review, but this movie was just beyond terrible. If I could have rated it below a 1, I would have.


                
First of all "don't go see it". I truly don't know what people see in this film. It's really boring.Nothing happens. No sense at all. I only watched it 'cause on this web page people say it's the best and it seems it's going to win the Oscars. By the way, the three animated films this year are boring! I love cartoons, but these ones?, give me a break. I liked better "Horton hears a who" and it's not even nominated. They don't make good animated films like some years ago: "The Incredibles", "Finding Nemo", "Monters Inc.", "Happy Feet", just to mention some really good ones. Nowadays there's a lack of imagination, no fun, boredom... That category should have been better left without any nominations.Don't waste your time watching this "garbage".I give it a 1 out of 10.


                
I was forced to watch this garbage the other night and as expected unless your 10 years old, this sucks. What really scares me is when adults try to tell me how wonderful this stuff it, Grow up please!! This is like every other Disney crappy movie that comes out and the "adults" who like this give me the same reasons as to why this is great every time they release crap like this. "oh its so cute" or "you need to have an imagination". Bottom line no adult should be watching this crap unless they are immature or just flat out stupid. Its a great movie for kids i am sure but if you are not a kid why are you watching this crap? What amazes me the most is this thing got over 8 stars and i am willing to bet most of that rating came from "adults", how sad, get a life and grow the hell up!


                
This movie was so horrible, I can't even believe all the fuzz this  movie is causing... If I have to say something good about this, is the  first 45 min. After Wall-E and Eve get to the space ship, everything  crashes down miserably.  **SPOILERS** It's hard for me to believe that this persons, who have  been lazy and fat for like, hundreds of YEARS, and so unaware of their  own surroundings (not even knowing what earth, sea or dance is), are so  willing to just go back to the Earth and start a new era... come on!  imaging throwing all your cellphones, computers, robots that do  everything for you, and go back to stone age... I'm not saying  consumerism is the answer, the message is good, I'm just saying that  having humans NOT so happy about finding a plant on earth and having to  give up all this confort would've been a much smarter plot, since  wall-e and Eve (robots) seems to care much more for that plant than all  those humans (again, unaware of their surroundings, being cold and  selfish, not caring about the environment, issues that are ACTUALLY  affecting our society this days)... THAT would have been better, but  no. Instead, we got a movie which climax is a fight between a robot and  the NAMELESS Captain of the space ship, tossing Wall-E and Eve totally  aside.  This movie is not entirely bad, but i can't believe it has a 8.9 rate.
Firstly, let me just say that in no way do I dislike Pixar animated films - i've enjoyed films such as Finding Nemo and the Toy Story installments as well as Monsters INC and Ratatouille, to name a few. These films combined great story telling with endearing characters as well as some great animation and I would gladly rate any of these films highly. Unfortunately it seems that quality films such as these have conferred a sort of 'herd immunity' upon other emotionally manipulative, drawn out, predictable Pixar titles - and WALL-E is one of the stellar examples of this. Yes - the animation is good, as it is generally with the other Pixar titles. (Note that the budget was $180 million, and there are no pricey A-listers involved with voicing of the characters). Stanton describes the theme of the film as "irrational love defeats life's programming". So what? I could name a dozen films that explore this theme over the last decade! Ever heard of I AM SAM? How about i-Robot? What about Artificial Intelligence aka "A.I". The list goes on...I know people would say that WALL-E the robot may be described as 'cute' and 'adorable', but to be honest I found him/her really annoying. What's with the arms? if you want a robot to pack rubbish into squares then why are it's arms so tiny? Look closely and you will find that obviously the robot (and most elements in the movie) has been designed for maximal sympathy - and i'm not even talking about the rotating droopy eyes or the annoying high pitched monosyllabic 'voice' it generates. It's obvious the studio wants you to think desperately 'hey if a robot could really care - this would be it'! Please.OK so what about the storyline? Look I don't mind fantasy movies at all - as long as they make sense in their own right. But can someone explain to me how finding 1 sapling on earth means that earth is now inhabitable again? Surely there MUST be other parameters to test, hmmmm let's say Carbon dioxide? Maybe Oxygen could be one I don't know.Look I better leave it there or people will think that i'm heartless for not falling for this contrived animated work. I think one annoying word sums up this movie: "Waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaallllllleeeeeeeeee"!!
In all the piles of junk in the movie, in the background, there are no cars. or only one or two. After sitting through 4 car ads before the film, however, why would there be? It's almost like the car companies made this film, to take the focus from themselves. This is the heart of the matter - YOU are all okay with your cars, just be sure to recycle those cans, right, and make sure you drive back home in time to turn of the hall light bulb for "Earth Day" A cynical and banal film that gets it's philosophy from current thinking such as "smaller paper towels = saving the planet." Sorry, smaller paper towels are just smaller paper towels, and you'll end up using more of them. Why not use washable rags made from old t-shirts? I loathed this film and all it stands for - this giant pat on the back of the idiotic "green" movement in its current, spineless state.


                
This movie had no plot, pretty much no talking, and when the robots did utter sounds, you couldn't even understand what they were saying. All and all this was the worst Pixar movies I have ever been to. I had very high expectations after seeing classics like Toy Story and Finding Nemo, and this movie left me very disappointed. The whole idea of the theme was twisted and sick. I thought Pixar made happy, heart warming films, not ones that show the earth dying and the dark side of humanity. Do not waste your time and money going to see this awful film. Instead use your time and money going out to rent or buy one of Pixars better movies that you can enjoy and be happy watching time and time again.


                
The movie depicts the future planet earth as a planet that had to be evacuated because of some environmental catastrophe. Earth's remaining survivors are a robot (Wall-e) and a cockroach. The surface of the earth is shown to be nothing but massive skyscraper buildings and garbage heaps. Plant life can not be sustained on the earth envisioned by this movie maker and there are more garbage heaps than buildings. The movie is designed to make you feel guilty about over-development, breathing, producing garbage and using gasoline and other fossil fuels. The people who managed to escape this dreary scene are orbiting earth in some sort of spaceship, but they are all too fat and too weak to walk or even stand up. The attempt at a happy ending is the discovery of a single plant actually growing on earth again. So naturally all of the remaining people fly back to earth to start over amidst the rubble and skyscrapers. No matter that they can't walk.I suppose if you are an environmental wacko you'll like and support this movie. I found it to be really awful and would recommend sparing your kids from this attempted indoctrination by Hollywood's big thinkers.
There is no doubt about the fact that all these movies are absolutely right. All these movies about machine intelligence and how they'll rule the world. Though, its not like machines will become more human. Instead, each and every day, I can see more and more people losing intelligence and becoming more and more like bots. From the rating of this movie on IMDb, it's clear that we, pure Humans, are already in minority.I, in fact, don't watch television. So unlike other folks, I had no idea, anticipation or excitement for this movie. I'm thankful for that because I would have been even more disappointed. I went to a corporate screening as my friend had an extra pass. I just knew that it was a Pixar movie and that was all I needed to know. Not anymore.The movie starts and it definitely generates curiosity. I like environmental and political sarcasms as long as they are funny. All that premise about the huge junkyard and skySCRAPers was good. Then I see a robot crushing garbage. I was still holding up. Then I realize that this robot has a pet cockroach.I could not believe it! Poof! All my hopes for a good movie went for a toss. We are not in 60s anymore! Don't give me a robot with emotions. Not in the first scene. Maybe a tear drop from an android's eye in the end. But not in the first scene.For the rest of the movie, I was barely awake and looked at my watch more than the screen. In the intermission, I could hear orgasmic voices of all the software engineers around me, praising the animation and you know...stuff. My friend gave me that smile which says - "Awww, Its OK. Don't embarrass me with your thanks. But I just gave you the best ever movie experience, didn't I?" With wide-open eyes, I kept looking at all the happy faces around me, gleaming about the animation and you know....stuff.The movie is good for playing it on HD plasma screens, without sound, at a store. But who the gives a flying rat's whatever about the animation, if the movie is boring, slow, devoid of human emotions and full of machine emotions? I hate robot voices and I'm being very honest here - I couldn't get the name of the other robot correctly. So I had no clue which robot is supposed to be the...ahem...you know...male. I wholeheartedly second the notion that Wall-e was gay.Anyway, I've lost faith in IMDb ratings since our bot friends placed The Dark Knight on the top slot. It was good while it lasted.
