Just got back from a special sneak peek/advance screening of this movie, and I must say, Pixar continues to amaze. They just can't seem to make a bad move. Heck, they can't even make a mediocre movie. Now, I will admit, there have been a couple that I would classify as my "least favorite" of theirs, but even they were actually very, very good. This one, though...it just may take the cake. Ranks up there with the absolute best they have produced. Hysterical, emotional, meaningful -- this movie succeeds on every front! I am not going to get into spoilers or specific plot aspects, but I will say that I am almost definitely going to see this one again in the theater..and it will be worth every dime. Come Friday, be in line to see Wall-E. You don't want to miss it!


                
Robots falling in love. There is a lot to like about the new Pixar film Wall-E. The animation goes without saying<U+0097>better than anything out there. The glares, the environments, everything is rendered spectacularly, right down to the flame of a Zippo lighter. As for the story, leave it to these wizards for creating a tale that hits on a gut level, letting our simplest emotions come to the surface in order speak to our hearts and souls. With fewer words than Arnold Swartzenegger had to speak in Terminator 2, this movie relies on its visuals and on the movements and actions of the characters. It is appropriate that we are shown clips from older musicals to show humanity before Earth was abandoned. If we harken back to them for the joys of people, why not go to silent era style in order to portray communication between beings that cannot speak? Wall-E, his crush EVE, and all the other robots involved can say little than their name, however, we understand exactly what they mean throughout. The entire film speaks on a level that most people might have forgotten. In an age of Hollywood spoon-feeding the masses by having actors preach the obvious, Pixar has shown their originality again by getting an audience to partake in a film that makes them pay attention and work a little; something that the message of the piece is trying to have come across for humanity in general.I credit the filmmakers for showcasing a world that has been left unlivable due to pollution and excess, yet never stooping to the level of liberal propaganda to soapbox an environmental agenda. No, the idea of "going green" or "stop global warming" never comes out blatantly, but instead we are shown the message of how technology is making us gluttons and sloths, reliant for everything and unable to even see what is going on right in front of our faces. Humanity, drifting on a space station for 700 years being waited on hand and foot, has become a giant mass of inactive waste. Watching their awakening at the hands of a little waste removal machine, seeing love, life, and beauty as if for the first time ever is a wonderful thing. Sure the homage to 2001: A Space Odyssey is fantastic, but these moments work on another level altogether<U+0097>that of truth. Consumer culture and materialism has destroyed our society to the point that social status depends on the car you drive and the trinkets you can collect rather than the job you do and the work you put in. To see the Captain of the vessel, housing what has become of the human race, slowly open his eyes to what could be is mind-blowingly simple, yet also so necessary for children these days to see what burying their heads in the computer and cell phone is doing to the societal structure of the world. We need to stop being lemmings, droning along without purpose. There is a reason for life, things to strive for and love is one of them, something very prevalent here.The robots themselves become more human than the humans, showing the emotion and compassion that people have left by the wayside. Curiosity takes center stage as Wall-E finds treasures amongst the trash he has been programmed to clean up for a return of life to Earth. Stacking his compacted boxes of refuse into skyscrapers taller than those left behind, he finds shelter in an abandoned tractor where he keeps spare parts and objects to play with during his solitude. Never expecting a visitor, or the impact that finding a small sapling of greenery could cause, a sophisticated robot named EVE arrives and changes his world forever. Not only does she become the woman of his dreams, but she also causes him to leave Earth and discover the spaceship, which has been trying to find his home for way too long.Maybe it is funny to say, but the chemistry between these two machines is quite palpable and real, as they discover feelings that they shouldn't have due to programming and such, but they have evolved into sentient creatures. They fight for freedom against the spaceship's auto-pilot and take a stand to end the tyranny that has been subtly and effectively beating the humans into submission. Of course they may not be doing it for the humans per se, there is a matter of needing to go back for spare parts, but you'll understand once you see. Sure the Captain does his part to see the hero that Wall-E becomes to his stagnant race and being voiced by the hilarious Jeff Garlin definitely helps. When he starts viewing the history of Earth and just exudes wonderment and joy, you really enjoy the ride as he attempts to reverse his sloth and actually stand on his two legs for possibly the first time ever.Where I do have a problem with the film is the pacing. Yes, I know there is very little dialogue<U+0097>and I whole-heartedly praise the film for it<U+0097>but the beginning does have a tendency to drag. Maybe some of that has to do with it being an extended version of the trailer, but it just gets a little tedious as we wait for EVE to arrive and end the cute monotony of Wall-E playing with his finds in ways they aren't supposed to be used for, we've seen it before in The Little Mermaid. Even once they are on the ship, the cat and mouse game gets a little prolonged to pad the runtime a bit. The story here isn't very complex and I just wish there had been more to it, or at least a bit faster paced of a plot progression. Otherwise, though, this is another solid film from Pixar, showing that they definitely have the creativity and storytelling ability to infuse heart back into cinema and try new things rather than regurgitate for a big paycheck.
I saw Wall-E at a special sneak preview. I'm not a Pixar fanboy. I've enjoyed a number of their movies, but this is first I've seen at the theater.Wall*e was an enjoyable diversion. The titular character is robot that has spent his many days performing his task in isolation. All the other robots have worn out over time. Wall*e is different in that he is a survivor. In the many years he has worked, he has evolved a sense of self. Unfortunately, that involves a feeling of loneliness. After a significant event, it is resolving this loneliness that becomes his quest.The stars of the shows are the various robots. Their emotions are inferred through their actions, grunts, clicks and the occasional verbalization. This however is not a limitation. Pixar has created characters you care about. Wall*e is a hero in the tradition of Danny Kaye. He is a simple guy with simple ambitions that just happen to coincide with the events in the movie. He isn't glory seeking, he just wants companionship in the sappiest Disney tradition. It is this purity of soul that is his most endearing quality.This more of a kid's film that past Pixar efforts and the hand of Disney is firmly felt. There are sweeping scenes that designed to evoke adolescent dreams and emotions. That is not to say adults won't find it enjoyable. Pixar takes shot at a couple of themes; Consumerism, the environment, even some mild political humor. There are even a couple of gags relating to cockroaches and Twinkies which have oft been repeated. However, it lacks some of the sly adult wit that some of the previous films had.There little highbrow comedy here. Most of the gags come from slapstick pratfalls and such. However, the gags are executed with such precision, and the characters are so compelling that they were very effective. The rest of the humor consists of sight gags. Most not rising to the point past a chuckle, but taken as whole weaves a rich tapestry of the world that Wall-E lives in.Adults will find it enjoyable. Kids will love it beyond words and you're going to have to buy them Wall-E dolls for Christmas.


                
"Wall-E," the latest offering from the movie-making geniuses at Pixar Studios, is a certifiable visual masterpiece that provides an endlessly inventive vision of what life might be like in the 29th Century - although, come to think of it, the term "life" may be something of a misnomer, for in "Wall-E"'s post-apocalyptic image of the future, Earth has been rendered uninhabitable by pollution and garbage that have risen to toxic levels. The humans have long since fled to a high-tech way station located somewhere out in the far reaches of outer space, leaving the planet virtually deserted except for a sweet trash-compressing robot named Wall-E and his indestructible cockroach sidekick. Like all good little robots, Wall-E tirelessly performs the one function he has been programmed to carry out, even after the reason for that task no longer exists. Thus, he spends his days dutifully collecting all the litter generously strewn about the deserted city and converting it into skyscraper-high mounds of compacted trash. At night, he wiles away the hours watching an old videotape of "Hello Dolly" and pining away for a female companion who will alleviate his loneliness and bring some meaning to his life. Then, one fine day, his dream becomes a reality when a sleek, sexy little number named Eve - actually an environmental robot sent from the way station to see if any signs of life have returned to the planet - shows up unexpectedly in Wall-E's neighborhood.The early section of the movie, in which Wall-E wordlessly goes about his business against a haunting backdrop of a decaying infrastructure and heaps of garbage, has much of the delicate beauty and sense of wonder we find in the opening moments of "E.T." (whose main character obviously served as the model for Wall-E). Written and directed by Andrew Stanton and brought to life by an army of miracle-working animators too numerous to mention, "Wall-E" is one of those rare films that, through sheer visual design alone, is able to magically transport us to the unique little world it's created. The burgeoning romance between the two mechanical creatures is handled with a great deal of tenderness and wit, and the film is sprinkled with subtle little homages to "West Side Story" (in the aerial views of the city), "2001: A Space Odyssey" and "Titanic" for the more cinematically astute among us to revel and delight in. In the second half of the movie, "Wall-E" travels to the spaceship housing the colony of ex-patriot earthlings, where he encounters problems with a sophisticated computer who wants to control the humans and prevent them from returning to a planet that just may be becoming inhabitable once again.This is a sweet and wistful fable about not only how each individual must find his own special place in the universe but how we as a species must cherish and preserve this one special place we all call home. Yet, for all its rare and wonderful qualities, I wish I could say that I loved this movie more than I do. For like some of Pixar's other products, "Wall-E" is more impressive in its visuals than in its storytelling. Too often in "Wall-E" we feel as if the narrative is lagging a few paces behind all the technical ingenuity. Indescribably beautiful as it is to look at, the movie doesn't generate sufficient conflict and drama to pull us all the way into the story. And for that reason, "Wall-E," while a true cornucopia of visual delights and easily one of the most spectacular-LOOKING films ever made, still falls just a hairsbreadth short of greatness when all is said and done.
I was ready to be wowed by this film and the first 20 minutes or so were ecstatic for me. Sometimes I think there's no comparison between Japanese anime and the stuff Hollywood puts out, but this was clearly inspired and ingenious film making that can hold its own against Japan's best. But then the film has trouble dealing with the problems it poses, not unlike how we're failing to deal with the REAL problems of over consumption and the mindless accumulation of waste that it alludes to. The setting changes and the story takes a rather depressing turn into frenetic activity that made me anxious to see it over. It's not that the film's point is misguided or even over sold. It's just that it's a different issue and not necessarily a consequence of the first more successfully contrived part. That second issue is our becoming overly serviced by robots in a blind pursuit of entertainment and sensation. Still, the creation of a robot with a completely engaging personality is so brilliant and indelible that no one should miss this somewhat mixed film. Clearly the people who made this have their head's on straight and have a better vision of what could result from our culture than some of our most highly respected leaders.


                
..........................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA.....and ORLANDO, FL Shame on me for ignoring my own rule of thumb and slurping up so many of the gushing reviews for Wall-E. My expectation was somewhere around Pluto, but this only managed to take me to Saturn. Normally, Saturn would warrant a rave review, but not when a film falls somewhat short of that ever-so-high bar you've set for it! Don't get me wrong. Pixar has hit a home run with Wall-E. They just did not hit one out of the park, as so many others would have you believe.The movie really does work on just about every imaginable level. The Pixar animation team most certainly outdid themselves, taking CGI to an impressive and breathtakingly realistic new level for 2008. Wall-E is, at times thought-provoking, ironic, laugh-out-loud funny, poignant, entertaining, and perhaps, somewhat romantic. Yes, all of this with a highly original story line and offbeat musical accompaniment. Those elements which are borrowed from other movies are at least incorporated with a fresh twist.Wall-E most definitely has its shortcomings: A little over the top at times in the "Gee, aren't we just the cutest on screen Bots you've ever seen?" Department. There are also a couple occasions where the substitution of dialog for assorted sound effects becomes a bit tedious.Fortunately, the movie is very low key as regards the results of long term ravaging of the environment, not at all in-your-face as so often is the case with movies made in the recent years. Taken as a whole, though, Wall-E deserves between 8 and 8 1/2*. In any case, please, simply put aside the reviews and just watch Wall-E, hopefully, leaving your expectations behind. You'll probably have a very enjoyable and entertaining 90 minutes.8* STARS*...ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome!


                
First of all, how come there are so many people that think a new movie can't be an instant classic, nor can it surpass other great movies made in the past? Half of the '1' comments report that the movie was good, but they just voted low to bring down the rank. I feel that eventually, there will be a film that portrays enough to be better than some of the best. Whether Wall-E is it, is questionable. However, I don't think people should vote a 1 just to bring down the ranking of this film - the ultimate flaw of this site. Too many people are afraid of their favorite movie being taken over by something else. Vote on the movie, not on its ranking. People also need to stop complaining about the "green" material in the movie. Seriously, get over it.That said, this movie is a glorious achievement. Nothing has been characterized so much by using so little, especially in animation. The CGI is second to none, and I fell in love with the characters from the start. It's one of those movies that has a little bit of everything: laughs, cries, surprises, drama. The storyline is seamless, and I didn't get bored at all. I walked out truly mesmerized.The downfall of the movie, if any, is the target audience. Being an animation and made by Pixar, many children are expected to see the movie. However, I don't think children have the mind-set for this film. It is so much more than animation; more than silly humor with silly cartoon actions. It is a drama, with meaning behind everything - something a child can't yet recognize. It may be difficult for a child to watch without lots of dialogue, so you shouldn't be surprised if your child falls asleep while watching.An Oscar for best animated film is without a doubt. Bravo.


                
The guys at Pixar are known not to take the easy road. A world filled with speaking cars? Monsters that scare kids in order to keep the electricity flowing? Their fantasies are not the easiest ones to be put on the screen. Wall-E is also a daring project. It's the story of a lonely robot who falls in love with another robot, follows her across the galaxy and in the end saves mankind. Sort of.The problem with Wall-E is also the challenge of the whole movie. How can you make the audience care for a creature that is a machine? How can you make a love story that revolves around robots? Pixar does it with lots of visual Buster Keaton-like humor. Wall-E is clumsy, strict, kind and... lonely. Although E.T. immediately comes to mind he also shares a lot of characteristics with Mr. Bean. The first part of the movie - in which we see Wall-E doing his thing in a deserted human world - is actually the best. Visually stunning we immediately believe in Wall-E's world. It's dark, stuffy but fascinating.His dull life changes when EVE lands on earth. EVE is a high-tech investigating robot who has to report to a group of surviving humans. The two fall in love but when EVE must go back, Wall-E can't let her go. He follows her to a big spaceship that has been entertaining the surviving humans for 700 years. The ship was supposed to do so until earth was safe again to go back. But are the spoilt humans up to the change?Somehow the second part of the movie doesn't entirely work. The idea of a ship traveling through space is not new. Classic SF writers like Robert Heinlein wrote books about it. Pixar does a nice job by showing a society in which humans don't have to do anything anymore and all become physically supersized. This sarcastic tone is well done. But from the moment Wall-E arrives at the spaceship the story becomes unclear. What is Wall-E's mission? What does he have to achieve in order to save the humans? And do they really want to be saved?The end - where the humans give up their luxury lives to return to earth - seems somewhat illogical. The deserted earth that is presented to us does not seem that inviting. And that's a pity. Because Wall-E remains great entertainment and deserves to be a great hit. But compared to Kung Fu Panda the Pixar movie is maybe a little bit to ambitious to reach its real goal. Wall-E is a great movie, but not Pixar's best.
Wall-e a small robot has been gathering rubbishes for 700 years and truing to have a simple life and uses every rubbish that is still useful. Listening to love songs causes he doesn't forget how lonely he is. Then ,when a spaceship is send to earth from human with robot to search in through the earth and find vital sights on it. Wall-e was of female robot named Eve which stand for extraterrestrial vegetation evaluator is super advanced robot that still doesn't know much about love ,dance and useful rubbishes and she is on a mission to find vital sources too. Wall-e that has found a small green planet , showed it to the Eve and she kept it with herself automatically and turned off. The spaceship turned back to the earth to take Eve and Wall-e that is in love with her , tried to follow her where she was going<U+0085> Animated Wall-e , directed by Andrew Stanton in 2006. It also won the Oscar for best animated and Oscar nomination : best original screenplay of the year , best original music year , best editor sound , and best original sound. The Wall-e animation, even though it represented a harsh truth and an end of the world concept. It also delivered a sweet and hopeful outcome that captivates the audience. In the first 40 minutes of the movie, the most interesting thing is how it demonstrates the story line without the use of words to show all the emotions that the characters go through. In the second part it demonstrate show the technology has effect the humanity and how their selfish and wasteful behavior has doomed their lives on earth to the point that they had to take refuge in spaceship. The citizens in this so called ''Space Station'' are so dependent to the technology that even their most basic activities are being done for them by machines. If you think about it , this is somehow similar to the life style we have today. As we evolution our god gets, our daily activities become easier and there for we don't have to work as hard. It has been quite some time that Pixar has changed its perspective on making animations. Their image has changed from making fairy tales to delivering more realistic story. Wall-e cannot be considered as just an entertainment for the children because adults can relate to its audience. It shows love, drama, action, humor and so an... You can't just consider Wall-e as good animation to me it's a masterpiece that could remains as an inspirational story that would last for many years to come.


                
A love letter to science-fiction films of old with a modern environmentalist message, WALL-E is another winning confection from Pixar, the folks who have made an art out of wrapping adult themes in childish whimsy and coming out with movies that please both elements. Starring a box shaped little robot with more than a passing resemblance to E.T., WALL-E is quite possibly the cutest Pixar hero ever, despite the fact that he's a trash compactor with eyes. A story centering on a wordless robot could be cold and uninviting, but not in Pixar's capable hands. Never has a robot been this compassionate: WALL-E's got heart.The story of the film is deceptively simple. WALL-E (Waste Allocator Load Lifter - Earth Class) is the last of his kind, a robot created by the Buy-N-Large Corporation to clean up the piles of trash left on Earth by the conspicuous consumption of human beings. The humans themselves have evacuated the now-lexically trashed Earth for a Eden-like spaceship habitat called the Axiom (also created by BNL corp.), where they spend their days sipping meals out a cup and reclining on floating easy chairs. Though all his robotic compatriots have long since compacted their last, WALL-E continues plugging away at his job in an endearingly human way. He wakes up each day to the chime of a Macintosh starting up (score for the folks! Thanks Steve!) and heads out for another day among the trash heaps. He brings a battered coolie along with him to save the things he likes: a ping-ping paddle, a plastic dinosaur toy, a light bulb, a small seedling saved in an old boot. He ends each day in his home, watching an old video tape of Hello Dolly! - an important motif throughout the film.Things change drastically for WALL-E the day EVE shows up. She is slick and futuristic and quite obviously a girl; WALL-E falls in love almost immediately. It turns out EVE has been sent from the Axiom to scan the earth for signs of habitable life. Their convincing courtship is done completely without dialog, quite a feat for sound designer Ben Burtt who found a way to make ambient noise into recognizable words for WALL- E. Trying to impress the coolly modern EVE, WALL-E shows her the seedling he found, at which point EVE goes into a hibernation state and awaits the return of her spaceship. WALL-E, of course, cannot abide by his beloved EVE's status and hitches a ride into space to save her.A bit disturbingly, all the humans on the Axiom have regressed to babyhood (enormously fat, with chubby extremities and little bone density) after 700 years of living up in space and drinking their meals through a straw. It seems that this may have been the aim of the BNL Corporation, who have instructed the ship's Computer Auto (Sigourney Weaver) to never let the humans return to Earth, even if it is found to be habitable once again. Though WALL-E's only aim on the Axiom is to find his beloved EVE, he finds himself wrapped up in a race to save the seedling he collected on earth from the treacherous tentacles of Auto. Along the way he meets a variety of robots, each with their own supposed job, all of which are related to cleaning up. It becomes clear that human consumption is what has trashed the earth and is now trashing Outer Space as well.Though he is tiny and relegated to the dirtiest of the dirty jobs, WALL- E truly understands how to find value in sullied things and how to create magic out of useless objects. He is more human than the humans in that way and slowly, without preaching (he can't even talk), WALL-E begins to show them how to regain what they have lost through sloth and over reliance on technology. It's an environmentalist film, but also a poignant homage to simple joys in this era of pods and digital everything.Half of what is so enchanting about watching WALL-E, as in all Pixar films, is seeing how the filmmakers have created a working universe in which to play. There is no skimping here, no visible shortcuts. WALL-E himself has a million ways to express his emotions, from compacting into a box when he feels shy to wiggling his binocular-like eyes in awe when he first beholds EVE, all of which are related to physical, realistic components. That allegiance to authenticity allows the film to send its narrative to fantastic heights without seeming over the top or phony.Like all previous Pixar films, the meaning of WALL-E is deeper and more profound than the merchandising opportunities found therein. It's a love story, yes, but it's also a story about staying true to your own heart in the blandly evil face of authority. It's a tale about saving the small things and cherishing the world you live in, no matter how imperfect its surface might seem. Andrew Stanton, who won an Oscar in 2004 for Finding Nemo, has certainly earned his place in the pantheon of animation pioneers, but with WALL-E, he has taken not only the art of animation, but the art of storytelling to new, unimaginable heights.As a bonus, Pixar have affixed a Looney Tune-y short about an arrogant magician and his hungry rabbit to beginning of the WALL-E. Presto! is pure Looney Tunes and a fitting appetizer to the lovely film to follow.


                
Wall E is a great movie by Pixar that should appeal to all ages. It is a tale of a robot-a very lonely robot and his experiences with love, mortality and human beings. The film works on all levels- there are enough funny gags and jokes to keep the younger audience happy and there is an underlying theme of the effects of capitalism that will be picked up by many older viewers. The setting in space gives an opportunity to the PIXAR animators to try different color palette which is a refreshing change from the colors we are used to seeing. This is an unmissable animation film.


                
Well, how cute is this movie? To begin with, Disney might have gotten Sony Pictures approval for their mimic of one of my favorite movies' character "Number 5" in the movie called 'Short Circuit'. Well, I loved this animated movie because of the character "Wall-E" and "Eva". Very well done animation and voices. The concept or movie plot was silly, but it worked for me. Simple, yet sweet. I'm not sure if it's an 8 Star, but it could be close. It would have had to have a way better plot or a sweeter lesson for today's youth which are the adults of our future. We need to emphasize more health in our movies and not mimic the current state/route of our countries' population in terms of obesity. I wish the movie industry well-being! Watch this movie at least once if you can.


                
Wall-E: 8 out of 10: I was never a big fan of the Short Circuit movies. It was not just the thespian outings of Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg I had issues with; I also hated the freakin robot. In addition, while I have admired some Pixar releases in the past (The Incredibles in particular), I am hardly the biggest fan of the studio and often admire some of their competition (such as DreamWorks’ Shrek) more.Therefore, I did not go into Wall-E with very high hopes. Had I known it featured the music of Hello Dolly I may never have seen it at all. After the first twenty minutes, I was blown away.I will let other reviewers explain the Chaplin style magic of the piece. Suffice it to say wow. When the movie settles into somewhat of a plot it does bog down slightly (There are at least one to many scenes of robots we do not care about chasing other robots we do not care about) but in reality it is simply a different magic.Emotionally satisfying and wonderfully subversive Wall-E is necessary viewing for adults. I am not sure if it necessarily a good film for young people with poor attention spans, but thoughtful kids will get much out of it.Moreover, kudos to Pixar for making one of the most individualistic anti-commercial films I have ever seen.


                
I'm sorry to say that this beautifully executed Pixar film is just not quite as good as it could have been. It is a shame that dialogue could not have been introduced properly between all the main characters. There is too much dependence on visual effects, insider jokes and references to fulfil the needs of multi-aged entertainment audience. A bit like going to the ballet - if only there was a little bit of drama and speech... This is not to say the film is without merit - it deserves awards for the animation and ideas alone. Unfortunately, that's all it deserves. A shame because I really wanted to say I loved this film - I didn't. It's OK....oh dear.


                
It's pretty damn impressive when a film can keep you engrossed for 90 minutes plus with virtually no dialog in it at all.In the distant future Earth is abandoned by everyone for reasons I won't spoil here. Before they leave, everything is turned off, scrapped, or taken with them...except Wall E, a robot who was accidentally left on. Wall E spends his days collecting junk, building amazing towers of cubed garbage, watching old movies, paling around with his cockroach friend(the only other living thing left on Earth) and day dreaming about one day falling in love. His dreams are answered when a girl probe robot gets dropped on Earth in search of organic life. Wall E falls head over heels and follows her home when her ship comes back for her. taking him on the adventure Pixar always promises.Like I said, the two leads barely speak, the only real dialog comes later by other characters after most of the plot has already been well established. But this doesn't encumber the story at all. Wall E tells us everything we need to know with his hands and eyes. The movie's not as laugh out loud hilarious as some of Pixar's other ventures but it's very entertaining and a high accomplishment in film making. It also has a lot of amazing imagination and imagery...the guys a Pixar should be proud.


                
i had high expectations with this film, as it is written and directed by Andrew Stanton, who helmed "Finding Nemo," my personal favorite Pixar film. i was not disappointed.who knew an animated film with so little dialogue could keep you so engrossed in the story? you have to hand it to the guys at Pixar, they know what they're doing and they do it well. as always, they are able to imbue the least human of characters with humanity, infusing them with personality, warmth, humor, and empathy. in fact, the robots of this film may be more human than the humans.the animation has never been better, so startling are the visuals, and Thomas Newman delivers yet another incredible score. what makes this film different than the other Pixar movies is that it doesn't only carry the usual life-lesson moral with it, but also proclaims a social message to where we are now as humans and our reliance on technology and material possessions, and our apathy towards what we are doing to the precious planet we live on.the film only misfires a tad when the humans begin to have a bigger part of the plot, but the rest of the film is so great, it mostly makes up for this. this should easily be one of the best films of the year.


                
Wall-E is an achievement for many reasons. But Wall-E is not perfect. And honestly, I think Wall-E is quite overrated.I'll start with the good: The CG is revolutionary. Our two mostly-speechless heroes (essentially a rolling square and a floating circle) are the most likable on-screen duo in recent memory. Their romance is believable and endearing, and any time they're interacting with each other the movie is a 10. The film's first 45 minutes are positively enchanting.Unfortunately, as soon as the pair leaves Earth everything stops clicking.In the second 2/3rds of the movie, the storyline stops focusing on the romance and starts zig-zagging between what seems like 5 or 6 barely-related sub-plots. During all this unfocused side-story hopping the writers somehow forget to include a MAIN story of any consequence. This is a serious problem.Secondary characters are introduced, then dropped, then reappear an hour later to overcome some obstacle that clearly only existed to give them something to do. So why introduce them? A villain appears about half-way through the movie, paired with a human hero who will be inevitably tasked to defeat him. But the villain is non-threatening and the hero is under-developed and unbelievable, and when his triumph finally comes it feels anti-climactic and forced.The various "sub-plots" should really be described as "sub-points," since they're all transparent vehicles for social/political messages. Upwards of 4 different morals are bandied about, but the writers don't seem particularly passionate about any of them and don't devote more than 5 minutes to any single topic. The Incredibles, Ratatouille and even Happy Feet are all examples of how to marry a moral to a plot without diminishing either. Wall-E is an example of how not to.In the end, I can't shake the feeling that Pixar took a simple, beautiful movie about robot romance and environmental caution, and crammed in two metric-tons of unnecessary, half-baked fluff. As a huge Pixar fan I have to say: they're better than that.Sorry Pixar. I still love you.
Great movie, visuals, story & characters. Watched it today in a sold-out theater at Universal City, full of families armed with extra-large popcorn baskets and coke bottles. Probably the film's most important thread is that we're polluting our earth to such extent that it's becoming inhabitable. In the film, when the overweight humans return to earth, it's still the same unlivable place. Still, they're excited to be back. In theater, when the lights went on, and everyone had left I couldn't believe garbage battleground in the theater. Rubbish everywhere, left by people who just watched this lovable, yet bleak view of the future for 97 minutes. The incredibly important message was lost entirely on the audience. I didn't leave as upbeat as the other reviewers, maybe because I was confronted with the ugly truth about how we pollute this marvellous place, even inside the theater. Will we never learn?
Earth. 700 years in the desolate future. A small robot that looks like E.T. blissfully rolls along on little tank treads, compacting trash into cubes that he builds into towering trash skyscrapers. He is a Waste Allocation Load Lifter, Earth class <U+0096> WALL-E.Humankind has abandoned the ravaged Earth, leaving only their refuse behind, which stretches into orbit like filthy facsimiles of Saturn's rings; a dystopian, disturbing, Terry Gilliam-like vision, tempered by a smarmy CEO (Fred Willard, the first live human integrated into Pixar animation) entreating us with space as the final frontier, in holograms re-playing to dead cityscapes.WALL-E is the last of his kind - broken-down WALL-E's litter the blighted garbage-land. Unmindful of the dead planet, he plies his trade in simple joy. On his time off, he fills a cooler with artifacts, retiring to a derelict trailer each night (with a free-roaming pet cockroach) where he files everything, while watching HELLO DOLLY on VHS and yearning for tactile contact.Pixar Studios have slammed another one right outa the park! Written and directed by Andrew Stanton (FINDING NEMO, 2003), WALL-E is one of the few *original* movies this season (not a sequel or remake or derived from a TV show). How does Pixar craft these ingenious, inventive nuggets (where each viewing reveals new discoveries)? Their movies and characters are imbued with so much energy and verve, authenticity hits our nerves in all the right g-spots. A combination of effective storyline, unbridled 3D animation and cuteness so contagious it'll burn your breakfast.One day a thunderous spaceship leaves behind a sleek, pill-shaped "female" robot named EVE (Extraterrestrial Vegetation Evaluator), with a lethal power-blast right hook. Her mission: to find Life on Earth. (Waiter, there's a little iron in my irony.) WALL-E immediately falls in love.So begins a wondrous, accidental journey for WALL-E and EVE, back to the AXIOM, the spaceship housing all Humankind. By bringing back a lone plant, EVE signals Humankind may safely walk the Earth again. But there is a slight problem: over seven centuries, Humankind have become hover-chair blobs, insensate slaves to Big Brother holo-screens in front of their triple-chinned faces <U+0096> Humankind can't think anymore, let alone WALK, their bones having deteriorated.Again, the horror of this totalitarian society might have slapped us in the BRAZIL bone was it not for the Pixar team injecting robot buffoonery at every pixel.EVE's plant becomes the symbol for freedom and sparks a power struggle between the ship's evil computer (voiced by Sigourney Weaver), who wants to destroy the green and continue cruising amongst the black, and the AXIOM Captain (a more cognizant blob than the passengers, voiced by Jeff Garlin), who is aided by WALL-E and EVE in potting the plant to drive the ship Earthward.And this is why Republicans are outraged! As juvenile and unbelievable as it sounds, the duplicitous, traitorous, treasonous swine of the Republican Klan of George W. Bush's Amerika vilify WALL-E for its "message." And what "message" are they protesting?...The ship's Manual instructs a return to Earth when organic life is found, yet the ship's evil computer has been instructed by Fred Willard to "Stay the Course" (Willard's exact words!) instead of ever returning to Earth if "conditions on the ground change." Sound familiar? Exactly! Though there is *no intent* to analogize Iraq and George W. McCain, the plot line accidentally highlights how unutterably asinine the McBush-Cheney administration's foreign policies are.Only the insane are offended by the insanity of the ship's computer, who *Stays The Course* supposedly for the good of Humankind, while keeping Humankind blind to the actual good it can bring upon itself.Trust the Repubs to focus on this paradox of their own laughable design, while the movie gets away with so many other anomalies: from anthropomorphism, to the ship's "gravity" which causes it to "tilt" when the computer twists the steering wheel; and the decision to go deep space, when two stable Lagrange Points exist on Earth's orbit where a ship could perch without any fuel expenditure at all, and could make the short trip back to Earth without having to traverse billions of miles through theoretical hyperspace and wormholes.Of course, I only mention these anomalies because I am a stickler for educative fiction. If WALL-E caused even one Republican's refried brain to reconsider their satanic party's non-ethics, I say: "Thank you very much, Mr. Robot!"
This was a great movie, in short. It's the story of the struggle for life on Earth and one lonely robot. The animation was wonderful. I felt more for Wall-E than I've felt for a lot of the human characters I've seen in movies recently. I love how this movie speaks to the necessity for every entity to get off auto-pilot and really interact with others. The way that Wall-E simply wanted to hold Eve's hand was incredibly touching (and made me and my bf all mushy through the whole movie:). I've read a few reviews stating it's liberal propaganda, which I disagree with. It's not really propaganda if it's true: we are destroying our environment, we are becoming lazy fat-so's, and we do rely far to heavily on computers. One negative is it really is a bit too long, and thus I wouldn't recommend this movie to small children. Better to wait until it comes out on DVD and you can pause it for the kiddies.
Thinking back on all the Pixar movies I've seen I don't think there is one I enjoyed more than WALL-E. I think that it is a great triumph in this day in age to create an animated (not just) kids movie where the two main characters do not speak. A large majority of this film is more like a symphony that a modern film. The creators of WALL-E and EVE did a fantastic job of giving each character a face and a personality with what they had to work with. It really shows how actions speak louder than words. Sure WALL-E could say "I love you" to EVE, but instead he tries to show her his plant, the thing that he finds to be the most fascinating and beautiful in all the world. Another nifty thing about this film is that it really tries to send a message. Beyond the messages of "love is good" and "be kind" which most every Disney movie conveys, WALL-E also sends the message that you should not trash the planet and turn into fat slobs. And I commend the way that it pulls no punches in doing so. It comes right out, slaps you in the face and says "stop being lazy and take care of your planet." This movie is the best Pixar has to offer and one everyone should watch.
Wall-e is a magnificent film that, through a comical, playful, and non-preaching tone, well communicates and illustrates how we humans are making the earth uninhabitable. Global warming, pollution, and high toxicity levels have forced all of mankind to exode to a space-station to continue civilization and our species. Ironically, it is through the people's desire/curiosity to return our home planet that the audience begins to learn and appreciate the value of our Mother Earth. Centuries may have passed, but the ever-present human qualities of sloth, greed, and corruption are just as evident on the space-station. It is very interesting to see how the soulless robots Wall-e and Eva rekindle the spirit of life.
Times change and we know it, but being good will always be important. And to be good in this movie means being WALL-E. It's not always important to know what you're doing (although Andrew Stanton knows) it's sometimes important that you just do it and later it will be clear to you.The illustrations are phenomenal, the music is fun and keep concentration, the story is uncertain until the very end. It's like a robot version of the Charles Chaplin movies .Very refreshing and encouraging. Great job.


                
Pixar were taking a risk with this film. Having a film where the lead characters don't speak is risky especially when children don't always hold their attention in a film. But it is brillaint. And it completely paid off


                
27 June 2008. We are seeing the birth of a new form of life brought to the screen of animation. It is sometimes quiet without much dialogue, there is plenty of periodic humorous physical comedy, there is a message, a "big" one that is being broadcast to all of mankind here. While there are rough edges in this movie that is literally cluttered with the remains of humanity, this bold and creative adventure dazzles, makes us laugh and keeps young children's interest. There is something both childish (in this new beginning of animation) and innovative potential (there is more to come). There are fantastic physical, non-verbal communication movements in this nicely nuanced movie - there is eventually much heroism, and action-adventure surprisingly as this movie builds from its lonely, isolated beginnings. While it doesn't quite achieve the sustained underlying complexity, depth, and consistency of Spirited Away (2001) as a mature art form, the sustained action and emotional connection and powerful themes of The Incredibles (2004), WALL*E is amazing and definitely breaks a creative threshold on its own. Eight out of Ten Stars.


                
