I've watched as much of this nonsense as I can take. It's painful. Tom Hardy, Britains answer to the bloody awful Kevin Costner, grumbles his way through this overly produced crap-fest.Mind you - judging by the amount of good reviews - I'm clearly missing something. Anyone reviewing this and giving it 10 stars, please get in touch. I have some awesome double glazing for you. You'll love it.There are fleeting allusions to strange ghosts in a pond but that's never fully explored. Shame because the images of the white faced Doctor Who monsters are the best part. There's also a suggestion or two that Tom Hardy's character maybe some kind of African witch doctor... but that doesn't stop him getting beaten up and shot!The voices are mumbled and indistinct but it doesn't matter - there's no plot or story to sink your teeth into. Lots of outside scenery of people walking around in the mud and being poor. The fact that there are so many glowing reviews for this pretentious garbage just shows how low the UK drama department has sunk over the years and with it, the public's expectations have sunk even lower! You can't even edit this down to a movie because there's just nothing interesting going on at all.If you like Kevin Costner impersonations... for hours and hours at a time, then this is for you.


                
Thick British accents, low volume while the thick accents are being spoken, and a lack of anything resembling a cohesive plot render this series a very hard to follow waste of time. I will probably watch every episode just in hopes it will finally start to make some sense, but I lost track of what the actual plot is supposed to be after the second episode. The introduction of numerous characters with no back story or reason for their existence and purpose in furthering the "plot" of this black drama only adds to the lack of cohesion. In fact there is no explanation as yet concerning what Delaney is up to, what his intent is, or why there is so much prostitution and incest Tom Hardy surrounding a man who has been in Africa for so many years. Tom Hardy is in risk of being type cast as a dark villain if he keeps up his current trend.


                
This is a show which doesn't have a strong story, makes big promises at the beginning and lives you at the end with: "That was it?"
The main character played by Hardy is a mysterious guy, with a mysterious past, who sometimes acts like a super hero and sometimes like a pathetic fool.
Most of the scenes are somehow showing how really cool and bad-ass the main character is. The voodoo element turns out to be an empty promise, some naughty stuff which are just cheap and dumb, and nothing about the complexities of colonial Britain.
It'll take a season for you to wait for nothing interesting to happen.


                
Had potential, but too many holes.
1. No subtitles coupled with a variety of English dialects and attempts to sound 1800s compatible, and audio levels all over the place with often poor enunciations leads to the viewer missing a lot, and I mean a lot, of the important dialogue thus the story just becomes a visual experience without nuanced substance/content. 
2. Cheap production is furthered with no special features, and a cheap tendency for the disk to always recycle to the first episode no matter which episode you may have temporally ended at. 
3. Story/plot had potential about a man coming into ownership of what is now Vancouver Island on the border between Canada and the US and during the period of bad relations between English colonialism and the US, but didn't really explore that topic. Native peoples of that region will not like their brief attention, to this point, and certainly will be surprised if their cultures or the introduction of smallpox will be talked about. 
4. Most of screen time is draggingly devoted to talking heads usually squabbling (i.e. camera is constantly panning back 'n forth between two talking heads filling the screen). For the most part the only action outside of a room of talking heads occurs at the end of the final episode. 
5. Supporting the emphasis on visuals were the well constructed sets and authentic, usually dirty, clothing so cheap, but well done, visuals was where the money was placed.


                
