Finally I came to see this Gothic gem from the BBC and I am not disappointed - quite the contrary is the case.In 'Taboo' the set up of the world and the creation of a very dark and at the same time tender atmosphere as well as the nicely arranged spectrum of taboo-motifs (like sexual transgression, the grotesque and strange, overwhelming violence etc.) kept me from being bothered by the fact that I didn't feel one jot more sympathy for its main character than for its antagonists. James K. Delaney is an intriguing mysterious character attracting us in a depraved way. But he is also an individual of extreme moral reprehensibility we eventually cannot go along with. The series makes very good use of Gothic- and Dark Romanticism writers' style to build up the gloomy atmosphere of a depressed 1814 England still anguished by the loss of the great colony. It is no coincidence when Delaney claims at some point in the series:"The ravens told me". We find lots of Poe here either in theme or characters. Madness wanders through the world of 'Taboo' and at least at the dip of the hem this madness is always caused by the East India Company, the Crown or Delaney. Curiously all the characters except Delaney himself are appearing so vulnerably and fragile that their indulgence (to be helpless and lost in this made up society) arises a counter-part to the unforgiveness of the room they live in. 'Taboo' also declares the downfall of the classic adventure genre. There is no space for nostalgic explorers or discoverers in the plot lines, Delaney is a broken man as he returns from Africa, even if he is not willing to admit this. It's rather a farewell to the exotic, the story takes place after the alleged adventure and mainly stays at the well-known. Interestingly the series manages it to combine some accounts on slavery shifting the story to an international level (not many historic series/ movies do this, they mostly remain in the domestic frame).Further the actors do a very nice job. Particularly Tom Hardy, Jonathan Price and the reoccurring Mark Gatiss play exceptionally good. However I have to say that there was no huge character development, which I wished to see. The characters are not uni-dimensional, but they do not alter in their facets. The series tries to offset this flaw with new secrets and confessions in every episode pretending these to be a change, whilst it is actually only about the introduction of new information. A very common writing technique, I think. Overall I can highly recommend 'Taboo', especially for fans of Gothic, Grotesque and the 19th century England.


                
This show, to not overuse a huge amount of violence and sex so far, really manages to draw you in with anticipation.As the title implies, much of the subject matter is dark, strange, unsettling, and TABOO.I assume he is going to end up in the Americas, to run his island, but I haven't finished the season yet.This show has good writing, good acting, just enough blood and gore to keep you interested, and a whole lot of mystique, from an intriguing period.A lot to love here, so far. I hope it continues.
The end of the Anglo-American war is in sight, and as peace negotiations between the warring parties are secretly taking place, there's a third major player involved who is scheming to protect its influence: the East India Company, one of the first - and perhaps most powerful - corporations in history. It's this fascinating time of upheaval and secret battles for power in and around the New World which provides the backdrop for 'Taboo', and the show does an amazing job at transporting the audience to that era. This series features some of the best production design I've ever seen in a show (or a feature film, actually); everything looks lived-in http://www.fastip.TV/ and genuine; whether it be ships, houses, clothes or landscapes; every grimy cobble stone in every dimly lit alley virtually oozes authenticity. So to sum up my review: I highly recommend 'Taboo' to every Tom Hardy fan, but anyone who likes their tales dark and twisted and doesn't mind a somewhat deliberate pace (I'm talking to you, 'True Detective' fans) is equally well served - especially fans of original material. Great, unique television: 9 stars out of 10


                
Bidding farewell to 2016 was't very easy. However, Taboo has softened the blow of the parting. Alright, it's not that big of a deal.Let's get down to basics. The situational and circumstantial nuances have been taken care of "properly" in the show. One may, possible, flinch like a tither when it comes to details, but such a severe scrutiny is not called for in matters of entertainment.All actors performed well in the episode. Despite a long void in the maritime period suspense dramas, Tom Hardy and crew do recreate the original flare ignited in novels like Treasure Island. The editing is impressive too, for despite the languid pace at which the scenes seem to be progressing, the sequence doesn't drag on and keeps the viewer engaged. Since, it is inevitable, I shall do it here. Characterisation. He has done a commendable job in the episode partly due to good direction, partly due to the man's own artistic talent and majorly due to the fascinating character allotted to him. The same goes for the rest of the cast. The screenplay takes care of projecting the work ably onto screen.That's pretty much about it for now. I just hope that this series doesn't flounder early on ( like Sherlock did with the most ridiculous Moriarty obsession ever) and continues building up the fine work.


                
I have always enjoyed the 1800's London scene so this interested me right away. It has great production values and most every actor is really doing his or her job well. After watching the 3rd episode I have to hope this is going to go far and not be a one season wonder. It has a very authentic feel to the time era feel to it and great production values.It starts off with enough mystery and intrigue to make you really want to learn about the characters, especially the main (James aka Tom Hardy) to keep you wanting to know more about his past. I won't go as far as to say it's revolutionizing TV as we know it, but it is definitely something I will keep up with and see how well it fares.With all the crap playing these days it's nice to see a take on such an interesting era and a top notch cast to make it really feel like it should. Definitely worth a watch so far so I can't wait to see how things progress in the near future.


                
This project of Tom Hardy and Father is a great and entertaining but it is really sad that they put absolutely no effort into researching the Native Americans that they're trying to portray. First of all the pronunciation of his mothers name would never be Sa- Lish as the vowel term Sa (Saa) does not show up in the language whatsoever in fact it would only be said as "Say". And I'm completely disgusted with the white Clay version of his mother is shown as there is no white Clay on Vancouver Island in fact the only white Clay is 4000 kms away and that belongs to the Pawnee tribe to which Tom Hardy would be for familiar with having done the Revenant. So that makes it extra sad that just because you were influenced by one Native American tribe in Canada and maybe got to know them for five seconds you now think that every tribe is the same. None of the headresses, the clothing the colour of the Native American tribe that they're trying to portray is even used in this miniseries. All of the markings are from Prairie Native Americans none of them are from anything on the coast of BC or even the coast of Washington. Tom Hardy or his father could have phoned any single University on Vancouver Island and receive this information probably for free and that's what makes it so sad you're representing a group of native American people who have never really been represented in film or movies and then to not even try to contact the culture or be accurate in anyway, shape or form is kind of disgusting and definitely racist . I love Tom Hardy in fact I believe that he is the next Gary Oldman I watch every single thing that he's ever done including Stewart a Life Backwards and I do appreciate this miniseries for what it is but I am saddened that they never took the time at all to even come close to the Native American tribe they're trying to portray. It seems they have done their research for African tribes and rituals so obviously they were trying to be accurate so again it's hard to swallow that you couldn't put in a call and find out about the amazing people you are representing globally! You could have done better and you should have done better. Someone among you should've even went online to see what you were trying to represent. Do you know how hard it is to explain to somebody that they're being represented as a prairie tribe. That their entire unique culture because in fact they were considered to be some of the most secluded peoples in all of Canada until about 1903 was not even graced upon. In your spare time check it out if you're part of the team of this miniseries check it out; check out the straw hats, check out the incredibly unique totem poles that everyone claims to fame is their own, their own wild colours and artwork that can not be matched. I sincerely hope that you come to Vancouver Island and at least try to experience some of what you pretended to represent and maybe offer an apology to the peoples that you so poorly represented globally.


                
Actor Tom Hardy's brainchild of a character-driven TV-Series came to path with financial support by Scott Free Productions on January 7th 2017 on BBC and online services simultaneously.Season 1 starts out with 8 Episodes and the potential for more. The leading character of James Delaney, former workhorse on a slave trading ship of the English crown in 1804, returns to London 1814 and buries his father to the business affairs in his own hands.The main character encounters several ghosts from the past from an ex-girlfriend, performed by Oona Chaplin, to whore and trading houses alike until stepping on familiar grounds at house of his father meeting butler called Brace, performed by David Hayman. Further supporting characters as freelance doctor Dumbarton or whore house manager Helga, portrayed by Michael Kelly and Franka Potente, drive the story to advance James Delaney's journey to salvation in a second life full black magic and mystical moments, which has been overall well cast, exceeding from actor Jonathan Pryce, menacely performing as opposing governmental business man, who is determined to steal British Columbia grounds owned by the Delaney family for decades in order to receive fortunes from a future Chinese tea trading post.Cinematography and production design at approximately 1.1 Millions pounds per episode does not need to shy away from larger TV productions as "Game of Thrones" (2011-2018). Production values are balancely distributed by the producer duo Tim Bricknell and Tori Parry engaging a Scandinavian directors Kristoffer Nyholm and Andres Engström for 4 episodes each in order to find a proper visual language with counting episode numbers to come to establishing grounds at Episode 7 and 8.Nevertheless my wish remains to encounter an international-appealing TV series, which is able to pace precise blocking camera movements on running time requirements without butchering beautifully and emotionally-charged shots as so in Episode's 7 sequence at running time marker 00h16mins00sec to 00h19mins00sec starting with a long dolly-in shot onto the character of Zilpha Geary, performed by Oona Chaplin, in a bathtub, preparing herself for another fighting encounter with Tom Hardy's character of James Delaney before committing suicide in the opener of Episode 8.Suspense and inter-character tensions could be raised with the previous mentioned bath tube shot playing out from a wide to a close-up in continuous push-in camera movement, which would only be possible if every single shot on a pre-fixed shot-list would have been accompanied with mandatory time tracking markers in order to avoid selecting shots in the editorials as more to say just arranging the already preliminary shot order of each episode with the given number of executed shots.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)
A good show about an interesting brutal man with a hidden streak of goodness and how he outmaneuvers everybody, but at a cost. Set at the tail end of the war of 1812.


                
