I watched maybe the first hour of this show before I quit. I felt like I needed to go take a shower. Are US Marines really this depraved? I have not been to war and don't know what it's like, but c'mon: dudes making movies of other naked dudes for "gay porn value" and cracking jokes about the hotness of little elementary school girls who wrote them encouraging letters of support? Maybe I live in a fantasy world where soldiers act like ordinary men doing a tough job, not penitentiary inmates temporarily out on parole. This film is totally unredeemable garbage and I really hope it doesn't represent the truth about the character of todays's military generation.


                
I'm very amazed about all those comments in support of this show. I'm very very disappointed by seeing this show.from the beginning to the end it was just boring and disappointing.portraying marines as bunch of sick,cold blood murderors,brainless,gay,heartless,...can be 100% truth.I'm sure there are some few who are like this but many aren't that type of uncivilized people. I've been always the fan of Marines and i wish to join them one day.i have seen many footage from iraq war and fighting taken by marines and i never see anything like one this show presents. making joke and ... of little elementary school girls who wrote them encouraging letters of support?disrespecting their commanders or showing their commanders as bunch of brainless people(those who are supposed to be the best in the world)! having no idea why they are there in iraq but seeing everyone naked to ****?those bombing of villages without having a clue where is there and with no confirmation of bombing?killing many civilians just accidentally and out of danger zones?how all these things could happen?i cant believe .they almost did nothing in the whole war but killing civilians accidentally!there were few fighting scene which showed them not professional enough to fight enemies in almost close combat and .... then how could USMC be ranked the best in the world?how could they become heroes for Americans and many others around the world? this show is just a huge slap to the face of USMC and marines in my opinion and i wish i never have had downloaded it. I know Marines are the best and remain the best in both their profession and in moral things.they care about civilians and they believe their commanders and their mission.


                
This show is a very dull and disappointing depiction of the war. It may well be that this is all the fault of the original book, but if so - why produce it in the first place? I fear that the reason for producing such a tepid story must have been the very reason due to which I find it distasteful - it provided the creators with a platform through which to express their political beliefs. Yes, this is yet another leftist "activist production".This show is riddled with the some of the most shallow, clichéd, and worn-out liberal political commentary that I have ever seen in film or TV. Mind you, at least it's mostly subtle, but still, mixed in with some genuinely good production values, acting and dialog - it's constantly there.I was very disappointed to see that the creators of The Wire - who so artfully avoided taking a political stand and thus alienating viewers - have finally thrown this caution to the wind, and turned out to be, of all things, true believers in the trendy Hollywood party line.Maybe this version is authentic and true to the book. Maybe not. I really don't care. Even if the Rolling Stone reporter really was surrounded by so many bleeding-heart marines (which I find very difficult to believe) - this show is sadly clearly not much more than yet another instrument of leftist propaganda.


                
Boring intro to the characters, who for the most part seem little more than stereotypical brainless teenagers. There are too many unnecessary closeups and clichés, as well as insipid dialog, non-existent visuals, and a near total lack of dramatic tension. The only interesting and dramatic scene occurred when, at the start of hostilities, two white trucks carrying armed Iraqis approach our heroes' column of Hummers. Our guys just can't wait to blow them away, but they're unsure whether they're friend or foe. Some tense seconds as we wonder who will fire first -- it wouldn't be great if we knocked off some allies.... But that's about it. Overall,the show makes the war seem trivial -- at least in this episode. Puzzlingly, it's directed by the woman(!) who directed the mini-series "Jane Eyre," and she's obviously clueless in this genre.
I don't know if this mini series is based on facts or not. If it is fictional then disregard my opinion.If this mini series is based on facts then I think it is despicable. I watched 17 minutes of the first one and it has just destroyed the credibility of the fighting men and women of the USA in the eyes of all the kids in schools who send them letters. The way the soldiers are talking about the kids and the disgusting comments towards the kids should warrant criminal charges.I truly hope that it is fictional because otherwise it has just lost my respectability for the US army.


                
