I really wanted to like this series. As a fan of gritty boots-on- the-ground war movies, Generation Kill sounded like a wet dream. So it was advertised, with warnings of "disturbing content". However, it fails miserably. This is due to a total lack of dramatic tension, and the very minimal stock battle scenes. Nothing really happens, it feels very gimmicky in that it makes you think that some shit's gonna fly, and to your great disappointment, nothing happens (like in Game of Thrones!). So I thought OK maybe if there were some good banter dialogue between soldiers, but no, it's mainly stereotypical trite spoken by colorless characters who you couldn't have given two shits about if they lived or died. How droll. Main battles are always only talked about, happening elsewhere and the actual battle scenes were sparse and hardly of any consequence at all, lacking any tension or suspense, which I think are two key elements in any good war production. The most gripping moment was probably when a soldier took some unauthorized shots at a camel (not even joking). What a sham. This is nothing other than a Hollywood executive's version of war, filled with inconsequential talk talk talk, driving around in the desert, a LITTLE shooting, more driving, then back to the talk talk talk, yada yada yada. I am only giving it stars for the good production values. I just spent two days watching this, hoping for something that never happens. I really feel cheated. What a waste of my time.


                
Generation Kill is more like "Days of our Lives" than it is "Band of Brothers". It misses the mark by a considerable sum by adding an almost unbelievable and unreal perspective on the US Marine Corps and what they achieved in the Iraqi war. I don't have a problem with watching the study and portrayal of the soldier psyche but that is not what Generation Kill does, they do the opposite, in portraying this delusional far left view of the soldier psyche that shows a rebellious, self conscious, untrained, and poorly managed soldier. This is almost an impossible perspective knowing that almost 90% of US Marines are far right republicans. For me I like real alpha male bonding war movies with the heroic portrayal rather than the weak self conscious portrayal that this female director gives. Not only does this degrade the US Marines but also shows that they are incompetent and not fit to fight a war, ruled but resentment and guilt. If the US Marines were as they are depicted in this series than the USA would NOT be waging this war in the first place, they would be more like Switzerland and remain neutral. If you're expecting a Band of Brothers like series than you shouldn't be bothered watching this. The acting is actually pretty good, and the story as well, but the writing and directing is where they truly go astray. I would give this as many thumbs down as I could give and wait for a better more realistic series about the Iraqi war. Don't trust the 9 stars rating, it only received that because it's the only series on HBO about the story of the second Iraqi war.


                
