First off, viewers should realize that this series is about a marine recon team. This is not about the army, navy, air force, etc. Most armed forces members will tell you that the people in the Marines are a different breed from other members. They are often by nature, more aggressive, angry, patriotic, racist, need to prove something, excited to kill something, etc. If you get annoyed by that, then don't watch Generation Kill. Regardless, the series is good because, although the series isn't a deep philosophical "thin red line",(judging by the demeanor and mentality of a lot of the soldiers in the film it would seem a bit unrealistic), it is an honest portrayal of the mindset, expectations, and mentality of these specific groups of soldiers. Another strong point is the relatively lack of action. This is also an honest portrayal. Much of war is 95% of sitting around, doing random chores, getting bored out of your mind, mixed in with 5% of terror and serious fighting which can shake anyone's mental foundation and nerves. . I feel this series captured this rather well.The only downside to the film was David simon's typecasting of the obnoxious character from season 2 of the wire (wire fans will know what im talking about). It was good once, but not twice. Additionally, Skarsgard acting is rather wooden and questionable, particularly his accent, which ranges from southern, to standard, to something I've never heard of. I've lived in Scandinavia for quit some time so i've come quite accustomed to hearing their English, which is mostly excellent, but there are still hints.Agree with the war or not, this series shows the bravery, albeit at times maniacal nature of men, who go into action when called upon.


                
The USMC recon environment seems a lot like pretty much any organization: Understaffed, with the most complex decisions being dropped on the shoulders of unknown middle managers who can have their career terminated by a single error. Upper management has to juggle with the demands of hands-off managers with little understanding of the "battlefield" and the unpleasant task of making calls that are going to earn them no friends. Toss in with that the unavoidable reality of some commanders who might even just have one bad day - or make a snap judgment based on incomplete information, only to realize with horror what they wish they had known.After watching this and remembering that these are not unlike what we've come to expect from our real troops, I'm a little humbled at my own gripes about the crummy food at my last business meeting.Reality aside, this is a wonderfully rich production. The heat of the days and cold of the nights really comes through, and you can't help but flinch as a stray round whistles past. The characters often exhibit more depth than you expect - but also, sometimes less - allowing us the privilege of an occasional chuckle.After three episodes, I find my political views little changed, but my admiration and empathy for the 20-somethings who live this reality every day, greatly increased. The show is about the characters in it, not the politics or policies which put them in any particular place.


                
Very good series. Similar to Band of Brothers, you're invested in the characters and the war is the background story. It also completely reminded me why I lasted 1 year in the military. Screwed up chain of command, hurry up and wait and constant barraging from the sgt major.


                
Swedish Vampire is good in this. And Godfather! Oh boy, the times I've said "there's that guy" when he turns up in other shows. I'm always disappointed that his voice is not hoarse and whispery like I'm expecting it to be, because it was in this show and I kind of feel like it's his trademark now.However, the true value of this series does not become apparent until you rewatch "Wayne's World" and realize that one of the guys is sorta maybe the guy from another thing. And then you pause it and google it, finding out that the one guy is actually that guy from "Generation Kill", but with longer hair because it's "Wayne's World".That is what I, without hesitation, would call a defining intertextual moment.


                
It is an account of a rolling stone reporter about the days he spent with many recon marines during the invasion of Iraq in 2003. It is based on a book by Evan Wright, which was published in 2004, describing his experience of the war. It is a seven-part series with hour length episodes.The series succeeded in presenting the real picture of the war in front of us. It is not just the stories of heroics shown by the first recon marines, it is a presentation of a part of their life when they were there and how they tried to cope with it. One of the best things about it is that there is almost no theatricality. We follow a number of characters with the totally different psyche. Some want to kill everything they see, some are incompetent for their post, some hide their nervousness with jokes and some just want this war to end. War brings them all together. When they fight, race, color, religious or sexual orientation doesn't matter. But this war is also taking some of them away from humanity as well. The series successfully showed that the operation undertaken in Iraq was far from perfect.The series follows Sgt. Brad 'Iceman' Colbert and his team. Iceman is the representation of sanity in the turmoil of the war, which is played by Alexander Skarsgard pretty efficiently. Other than that, I really liked the parts played by Stark Stands (Lt. Nathaniel Fick), Chance Kelly ( Lt. Col. Stephen 'Godfather' Ferrando), Eric Nenninger ( Cpt. Dave 'Captain America' McGraw) and Rudy Reyes (Sgt. Rodolfo 'Rudy' Reyes).Sure, it's not "Band of Brothers", but it is a great watch if you want to look beyond what we were told about the situation in Iraq at that time.


                
