Every Marine that I know who's read this book, and the couple that have caught the first episode has nothing but good things to say about the material. David Simon and Ed Burns did a great job of sticking to the heart of Wright's story--and from what I've heard, even referenced Lt. Fick's personal account (One Bullet Away)--of that deployment as well. As an active duty Sergeant in the USMC, most of my enlistment has involved working with and managing the same kind of colorful personalities seen in GK. I lost track of how many times we laughed at random "unfunny" scenes because the accuracy of the mannerisms, terminology, or situations depicted.The one thing that caught me off guard was, after watching all the HBO trailers, the lack of music. I kept expecting to hear that campy trailer music sprite up the background, but it never happened. Oh well, you can't win em all.YOU WILL ABIDE BY THE GROOMING STANDARD.


                
What can I say? In the first episode I saw great and (for the most part) realistic dialogue, excellent acting, good character development, and an avoidance of most clichés. I especially liked how this episode did not give any kind of glorified look at the heroes of this miniseries; the characters are ordinary people, trained to kill. Because of this, we see people who are unapologetic in their views of the enemy and each other. They are trained to kill, and thank God for that and for them. If we did not have people like that working for us, I doubt any of us would be here posting messages on a website. As a former soldier, I cannot wait to see the rest of this series.


                
I have read in other comments that this TV show was full of clichés. And yes, it is. But I guess any army is full of clichés. I don't like movies like "the red thin line", because the characters look more philosophers rather than soldiers. What I liked more from this show is that it is constantly pointed out the question ¿who are the civilized people? Summarazing, there are lots of reasons to watch this show. The other thing it is pointed out is the lack of concerns about the iraqi people. The command seems to be "In case of doubt, just blow up everything". It is not true this work don't care about the Iraq people, but they are showing the point of view of a US marine platoon, and they have to show them as they are. Sorry for my English.


                
I have seen a few episodes of Generation Kill. I am a big fan of HBO and this appeared to be up to the usual high standard of this production company. I was unaware of the provenance of the series. I guessed it was from the perspective of an embedded journalist but hoped this was not the case.I cannot speak from the perspective of a serving soldier. I am female and British.However, the portrayal of the incompetence and ignorance of high command and the ignorance and ill-discipline of the 'grunts'was all too convincing. After viewing an episode on New Year's Eve that particularly depressed me, I checked this website for information to find it is, in fact,based onpersonal experience.I think I have a realistic perspective of the realities of war and the realities of the Iraqi invasion. My brother was a British marine and I have lived long enough to know that not all soldiers are selfless heroes or infallible professionals. I have also lived in the Middle East for many years. I have American, Iraqi and Palestinian friends and always listen to and learn from all views presented to me.American soldiers serving in Iraq are there because they chose a military career and their government sent them there. I kept an open mind about the war until discovering it was based on incorrect/dishonest intelligence. I was angered by the number of British soldiers killed by 'friendly fire' and shocked by the uncivilised treatment of Iraqi prisoners. I was also shocked by the savagery of the insurgents, but America constantly presents itself as occupying the moral high ground in these matters.I am writing this after watching a BBC report on the embezzlement, squandering and unaccounted disappearance of $23billion of American taxpayers' money allocated to the war in Iraq.To return to 'Generaton Kill', I expected to read messages rightly praising the series but abhorring the exposure of the incompetence and savagery it portrays. Instead, most of the messages view the behaviour of troops dramatised as realistic and acceptable.I have no idea of the series' producers'political objectives, if any, but if it was to raise important questions about the conduct of the American troopsin Iraq, it appears to have failed.


                
I watched the finale of this show last night and was left feeling delighted by another great series from The Wire creators, but also very much wanting to see more from the superb cast and production team. Having said that though, the contents of the 7 episode series is more than enough for viewers to appreciate the best fictionalisation of the war in Iraq so far.Generation Kill offers a view of the invasion from the perspective of a Battalion of US Marines, who have an 'embedded' reporter from Rolling Stone tagging along with them. Evan Wright (the reporter), i have just discovered, really did this in 2003 and won an award for his articles before also publishing them as a book. This is not something i was aware of when watching, i thought the characters were fictional, but it looks like their names and likely their characters, are very much the real thing. So it's the writing that is undoubtedly the driving force behind this miniseries, but nothing should be taken away from the production team who brilliantly recreate the look and feel of Iraq - not that i've ever been there, I just experienced it from the comfort and safety of my TV armchair - which they managed on location in Africa. Susanna White in particular caught my eye with the episodes she directed and we'll no doubt be seeing much more great projects from her in the future (how many women have directed war movies/TV? not many i can think of).The soldier's motto's of 'get some' and 'stay frosty' are great summations of their time in Iraq. While they want to see action like any committed soldier would, they also have strict codes and orders from on high to adhere to - some reasonable, some perplexing. Incompetence appears frequently, both in command and lower down the ranks. One itchy trigger finger leads to the christening of Whopper Junior, while their Captain's committence to his country's cause earns him the name Captain America. Iceman though, like many people, was my favourite character. Watch out, the Skarsgard's are coming! The morality of the Battalion is superbly played out, and it's hard not to like any of them, even the more suspect Whopper Junior as they warm to the reporter and the Iraqis during their mission. The series is not really critical of the soldiers, but in truly Wire style, critical of the process and of command, of politics and society, not of Americans but of the systems and powers that govern them with humour and humanity shining all the way through. A really nice touch is the real audio of soldier re-con at the end of each episode. The final ep brings with it the weightiest of these clips where a soldier, ironically or seriously, eloquently assesses his role as a marine, by saying 'On the seventh day, when god rested, we overran his perimeter and we've been running the show ever since...' A brilliant truth of American attitudes toward the world, war and god.


                
I had previously rated 'Generation Kill' a 9, from viewing the first episode. Based on past experiences (but not counting the fact that this was on HBO), I expected the rating to go down to an 8. This was not the case. 'Generation Kill' was great throughout. It was the typical HBO program, and shows what HBO is known for: realistic storytelling, consistent characters, and excellent writing and directing.'Generation Kill' was blasted for being too rough around the edges. This is reality, however. Special attention to reality was kept in other areas too, such as highly vivid night vision sequences with tracers pouring into the night sky. At times, I wondered if I was watching stock footage. Everything about 'Generation Kill' just felt superior, from the camera work, to direction, to the writing. You really get the feel of being there, and seeing through the eyes of those who invaded Iraq.The characters were insanely real. It was easy to feel sympathy for the Iraqs and American soldiers alike. This was the most impartial show I've seen to date on the Iraq War. Though I found 'Band of Brothers' to be far superior to 'Generation Kill,' GK was a serious contender when it comes to an HBO miniseries. GK is better than anything you will ever see at the movies. I very much enjoyed viewing this documentary from beginning to end.


                
I've never served but have always had the utmost in respect and support for our U.S. Armed Forces. This series not only reinforced the reasons why I do so, but also helped to educate family and friends.When it was initially being promoted by HBO I had heard enough anti-war commentary that I was suspicious enough that I didn't bother watching it. A good friend started to comment on it and even went out and bought the DVD collection AND the book after seeing it's original broadcast. I finally sat down and viewed it over the weekend with my wife and we were both very much impressed. She's not a big fan of war or war movies but agreed to at least view the first episode. She was hooked.This series provided a tremendous view inside the workings of the organization as well as the people that make it. The pause button got a workout as I helped my wife understand some of the jargon and explain some of the tactics, situations, etc. (She has heard me talk about some of these things when buddies get together with me and we "play" combat sims on our PC's.) Her interest grew along with her understanding of the challenges of the men and women that see these tasks through with dignity and honor.Key points. Yes, Marines have a "get some" attitude. They have to. There's no other way they could carry out the tasks they need to without it. Yes, civilians get killed in a war. It's not always due to incompetency and it's rarely due to neglect, indifference or malicious intent. Yes, good Marines will make a mistake. Yes, the enemy in this war dressed like and blended in with civilians. They took over schools and hospitals and hid behind women and children. This is their tactic to play upon our culture's taboos. Whereas we fear the possibility of women and children being hurt or killed, the enemy is counting upon this fear. It was also apparent that these Marines displayed a great deal of compassion for the innocent people in this conflict. And finally, Marines have to maintain a degree of humor in order to stay stable in difficult circumstances.The director wanted to be sure that this series simply portray the facts and let the viewer sort out how they feel about them. He succeeded. The cinematography is good, sound is excellent, and from the feedback I've read and heard from actual Marines, the accuracy is outstanding.


                
Generation Kill is an enjoyable, funny and enlightening account of an elite Marine Company's experiences in the invasion of Iraq in March 2003.Every episode is excellently filmed, acted and presented. It can be slightly confusing as the director and writer literally throw the viewer into the world of these marines; who have an entirely different language and dialogue when talking to each other (lets just say, if you are easily offended, do not watch this series!).Although some of the exchanges between the Marines themselves can be quite uncomfortable, the majority of the dialogue is witty and funny (am thinking about the 'wall of heroes' at the local Publix supermarket). The acting is also fantastic, Alexander Skarsgård's (Sgt. Brad 'Iceman' Colbert) dry and witty exchanges with James Ransone (Cpl. Josh Ray Person) are laugh-out loud. Skarsgård's cool performance illustrates his growing frustration with the mission. I was also impressed with Stark Sand's (Lt. Nathaniel Fick) performance, so much of his character's slow developing discontent and disillusionment by the way the invasion is progressing is shown in his eyes. He also illustrates a quiet, confident leadership in which he is constantly faced with questionable orders from his senior officers. It is clear to see that he has no choice, he has to to carry these orders out. Flick's concerns are maintaining the safety in his Company of soldiers and trying to sustain some sort of moral code (which he has to unhappily compromise at times, because orders have to be followed).I do recommend that you watch the series more than once. On first viewing, the Marine dialogue can be a little confusing and it takes a while to get to know the characters (they all look the same in uniform!) On second viewing, I found the series much more powerful and critical of the decisions upper powers make and its effect on the middle to lower soldier ranks. Particular mention is the last scene of the final episode which is is VERY moving and makes a strong statement.


                
I'm not a big fan of war-related movies or series. It's no secret that most reflect an overly biased view of the world, as they are usually produced in mainstream Hollywood and are mostly concerned with showing the heroics of a, usually American, military force. Nevertheless, there are productions that escape this formulaic approach. Generation Kill is one of them. From the first episode, we are introduced to the players. This reminded me a lot of Band of Brothers (2001). The characters that are developed most are those of the members of the squad with which the reporter - whose book the series is based on - is riding. The complexity of the each character is amazing. Whether you are pro or against the invasion of Iraq, you cannot help but identify to some degree with not only one, but many of the men in the series. (There are basically no female characters in sight, something I found rather strange but I honestly don't know whether or not that is an accurate representation of the U.S. Marines) In any case, as the series advances, we get to know a group of warriors whose motivations vary from honest patriotism, to simply finding an outlet from repressed anger, needing a good-paying job in difficult times, or just because of an asshole personality (like in the case of "Captain America"<U+0085> Possibly the most dislikeable character I have seen in a TV show in a long, long time). As the story advances and we are shown the raw reality of the conflict from an insider's perspective, one realizes that whatever our opinions are about issues such as the conflict in Iraq, or the mistreatment of war prisoners to name just a couple, things are never black nor white. The conflict in Iraq is a reality, and shows like Generation Kill serve to help us understand that the people who are involved in the conflict (on both sides) at the ground level are simply human beings who, due to situations beyond their control, found themselves involved in an armed conflict in the name of their country, nation, culture, etc. The decisions that each of these men has to face day in and day out while in a combat zone makes us realize that this could easily be the story of one of our neighbors, or buddies from high school, or even ourselves, and it makes you question how you would behave if placed in similar circumstances. In my opinion, Generation Kill is one of those TV shows that is so well written and performed that I cannot wait to have an excuse to watch it again and again. This is what TV is supposed to look like.


                
I stumbled across this series when i heard they talked about it on the radio here in Sweden. Alexander Skarsgård is a swede as you probably know by now. So when i first heard of "Generation Kill" i thought that it wouldn't be about the feelings and the emotional pressure during times of war, i thought it would show just "war and a lot of BANG BANG" if you know what i mean.So now when the last episode is broadcast i feel like i want to see more, i promise you all that this is a good series and i will definitely buy the series-box when its released in public stores.I highly recommend Generation Kill to all of those who has been in the military service or those who wants to get in there.//Tob the Swede
Amazing show, captured the group mentality and individual aggressiveness of the marines. It doesn't ever choose sides which is a good thing as there's quite a bit of hard lined emotions on both sides. The battle tactics... well they never made much sense, looked like they never expected a lot of resistance in their battles, but it was amazing how they pulled their attacks off without working equipment in some cases. The ending was kind of more open than some of us would hope, with marines walking in on a bad situation and being given orders too late to do night patrols without having to dodge bullets being fired at random, that was a huge problem with toppling a overarmed dictatorship that was assumed we could easily handle.


                
Generation Kill is one of the most impressive TV show I've seen. The sense of humor is very subtle and very dry. The acting is amazing most of the time. I was immersed in the story as of the first episode and "felt" like being there as a silent observer.The character I like the most is Cpl. Ray. He has a way of describing things that make you smile. I puts a different view on this war as to what we're used to see in the news.The show manages to tell it's story without being pro or anti war. To me it seemed to portray the war the way it is and not the way politicians or activists want us to see it.If you're interested in the subject (even only remotely) you need to watch this Mini Series.


                
inevitably, there is a strong over-emphasis of character traits in the players. we have a risible 'captain America' and an idiotic commander, balanced against a tight unit, 'bravo', which seems over filled with intelligent and deep marines. given that he wrote the piece, the role of the rolling stone reporter is underplayed, although his presence speaks loudly through the excellent performances of pop music given by the marines.where this show stands out is in the insightful, witty and philosophical repartee. the marines abuse and insult each other joyfully, regaling us with a constant stream of opinion and straight rubbish.there must have been complaints about the blatant racism, sexism and mixed bag of other isms, as in the closing credits of episode 6, a talk over from the most loquacious driver the mentality is explained. these elite recon marines are alpha males, searching and exploiting each others weaknesses, scrapping and fighting for their pecking order - whist loving and watching out for each other. the picture of the war that it paints may be realistic. i'm not a marine, so i have no idea, but its certainly depressing. a litany of command fck ups, bad choices and simple brutality, and the meaninglessness of it takes its toll on the cast, who long for a simple kill.still, it is enthralling. i felt for the marines, for the iraqis and had a hint of the enormity of the whole iraqi episode. riveting TV.


                
