Once in a very long while, the stars align to create truly transcendent art on screen. "Goblin" is an example of this, as the maturation of talented writer Kim Eun-Sook blends with nuanced directing, breathtaking cinematography and the formidable acting skills of Gong Yoo and the rest of the stellar cast.This is great art and great television, regardless of the country of origin. That is not to minimize the South Korean expertise that created it, but simply to avoid the sometimes- backhanded compliment of "great...for a KDrama." It's just great TV, full stop.I've watched KDramas for about a decade, and this one is the best I've seen. Highly recommended, not just for drama fans, but for all fans of quality cinematic art around the world.


                
Goblin is by far one of the best Korean dramas in recent years and this can be seen from its record breaking ratings for a cable TV channel. Goblin,also known as Dokkaebi, is a drama with the main themes of fantasy,romance and melodrama with a tinge of action and comedy. It is about a Goblin called Kim Shin and a nameless Grim Reaper who are connected to each other by their past without them knowing at the start. Other main characters include Ji Eun Tak who is the Goblin's bride, Yu Deok Hwa, and Sunny who is the Grim Reaper's love interest.Despite some parts being lengthy and bland, it was needed as the viewers have to know the background story between the main characters in their past lives. The story is a beautiful and heartwarming one where sacrifices have to be made like how Eun Tak must pull out the sword in Kim Shin's chest in order to save herself but kill Kim Shin in the process. In the end, it was Kim Shin who forced Eun Tak to pull out the sword due to a dangerous situation(See Ep 13) and as a result, he managed to save Eun Tak by sacrificing himself.Besides the main story, there is also the story between the Grim Reaper and Sunny and the interaction between the two of them is often amusing and funny. The "bromance" between the Grim Reaper and Goblin is also worth noting as it highlights the impressive chemistry between the two.Bottom line: Goblin is a must-watch for all Kdrama starters as it has all the ingredients for a good drama. There's a reason why it's rated 9.0 by IMDb.
I was really hesitant to watch this at first because I'm not really into fantasy stories but since it's gong yoo I gave it a shot and boy did I tell you I regret it? This is so good that I could re-watch it again if it wasn't for the long list of other K-dramas I must watch. Grim reaper and goblin's bromance is undeniably adorable. Kim go-eun's acting is perfect I cried with her.


                
This is just pure awesome all the way. I mean honestly, it's unbelievable how good this is. I only have minor gripes with product placements, but it's not too serious & without them they couldn't have financed the drama. Pretty much everything is perfection, flawless casting, flawless acting , amazing story, some of the most epic & most emotional moments in TV history.
 There was that moment when Eun Tak talked about what a great day she had, I don't recall I have ever felt like that watching a TV show or anything else on the big screen really.
The OST is out of this world good too, it really helps with the feels.


                
I cried, laughed and loved! Must watch! Definitely miss this show!!


                
This unusual tale of a supernatural Guardian from the past and a young human woman who is destined to be his savior is haunting and beautiful. The OST contributes so much and the cinematography is rich and detailed. The scenes in Québec City are stunning. I would recommend this to anyone looking for something different and unusual yet captivating.


                
I would learn to read & write another language just to be able to understand all the nuances I'm sure I missed - although subtitles. Loved every last inch of this story and acting. Wish songs were subtitled also. - had microsecond concerns with the age difference of the main couple. Yet, I remember being a young girl that age and have to admit I would have fallen madly in love too. The idea that a centuries old being might love me back despite the difference in age would be hard to fathom in reality. But... I don't watch shows for reality. I can watch a documentary for that. -- Fully worth watching.
It's really special.
It definitely holds on to the integrity of a classic as well as the uniqueness of a modern drama.Only 30 mins into the first episode i decided to ditch everything else and binge.The cast, cinematography, soundtracks... Everything is just amazing!
100% recommend.


                
Simply amazing. The picturesque cinematography, the soundtrack, the full packed and unpredictable storyline was breathtaking to watch. The drama gave great aesthetic pleasure and the dialogue was beautiful. 'Because the weather was good, because the weather was bad, and because the weather was good enough. I loved every moment of it." The goblin who stays by your side, the bride who loves and remembers him, the days I spent watching Goblin were the happiest.


                
Rarely do I come across a show that I immediately want to watch a second time - right after I finish it the first time. This is one of those rare shows. The story line makes you laugh and cry in equal measures, and the chemistry between the characters is great. And if you've never ventured into the K-drama world, this is definitely a standout.


                
Funny, touching, sometimes tragic but always turning back on itself--it is romantic; well-written and directed with a terrific cast of some of the best Korean actors. It is a wonderful story filled with humor, pathos, tension, romance, and themes of retribution, compassion, and forgiveness; true love, friendship, and great joy. K-Drama got it right on this one from its gripping introduction to a beautiful, satisfying conclusion. It is an amazing series--a fine accomplishment in theme, style, and vision.


                
The best show ever in Fantasy genre. Every scene in this drama is a masterpiece.


                
Wow! Everything was just wow! I was feeling so touched while watching.. I watched this drama more than 7 times but never get bored


                
Every line is poetry.
Every frame a tapestry.
I have never been more in love.


                
In my opinion, this is one of the best Korea's dramas that I've ever seen. I've been watching a lot of Korea's dramas and this one took me a lot of tears, from sadness to happiness and I even laughed a lot also.
The cast is perfect, I love Go-eun Kim so much, the way she expresses for her character is natural and lovely, she's the very first reason why I chose to watch this drama.
The OST is beautiful also, until now I'm still listing to all the songs in this movie.
I strongly recommend people watching this movie :).


                
Rarely there comes one such drama that completely fulfills your expectations and this one is such a drama. There is humour, romance, action, fantasy and above all ample amount of emotions. This drama is surely gonna leave one teary eyed by the time it ends. This drama is one helluva rollercoaster ride of sadness and happiness. Every actor performed their role to the fullest. I just wish that the lead actors once again come together for yet another drama having such emotional depth. You won't regret watching this.I guarantee it.


                
Wow what can add but Wow mesmerising everyone brilliant just loved this


                
I don't remember what it was that originally drew me into watching Korean programming (Drama's in particular) as it was years ago that I started and I still do not speak the language, but there are times regardless of the region for which a story is written and put onto the screen that breaks that cliche of glass ceilings. "Goblin" (aka: Guardian: The Lonely and Great God) is that show. Every single actor and character draws you in further and further with each episode. I can't help myself but to rewatch this series, often.Unfortunately, the channel "DramaFever" which had this series available to anyone who subscribed has since shut down and I cannot find this series available in Region 1 anywhere else. All the reviews I've come across regarding the disparities of the DVD series has turned me off from purchasing them.If I never have access to this series again, it will be on my list of lifetime favorites.


                
It's been too long since I've watched this drama but let me tell you this: it was one of the best if not the best drama I've watched.
I will definitely rewatch it and if I do I will come back here and write a constructive review lol.I definitely recommend Goblin to everyone who is looking for well-packed and beautifully done drama with amazing characters and performances.


                
When people talked about Korean music, films and series I always looked at them with distrust. Untill I finally found this piece of art. Every episode drags you into the story. Untill finally it doesn't want to let you go. Or maybe I couldn't let the story go.
There have been a few moments when I thought I knew what was going to happen. But everytime the story proved me wrong.


                
