Once in a very long while, the stars align to create truly transcendent art on screen. "Goblin" is an example of this, as the maturation of talented writer Kim Eun-Sook blends with nuanced directing, breathtaking cinematography and the formidable acting skills of Gong Yoo and the rest of the stellar cast.This is great art and great television, regardless of the country of origin. That is not to minimize the South Korean expertise that created it, but simply to avoid the sometimes- backhanded compliment of "great...for a KDrama." It's just great TV, full stop.I've watched KDramas for about a decade, and this one is the best I've seen. Highly recommended, not just for drama fans, but for all fans of quality cinematic art around the world.


                
Goblin is by far one of the best Korean dramas in recent years and this can be seen from its record breaking ratings for a cable TV channel. Goblin,also known as Dokkaebi, is a drama with the main themes of fantasy,romance and melodrama with a tinge of action and comedy. It is about a Goblin called Kim Shin and a nameless Grim Reaper who are connected to each other by their past without them knowing at the start. Other main characters include Ji Eun Tak who is the Goblin's bride, Yu Deok Hwa, and Sunny who is the Grim Reaper's love interest.Despite some parts being lengthy and bland, it was needed as the viewers have to know the background story between the main characters in their past lives. The story is a beautiful and heartwarming one where sacrifices have to be made like how Eun Tak must pull out the sword in Kim Shin's chest in order to save herself but kill Kim Shin in the process. In the end, it was Kim Shin who forced Eun Tak to pull out the sword due to a dangerous situation(See Ep 13) and as a result, he managed to save Eun Tak by sacrificing himself.Besides the main story, there is also the story between the Grim Reaper and Sunny and the interaction between the two of them is often amusing and funny. The "bromance" between the Grim Reaper and Goblin is also worth noting as it highlights the impressive chemistry between the two.Bottom line: Goblin is a must-watch for all Kdrama starters as it has all the ingredients for a good drama. There's a reason why it's rated 9.0 by IMDb.
I was really hesitant to watch this at first because I'm not really into fantasy stories but since it's gong yoo I gave it a shot and boy did I tell you I regret it? This is so good that I could re-watch it again if it wasn't for the long list of other K-dramas I must watch. Grim reaper and goblin's bromance is undeniably adorable. Kim go-eun's acting is perfect I cried with her.


                
This is just pure awesome all the way. I mean honestly, it's unbelievable how good this is. I only have minor gripes with product placements, but it's not too serious & without them they couldn't have financed the drama. Pretty much everything is perfection, flawless casting, flawless acting , amazing story, some of the most epic & most emotional moments in TV history.
 There was that moment when Eun Tak talked about what a great day she had, I don't recall I have ever felt like that watching a TV show or anything else on the big screen really.
The OST is out of this world good too, it really helps with the feels.


                
I cried, laughed and loved! Must watch! Definitely miss this show!!


                
This unusual tale of a supernatural Guardian from the past and a young human woman who is destined to be his savior is haunting and beautiful. The OST contributes so much and the cinematography is rich and detailed. The scenes in Québec City are stunning. I would recommend this to anyone looking for something different and unusual yet captivating.


                
I would learn to read & write another language just to be able to understand all the nuances I'm sure I missed - although subtitles. Loved every last inch of this story and acting. Wish songs were subtitled also. - had microsecond concerns with the age difference of the main couple. Yet, I remember being a young girl that age and have to admit I would have fallen madly in love too. The idea that a centuries old being might love me back despite the difference in age would be hard to fathom in reality. But... I don't watch shows for reality. I can watch a documentary for that. -- Fully worth watching.
It's really special.
It definitely holds on to the integrity of a classic as well as the uniqueness of a modern drama.Only 30 mins into the first episode i decided to ditch everything else and binge.The cast, cinematography, soundtracks... Everything is just amazing!
100% recommend.


                
I almost want to give it 10/10 but... nothing is ever perfect, although Goblin is very close to be perfection. This k-drama is, in my opinion, one of the best. First of all, its originality as well as the mix of genre (historical, drama, romance, thriller and fantasy) is absolutely incredible. Characters are really charming, and you'll appreciate every facets of their relationships, whether romantic or friendship. They're so likable that you just end up feeling like they're your friends too... which inevitably lead to you feeling all kind of emotions if you are the empathetic type. I ended up bawling my eyes out and laughing my a** off with them. Cinematography is incredible as well. Everything in this k-drama is beautiful, from the images to the soundtrack (seriously, one of the best in my opinion).
I don't have any negative comments. I changed my mind I put 10/10.


                
Simply amazing. The picturesque cinematography, the soundtrack, the full packed and unpredictable storyline was breathtaking to watch. The drama gave great aesthetic pleasure and the dialogue was beautiful. 'Because the weather was good, because the weather was bad, and because the weather was good enough. I loved every moment of it." The goblin who stays by your side, the bride who loves and remembers him, the days I spent watching Goblin were the happiest.


                
Rarely do I come across a show that I immediately want to watch a second time - right after I finish it the first time. This is one of those rare shows. The story line makes you laugh and cry in equal measures, and the chemistry between the characters is great. And if you've never ventured into the K-drama world, this is definitely a standout.


                
After DOTS, Goblin finally took the title of most popular drama. And it's true that everyone talks about this drama. In my opinion, that because of two things: the OST and the cinematography. The soundtrack was really good and the songs as atmospheric as they should be, creating the right mood for every scene. Then, the cinematography was amazing, with the first episode introducing breathtaking shots of battles and palaces. The great cinematography continues on to the rest of the episodes as well, aiding when the drama hit standstills. In addition the theme is very original, as the plot wasn't clearly introduced to the audience, making you curious to want to see what's the buzz about this drama. Well, the story is very fairy tale like, a man is turned into a goblin and he is waiting for centuries to find the girl who will be destined to be his "bride", which will also mean that she will be able to pull the sword out of his body and kill him. Meanwhile, a grim ripper moves into his house and he falls in love with a human. And here is where it becomes complicated, as the concepts of reincarnation and four lives are introduced. Fortunately, they are clearly explained, so one can't easily be confused. Now, about the negatives: -the duration was way too long and that led to countless flashbacks to be thrown into each episode to make it longer. -the romance was a little blunt. The performances were great, and the second romantic story was really good, with the chemistry between the couple obvious. Maybe it was the age difference of the main couple (the girl was still in school) or the fact that the girl didn't actually treat the idea of being the goblin bride seriously; more like she used it as means to survive. It got better towards the end, fortunately, but till then it was awkward. -the main story could have been better presented -the ending was weak -the advertisements were too many!! Other than that, it was an enjoyable drama (still too long though!) and the side stories were the best of it. So, 5 out of 10.
Funny, touching, sometimes tragic but always turning back on itself--it is romantic; well-written and directed with a terrific cast of some of the best Korean actors. It is a wonderful story filled with humor, pathos, tension, romance, and themes of retribution, compassion, and forgiveness; true love, friendship, and great joy. K-Drama got it right on this one from its gripping introduction to a beautiful, satisfying conclusion. It is an amazing series--a fine accomplishment in theme, style, and vision.


                
The best show ever in Fantasy genre. Every scene in this drama is a masterpiece.


                
I LOVED THE SHOW FROM THE START BUT FOR ME THE ENDING WAS SO FRUSTRATING! Like why did the goblin have to wait for 9 more years?!! Why did he not get the peace he was promised? Why did Ji-Eun Tak have to die?? Weren't 900 years enough that you make goblin wait for his bride to be born again?
I've been hooked by kdrama for 14 years and this one hold the top position. I've watched it 3 times already. I think it's because the cinematography, soundtrack, storyline and acting skill of the actors/actress that made this drama different from others. After watching this, your standard for korean drama will be higher than before


                
What a ride this series was! The series embodies the best of Korean dramas. Take what is basically a fairy tale, plop in into modern time and proceed to capture us with all of the magic. The cinematography, the music and acting were all top notch. It is not easy to make a fairy tale relatable but it was. You could feel the heartache, the loneliness, the friendship, the anger, the fear and the love. Beautiful production.


                
Wow! Everything was just wow! I was feeling so touched while watching.. I watched this drama more than 7 times but never get bored


                
Every line is poetry.
Every frame a tapestry.
I have never been more in love.


                
GOBLINAt 1st episode it was mind blown, the cinematography is damn good as expected from TVN. My expectation becomes higher, The story is strong and interesting.. Ep2 is still good.. but after that?? I don't understand how come this show become a teenager love story and the goblin suddenly act out of his character, he was a cold blooded general who has killed so many people in the past then now he act silly in front of a teenager? I will be glad if it had more fight scenes, more complicated story plot, more goblin enemies.. as shown from the first episode.. I feel cheated.. my heart is stabbed with goblin's sword!so weird, might as well erase the whole 1st and 2nd episodes. It seems that he as a goblin who was a general is only a decoration to bait me for watching this show. Anyway, i have thrown all of my expectation for this show and only watch this for it's comedy and nice bromance with the grim reaper..But it seems goblin silly character is not really a BIG ISSUE for me to continue. I tried to continue watching yesterday, episode 6, but i really cannot stand of eun tak character anymore, yes, she is a high school teenager, but since she does not have family and been abused by her aunt's family, i don't know why she acts childish like that. She has been cooking and taking care of her aunt's family, she should be more independent & have more dignity, but in ep 6 she was like asking goblin for a big house etc for her, i was like errr..? She always ask money from kim shin and it's kinda annoyed me lol, she seems blackmail kim shin to give her money and house so that she will pull out the sword for him.. I don't even remember that i asked money from stranger, i don't even ask money from my parents, i feel to ashamed to do that. oh well, i view it like that, so i decided to drop the show :P This show really teach young female teenager to ask money from sugar daddy. This Kim Eun Sook writer never ceased to amazed me with her crap lol but she is smart in marketing her dramas coz her dramas always got so popular.. She is lucky to have a good editor and stellar cast to bring in the rating but her writing is weird for me.
Goblin is a well-shot, stylish and artistic drama with some great locations. In addition to the cinematography, the soundtrack is also good and the plot is interesting. Despite a few extremely silly scenes, I enjoyed the bromance between the Goblin and the Grim reaper. That said, the female lead and the plot holes somewhat let it down. Although I did not hate Kim Go-eun, her character was not well-written and her inconsistent acting made it worse. Yoo In-na, the supporting actress, in contrast was impressive in her role and uplifted the drama. I also enjoyed the Grim reaper's romance more than the Goblin's. The ending was a bit incomplete and did not completely do justice to all the sub-plots. All in all, although a few elements prevented this from being an exceptional drama, it was nevertheless an enjoyable watch. 7.5/10


                
In my opinion, this is one of the best Korea's dramas that I've ever seen. I've been watching a lot of Korea's dramas and this one took me a lot of tears, from sadness to happiness and I even laughed a lot also.
The cast is perfect, I love Go-eun Kim so much, the way she expresses for her character is natural and lovely, she's the very first reason why I chose to watch this drama.
The OST is beautiful also, until now I'm still listing to all the songs in this movie.
I strongly recommend people watching this movie :).


                
Rarely there comes one such drama that completely fulfills your expectations and this one is such a drama. There is humour, romance, action, fantasy and above all ample amount of emotions. This drama is surely gonna leave one teary eyed by the time it ends. This drama is one helluva rollercoaster ride of sadness and happiness. Every actor performed their role to the fullest. I just wish that the lead actors once again come together for yet another drama having such emotional depth. You won't regret watching this.I guarantee it.


                
Goblin comes with the usual features of Korean romances set in a modern setting. Expect a consistent display of product placements (not always elegantly woven into the story) and the per usual fascination with materialism (high end goods, hot young CEOs and beef<U+0085> for some reason) that rings a bit false with the moral message that love is true and money doesn't matter. But that aside, it is a heart warming story in which the loves of two couples are cleverly interwoven with a bromance and elements of fantasy that stays on the right side of cheesy. It takes pain seriously (you will find it hard not to go teary at times; the acting is good and the heartaches come across as sincere), but juxtaposes it well with a flippant and light-hearted humour. A few exchanges become lost in translation, presumably due to being specific to the Korean culture and not translating well outside of it. There are also a few episodes halfway through that drags. But it is worth staying with it to the end. A very sweet and entertaining tale. Put it on the list.


                
This show is so slow, overrated and just plain bad! Whatever points I feel it deserves are for great shots by the camera team, the choice of shooting locations and some dialogue writing. The story looses grip every now and then, any loose ends just left, the lead actress is just bad, the character is written so annoying and her acting chops don't help in anyway to make it bearable.Bad! Just bad! Am surprised at the n number of recommendations for this show at various platforms.


                
