I LOVED THE SHOW FROM THE START BUT FOR ME THE ENDING WAS SO FRUSTRATING! Like why did the goblin have to wait for 9 more years?!! Why did he not get the peace he was promised? Why did Ji-Eun Tak have to die?? Weren't 900 years enough that you make goblin wait for his bride to be born again?
Goblin is a well-shot, stylish and artistic drama with some great locations. In addition to the cinematography, the soundtrack is also good and the plot is interesting. Despite a few extremely silly scenes, I enjoyed the bromance between the Goblin and the Grim reaper. That said, the female lead and the plot holes somewhat let it down. Although I did not hate Kim Go-eun, her character was not well-written and her inconsistent acting made it worse. Yoo In-na, the supporting actress, in contrast was impressive in her role and uplifted the drama. I also enjoyed the Grim reaper's romance more than the Goblin's. The ending was a bit incomplete and did not completely do justice to all the sub-plots. All in all, although a few elements prevented this from being an exceptional drama, it was nevertheless an enjoyable watch. 7.5/10


                
Goblin comes with the usual features of Korean romances set in a modern setting. Expect a consistent display of product placements (not always elegantly woven into the story) and the per usual fascination with materialism (high end goods, hot young CEOs and beef<U+0085> for some reason) that rings a bit false with the moral message that love is true and money doesn't matter. But that aside, it is a heart warming story in which the loves of two couples are cleverly interwoven with a bromance and elements of fantasy that stays on the right side of cheesy. It takes pain seriously (you will find it hard not to go teary at times; the acting is good and the heartaches come across as sincere), but juxtaposes it well with a flippant and light-hearted humour. A few exchanges become lost in translation, presumably due to being specific to the Korean culture and not translating well outside of it. There are also a few episodes halfway through that drags. But it is worth staying with it to the end. A very sweet and entertaining tale. Put it on the list.


                
CUTEST Actress!!! She smiles, acts so well.
Would've given it a 10 if only the comedy aspect was better.


                
Goblin is maybe will be known as the best mystic Korean drama in 2017. At the beginning of the story we were shown the magnificent strength and the humorist side of the usually ugly-known creature instead here showing the handsome and masculine creature and the dorky yet melancholic grim reaper. What makes this drama interesting is not because of the love story, the good plot or the beautiful scenery and the good shot of scenes but solely because the chemistry love-hate relationship between the grim reaper and the goblin which I found refreshing in kdramas. Find this kind of relationship often happening in jdrama but never in usual melodramatic triangle-love-story kdrama, also sharing screen between 2 big actors whom usually acting as the main lead in their drama is very seldom.Kim Go Eun's acting felt good at first then got me boring since she has no improvement of her character's growing phase, even her sadness couldn't effect me since the emotion that she was showing just like what she would usually show in her other dramas notably "cheese in the trap".Gong Yoo this guy never fails to impress me when acting in romance-comedy drama, while Goblin taken as a suspense-romance drama. Gong Yoo gave the vibe feeling of the lonely and kind god resurrecting his character as the most favorite character of this drama. Lee Dong Wook's acting first is OK but when he was being sad I couldn't sympathize enough with his character since I have watched too many dramas so it takes tons to get me feeling sorry for the actors' acting, can't say he is acting bad though. Yo In Na doing nothing special here except her character just fill in to make the show more interesting. Others are decent actors.For the plot I like how it steadily following the story opening the background and past each character but following the ending the story became too touchy and not really appealing into me anymore. Seems the producer and the writer losing their touch with the beginning of the superb episodes then got lost on how to finish the story with great ending which they fail to do so. Hence vague open-ending presentable for the once-good drama.English songs are OK perfect for the thrill of this drama but the Korean songs are horrible and irritating me with the deaf-tone singers. The Korean songs are just not perfect for this drama or perhaps they could wisely choose better singers since this drama is suspense-romance not melancholic dramatic romance.
