Anything I say in this review is probably redundant, because there isn't a single negative review in all the comments so far here, and I agree wholeheartedly with what has been said by other reviewers.Nevertheless Hotel Rwanda is that rare kind of movie experience that doesn't easily relinquish its hold on the audience just because the credits have rolled. Watching with a friend, after ten minutes we had to pause the film because we decided we would be better served if we were more informed about what the basic facts of the conflict in Rwanda were. So to my shame, we had to read on the internet about what really happened, before we could continue. I say shame because we should have known, both of us were of an age when it happened to have taken more of an interest in world politics.The film is beautifully understated, eschewing sentimentality in favour of raw emotion and letting the story tell itself. The acting was flawless - Don Cheadle's breathtaking performance being a particular standout - and the direction didn't falter, despite all the potential pitfalls of dramatising a recent and horrific conflict. The scenes which were hardest to watch in terms of tension and violence were often suffused with humour and hope.It's difficult sometimes to separate the significance of the true story, from the artistry of the product, and often I get impatient with 'worthy' movies scoring big at Oscar time because it seems as though important stories ought to be rewarded, whether or not they make good films. However, I can't recall being so profoundly moved by a film since I saw The Grey Zone, and I hope Hotel Rwanda gets all the plaudits it deserves.


                
I have never been so touched by a movie. It was the hardest movie I have ever sat through but also the best. it's so easy to ignore human rights abuses if they are not happening to you or your family, but just because you ignore it, they are still happening. i hope this movie receives the praise it deserves. i am frustrated because nothing i can type can represent how powerful this movie is or how much it moved me. i can't comment on the amazing acting or cinematography or directing because the movie transported me. i did not think about the making of the movie but rather sat shocked and horrified and nauseated and inspired. there was the red cross agent. there were heroes and while human nature perverts and the thin veil of culture unravels, there is still good. i have to look at the good of the heroes in the movie and of the people that wrote the movie, and realize that going to the movies doesn't have to be about escapism. it can be about reality. this is a must-see, not because it will make you laugh but because it will make you think and feel.


                
I was fortunate to see this film at the Toronto Film Festival. I had heard nothing about this film before I read up on it in the Fest guide and originally was going to see something else. But, the subway happened to shut down and I was not going to be able to see the film I originally intended. So, I decided to give this a try.And I am so very glad I did.This film is by far the best drama I have seen all year, and indeed was the best film of the 11 I saw at the festival. It is gripping, heart-wrenching, and opens your eyes to so many things. Don Cheadle -- who I am a long time admirer of his work -- is phenomenal in the lead role, and I hope that he is nominated for Best Actor this year, because he certainly deserves it.I am recommending this film to everybody I know and I hope that it gets a wide distribution because it certainly is a film that needs to be seen. While comparisons can be made to Schindler's List, I think that this film goes further to show that events like the Holocaust can happen any time -- even now -- so long as people look away, just as the UN did in Rwanda. It certainly makes one think about how easy it is for us to forget our history and allow it to be repeated, because (as one character says) we will watch it on TV, say that it is terrible, and go right on eating our dinner. 10/10


                
Just saw the San Francisco premier last night and it isn't a dramatization - it's much more of a documentary -- Hotel is extremely factual. CAN'T SAY ENOUGH ABOUT THIS FILM! INCREDIBLE EXPERIENCE! The Director and the story's protagonist were at the screening to answer questions. We ovated him for almost 10 minutes. Near the end of the q&a, an older man stood up and was called on. Slowly he commented that as a Tutsi, the movie gave him a lot to think about and that it may now be possible to find peace in his heart. The audience was stunned. And believe me, it takes a lot to silence a San Francisco audience. One last comment, the film is indpendently made and distributed - no Hollywood involvement at all (Terry George is British). There will be no machine pumping out ads and radio anouncements about this one. Help get the word out - great film!


                
I have just seen this film and have to say I am deeply moved by it. The premise of the film is about one mans struggle to do the right thing at when everything around him is going wrong. Don Cheadle is the best African American actor out there. His passion and heart was so strong that moved me almost to tears. There is a definite wish here to let this story to be known to the world. Its powerful and provocative in its indirect and subtle jabs at the west for not intervening into such a horror that took place in Rwanda.Very well made and directed. Please see this and let it inspire you as it did me - to try cultivate selfless actions. Thanks, Ricky Thind


                
I'm a college freshman at a small school in New York taking a class on the individuals role and responsibility in community. We read the book "We'd like to inform you that tomorrow we will be killed with our families" about the Rwandan genocide and then went to see this movie. It is very accurate about what happened but reading it is just not the same as seeing it, it seemed horrendous always but when I actually saw the movie it was just... Jesus... it's so hard to believe that this happened and that this could. The film was excellent in both execution and portrayal. Everyone must see this movie and know we are all human beings and it is our responsibility to be there for each other. Jesus Christ... this can not happen.


                
The madness one sees in this brilliant film is hard to imagine, yet it occurred in Rwanda. Terry George, the director, captures those terrible days in Rwanda in his film "Hotel Rwanda". Mr. George has to be commended for bringing to the screen a detailed account of a country in chaos. Working with Keir Pearson on the screen play, the director presents us with the horrors of what the country lived during the holocaust that befell Rwanda.At the center of the story is Paul Rusesabagina, a courageous man who witnessed first hand the worst days of the Hutu rebellion and its bloody aftermath. This man alone was able to protect and to save more than a thousand Rwandans that clearly would not be around today, had it not been for his tremendous stand against people that showed no mercy, or wouldn't reason about what they were doing to their fellow citizens.The performance of Don Cheadle, as Paul Rusesabagina, is worth the price of admission! This wonderful actor projects such an intelligence that it's hard to find in any American film released in 2004. Mr. Cheadle was right to portray this man; it was a role he was born to play. Mr. Cheadle got under the skin of the hotel manager and runs away with the film. It's hard to keep ones eyes from this commanding performance.The rest of the mostly black cast is excellent. One must single out Sophie Okoneko, who plays Paul's wife with such dignity that she perfectly matches Mr. Cheadle's performance. Nick Nolte is fine as the UN Colonel trying to keep peace in a place gone mad.Congratulations to Mr. George. With this film he touches us in more ways than we imagined. The unfortunate tragedy could well have been avoided if the international community would have intervened sooner, but obviously, it didn't even try until it was too late.


                
This is a terrific movie. The performances are spectacular, particularly Don Cheadle. He deserves an Oscar for his portrayal of the hotel manager. The movie itself is much more important than just entertainment value. Most people aren't familiar with the horrific events in Rwanda in the 1990's, but they should be. We tend to think that genocide is something from the past that just doesn't happen in today's "civil" modern world. The true story behind this movie proves just the opposite. With all the focus on the Holocaust in World War II and all the talk about "never letting it happen again," the world as a whole failed the people of Rwanda miserably just a few years ago. Everyone should see this movie, and learn a thing or two.


                
Hotel Rwanda (2004) Directed by Terry George, is the great film of 2004.Don Cheadle plays Paul Rusesabagina, an African who has bought into the European ideal of the perfect life. He's the manager of a four-star hotel in Rwanda. He has a beautiful wife (played by Sophie Okonedo), handsome and healthy young children, a new vehicle, and a fine suburban home.All this changes when civil strife erupts in Rwanda. When this happens the former colonial powers wash their hands of the problems, and the Rwandans are left to fend for themselves in an atmosphere of increasing violence and anarchy.The acting is excellent and the story is emotionally gripping. Like Schindler's List, the film follows one man's attempt to save as many people as he can. Schindler and Rusesabagina were heroic, resourceful, and amazingly effective. However, as individuals, they could accomplish only so much. Outside intervention could have saved a million lives in Rwanda, but it was never forthcoming. The Rwandan genocide is one of the great tragedies of the 20th century. Hotel Rwanda brings this horror onto the screen and into our lives.Addendum: Nick Nolte plays Colonel Oliver, the U.N. commander in Rwanda. This role is obviously based on Lieutenant General Romeo Dallaire, the Canadian officer who commanded the ridiculously small force of 400 U.N. soldiers. These troops were unable to do anything more than watch the genocide taking place before their eyes. General Dellaire's story is told in Steven Silver's film "The Last Just Man."


                
I heard this movie was good but that really isn't true. It is a masterpiece! I have never been so moved by a movie. This movie is just so sad and moving. I can't even imagine what the real thing must have been like. Please see this movie. I think it is important for the world to know what happened and to remember what happened to the Tootsie people. I really hope this movie wins an Acadamy Award all in the movie were amazing and did an amazing job portraying the seemingly hopeless situation they were in. The part that bothers me is how no one tried to help. I'd like to believe we didn't know but that's not true. What Jaquin Phonix's character said is true "They'll say 'that's terrible' and then they'll go back to eating their dinner." and it'also true what the UN officer said. People just didn't care enough. I hope this film teaches us that people of all races and countries are important.


                
The movie was brilliant I had to see it for history class and I learned a lot. I wanted to see the movie Don Chedle is brilliant and is great at this particular role. His wife was great as well. This is a Must see movie. It will take you back to when Rwanda was in trouble and no one came to help except one guy who sheltered 1000 Tutsis and is a hero of Rwanda. It was sad though because it was a war and a lot of people died. Very educational and a good lesson to learn about peace and war. The movie was so great but very sad I cried and I am writing an essay on the movie. I also want to see it again. It was so good and there is a lesson to be learned about helping and keeping peace between people. I felt very sorry for the people of Rwanda who lost family members.


                
This movie is so brilliant and powerful. I think this movie will make viewers want to do something and take action where it is needed, locally or globally. It makes the viewers question, "Where were we about eleven years ago (I was about five or six years old) and why didn't we help?" and "How can people be so cruel?" I can believe people are that cruel but at the same time I can't believe it. It is very touching and very moving and hopefully it will open eyes to the trouble around the world. The message of this movie needed to be delivered to America and this movie delivers it excellently. This movie deserves to win "Best Picture" of the year. This movie will make you think. I don't think anyone could walk away from this movie unchanged.


                
"Hotel Rwanda" is the heart-wrenching story of Paul Rusesabagina, a Rwandan hotel manager who sheltered over 1,200 Tutsi refugees from the Hutu militia and their 'purification' crusade in 1994. The movie begins by giving a thorough explanation of the political situation in Rwanda at the time. The nation is divided by two factions, the Hutu and the Tutsi. Rwanda, being freed from its Belgian colonizers, forms its own national government and attracts the attention of the international media and wealthy tourists. However the Hutu population, the majority, still resents the Tutsis for their alleged cooperation with the Belgian colonizers. By the early nineties both factions have organized their own militias and the official government is leaning toward the corrupt Hutu cause of exterminating the Tutsi people. The UN is caught in the middle trying to act as a peacekeeping force.Paul (Don Cheadle) is a Hutu that must use various diplomatic skills as a hotel manager, a job bringing him in contact with various entities. When violence does break out, Paul goes against his instincts and decides upon protecting his endangered Tutsi neighbors. As they escape to the refuge of the hotel more refugees come under Paul's care and he realizes that the UN and the media, the only ones who can protect him, are fleeing the country. Colonel Oliver (Nick Nolte) is a UN commander that has befriended Paul and, being one of the few westerners who cares about the genocides, does his best to protect Paul's hotel.I must say that the entire cast is outstanding. Don Cheadle becomes Paul right before our eyes and amazes us in virtually every scene. Sophie Okonedo plays Paul's courageous Tutsi wife, Tatiana Rusesabagina, who encourages her husband every step of the way. This character reminds me of the old adage: behind every strong man is a stronger woman. Nick Nolte has one of the greatest and most convincing scenes in the movie when he (as Col. Oliver) explains to Paul why the West doesn't care about his plight.The director and producer, Terry George, pulls the picture together in such a way that it is an outrage was not nominated for an Oscar. The dialogue is realistic and human in every sense. Finally, the cinematography tells the story in such a straightforward manner that with the very appropriate (and sometimes eerie) music we as an audience feel transported into Paul's terrifying world."Hotel Rwanda" is an excellent tale of survival.


                
For me, Terry George's Hotel Rwanda was easily the best and most memorable movie of 2004. It's difficult to call a movie about a terrible tragedy such as the Rwandan genocide of 1994, but in every aspect, this movie is excellent. Yes, the movie is one of the most upsetting pieces I have ever seen, but this is only an indication of the greatness of the Hotel Rwanda. The actors (especially Cheadle) are so believable in each of their roles, that it does not take long for the audience to take an interest in the main figures, their lives, and the lives of their friends and neighbors. This fact makes the suffering of those who witnessed and fell during the Rwandan massacre both on film and in actuality so much more real.Also, much credit must be given to the director, Terry George. In a film revolving around an incidence of genocide (in which many victims were hacked to death with machetes no less) it would be easy for the story and tragedy to be lost amidst a depiction of the excessive violence that occurred. However, while there is obviously a good share of violence in Hotel Rwanda, George avoids excessive gore and instead relies more on fear to express the suffering of the refugees at Rusesabagina's hotel. George instead shows the aftermath of violence (hundreds of corpses covering a road), the threat of violence, and especially, feelings of alienation and separation (the abandonment of Rwandan refugees by the western world). All these elements really draw the audience in and force the viewers to feel the pain and suffering felt by the refugees.The excellence of Hotel Rwanda also makes it a very humbling movie. It forces those who live in the western world to acknowledge the atrocities that resulted from their countries pretending a massive problem did not exist. Possibly the most depressing fact that Hotel Rwanda asserts is in the last image of the entire movie, where simple white words on a black background remind the audience that nearly a million people died during this period of genocide, a toll that may have been dramatically lessened had the world not turned its back. Thus, in its greatness, the movie is also very shaming, a fitting feeling given the words of Rusesabagina in the movie, "we must shame them into acting." More than once I was reduced to tears watching this movie, as were many other members of the (unfortunately) slim audience present in the theater. Truly, this is a movie that all should see.


                
10/10 Best way to describe this movie is a cross between Schindler's List and The Pianist - two of the most powerful films I've ever seen. While Paul's (Don Cheadle) situation continues to get worse as the movie progresses just like Adrien Brody, he does whatever he can to help the Tutsi and Hutu refugees at his hotel. Cheadle is gripping - this from a man who has played a wide range of roles from a porn star with an identity crisis in Boogie Nights to Sammy Davis Jr. in the Rat Pack - and he supplements the troubling story of the country's civil war and genocide with a flawless performance. I immediately wanted to research the Rwanda situation after I saw the movie to learn more than the little I already knew - it truly was a war fought for outrageous reasons, and the ignorance of the rest of the world (something the movie did well to convey) at that time is hard to imagine. I would give Cheadle the nod for Best Actor, and the movie is a must-see for people of all backgrounds. An amazing film.


                
Can I just say wow. This movie is so moving. I haven't cried in a theater in such a long time. Don Cheadle has become one of my favorite actors. He does such an amazing job. He deserves to win that Oscar. Highly recommend this movie. Soooo good. The whole situation that is going on over in Africa is so sad. I mean why are we not doing anything. This movie has opened my eyes so much. I have only heard of the genocide on the news briefly, but this movie has made me more aware and I think it will make anyone who watches it more aware of what is going on over there. Another minor note, I thought all the actors in this movie did a superb job. Definitely the movie of the year and has become one of my favorites.
I'm going to put it this way - movies do not usually get to me. Even if I cry, laugh, scream, etc...I'm not usually bothered on a deeper level. "Hotel Rwanda" actually hurt to watch, but in a positive way. I was completely drawn into the movie, and the fact that I knew it was based on actual events made it that much more compelling. The only other movie I can possibly think of to compare it to is "Schindler's List." This movie reminded me of why I go see movies. Not only did I enjoy the film and the acting (Don Cheadle is amazing), but it made me want to learn more about the actual events in Rwanda which I am ashamed to admit I don't know that much about. I don't know if this comment will actually make anyone want to go see the movie, but I had to voice a comment for this movie. Best movie I have seen in years.


                
I just saw Hotel Rwanda. I don't know what to say... actually i do.But it's so much that i want to say it would take me several pages to write it all down. A quick summary then: Don Cheadle should get the Oscar (and if he doesn't then Jamie Foxx will), the story is magnificent, the acting overall superb, it was brought in a moving, awakening way. But not much in a 'Hollywood-style', Thank God.That's what I have to say about the movie, now for the story behind the movie.... I'm ashamed to be someone from Western World when I see this movie, something like this should never happen again, i would advice as many people to see this and become aware of what was and is happening in this world gone crazy...One more thing, anyone who doesn't even have one tear in is eye at some point in this movie has a heart of stone.


                
This movie completely blew me away. I really think that Don deserves the best actor and this movie should have been nominated, seriously people, when did a movie last do this to you. but it did end on a freeze frame which was a little "breakfast club"-esquire....you know,...oh well. All in all I was really impressed with this movie and the soundtrack! If you haven't listened to it then you should check it out. Wyclef Jean finally has something with million voices. Anywho, you should most definitely check out this flick, lotsa great acting and a lot of great scenes just in general.-George


                
Ever since seeing a program on television about the circumstances of the Rwandan genocide, I have become somewhat of a student of the issue. And sure, the Interahamwe didn't kill as many people as the Nazis, or even Pol Pot, but the brutality of slaughtering nearly a million people, most by machete, more than makes up for the numbers. And the abandonment, the sheer disregard for anything African that the West perpetrated on Rwanda, that should make all of us ashamed of our governments.You should see this movie. Everyone should see this movie. Exquisite performances by Don Cheadle and Sophie Okonedo bring to life the desperation of simply holding on to life with the proverbial barbarians at the gate (right at the gate, as it was), and all while Cheadle's Rusesabagina clings tenaciously to the image and prestige of his hotel, giving his best when everything else falls apart. How the real life Paukl managed to keep it all together, bribe the army, keep the militia at bay is nothing short of a miracle, and the cast brings that to you in such sharp detail that you can't feel anything but the utmost admiration and astonishment for everyone who kept it together.Rusesabagina, General Dallaire, and many others are the true measure of hero. They gave everything they had to make sure that 800,000 didn't turn into millions.


                
I can't even understand how this movie was not nominated for best picture in this year's Oscars. I can't say for sure until I see The Aviator, but Leonardo DiCaprio's performance better be SPECTACULAR to have beaten Don Cheadle for the Golden Globe (drama). I haven't seen a performance like that in a very long time. He and Sophie Okonedo were both incredible. It was very moving. It's hard to not feel like something is wrong with a world where we can live peacefully in America and people are living that way in Rwanda... still to this day. But as they say in the movie, people will see pictures of the genocide, say, "how horrible", and go back to eating dinner.... I recommend all people go see this movie!


                
As governments around the world ignore the atrocities against the Sudanese in Darfur, this movie should have you screaming for something to be done to save them! 'The Hotel Rwanda' should be seen by all, and forgotten by none. 'The Hotel Rwanda' is a familiar favorite among Best Picture contenders, more than humbling an audience with biographical tales of heroic struggles against disgusting atrocities. 'The Pianist' and 'Schindler's List' are more recent examples of this. But, with 'The Hotel Rwanda,' the intensity delivered by director Terry George and the powerful performance by Don Cheadle as Paul Rusesabagina, this film was able to put the shock into people in a much more disturbing and intense way than I had ever seen any other movie do and leaves you silent and just as helpless long after you've left the theater.The Hotel Rwanda refers to the Belgium hotel that, under Rusesabagina's unexpected direction, served as a refugee camp for the Tutsi people who were being wiped out by Hutsi rebels in Rwanda. On the one hand, this movie shows you the kind of atrocities that could result if one faction controlled the media (the Hutsi's here controlled the radio waves and incited their violence and recruited their followers through a propaganda radio program). On the other hand, Rusesabagina is such an extraordinary heroic figure where he tried desperately to save people from the slaughter when it seems that every government that could help denied assistance to the Rwandas. Even where journalists were able to enter the country before the worst fighting began and report the massacre. We ought to be made aware of these things, and we should never ignore them, and never forget them.I am still amazed by the powerful emotion that this movie is able to invoke, to nearly lose your mind in desperation when it seems like there is going to be no hope left for Paul, his family, or the Rwandan refugees. To become nearly violent when anger when you their holocaust, but the other countries refuse to help.And, actress Sophie Okonedo, who plays Tatiana Rusesabagina, likewise gives an incredible performance as Paul's wife. This IS the Best Picture of 2004.


                
I almost didn't go see this movie. It's so hard for me to sit through things like this. It is very, very good, but you can only see it once if you have a heart or a soul. You can only go through the experience one time because you can't do it again, at least I can't. Don Cheadle was exceptional. Nick Nolte and Jaoquin Phoenix had very difficult roles. I was also happy to see Jean Reno has the hotel president. The good people anguished and the bad people schemed. The woman who played Don Cheadle's wife was also very good I really felt her fear. I agree with the critics that this movie had a message without being preachy. It should teach us a lesson, but I know the world won't listen.


                
**** Don Cheadle, Nick Nolte, Jophie Okonedo, Hakeem Kae-Kazim, Desmond Dube, Joaquin Phoenix. Directed by Terry George.By far this is one of the best Biopics since Taylor Hackford did "Ray". The story is a Hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina (Cheadle, in his Oscar calibrated performance along with his acting in Assassination of Richard Nixon) keeps Tutsis refuges in his four star Hotel from the Hutu rebels on the outside.As he risks his life to save the lives of many, with the help of Nick Nolte whom as he helps Paul but also doesn't care. The movie shows that Cheadle is becoming one of our better actors and is rising up through the ranks to somewhere around Paul Giamatti caliber. Terry George the director/ writer with the aid of Keir Pearson do a fantastic job of recreating the havoc of 1994."Hotel Rwanda" is beautiful, inspiring and very compelling on Cheadle's performance. This is one of the year's best movies and one of the best I have ever see. Bravo!


                
Simply outstanding. This movie should have won Best Picture. It's an incredibly moving film that can inspire you, horrify you, bring you to tears and also make you ashamed that you didn't do anything about it. Don Cheadle gives an incredible performance as Paul Rusesabagina, the hero of the story, a man who risked his own life to save the lives of over a thousand refugees. Paul was an incredible negotiator who always seemed to be able to negotiate his way out of any situation. That he risked his own life for so many others is inspirational.The scene where all the whites left Rwanda was one of the most emotional scenes I've ever watched. 10/10


                
