The film itself has great acting and a "true story" plot line. The problem with the film is the story's failure to give any insight and truth to the actual problems in Rwanda. Besides the fact that the problems are still rancid today, viewers love to sit back and find comfort that there was at least one good man in that time or turmoil, which still occurs on a violent and deadly basis. I imagine those who typically watch the film find it sad, inspirational and patriotic on some level. Though the film does nothing but deliver a false "reality" and applied ideology of a region and its people. The following is a "A truly "investigative" journalist might hack through the propaganda of Hotel Rwanda to get to United Artists parent company Metro Goldwyn Meyer, whose directors, not surprisingly, given what the film does not tell you about the U.S.-sponsored invasion of Rwanda (1990<U+0096>1994), include current United Technologies director and U.S. General (Ret.) Alexander Haig. Recall that "I'm in charge here" Al Haig served under a Hollywood actor named Ronald Reagan. Hotel Rwanda took off from the now celebrated but wholly mythologized book We Regret To Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed by Philip Gourevitch, the New Yorker's premier Africanist, and whose brother-in-law, Jamie Rubin, was Madeleine Albright's leading man. The Nation runs the standard nonsense on Rwanda, usually by Victoria Britain. Another pro-military interventionist on Darfur, Samantha Power could surely satisfy The Nation, given her selective and patriotic journalism on Rwanda and the Balkans, for which she won a Pulitzer." (1)As one would only view the "Wizard of Oz" as entertainment, they should also view "Hotel Rwanda" as a failed vehicle for relaying truth to an already censored and horribly misinformed nation that we are in the United States.(1) "State Terror in Ethiopia: Another Secret War for Oil?" Author: Keith Harmon Snow Faculty Evaluator: Tom Lough, Ph.D. Student Researcher: Thedoria Grayson


                
I saw this movie with high expectations-- the media and classmates all gushed about how wonderful and powerful and moving it was. Well, it wasn't. I felt guilty the whole time I was watching it, because I didn't "feel" anything. In fact I found it to be a pretty boring/sterile film save for the moment in the middle where the hotel owner walks in the foggy cloud among dead bodies. I can't believe that this was supposed to be about the real, devastating events that actually happened in Rwanda. I bet most of people who gave this movie rave reviews are just compensating for their previous ignorance and apathy. It's a mediocre, shallow movie parading itself as a powerful film about the great feat of a man standing up for humanity and protecting refugees during a time of ethnic genocide. Instead of wasting your time with this pathetic attempt, look up the subject and read the literature instead. (Try _We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families_ by Phillip Gourevitch, part of which is actually inspired Hotel Rwanda)


                
I'm extremely surprised to find that this film is currently #51 in the best 250 films. People don't seem to understand that it is BASED on a true story. Just because it is about something terrible that happened, people instantly change their criteria for what makes a good film. At the end of the day, this film is still poorly directed; has poorly delivered, cringe-worthy dialogue; some kind of product placement in every other scene; two dimensional characters; glosses over the genocide by only referring to it and never actually showing anyone getting killed; has gaping plot holes; and for some reason tries to put the blame of what happened on the Europe and America. Surely, that should be enough to make anyone think a movie is terrible...


                
I was disappointed in every aspect of this movie. The events that were supposedly depicted, including the background of genocide in Rwanda, were insipidly portrayed, pure Hollywoood hokum. The casting was mediocre, especially Nick Nolte, but also including most of the smaller parts, although Don Cheadle and his wife were portrayed competently. It was an obvious attempt to take a single series of events--the actions of this hotel manager--and parlay them into a typical movie format, when the Rwandan genocide deserved, indeed deserves, much more significant treatment. The one redeeming feature of the film was its portrayal of the cowardly and bigoted manner in which the West dealt with the tragedy, but even that was done without impact. Not a major motion picture at all. A major disappointment.


                
When I first heard about this movie I was very excited. Critics were comparing it to Schindler's List, which excited me further. But when I got to theater I realised that Hotel Rwanda was rated PG-13. I instantly knew it was going to suck. Generally, when you make a movie about a mass genocide in which nearly a million people died, your movie is going to be rated R at the very least due to massive amounts of blood and violence. Hotel Rwanda had nothing of the sort. The only time people actually got killed in the movie was when the family which the movie follows are huddled around a TV watching the news which portrays people being hacked by machetes from about 100 yards away. The rest of the movie featured people coming very close to death, but never actually getting killed. If you knew nothing about the mass genocide in Rwanda, and saw this movie, you would assume it consisted of a bunch of nancy boys running around not killing people. There is no blood in this movie at all. Comparing it to Schindler's List is like comparing Evil Dead to Legally Blonde - blasphemy. If you liked this movie then you are a mindless robot programmed by Hollywood to shell out eight bucks every time another blockbuster bore-a-thon comes along.
do not see "Hotel Rwanda" ever. and by ever i mean never ever. not in theaters and certainly not when it comes out on DVD. do not rent it. do not watch it at a friend's house. if it is ever screened on television...change the channel. now you might be wandering what is so bad about this movie, and to be perfectly honest it wasn't the worst movie i've ever seen (cough-"Armageddon"-cough), but it was without a doubt one of the most disappointing releases in years. what works me up so much about this particular film's suckage is the buzz surrounding it; three Oscar nominations - THREE!! don cheadle was fine, but that was about it. i don't give kudos to performances that beg for them, and this would be such a case. the story that the film explores, the rwandan genocide of 1994, is in itself a captivating subject. however the way in which this conflict is presented in this film plumbs all the depths of my bathroom sink. but the cardinal sin of this clunker is doubtlessly the writing. i might only feel this way because i personally have an interest in screen writing, and because it is my belief that you can only make a good film if you start with a good screenplay, but in any case, the dialogue and pacing in "Hotel Rwanda" just plain blows. i can't count how many times i rolled my eyes during one of cheadle's characters monologues. i could go on forever but i...i just need to stop. i suppose i'll finish by telling you, the reader, that i really hate this movie because it did have promise. there were moments where i almost felt a twinge of compassion for the characters and events on screen, and that is why this is the most frustrating release in a long time. +_+_+_+_3/10_+_+_+_+


                
