Sadly, this movie just didn't do it for me for a number of reasons. I knew coming in that with this type of movie, depicting an horrific historical event, that it is a difficult line to walk. Many movies make the message too heavy-handed, utilizing "message-based- dialogue" that doesn't feel believable. Then there are others like Schindler's List that masterfully demonstrate the horrors, yet remain cinematic masterpieces. I heard so many good things about it from friends and saw the cast and thought that it was going to be good, but left feeling a empty. First, I did not feel the chemistry between Don Cheadle and Sophie Okonedo. From the opening, I didn't feel much of a connection between them and although they kissed and "do" what a married couple should, there was something missing. Secondly, I thought that the editing was a little odd in a couple places. For example, when Cheadle and Okonedo are on the roof at night, there is a part that it unnecessarily cuts to the guns shots over the city. It wasn't anything that helped the movie, but left me a little distracted. Thirdly, I have to complain about the theme of the movie being preached through a megaphone. All good art has to allow the viewer to reach for their own conclusions, invite them in and allow them to interpret. When any art form forces a certain feeling or message upon the viewer, it is insulting to them because it comes off as the director or writer don't trust the audience to reach the same conclusion. This was done mainly through the dialogue. So many of the lines seemed forced in order to get the message that the genocide was bad. This was also done with all the pictures of the dead. The last thing I want to do is offend anyone by downplaying how horrendous this event was, but I believe it should have been represented in a more tactful way. Many times, less is more. Let the audience come to that conclusion without it being shoved down our their throat. However, given all these things that I didn't like, I did enjoy some parts. The individual acting of most characters was good (Phoenix, Mokoena, and Kgoroge to name a few). I also thought that the cinematography was good. The lighting used to help the essence of each scene come forth was well done. Finally, I enjoyed the sound design. It did a much better job of subtly stating the mood of the scene and brought me in as a viewer to interpret with it. Positives: Good sound design, some good acting, and good cinematography. Negatives: Forceful theme/ message, lack of chemistry between leads, and distracting edits in some parts. Conclusion: If you want to watch a movie that tells you how to feel about genocide and war instead of inviting you to develop your own thoughts, you'd probably like the movie.


                
This movie has some good moments, but it's mostly spoiled by the constant hammering home of the message: the West is racist because it didn't stop the massacres. If you accept this premise, then you'll probably find the film moving and meaningful; if you don't, then you may find it manipulative and rather shallow. Don Cheadle's performance is very good, and there are several moments of real tension, but I couldn't stop feeling that almost everything in the movie was designed to bludgeon the viewer and provoke guilt. As for me, I don't think France should be the policeman for the world, and neither should the United States. I see no reason that a boy from Kansas should have to die in Africa, Iraq, or any other place in order to make it safer for its own inhabitants.


                
Having viewed the HBO production, "Sometimes In April" with a very similar story-line, etc, I was extremely disappointed with the overall presentation of "Hotel Rwanda" on most comparative levels including acting, continuity, and length. On the other hand, I thoroughly respected HBO's handling of this most sensitive and disgraceful Rwandan situation which was effectively portrayed by a virtually unknown cast of extremely talented actors. This is not to say that Don Cheadle and his supporting cast did not perform admirably, but I feel that the caliber of overall acting certainly did not warrant Academy Award consideration.


                
