"Hotel Rwanda" is a docudrama which tells the true story of a hotel manager (Cheadle) who, at his own peril, provided safe haven and protection for about 1000 refugees fleeing the Rwandan genocide of 1994 when 800,000 people were killed in a three month civil war. As is often the case with films which are built around compelling subjects such as holocausts, the import of the subject rubs off on the film elevating it's importance. Such is the case with "Hotel Rwanda", which is well crafted though it offers nothing new, conforms to the Hollywood playbook, and is probably slightly over-touted. The film spares the audience much of the bloody horror of the genocide with its PG-13 rating while doing a good job of building suspense and imparting a sense of the magnitude of the slaughter of innocents. Didactics are worked into the story so it is not difficult to follow even though the good and bad people are all black Rwandans. Those interested in the 1994 Rwandan genocide might also want to check out "Sometimes in April", a 2005 TV drama about the genocide which offers a somewhat broader perspective. (B)


                
I finally saw Hotel Rwanda and I thought it was good, not great, and not terrible. I agree that you didn't get the FULL horror of the genocide but I think there certainly was a sufficient amount of brutality to get what occurred across; scenes like the one on the foggy road were very disturbing.What annoyed me more than any problems I had with the movie was the level of pretension in some comments I read (this one not excluded). Where are the, "the scene where Don Cheadle is shirtless was hot" posts? Instead, I just see people writing "I am better than everyone because I know what REALLY happened" under the veil of a leading questions like, "I liked the movie a lot BUT I would like people to share their thoughts on if the film's distortion of reality was justifiable in that it led to the ends of greater mass appeal?" Hmmmm.


                
Hotel Rwanda is quite a strong story due to the uniqueness of location and topic, as well as the emotionality that is penned into it. I found though, that although the story is very strong and so is Don Cheadle, the rest of the film is not all that it is cracked up to be. Many people like to focus on the good parts of this film (of which there are many), but one must not be so quick to overrate it.Don Cheadle's performance is very convincing and engaging, and as in most of Don Cheadle's roles, he is able to acquire an accent and a whole different method of acting for each role that he takes. He is truly a diverse actor that deserves much credit (and awards) for this performance. However, Nick Nolte plays an aging military man and throughout the film you cannot help but note that the Colonel is weakly portrayed and Nolte acts quite poorly. I have never seen the portrayal of such a military man being so unintentionally weak and sheepish, yet at the same time the attempt to make him seem soldierly. Either Nick Nolte's acting is bad, or Terry George doesn't know what he wants out of the Colonel.Which leads me to elaborate that the film was poorly directed. George, for whatever reason, focuses away from the action of the film (the riots and war in Kingali) to the hectic scene at the Hotel, when it is quite obvious that any viewer after hearing all these reports about warfare on the streets would like to see more than is shown. One could say George is tantalizing us with action, but I am afraid that the action seemingly doesn't exist as it should in this film. The film had endless potential to show the depravity of genocide and war in an active and engaging way, but in the end George focuses on a passive portrayal -- with which I would have had no problems by itself, but it becomes quite unsavory.Furthermore, George also throws inappropriate scenes at inappropriate times, and sometimes the vocal narratives on the radio which are meant to be threatening and scary seem to be comical due to the selection of words. Scenes that bring you in one direction (towards something riveting and compelling) often leave you unfulfilled. George also does not drive home the messages as hard as he could have, and by the end of the film, one can scarcely remember many of the messages that George wanted to drive home, being that one is quite exhausted with the puzzle of plot that George assembles.Overall, it was a good film, but certainly not without flaw. It could have been a much better film had there been a different style of directing (or, in short, a different director).


                
Hotel Rwanda is an excellent story, and the movie certainly deserves perfect scores on it's message and the topic at hand. The problem with this movie is a bit on how it's done. I understand the direction the movie was going with light on the gore and rather on the story but I felt it just left a bit too much out, as we know close to a million people where killed, although we really never get that feeling watching the movie. The great movie "passion of the Christ" uses extreme gore to drive home a point, and perhaps tell a story like it really is not so that we don't turn off some viewers. I think this is exactly the point, Mel Gibson figures if you can't watch this movie (Understand how awful it is) but yet refuse to accept it you refuse to really accept the truth, the same could be said with Rwanda and the current tragic events we have currently in Africa.The acting here is top notch, and I can see the nod for best actor nomination but the movie is a bit too "Hollywood", there's too much music matching the moment and it feel's unrealistic & typical, any experienced movie watcher will get upset with this style. In conclusion, I wish this was done again.. to think of it, we will have another chance, someone will show the horrors in Dufur in a Hollywood production I just hope next time there won't be music playing when the main actor is running to his family, lets get it done right.


                
It's difficult to imagine the inhumanity and horror of the Rwandan genocide. Yet this film does a good job of conveying it without resorting to excess gore. It also leavens the horror with well timed moments of humour or tenderness. From all accounts it is factually correct. Why then did they not portray Gen. Romeo Dallaire as himself instead of inserting some trumped up fictional character played most unsuitably by Nick Nolte wearing a Canadian flag on his shirt? This detracts from the film and angers Canadians. Most of us regard Dalaire as a compassionate, highly principled hero who was betrayed by the UN. (Read his book, "Shake Hands With The Devil.") The movie tells a terrible story very well. But eliminating Gen. Dalaire is a little like eliminating Eisenhower from "The Longest Day" (Dalaire, incidentally, just recently was appointed to the Canadian Senate.)


                
Based on the true story of a Rwandan hotel manager who sheltered over a thousand refugees during the 1994 genocide, 'Hotel Rwanda' offers a glimpse at a sad chapter of modern history seldom told. Often mentioned is the blind eye turned by the outside world to what is happening in Rwanda with a key piece of dialogue coming from lead actor Don Cheadle saying that they need to shame the world into helping out. The film is supported by strong performances from not only Cheadle but also Sophie Okonedo as his strong-willed wife who truly rises above stereotype: she is never once fragile, passive or helpless. Upon initial release, the film attained comparisons to 'Schindler's List' with a similar story of a brave man sheltering others in war, however, such comparisons actually reveal some of 'Hotel Rwanda''s shortfalls. Most notably, Cheadle's Paul is honorable and generous from the get-go compared to Oskar Schindler's who gradually progresses from greedy to selfless. Spielberg's inclusion of seemingly random subplots (like the gun that does not go off) also paint a fuller picture of the Holocaust, whereas 'Hotel Rwanda' offers a far more contained portrait of the genocide. And yet, if not the out-and-out masterpiece that some claim it to be, 'Hotel Rwanda' remains quite an accomplished motion picture with tension frequently felt in the air.


                
I thought it was very interesting to learn about the genocide. I knew very little about the Rwandan Genocide before I watched the movie. I can't believe there was nobody to protect the people in the hotel. Paul was my favorite character because he never gave up on his guests. He loved his family and just wanted to make them safe, but he was also willing to stay behind and help the people who stayed in the hotel. Paul was genuinely my favorite character I've watched in any movie this year. He was very brave and never thought about just saving himself. Moreover, it was crazy to think that nobody in American politics wanted to help. I think they definitely knew what was going on over there. America intervenes in so many conflicts it just doesn't make any sense as to why they wouldn't help. I was curious as to why people in America didn't help, so I decided to do some research. Not only did America abandon the Rwandan people but also other major powers, like France. When the killing in Rwanda intensified the major powers pulled out. The French set up a "humanitarian zone" which is where I guess the people from the hotel ended up in the end of the movie. I guess that was helpful but nobody wanted to go beyond and reach out to pull innocent people into the safe zone. Also, I found an article that said Bill Clinton knew about the mass killing of people in Rwanda but buried the evidence so America wouldn't intervene. The officers who were on the ground in Rwanda used the word Genocide when they described the situation; however, because Bill Clinton had already decided not to intervene the press never got coverage of the killings as a genocide.
A fascinating story, and a subject that I'm pleased to have learned slightly more (ie. something) about: the Rwandan civil war and genocide of the mid-nineties, and how it was played down and ignored by the West.The central performance by Don Cheadle is strong and his character likable and understandable. However, most of the characters were barely developed at all. An awful lot of story is crammed in, and most of it is only lightly brushed over - I think it would have worked better if some elements were left out and the remaining ones covered in more depth. Worse, the tone of the film started very well, but became increasingly syrupy as it went on. However, the story-telling is very efficient, especially at the beginning; it wasn't difficult to follow a fairly complex plot and it maintained my interest all the way through.Well worth a watch, but I won't be buying it.


                
I just saw Hotel Rwanda on PBS, and after reading other reviews here, I must admit I felt let down. It was admittedly well made, but didn't leave any lasting impression. Probably because it was basically an excellent solo show by Don Cheadle. Sophie Okonedo was badly miscast; whoever saw a Tutsi that light-complexioned? Nick Nolte just wasn't believable as a General. Some may criticise me for being too bloodthirsty, but apart from the episode when Cheadle was driving over the bodies in the road, the depiction of the treatment of Tutsi was too long-range and detached. It seemed like a news report viewed from a distance, without any real involvement. This is the story of an horrific episode, but fails to press its point.


                
Some people say that this is like the African version of "Schindler's List" now I wouldn't go that far, but it still is a fantastic and powerful film. The movie is basically about the Rwandan Genocide that took place in 1994, where many Tutsi are killed by the Hutu extremists. Probably hardly any one cared about this atrocity that didn't have to go through it and I enjoyed the aspects of it showing why. Don Cheadle really was perfect for this role, and he put on a great performance here and it's one of those films he most definitely was worth being in. There is also a deep message, although it isn't a movie I would see multiple times or anything, but it was most definitely worth the time to see it at least once. If I can name one flaws is that you don't really care about the people that are trying to survive from the genocide, but maybe that is just the realistic aspect of it and why the message behind this film is deep.7.9/10


                
The story is inspiring, and the film deserves praise for shining a spotlight on issues that the west chooses to ignore. So, whilst it may seem uncharitable to criticise, it would be patronising to overlook the glaring faults. Even though the film isn't that bad, it is disappointing. The problem is that the film-making is second rate - you can't help but be distracted by the mechanics of the film. The film is overscored. Barely a line of dialogue passes without music telling the audience what they ought to be feeling. This device demeans and patronises the viewer. The blatant product placement throughout the film destroys any attempt at nuance or subtlety. You can't help but pity the actors who have to perform awful dialogue about beer brands or car manufacturers. Even when they are not forced to read dialogue that might as well have come from an infomercial, the dialogue is clunky - and at times woeful. The result is a stack of poorly developed, two- dimensional characters. Social/ political/ historical complexities are either ignored our disposed of in one line. The Hutus are largely portrayed as soulless killing machines pitted against our 'western-friendly' bourgeois hero (the only good Hutu), his family, and periphery characters. The result is that scenes start to feel more like a horror movie than a serious drama. Inexplicably, the filmmakers deliberately chose to omit actual events (possibly to ensure a PG-13 certificate), which would have given the film a greater sense of jeopardy for main characters.It's a credit to the actors involved that some of them manage to feel in any way human. Particular credit is due to Sophie Okonedo who is required to make ridiculous mood swings feel believable. Joaquin Phoenix also does well. Not terrible, but certainly not great.


                
Hotel Rwanda is an important film, it's subject matter is of an extremely serious nature, in a similar to the likes of Schindler's List. It depicts the events of a genocide in Rwanda in 1994, during which Hutu man Paul Rusesabagina shelters the endangered Tutsi civilians from the angry machete-armed Hutus. The film handles it's subject matter very well, telling precisely why these two "types" of people, (they are really only different in name, which was given to them by Belgian imperialists based on vague classifications) are not getting along, without being too simple. The film than follows the Schindler's List formula, with Paul trying to shelter as many of the Tutsis that come his way, and hold off the Hutus for as long as possible. The acting, script, score, cinematography etc. are all of a good standard, though nothing really stood out for me (which in this case is a good thing as it enhances the realism). The film should also be praised for challenging the viewers watching, in a line that Jack Daglish's character (the cameraman) says. The film is difficult to watch at times, and works as it's own film very well. It's only major failing is that it may seem a bit samey for those who have seen Schindler's List, or even Lord of War, or any other film with genocide as the subject matter.


                
The historical errors in the film Hotel Rwanda will unfortunately go unnoticed by the average viewer. While the film is not billed as a documentary, the director has neglected to provide any disclaimers for the cinematic manipulation of factual events--a manipulation which is all too obvious to those who know the history of the country well.One of the most glaring errors in the film seems to be due to the cinematic compression of time, which is often unavoidable when attempting to simplify complex events for a general audience. The General portrayed in the film, Augustin Bizimungu, did not in fact hold that position (as Army Chief of Staff) until 3 weeks after the genocide. The actual Chief of Staff at the time, Deogratias Nsabimana, was aboard the President's plane that was mysteriously downed on April 6 (no one has claimed responsibility for this crash since, although evidence points increasingly toward the country's current President, Paul Kagame, as the man who gave the order to fire the 2 missiles that brought it down). There were, in fact, 10 people on the plane, including 2 French pilots. In addition, the airplane was a gift from Francois Mitterand. Both of these facts truly call in to question the current Rwandan government's suggestions that the French military is the entity responsible for downing the plane (which in essence, qualifies as an act of terrorism under many international legal instruments).This last statement should not, however, be interpreted as an attempt to excuse the grave mistakes that the French did make in its Operation Turquoise.Immediately after the plane crash, which is commonly referred to as the 'trigger' that touched off the genocide, a man named Marcel Gatsinzi was named to replace Nsabimana. 3 weeks later, A. Bizimungu was named to take over the post. (Before the plane crash, Bizimungu even lacked the credentials necessary to become a general, which makes the film's portrayal of him as such even more inaccurate.) Gatsinzi, a Hutu, is now employed in the current government of Rwanda, which is dominated by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (the army that is credited with stopping the genocide).The film further neglects to mention--not even by providing a paragraph of text that could enlighten the audience further--that the Rwandan Patriotic Front was responsible for targeted killing of tens of thousands of Hutu civilians (especially those from the North of the country) during its invasion into Rwanda in October 1990 (which instigated the civil war that preceded the genocide), as well as "after" the genocide and in the years immediately following (particularly 1997-98). The RPF currently enjoys considerable impunity for its war crimes and the crimes against humanity it has committed, and acknowledges only selected crimes.Despite the film's compression of time, and the ahistorical consequences that arise from this, the film does provide a powerful, well-acted glimpse into an isolated part of the horror that engulfed Rwanda in 1994.For more information about the economic roots of the genocide, read Chapter 10 ('Malthus in Africa') of Jared Diamond's best-selling book "Collapse." For more information about the genocide in practical and political terms, read "Leave None to Tell the Story" by Alison Des Forges (Human Rights Watch publication): http://www.hrw.org/reports/1999/rwanda/ Finally, if you are really serious about understanding the full context of the 1994 genocide and its international political dimensions, familiarize yourself with the research of scholars Rene Lemarchand and Filip Reyntjens (available in English).


                
I do not intend to sound sarcastic by my above 'one-line-summary'; for if the real life Paul Rusesabagina, a 'Hutu', did the things he was portrayed to do, to save hundreds of 'Tutsi', then indeed there is a comparison with great people of conscience like Oscar Schindler.The story is that of the infamous 'ethnic cleansing' of minority Tutsi's by their nationalist rivals, the Hutu's. The film also cleverly weaves in the reasons for the deep ethnic hatred between these peoples, by ordinary conversations between locals and European visitors.The violence is not nearly as bad as one might expect. In fact, the actual news reel footage that the world 'witnessed' at the time of this genocide was far, far worse than the movie portrays.The film will rivet you to the screen, as you follow 'Paul' beg, borrow, steal and bribe to save the lives of the 'hotel guests' Well worth seeing, a little bit 'over' on the acting but smartly sensitive to the brutal violence that Hollywood so often turns out, (even in its' jests) just a wee bit to long but,still, a story that need to be told, and more importantly needs to be heard.


                
To keep it short: What really turned me down was that the makers of this movie or maybe rather the writer of the script didn't have the courage to focus on the events of the genocide in rwanda as such. Why couldn't they just try and show the mere barbarism of what really happened. Like the catholic church of rwanda got involved in massacres, like last days neighbors became murders over night - and the dimensions of the genocide itself which were unseen of since the shoa. 800'000 to 1 million people slaughtered within 3 months, for the greater part with machetes and other tools - very little of this does shine through the almost romantic story of a brave and pure man. Sometimes I think that such stories rather use events like the rwanda genocide for a historical background only: The main story seems to be this of heroism where in fact a mass killing among neighbours was going on in rwanda. what fits this picture is the way the rebels of the rlf are glorified in the end of the film. in fact, after they had kicked out parts of the hutu murder gangs, they started intense killing based on racist projections too. it is still unknown among historians how many the killed then, but figures may go up very, very high. But as I said - maybe the actual events aren't that important for hero-movies like this. What I liked about the film was the role of the u.n. and the post-colonialist governments as portrayed in "hotel rwanda": in fact the international community witnessed over months the mass murder.


                
"Hotel Rwanda" is an historical drama with good merit. Terry George has directed this film independently, and therefore the budget constraints peek through. There is a very intense performance by Don Cheadle as Paul Rusesabagina who does his best to save lives in a tragic situation in Africa. His wive, Tatiana Rusesabagina played by Sophie Okonedo is equally as inspiring in her empathic portrayal. Nick Nolte plays Colonel Oliver, a United Nations Colonel, who is practically impotent in his ability to give aid to an impossible situation. Nolte is a drawback for he seems to read lines without any regard for believability. He fails to convince the audience that he is really a young United Nations military person. This movie is worth seeing for it's historical importance. An epic portrayal is lacking, but the essence remains. It is not a film of entertainment, but it is one for education.


                
True story is adapted, all aspects are ok, the theme also makes the film more realistic significance, but for such a theme some local pattern is really small


                
**** May contain strong spoilers ****This is a review made by StoneDraim... and that means that if you want to read a probably different kind of review, keep reading....This is my personal experience, my personal point of view/perspective and my personal opinion... and my opinion is just one of like 7 billions in this world.The Rwanda genocide were happening during about 100 days. As far as the authorities could count, about 1.000.000 were slaughtered, butchered, killed... a brutal hunt due to deep political issues between what we all define as upper class and lower class. Terrible.This is, as I use to say, an important movie. Shed the light on a genocide that took place in a country "only themselves cared about". With just those first words, the whole situation and repulsing actions could point to the darkness of insanity. Many thoughts were let through as I watched this motion picture. One of them were that I had only "heard something about terrible events in an African country". This is why these movies is so important. If movies can gather the whole global population in a good and human way, let the movies do that. It can be a fantastic change. I am so glad I turned on this film and were able to grasp what happened down in Rwanda. Mr. Paul Rusesabagina; was he a hero? In the aftermath, there were information coming from a hotel guest during the real activities that Mr. Rusesabagina took money to keep the people at the hotel, with priorities given to the wealthier people. Is it correct to call Mr. Rusesabagina a hero? Only taken consideration to lives, he helped people to survive. About 50 years later from World War II, another man took action and saved lives. In WWII, it was Oskar Schindler.I can perhaps missed myself information in this movie about exactly what the story and history behind the genocide were. Perhaps I just filtered that through as I enjoyed the movie. On the other hand, if the writers Keir Pearson and Terry George left out some of the background information, this movie may miss the target a little bit. I myself researched a little around this devastating event. With that background information, I could in a better way understand and grasp the entire story and motion picture. Let's all make an effort to create a world where we wish each other well and treat each other well with good will. Where we desire that we all feel good. Where we all should take the chance to be the best versions of ourselves. Where we care about each other. Where the conditions are created to become competent adults and good individuals.Over to the movie as a product: - The production : Authentic scenery. A soundtrack that gives the film a little push to enhance the drama. Editing in some scenes could have been better. A few times I could see some errors and strange things from cut to cut. Especially one time, the acting were suffering due to bad editing (quick talk between Paul Rusesdabagina and madame Archer). - The actors : Academy Award nominees. Questions to that one? - The story : Magnificent work to bring light upon the genocide. - Entertainment : Left me with both a sad and happy emotion thinking of all of us humans on this planet. Important and entertaining. - Age : 15 due to brutality and blood7,5 out of 10. (The final rate is based most on my own entertainment of the movie. Short elucidation of the rating: 8 Excellent movie and a solid production 7 Well made movie. Proper entertainment.)
In 1993, ethnic tensions heightened in Rwanda due to the Melchior Ndadaye (ones popular Hutu President of Burundi) assassination, it was a common knowledge as to who could be responsible. The conflict between the Tutsi's and Hutu's takes a down turn after when Rwandan President Habyalimana and Burundi's new President, Cyprien Ntaryamira's are also assassinated when returning from meetings with Tutsi rebels despite hopes and efforts by United Nations to preserve a very fragile peaceful political climate. The death of these two presidents became the catalyst for a genocidal onslaught that killed an estimated one million of Tutsi civilians and some Hutu civilian who were considered as moderates or as "cockroaches" by the Hutu rebels. During this chaotic killings by militiamen wilding guns, grenades, machetes and clubs does one man's extraordinary courage and love for his fellow human being takes stage in perhaps the most heart pounding "must see" movies of all time.


                
The Rwandan genocide of 1994 remains one of the worst atrocities in recent history. Maybe even the very worst. After all, has there been a situation since where 800,000 people were murdered in a three month period? Not only that but they were primarily killed by being hacked to death by machetes; women, children, babies – everyone. The massacres were a result of the Hutu tribe taking vengeance on their Tutsi counterparts. The problem between the tribes had its roots in colonialism, where the Belgians had installed the Tutsis in positions of power due to them looking more 'European'. This ties in with more recent events in the Middle East where Western intervention has caused many more problems than it has resolved. Unfortunately, history has a tendency of repeating itself. But the biggest disgrace of the Rwandan situation was that the world actually did not intervene when the people of the country really needed them to. They did nothing aside from save their own citizens. The United Nations came out of it looking especially bad and completely ineffective, basically withdrawing when ten of their men were killed. The fallout was an unchecked murder spree of unbelievable proportions.The film tells the story of this horror via a true life story with a positive narrative. It focuses on a Hutu called Paul Rusesabagina who is the manager of the Les Milles Collines hotel in Kigali. He used his connections to save over a thousand people by giving them shelter in his hotel and by doing so putting himself in considerable danger. The narrative has some very obvious similarities to Schindler's List (1993). It's kind of a story that seems too unbelievable to be true but true it is though. It does sanitise the story somewhat though, in that it resists showing violence or too graphic results of the carnage. I think this pulling of its punches was a bad move though as this was such a dreadfully violent situation that the film would have been better served being more explicit to hammer home the true horror. The similar film Shooting Dogs (2005) presented the carnage more harshly and in some respects had more of an overall emotional impact as a result. What Hotel Rwanda does have though is Don Cheadle. Rusesabagina is played by this excellent actor in a performance of perfection. The on location shooting also contributes a lot to the overall impact. And even though the music was too forcefully Hollywood obvious at times, the drama overall was very effective in giving its message out clearly without being too contrived. All-in-all, an impressive film about a bit of history that shames the Western world.


                
Summary: HOTEL RWANDA stars Don Cheadle as Paul Rusesabagina, a real lifetime hotel manager who became a courageous hero in Kigali when he witnessed the horrifying massacre of the Tutsis by the Hutu extremists in Rwanda, while the rest of the world looked on and did nothing about it. The massacre was part of one of the few of the worst atrocities in humankind history and it really occurred in April 1994, now twenty years ago. This is a story that really happened and it isn't fictional. 4 or maybe 5 parts of the true reality were changed in the film, but overall the movie mostly shows what really happened, I think. This is the kind of dramatic motion picture which completely catches your attention and drives you through the minds and emotions experienced by the leading characters. This is a story that I believe everyone should pay careful attention because Hotel Rwanda is truly sobering and heartfelt, and I'm really not kidding about it. In my opinion, everyone should like this movie and pay close attention to the way characters behave, because that's mainly what captured my mind and made me like the film. My comments are that the actors who had the main lead in the story all played well and were believable inside the skin of their characters they were interpreting. Don Cheadle and Sophie Kurlenko had an excellent performance and I won't ever forget it. Their performance was well done, because the magnitude of their performance was so high and that really shows the power of the human struggle and how much they care about the problems taking place around them. Plus, the film has feel-good warmth, is constantly filled with one problem after another, has a sparklingly original, well written screenplay and that's all great. This isn't a movie about action, but about the human heart and don't already think in advance that the movie will be boring with not enough action. JUST go watch it and see it for yourself. Enjoy!


                
Based on the true events of the massacre that took place in Rwanda during its civil war, Hotel Rwanda is a tale of how a simple man went too far & risked his own life to save as many people as he possibly could even when he had the chance to simply walk away unharmed. It's a disturbing, violent film that also shows how the entire world deserted this nation when it needed them most. Don Cheadle stars as Paul Rusesabagina, the hotel manager who housed thousands of people in his hotel & his performance was, without a shadow of a doubt, one of the strongest of the decade and he single-handedly carried this film throughout its runtime and was brilliantly aided by other supporting actors. On an overall scale, Hotel Rwanda is a sad, disturbing, heartfelt tale of loss & genocide but also a very important film. Like Schindler's List, it shows that nothing is more valuable than a human life and just like Oskar Schindler, it shows a compassionate human being who stood up against all odds to save a race from complete annihilation. Highly Recommended.


                
This movie was based on a true story about how the Hutu killing the Tutsi. It was originally called the Rwandan genocide. The Hero in real life was Paul Rusesabagina, but in the movie was Don Cheadle. The genocide lasted for over 100 days. This was not mentioned in the movie, but people were also dying of Aid's. This all happened on April 7th, 1994. Over 800,000 Tutsi's died. The Hutu called the Tutsi's cockroaches. In the movie they took pictures of kids and put them on a wall to let the parents or guardians know that they either have your child or your child is missing. This movie was nominated for a Golden Globe Award and Don Cheadle won best actor for 2004. By. Isaiah McCarter


                
I'm not a movie basher but this movie was very mediocre. I don't really mind about it being PG-13 and not showing much of genocide and brutal killing (the movie only intention was to show about survival) but the story and the movie itself is very unemotional and flat. I feel so detach to it.Synopsis: A hotel manager Paul was force to housed over thousands refugees as there were genocidal and unrest outside of the hotel.The good part of this movie got to be it was quite entertaining to watch and there is something happen all the time. Plus I get to know the country Rwanda existed and thus have this entire problem. The sad part is when executed into the screenplay it wasn't that good and combine with really bad cinematography make this not such a good movie one hope to be. I guess if you watch it for fact it was fine but movie for movie sake it wasn't that good.I got to say the whole film is very flat, though there are like two scenes that are quite moving but the rest was very ordinary and forgettable. The casting of Don Cheadle was a smart moves (otherwise this wouldn't close to be this famous), though he was the best in the movie his acting is barely average and the rest turn out quite bad specially Nick Nolte and Sophie Okonedo. The direction is average and nothing special and could have been much better. The score was all right too.It was just an all right movie and that is all. I have the concept just because it was a true story and it is a drama people subconsciously think it is a good movie or saying that it was a good movie to make their taste look good on other people.Recommendation: Yes, It Was Quite Entertaining. Worth Rental At The Most.Reason To Watch: For The Facts.Reason Not To: Bad Cinematography, Didn't Managed to Bring Out Enough Emotion As It Suppose To.Rating: 6.5/10 (Grade: D). Please rate Y/N After read, Thanks!!


                
A lot has already been said about Hotel Rwanda. Don Cheadle stands out as always, because he is one of the greatest actors of his generation - right up there with Jeffrey Wright and John Seymour Hoffman. Therefore, I only have a few points to add.The name of the movie is a play on Rwanda's other name, the "Land Of A Thousand Hills", or in French, "Pays des Milles Collines". The refugees are housed in the Milles Collines Hotel, or Thousand Hills Hotel. Therefore, Hotel Rwanda.The cast, although often excellent, is miscast because they are not Rwandans. In fact, half the cast have Zulu/Nguni clan surnames (Dube, Ndlovu, Sithole, Khumalo, etc.). I imagine it was filmed in South Africa? Durban, perhaps? :) This makes the comparison between Hutus and Tutsis a bit irrelevant though. Sophie Okonedo is not a Tutsi, but biracial and Nigerian/English. This is a minor point and not to disparage her acting achievement, but with the repeated statements that Tutsis have 'lighter skin' or 'longer noses' etc., it actually plays into the misconception of the 'difference' between Hutus and Tutsis.The Hamitic Race Theory, which is at the basis of the original discrimination by Belgian or German authorities is not clearly spelled out. It is not only applicable to Rwanda, but also to the present conflict in Western Sudan (Darfur). The pro-government militias are portrayed as 'white Arabs', horse or camel riding, where the population of Darfur is portrayed as 'Black African', and sometimes even Christian and Animist. This is the revisiting of the once extremely widespread Hamitic Race Theory, the theory that maintained that all culture in not only Africa, but Asia and the Americas should be explained by the diffusion of a mythical white race (which could be Black, Asian or Native American looking whenever it had to be). At one time, anthropologists tried to find the remnants of this race of 'blackened whites'. In some regions like South Africa, this theory is still taught in schools. Any nomadic, tall, cattle herding people (like the Masai, the Dinka or similar people) were classified non-Black and Hamitic and superior to the agricultural population of 'true Negroes'. The fact that 'superior' herders had the worst land, and 'inferior' farmers had the best land, which white settlers coveted, was of course an added bonus and an extra assurance of the popularity of the theory. Masai good, Kikuyu bad. Tutsi good, Hutu bad. Etcetera, because this kind of schism was repeated all over colonial Africa. People with bad land were pronounced to be 'superior', and people with good land were classified 'inferior', without any sense or irony or contradiction. This also has to do with the way colonialism functioned, which was no different than the way the Romans governed their newly gained territories - divide and conquer. A minority was picked out and proclaimed to be 'superior', and they were given privileges (education abroad, positions in local government, they were allowed to keep some land) and used to govern over the majority.Don't believe everything you hear on TV, but do your own research. The literature is there for all to read.
